
    
      Overview: All participants of both age groups will be randomly divided (like tossing a coin)
      into two groups:

        -  One group will have training sessions using a special feedback technique to learn to
           actively increase blood flow in the front of the brain, while thinking of and viewing
           emotional faces, scenes, and text

        -  The other group will have training sessions using a special feedback technique to learn
           to actively increase blood flow in the back of the brain while thinking of and viewing
           emotional faces, scenes, and text

      Further, each of these two groups will be divided into two sub-groups that are different with
      respect to the training procedure that is used:

      * Use of a 3.0 Tesla, 32-channel Seimens whole-body human MR scanner (fMRI) during training,
      that has not been associated with any known side effects or safety risks

      Number of Study Visits:

      This study has the following parts: A pre-training visit, six training visits, and a
      post-training visit.

      With a few exceptions as explained below, the procedures during pre-training, training, and
      post-training visits are identical.

        -  At the beginning of the first visit, the investigator will tell the participant about
           the study and what is involved and will ask them to sign a consent form. The participant
           may ask as many questions as they would like before deciding about study participation.

        -  For each of the visits, the investigator will review questions with the participant
           about their health to ensure their eligibility to undergo fMRI on the day of testing.

        -  Also for each visit, the investigator will ask the participant to respond to a short
           questionnaire related to their current mood.

        -  In the pre-training and the post-training visits only, the investigator will ask the
           participant to answer questions about their feelings, emotions, and thoughts.

        -  For each of the participant's visits, they will spend 50-60 minutes either in the MRI
           scanner, while viewing pictures and text on a screen. During this time, pictures of the
           participant's brain at work and at rest will be acquired. In the training visits only,
           the participant will learn to increase blood flow in certain brain regions with the help
           of information presented to them on the screen.

        -  For each of the participant's visits, they will be asked to respond to a short
           questionnaire related to their current mood.

        -  In the pre-training/post-training visits only, the investigator will ask the participant
           to answer questions about their feelings, emotions, and thoughts as well as their
           personality. The participant will also perform brief tests related to the thinking
           process.

        -  At the end of each visit, the participant will complete a questionnaire about how they
           approached the study tasks and whether they experienced any discomfort in the MRI
           scanner or while wearing the fNIRS system.

        -  Upon study completion, the investigator will tell the participant about the general
           goals of the study and answer any questions that they may have.

      The procedure can be stopped at any time.

      The study will conclude with debriefing and reimbursement.
    
  