
    
      Individuals will be identified from the cardiology database and consented during their
      routine follow up visits. Exercise stress, transthoracic echocardiography and cardiac MR are
      part of standard medical care in the follow up evaluation of adolescents and adults with
      repaired congenital heart disease. The use of contrast (with transthoracic echocardiography)
      and dobutamine stress testing (with the cardiac MR) will be performed as part of the research
      study. After signing consent/ assent, a study subject will have pertinent medical history
      (e.g. past palliation and operative repair dates and type, current medications, review of
      systems) and physical exam findings extracted from the medical record, especially the
      recording of the most recent clinic visit. If the subject is a female of child bearing age, a
      serum pregnancy test will be done at this time. This data will be recorded using standardized
      case report forms for history and physical exam. The study patients will complete a
      standardized interview to determine their exercise tolerance according to New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) classification. All patients who consent to the additional testing will
      require an additional 1 hour of time to the regular Echo and CMR testing.

      Each patient will have the protocol supine bicycle stress with contrast echocardiogram
      performed at UNMC Echo lab.. The study subject will then have the clinically indicated CMR
      study (Philips Achieva 1.5T magnet), scheduled and performed by a qualified CMR technologist,
      working with a pediatric or adult cardiologist. An attempt will be made to have CMR and Echo
      performed on the same day to minimize physiologic variability, but will at least be done
      within 1 week each other. Further post-processing (wall motion analyses, speckle tracking and
      myocardial tagging) and image analyses will be performed by the principal investigators on
      standard workstations.
    
  