
    
      With the recent FDA approval of Ibrutinib for the management of relapsed/refractory MCL and
      CLL, we are entering an exciting phase in the management of these conditions. A crucial next
      step is to validate biomarkers that predict clinical activity of Ibrutinib in order to tailor
      therapy and maximise benefit to patients. The recently opened named patient supply (NPS) of
      ibrutinib in the UK provides an excellent window of opportunity for these studies.

      The investigators have set up a collaboration with Professor Simon Rule (Plymouth) and Dr
      George Follows (Cambridge), who are carrying out a prospective data collection study for
      patients entered on to the NPS. With the help of our collaborators the investigators will be
      able to identify centres in the NHS for collection of samples. Patients entered on to the NPS
      will be provided an information sheet and research specific consent form following which
      samples from consenting patients will be transferred to the Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) for
      storage. Samples will be logged and tracked using a secure database. Samples for research
      will be collected at the same time as routine sampling and therefore no additional sampling
      will be required. For each patient, consent will be obtained for pretreatment, progression as
      well as any diagnostic samples taken or stored and patients will require to be on the study
      for at least 24 months from the start of their treatment. The collection will end 24 months
      after the last patient commences treatment on the NPS.

      Once we have an idea of the number of patient samples we can collect, the second stage of
      this study will be initiated and will involve molecular screening of samples at RMH for
      biomarkers of resistance. The data from the molecular studies will then be correlated with
      the clinical response data from our collaborators for clinical validation.
    
  