
    
      The study is an exploratory, single arm, multi-centre, clinical investigation of a medical
      device. The study consists of a recruitment period followed within 3 days by the first study
      visit. After a GP has decided to prescribe citalopram for depression, GP assesses patient for
      suitability for study and provides a brief explanation of study to potentially suitable
      patient. Patient signs pre-study consent form agreeing to being contacted by researcher from
      the same or another GP surgery and agreeing not to take their first dose of citalopram until
      after their first study visit.

      Recruitment and pre-screening Main study Patient Information Sheet/Informed Consent Form
      (PIS/ICF) will be provided. Researcher will contact patient and book the Visit 1 within 3
      days from GP visit.

      At Visit 1, patients will be screened and eligible patients will be enrolled in the study.
      Visit 1 procedures include:

        -  Informed Consent

        -  Demographics

        -  Review of other medication

        -  Brief medical history including depression history (if applicable)

        -  Entry criteria check and enrolment into study

        -  Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology Self Report (QIDS-SR)

        -  Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS)

        -  Beck Depression Inventory®II (BDI-II)

        -  GP-ETB (set of computer tasks)

        -  Review of Adverse Events (AEs) and Adverse Device Effects (ADEs) and device deficiencies
           Patients will return approximately 1 week later for Visit 2 and will complete a variety
           of questionnaires and assessments:

        -  QIDS-SR

        -  BDI-II

        -  GP-ETB

        -  Assessment of compliance with study prohibitions and restrictions

        -  Changes to antidepressant medication since last visit (e.g. increased dose, change of
           drug)

        -  Concordance with prescribed antidepressant medication, as determined through interview
           with patient

        -  Review of other medication

        -  Review of AEs, ADEs and device deficiencies Visit 3 will be scheduled to take place 46
           weeks after the first dose of citalopram. The following questionnaires and assessments
           will be completed:

        -  QIDS-SR

        -  MADRS

        -  BDI-II

        -  Acceptability questionnaire(s) relating to use of GP-ETB (patient and researcher)

        -  Assessment of compliance with study prohibitions and restrictions

        -  Changes to antidepressant medication since last visit (e.g. increased dose, change of
           drug)

        -  Concordance with prescribed antidepressant medication, as determined through interview
           with patient

        -  Review of other medication

        -  Review of AEs, ADEs and device deficiencies At the end of the visit, patients will be
           considered to have completed the study.

      Emotional Test Battery (GP-ETB) tasks: The GP-ETB is a series of computerised tasks during
      which participants must respond by button press to pictures (e.g. pictures of faces) or words
      presented on the screen. Some of the pictures are mildly emotional (e.g. a fearful face).
      Response bias for each Participant choice and reaction times are measured during the
      following tasks: Emotional Categorisation Task (ECAT) Number of words categorised as liked
      and disliked

      % accuracy for each condition, Reaction time for each condition Emotional Recall Task (EREC)
      Total number of words recalled for each valence (positive, negative) Number of commission
      errors

      Facial Expression Recognition Task (FERT):

        -  accuracy of recognition of each emotion (happiness, fear, anger, disgust, surprise,
           sadness, neutral)

        -  mis-classifications for each emotion Individual average reaction time for correct
           answers in each emotion Reaction time for all emotions Target sensitivity for each
           emotion Response bias for each emotion Questionnaires and rating scales: The
           questionnaires and rating scales used in the current study, except the acceptability
           questionnaires relating to use of GP-ETB (patient and researcher), are all validated and
           commonly used in experimental medicine studies.

      The acceptability questionnaires relating to use of GP-ETB were created specifically for this
      study to obtain a data set for analysis of GP-ETB user satisfaction.
    
  