
    
      We propose to conduct a 12-month randomized controlled trial comparing usual care versus
      chronic disease management over the Internet among disadvantaged African-Americans with type
      2 diabetes. Subjects will be recruited from patients receiving primary care at Harborview
      Medical Center, the County facility administered by the University of Washington in Seattle.
      As part of a pretest-posttest experimental design, 30 intervention subjects will be trained
      to use an existing diabetes disease-management module comprising six Web sites that are
      accessed from home via links displayed within the University's "MyUW" Internet portal. These
      sites allow patients to:

        1. View their entire electronic medical record, the same record used by providers,

        2. Upload blood glucose readings stored in a digital meter,

        3. Enter medication, nutrition, and exercise information into an online daily diary,

        4. Communicate with providers regarding treatment recommendations or other questions using
           clinical e-mail,

        5. Obtain additional information from a traditional patient education site with endorsed
           content, and

        6. Employ a second education site to collaboratively generate action plans intended to
           enhance self-efficacy.

      All data can be viewed by patients and providers in online trended displays that a clinical
      pharmacist will use to review cases no less often than weekly. As an attention control, 30
      subjects will also be trained to use a provided personal computer to access Internet
      knowledge resources, but will not have access to the case-management services and module
      being evaluated. By comparing the two groups, we aim to:

        1. Determine the effect of case-managed, Web-based diabetes care on glycemic control,
           healthcare utilization, self-efficacy, and patient satisfaction, and

        2. Use semi-structured interviews among a subsample of both trial arms to qualitatively
           identify enablers of the successful use of computers, the Internet, and e-health
           applications by disadvantaged patients.
    
  