
    
      Snake bites are considered as one of the major neglected public health issues of tropical
      areas. They occur chiefly in developing countries and mainly affect poor rural communities.
      Besides the inadequate supply, distribution and accessibility of antivenom, a major problem
      is the absence of standardized and adequate treatment protocol. There is a significant
      diversity in clinical practices, in particular concerning the dose of antivenom given.
      Additionally, antivenom is often given even in the absence of a clear indication for
      envenoming. Altogether, this leads to an incredible waste of a scarce and costly resource.

      In Nepal there are gross disparities in the management and outcomes of snake bite envenoming.
      The country's national guidelines, issued in 2004, prescribe an initial antivenom dose that
      is 5 times less than the one advocated by most experts. The dosage recommended by the
      National guidelines is not based on scientific or clinical evidence, and currently, there is
      confusion about the adequate dose to be administered. Some physicians follow recommendations
      published by experts, others follow the National guidelines, but for most, dosage is
      arbitrary. These discrepancies directly impact on morbidity and mortality and lead to wastage
      of a costly treatment that few can afford.

      The principal objective of the study is to establish unequivocally which dosage regimen is
      the most appropriate for the treatment of snake bite neurotoxic envenoming. It is a
      randomized, double-blind, clinical trial comparing high and low initial doses of snake
      polyvalent antivenom also known as Anti Snake Venom Serum (ASVS). 250 snake bite victims
      showing signs of neurotoxic envenoming will be enrolled over 2 years in three health centres
      of Southern Nepal. Each participant will initially receive either 2 vials or 10 vials of
      snake polyvalent antivenom. Mortality, the proportion of patients needing assisted
      respiration, and the percentage of patients who show worsening of neurotoxic signs and
      therefore require additional doses of antivenom will be compared in both arms. The kinetics
      of recovery and the total consumption of antivenom will also be compared. Finally, the
      incidence and severity of early and late adverse reactions to antivenom will be assessed. The
      economical impact of snake bite envenoming will also be determined by measuring direct and
      indirect costs to both health services and individual victims. Because they chiefly affect
      agricultural workers and children, snake bites have serious economic consequences, a fact
      that is frequently overlooked by national authorities.
    
  