
    
      This project aims to conduct a multicenter, single-arm phase II study, in which we will
      assess the safety and efficacy of transplanting standardized, non-xenogenic limbal stem cell
      grafts for patients with LSCD. The Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) clean room facilities at
      the Centre for Cell Therapy and Regenerative Medicine (CCRG, UZA) will conduct tissue
      engineering, while the Departments of Ophthalmology at the University Hospitals in Antwerp
      (UZA), Brussels (UZB) and Gent (UZG) will enrol patients, perform pre-operative tests,
      harvest the limbal biopsies, perform the auto- or allogenic graft transplantation and
      follow-up. Based on the past experience from our phase I/II mono-centre human clinical trial,
      we have been able to document the safety and feasibility of the transplantation. 12/18
      patients (2/3 allogenic and 10/15 autologous) have shown decrease in corneal vascularization,
      complete epithelialization and incorporation of the graft into the anterior cornea post
      limbal stem cell transplantation. However our current results are limited with respect to the
      sample size, feasibility of allogenic transplantation (only 3 cases), long term follow-up
      (mean of 22 months, range 4-43 months) and disease monitoring strategies. Longer patient
      follow-up to determine long term success (especially following subsequent corneal
      transplants) and inclusion of a larger allogenic patient population need to be addressed
      before this treatment can be translated to the clinics and recognized by the RIZIV as a
      reimbursable cell therapy.

      It is pertinent to say that this cell based therapy has the potential to provide this orphan
      pathology with an effective treatment option. The Flemish society will benefit from this
      project by improved rehabilitation of patients suffering from corneal blindness due to LSCD.
      By providing this treatment option we can offer a ray of hope to patients that would formerly
      have to learn to live with their disability. By restoring vision for these patients it is
      possible to reintegrate them into society as socially accepted individuals. Even a small
      degree of visual rehabilitation can make all the difference. For example, a slight increase
      in visual acuity can restore a person's ability to drive rather than having them rely
      exclusively on public transportation. More independence and a better quality of life are the
      main objectives that we are striving to achieve as the major outcome of this project.
    
  