
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer and is the third
      leading cause of cancer that related death in the worldwide. According the burden of cancer
      in economically developing countries is increasing in a result of population aging and growth
      in addition to increasing the adaptation of cancer-related lifestyle choices such as physical
      inactivates, smoking and western diets. Liver cancer in women are seventh most common
      diagnosed cancer and sixth most cause of cancer death while in men are fifth diagnosed cancer
      and second cause of cancer death. In 2008 liver cancer new cases were estimated 748,300 and
      death cases were 695,900 occurred in worldwide. Viral hepatitis infections, alcohol, fungal
      toxins (aflatoxins), food additives, toxins produced industrial chemicals and water and air
      pollutants are the major factors of primary liver cancer.

      Although, current most of doctors and laboratorians of HCC diagnoses bases are medical
      imaging such ultrasound, MRI, CT-scan and laboratory analyses tests for serum tumor markers
      such as alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) which characterized by very low of sensitivity in the
      detection of HCC. Last two decades, scientists was focused researches of small molecules
      called MicroRNAs which are produced by human cells and can be released in the blood.

      MicroRNAs are class of (20 - 25 nucleotide in length) non-coding RNAs, and its emerging
      non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for cancer diagnosing, screening, monitoring treatment and
      to predict prognosis. A number of studies exposed an abnormal expression of human serum
      MicroRNAs in many tumors such as liver, pancreatic and colorectal carcinoma. Recently,
      MicroRNAs have a role in the development of HCC, but still it is unknown if these small
      molecules will be used as biomarker for diagnosis and survival of HCC.

      Purpose:

        1. To recognize serum microRNAs as a diagnosis or prediction biomarker for Hepatocellular
           carcinoma.

        2. To correlate with the expression level of microRNAs between HCC patients , chronic liver
           disease and health volunteer subjects.

        3. To determine the clinical utility of MicroRNAs as a diagnostic maker of Hepatocellular
           carcinoma comparing with alpha fetoprotein the current marker of (HCC).

      Methods Study design: This is observational study (Case Control Study). A total of 126
      subjects aged over 18 years old; that divided into three groups will be enrolled in this
      study in Dufle Specialist Hospital; these groups are HCC group, Chronic liver disease group
      and health volunteer group. The diagnosed criteria of HCC group are ultrasound which its
      nodules more than 5cm, liver function tests, viral markers and AFP. The other groups (chronic
      liver disease and health) the diagnoses will be based on laboratory such as (liver function
      tests, viral markers, AFP, complete blood count (CBC), Kidney functions and others) the
      clinical and laboratory analysis data will be collected perceptively The blood samples will
      be collected at one time, after that the blood samples will be separated using
      Serum-separating tubes and then centrifuges to get the serum and will be stored in -20°C
      before transferred from Somalia to Russia.

      Viral marker Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and antibody to HCV (anti-HCV) will be
      checked using commercially available enzyme linked immunosorbent assay kits for every subject
      of these three groups.

      The expression of MicroRNAs will be detected by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase
      chain reaction (qRT-PCR) with human TaqMan MicroRNA Assay Kits (Applied Biosystems) of these
      groups either HCC group , Chronic liver disease and healthy volunteers. The investigators
      will define the groups of HCC, Chronic liver disease and healthy volunteers with high or low
      expression based on the median expression value of each microRNA.

      All statistical analyses will be carried out with Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS) version 20. MicroRNAs expressions among different group (HCC, Chronic liver diseases,
      and healthy volunteers) will be analyzed by SPSS.
    
  