
    
      The United States has experienced dramatic increases in obesity among both children and
      adults. Population-based primary prevention may hold the greatest promise. Unfortunately,
      obesity prevention programs that have specifically attempted to reduce fat and calorie intake
      and increase physical activity have been relatively ineffective at reducing body fatness. As
      a result, there is a pressing need for innovative interventions to prevent obesity.

      Children spend more time watching television and videotapes and playing video games than in
      any other activity except sleeping. As a result, there has been widespread speculation that
      television viewing might be one of the most easily modifiable causes of obesity among
      children. This hypothesis has broad appeal, but has been difficult to validate.
      Epidemiological studies have consistently found weak associations between media use and
      childhood obesity, and additional epidemiological studies are unlikely to help clarify these
      relationships.

      We propose an innovative experimental model. In the current environment, in which television
      viewing is already so prevalent, the question of greatest clinical, practical and policy
      importance is: Will reducing television, videotape and video game use prevent childhood
      obesity? As a foundation for this proposal, we have completed two pilot studies that
      demonstrate (1) it is possible to significantly reduce children's television, videotape and
      video game use and (2) that a school-based intervention to reduce children's television,
      videotape and video game use may result in clinically significant decreases in adiposity.

      We propose a school-based randomized controlled trial involving 12 ethnically- and
      socioeconomically-diverse elementary schools and approximately 900 third graders. Six schools
      will be randomly assigned to receive an intervention to reduce television, videotape and
      video game use and the other six schools will receive an attention-placebo control
      intervention, to minimize the potential for compensatory rivalry or resentful demoralization.
      Our proposed intervention model is derived directly from principles of Bandura's social
      cognitive theory and includes a classroom curriculum and parent newsletters. The primary
      intervention will be delivered throughout the third grade school year.

      Survey and physical assessments of all children will occur at baseline, at the end of 3rd
      grade (post-test) and at the beginning and end of 4th grade (4 month and one year follow-ups,
      respectively). A subsample of children will participate in 4 days of activity monitoring and
      three 24-hour dietary recalls at baseline, post-test and one-year follow-up. Parents will be
      interviewed by phone.

      PRIMARY HYPOTHESIS: Compared to controls, third grade children exposed to a school-based
      intervention to reduce time spent watching television and videotapes and playing video games,
      will significantly reduce their body mass index (BMI, kg/m2). In addition, triceps skinfold
      thickness and waist and hip ratio will be measured to further characterize changes in obesity
      resulting from the intervention.

      SECONDARY HYPOTHESES: Children attending intervention schools will significantly decrease the
      amount of time they spend watching television, watching videotapes and playing video games;
      Children attending intervention schools will significantly increase their levels of moderate
      to vigorous physical activity and total physical activity; Children attending intervention
      schools will significantly improve their physical fitness; Children attending intervention
      schools will significantly reduce their fat intakes and total calorie intakes; Children
      attending intervention schools will significantly reduce the number of meals and snacks they
      eat while watching television and videotapes or playing video games.
    
  