
    
      The susceptibility to gain weight is highly variable even when caloric intake and physical
      activity are well controlled. Because basal metabolic rate (BMR) represents ~70% of total
      daily energy expenditure (TDEE), even a small difference in BMR can affect daily energy
      balance, thereby increasing the susceptibility for gaining weight. Our preliminary data
      indicate that high-normal growth hormone (GH) secretion is associated with resistance to
      weight-gain in rats when overfed and greater weight-loss in humans when underfed. Given that
      GH influences many of the key metabolic processes that contribute to BMR, the investigators
      hypothesize that persons with high-normal GH will be resistant to weight-gain because of a
      high BMR, resulting from accelerated rates of these processes. The investigators will measure
      basal 24h GH secretion and BMR in 106 non-obese men and women. The investigators will also
      measure protein synthesis, proteolysis, triglyceride/fatty acid cycling (all measured using
      stable isotope tracer methods) to determine the relationships among these processes, BMR, and
      GH [Specific Aim 1]. Subjects identified as having "low-normal" (<1.5 ug/L) and "high-normal"
      (>3 ug/L) 24h GH will then be admitted to the hospital for a 2 wk overfeeding protocol (~2000
      kcal/d >TDEE - with restricted physical activity), immediately followed by a 4 wk caloric
      restriction protocol (~750 kcal/d <TDEE) to compare changes in weight, body composition and
      intra-abdominal adiposity between these groups that differ markedly in their GH secretion (GH
      measured before the diet) [Specific Aim 2]. A subset of subjects with low-normal GH will
      receive intravenous GH throughout the 2 wk overfeeding period at either: 1. a constant rate
      or 2. as a pulsatile infusion (to mimic endogenous secretion). BMR will be assessed daily and
      protein synthesis, proteolysis, and triglyceride/fatty acid cycling will be measured at the
      end of the 2 wks [Specific Aim 3]. The investigators anticipate that a higher GH pulsatility
      (peak amplitude), rather than elevated GH concentration, per se, will increase protein
      synthesis, proteolysis, and triglyceride/fatty acid cycling with a resultant increase in BMR
      and resistance to weight-gain. Identifying factors responsible for predisposing individuals
      to weight-gain will help combat the alarming rise in the prevalence of obesity.
    
  