
    
      It has been recommended that endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) be
      performed using carbon dioxide (CO2) instead of room air as the infused "air" or gas for
      luminal insufflation for reasons of improved patient comfort and in case of procedural
      adverse events (as CO2 is more quickly absorbed by the body and as it can be exhaled via the
      lungs). Air cholangiograms are often incidentally visible on fluoroscopy (radiographically)
      during ERCP prior to injection of iodinated contrast into the biliary tree. Despite the
      information from an air cholangiogram being readily available in many instances, biliary
      endoscopists and radiologists who read the fluoroscopic images taken during ERCP do not
      usually comment or interpret the "air" or "CO2" cholangiograms. Consequently, very little
      data is available on the topic of "air" or "CO2" cholangiography. As a contrast medium for
      cholangiography, CO2 might be safer than iodinated contrast, which is the standard contrast
      medium used during ERCP, as iodinated contrast cannot be easily absorbed by the body and as
      it can be trapped proximal to obstructing biliary stones or strictures and lead to biliary
      tract infection.

      This is a prospective cohort study that will enroll patients undergoing ERCP for suspected
      choledocholithiasis and/or biliary stricture(s). If they did not participate in this study,
      these patients would still require an ERCP with CO2 used as the endoscopically insufflated
      "air" medium. Enrolled patients will undergo an initial cholangiogram with CO2 (injected into
      the bile ducts) utilizing both conventional fluoroscopy and digital subtraction fluoroscopic
      imaging, followed by conventional cholangiography using iodinated contrast (injected into the
      bile ducts). Digital subtraction fluoroscopic imaging is a commercially available setting on
      certain fluoroscopy units that optimizes resolution with air or CO2 used as a contrast
      medium. Findings on CO2 cholangiography will be compared to those obtained from
      pre-procedural abdominal imaging along with the cholangiogram done using iodinated contrast
      at the time of the ERCP procedures.
    
  