
    
      Several studies have found gender-related differences in the epidemiology, clinical
      presentation, clinical course and response to treatment of schizophrenic disorder(1,2).
      Findings relating to a lower frequency of schizophrenia in women, its later onset and less
      severe clinical course(3,4), have led to the appearance of the "estrogen hypothesis" of
      schizophrenia, which postulates that estrogen has a protective effect in women susceptible to
      this disease(5).

      The estrogen hypothesis in relation to schizophrenia is based on several studies that showed
      that estrogen levels are significantly lower in schizophrenic women than in healthy women,(6)
      and that outbreaks or onset of the disease tend to coincide with stages of the menstrual
      cycle in which estrogen levels are the lowest(7,8).

      Studies on experimental animals have shown that estrogen has a modulating effect on the brain
      dopaminergic system(9,10) and that it also affects serotoninergic activity(11). Estrogens
      also enhance neuronal regeneration and block mechanisms of neuronal death(12).

      The discovery that estrogen has a modulatory effect on the dopaminergic system has encouraged
      some researchers to study the therapeutic use of estrogen in schizophrenic patients. Several
      double-blind clinical trials have shown that estrogens are effective at improving psychotic
      symptoms(13-15). These last studies analyzed the efficacy of estrogens after one and two
      months, and mainly in relation to positive symptoms, in patients with the acute illness.
      However, in older patients it is the severity of the negative, rather than the positive,
      symptoms that seems to be associated with a poorer cognitive and social function. Moreover,
      positive symptoms tend to be less severe with age, while negative symptoms tend to
      persist(16).

      Regarding the possible use of estrogens to treat post-menopausal women with schizophrenia,
      Lindamer et al.,(17) studied the psychopathology of menopausal patients with schizophrenia
      and found that patients in hormone replacement therapy required lower doses of antipsychotic
      drugs and presented less negative symptoms, whereas no differences were found in response to
      treatment in relation to positive symptoms.

      The greater frequency of later onset schizophrenia in women than in men seems to be related
      to the drop in estrogen levels that occurs during the menopause. Häfner et al.(19) found that
      schizophrenia of late onset was more severe in women than in men, especially in relation to
      negative symptoms, and these results also appear to support the hypothesis that estrogens act
      as a protective factor before the menopause.

      The use of estrogens as adjuvant therapy in schizophrenia seems promising, although in
      long-term treatment it can have a potentially negative effect on breast and uterine
      tissue(20,21). This was the reason we chose raloxifene for our study, which is a selective
      estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that can act as a tissue-selective agonist or antagonist.
      Raloxifene is a first-generation SERM used in the preventive treatment of post-menopausal
      osteoporosis and does not affect breast or ovarian tissue. (22). It has agonistic effects on
      the brain(23). Raloxifene seems to influence multiple neurotransmission pathways, including
      that of seratonin in the frontal cortex, basal and striated ganglia(24), areas of the brain
      that are commonly affected in schizophrenic patients.

      There is some evidence that raloxifene can be useful in the treatment of some mental
      disorders in post-menopausal women(25,26). Recently, Kulkarni et al.(27) have reported
      preliminary data that also seem to support a role for raloxifene in schizophrenic patients.

      Our team conducted a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial
      funded by the Stanley Foundation, to assess the value of 60 mg of raloxifene as adjuvant
      treatment for the negative symptoms, and other psychotic symptoms, in post-menopausal women.
      In our study on 33 patients, we found that women in the raloxifene group showed a greater
      improvement in both positive and negative symptoms, and also in general psychopathological
      symptoms, than women who had only received antipsychotic medication(28).

      Since part of Raloxifene's mechanism of action involves activating the estrogenic receptors,
      some studies have explored the possibility that polymorphisms in these alfa (ESR1) or beta
      (ESR2) estrogenic receptor genes can modify the effects of treatment with raloxifene(29-31).
      Several pharmacogenomic studies have reported that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in
      these genes, affect raloxifene treatment in relation to its endothelial function(29),
      cholesterol levels(30) and bone mineral density(31). Nevertheless, no studies have assessed
      whether these SNPs of ESR1 or ESR2 can influence raloxifene's effects in the brain. Based on
      the positive results of our preliminary study, we have designed a longer clinical trial with
      the same dose of raloxifene that had been effective in the first study. We aim to include in
      this 6-month placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind clinical trial a larger number of
      post-menopausal women with schizophrenia, and improve the clinical assessments by using a
      larger battery of psychometric tests in areas of social functioning and neuropsychological
      performance. Genotypic studies will be conducted of the 4 SNPs in the ESR1 (rs9340799,
      rs2234693, rs1801132) and ESR2 (rs1256049) genes, to control the effects of patients'
      genotypes on response to treatment.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TARGET POPULATION

      The sample includes post-menopausal women diagnosed with schizophrenia according to DSM-IV-TR
      criteria.

      Post-menopause is defined as 1) aged over 45 years with a minimum of one year of amenorrhea
      and FSH levels higher than 20 UI/L or 2) aged over 50 years old with at least one year of
      amenorrhea.
    
  