
    
      The study was designed to compare changes in the cardiovascular, hemodynamic and metabolic
      variables of hypertensive patients who received aerobic physical training with intensity
      determined by the DENE protocol with that of patients who received routine ambulatory care 12
      weeks after entering the study.

      Sixty-three hypertensive men and women, divided into the intervention group (GI) (n=42) and
      the control group (n = 21) participated in the study.

      All procedures were performed by trained researchers and qualified staff and the evaluations
      and intervention were performed at the specialty medical outpatient clinic.

      After agreeing to participate in the study, we collected sociodemographic and clinical data,
      body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and waist / hip ratio (WHR). The participants
      were submitted to the cardiopulmonary exercise test (TECP), to evaluate the peak oxygen
      consumption (VO2peak), oxygen pulse and double product. Between one and seven days after
      TECP, consecutive heart rate intervals (iRR) were recorded for evaluation of autonomic heart
      rate modulation using a Polar model RS800CX (Polar Electro Co.Ltda Kempele, Finland). . The
      DENE protocol for determining the intensity of the training was applied in the GI to
      determine the training intensity in the treadmill. Intervention participants underwent
      supervised aerobic physical training at the pre-determined intensity, which consisted of
      three weekly sessions, lasting one hour, over a period of 12 weeks. Control participants
      receive routine care from the outpatient clinic for the same period. At the end of the 12
      weeks, measures, recording of the iRR intervals, oxygen pulse, double product, BMI, waist
      circumference (AC), hip circumference (QC) and waist / hip ratio (WHR) were obtained. All
      subjects were previously informed about the procedures Signed a free and informed consent
      form. The project was approved by the Commission of Research Committee of the Institution
      with the number 086.096 / 14.
    
  