
    
      ZD6474 is a new investigational drug that is thought to block the formation of new blood
      vessels. The growth of new blood vessels is called angiogenesis. Angiogenesis is thought to
      be essential for the growth of tumors beyond a small size. It is hoped that ZD6474 will limit
      new blood vessel growth in the tumor and "starve" the tumor by limiting blood flow to it. The
      second part of this study also includes paclitaxel (Taxol) and carboplatin (Paraplatin). Both
      paclitaxel and carboplatin are standard chemotherapy drugs that are approved by the FDA for
      use in the treatment of lung cancer.

      Before beginning treatment on this study, you will have a biopsy of your tumor. The tissue
      taken during this biopsy will be compared with the tissue taken after you receive ZD6474. The
      tumor samples will be compared to see what effect ZD6474 has had on tumor cell death. During
      the biopsy procedure, you will receive either a local or general anesthetic depending on the
      location of your tumor and a small piece of tumor will be removed with a large needle.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam by a physician. You will have
      routine blood (about 4 teaspoons) and urine tests. Women who are able to have children must
      have a negative blood pregnancy test. You will have a chest x-ray and a CT or MRI scan, a
      functional MRI, a bone scan if your doctor thinks it is necessary, and a brain scan. You will
      also have an ECG (test to measure the electrical activity of the heart) and a ECHO scan to
      make sure your heart is healthy enough to receive this treatment.

      Treatment on this study will be given in 3-week cycles. During the first three cycles (i.e.,
      the first 9 weeks) you will take a ZD6474 tablet by mouth each morning on an empty stomach.
      While on this study you will receive a physical exam every week. You will also receive weekly
      blood tests (about 4 teaspoons) for the first 4 weeks of treatment. After that you will
      receive blood tests (about 4 teaspoons) before every 3-week cycle.

      After 2 weeks of treatment you will have another biopsy of your tumor, and another functional
      MRI. After every 9 weeks of treatment and every 2 cycles thereafter you will have a repeat CT
      or MRI to evaluate your tumor. If your disease has responded to ZD6474 or stayed the same,
      you will go on to the second part of this study. If your disease has gotten worse or
      intolerable side effects occur, you will be taken off this study and your doctor will discuss
      treatment options with you.

      If you continue on to the second part of this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the
      toss of a coin) to receive either: a) daily ZD6474 alone, or b) paclitaxel and carboplatin
      every 3 weeks along with daily ZD6474. You have an equal chance of being assigned to either
      group. If you receive paclitaxel, you will receive it as a 3-hour infusion into a vein on the
      first day of each treatment cycle. If you receive carboplatin, you will receive it by vein
      immediately following the paclitaxel infusion. The carboplatin infusion will take between 15
      and 30 minutes. Treatment with either daily ZD6474 or ZD6474 plus paclitaxel and carboplatin
      will continue until your diseases worsens or until severe side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. ZD6474 is an investigational drug that has been approved by
      the FDA for research use only. A total of up to 120 patients will take part in this study.
      All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  