
    
      Currently, according to the TASC II consensus document (2007) and the Russian guidelines for
      limb ischemia treatment (2010), aorta-iliac C and D type segment lesions the open surgery is
      suggested.

      According to different studies, 76% occlusive aorta-iliac article course patients indicate
      femoral-popliteal segment lesions. Due to the lack of inflow and outflow ways of correction
      needed for adequate limb revascularization surgery treatment of multistorey atherosclerotic
      lesions patients is still one of the most complex problems of vascular surgery.
      Perioperational mortality of critical limb ischemia patients reaches 5-10% in retrograde
      aorta-iliac segment reconstruction.

      Due to its high efficiency hybrid operative invasion is one of the most perspective
      directions in reconstructive vascular surgery development (92-98% of the cases with the small
      number of post-operative complications).

      Furthermore, hybrid surgery is possible with the critical iliac segment and femoral artery
      lesions, since stenting in the field of physiological bends (femoral artery) may lead to its
      breaking and artery thrombosis. Arterial segments blood flow reconstruction is possible with
      hybrid innervations meaning iliac segment stenting and common femoral artery patch.

      All reports of iliac arteries stenosis percutaneous angioplasty indicate that the primary
      technical and clinical success rate exceeds 90%. The technical success of iliac arteries long
      occlusions recanalization reaches 80-85%. Improvement of endovascular equipment designed for
      the total occlusions treatment increases technical success of recanalization. The TASC II
      materials summarize the several large studies results which present the data on the operated
      segment artery patency at the level of 70-81% within 5-8 years of follow up. A large number
      of authors note the actuality of aortic-iliac type C and D segment lesions endovascular
      treatment recommendations revision according to the TASC II, together with hybrid technics
      implementation in this category of patients.
    
  