
    
      This study is based on the investigators preclinical data that have demonstrated that r-hCG
      exerts a mammary cancer preventive effect that is mediated by the induction of gland
      differentiation, which results in permanent changes in the genomic signature of this organ.
      This exploratory study will evaluate the genomic profile of breast epithelial cells obtained
      from random periareolar fine needle aspiration (RPFNA) specimens performed in high risk women
      treated for 90 days (an extra 4 weeks in a subgroup) with r-hCG. This knowledge will serve as
      the basis for establishing a novel genomic biomarker that will serve as a surrogate endpoint
      in future preventive clinical trials.

      The objective of the proposed study is to characterize the genomic profile of breast
      epithelial cells obtained from 35 asymptomatic high breast cancer risk nulliparous
      premenopausal women carriers of BRCA1 and BRCA2 deleterious mutations. Gene expression
      measurements and benign breast tissue specimens will be obtained at baseline (time 0), after
      treatment with r-hCG at 90 days (time 1), at 270 days from baseline (time 2) and (in a
      subgroup) at 60 weeks (+/- 4 weeks).

      The primary objective of the study is to compare the gene expression profiles of these women
      across the three (or four) time points and identify differentially expressed genes. The
      investigator is interested in comparing the expression profiles between all pairs of time
      points as well as across time. The comparison of profiles before and after treatment with
      r-hCG, both at 90 and 270 days are of particular interest. The women will receive 3x/week
      injections of 250 microgram r-hCG for a total of 12 weeks (an extra 4 weeks in a subgroup).
      Core Needle Biopsies specimens will be primarily utilized for analysis of genomic expression
      by cDNA microarray. In addition, a series of surrogate intermediate markers such as
      cytomorphologic evaluation and cell proliferation index will be analyzed.
    
  