
    
      Cerebral Oximeter is a monitoring application based on the measurement of regional oxygen
      saturation by transcutaneous route by near infrared spectroscopy technology. With this system
      that analyzes the intraparenchymal and microcirculation in the frontal cortex, cerebral
      oxygenation changes caused by possible hypoxemia are followed. Unlike pulse oximeter, it
      works in non-pulsatile conditions. In other words, continuous, real-time and safe oxygen
      saturation is continued to be measured even in the case of cardiopulmonary arrest. It is a
      significant advantage of noninvasive measurement according to jugular venous oxygen
      saturation measurement. For normal healthy people, the accepted normal range is 58-82%, while
      0 to 15% of measurements are important for providing CPR process information.

      Oxygen saturation measured by cerebral oximetry is different from that measured by other
      oxygen saturation measurement techniques. The main reason for this is the technique itself
      and the region where it is used. The radiation emitted by the cerebral oximetry sensor is
      aimed at the microvessel structure with venous and arterial mix. Since the contribution of
      venous and arterial blood volume in this structure is between 70-75% and 30-25%, different
      results are obtained based on only arterial or just venous bed measurements. In this sense,
      the measured saturation value is lower than the arterial oxygen and pulse oximetry saturation
      values; higher than venous values.

      The ratio of oxyhemoglobin to the total hemoglobin below the region under evaluation of the
      system is expressed as, value in% System and reflected to the user as Regional Oxygen
      Saturation (rSO2). There are publications that can be used not only for cerebral but also for
      different tissues (ischemic limb, kidney, etc.).

      General and Spinal Anesthesia can be used in geriatric patients in orthopedic surgery.
      Post-op cognitive dysfunction may be seen in orthopedic surgery in this patient group. There
      are not enough studies showing the correlation of cognitive functions with cerebral pulse
      oximetry after general and spinal anesthesia. In this study, the investigators aimed to
      compare cognitive functions between spinal and general anesthesia using cerebral and systemic
      oxygenation, hemodynamic data and pre-op, post-op cognitive function tests.
    
  