
    
      Background

      Regional anesthesia is commonly employed for surgery on the hand. It is well tolerated by
      most patients and has a high safety record.

      The most common form of regional anesthesia for this surgery is the supraclavicular block
      which is successful in most cases. Occasionally an additional nerve block and/or moderate
      sedation is required. The most frequent additional nerve blocks required are for the ulnar
      and median nerves.

      This study aims to address whether a low volume supraclavicular block plus a selective ulnar
      or median nerve block reduces the time taken for onset of anesthesia, reduces the time of
      post-operative complete limb immobility, improves the surgical success of the block, and
      increases patient satisfaction, compared to a standard block.

      The study will be powered to detect a 25% difference in successful surgical anesthesia.

      Purpose

      To ascertain whether the addition of an ulnar or median nerve block to a lower volume
      supraclavicular block speeds up the onset and consistency of anesthesia, and the return of
      limb function in patients undergoing hand surgery when compared to a standard supraclavicular
      block.

      Hypothesis

      Low volume supraclavicular block plus selective distal nerve blocks will speed up the onset
      of anesthesia, improve surgical anesthetic success and decrease the time to the return of
      upper limb function when compared to a standard supraclavicular block.

      Study population

      Patients over 18 years of age, listed for hand surgery in the ulnar or median distribution at
      the University of Alberta Hospital. The study will commence following ethical approval and
      will run until 160 patients are enrolled.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Patient refusal

        -  Allergy to amide local anesthetics

        -  Severe coagulopathy

        -  Bilateral upper limb surgery

        -  Surgery involving bone graft from the iliac crest

        -  Request for general anesthetic from surgical or research team (for example, nerve
           stimulation studies)

      Methods

      Consent will be obtained by one of the investigators. Patients not wishing to participate in
      the study will receive either a brachial plexus block or a general anesthetic as deemed
      appropriate by the attending anesthesiologist.

      Patients to undergo surgery on the ring or pinky fingers will be randomised to receive either
      a standard supraclavicular block, or a low volume supraclavicular block plus ulnar nerve
      block. Patients receiving surgery on the thumb, index, or middle fingers will be randomized
      in a similar fashion to a separate "median" group. All blocks will be placed in a designated
      block area prior to transfer to the operating room by either an experienced staff
      anesthesiologist or a supervised fellow in regional anesthesia. The block will be assessed
      prior to surgery for motor and sensory dysfunction, and the block may be augmented if
      necessary. The surgeon will determine the effectiveness of the surgical anesthesia, and will
      indicate a need for surgical local anesthetic top up, heavy sedation or general anesthesia to
      the anesthesiologist. Sedation can also be administered as per patient request.

      Post-operatively, a patient satisfaction questionnaire will be completed. A phone call will
      be conducted the following day.

      Primary outcome measures

      1. Successful surgical anesthesia

      Secondary outcome measures

        1. Time to successful anesthetic block

        2. Procedural time

        3. Duration of analgesia

        4. Duration of weakness

        5. Patient satisfaction

      Safety concerns

      Ultrasound-guided supraclavicular blocks have been performed for many years, with a low
      complication rate. The addition of a peripheral nerve block is not uncommon, and poses
      minimal additional risk.

      Major concerns

        1. Pneumothorax

        2. Nerve damage

        3. Intravascular injection causing local anesthetic toxicity

        4. Infection

      Minor concerns

        1. Block failure

        2. Transient hemidiaphragmatic paresis

        3. Transient Horner's syndrome

        4. Transient recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy

        5. Haematoma at injection site

      Study Protocol

      Patients will be transferred to the block area. Midazolam will be titrated to an appropriate
      level. A time out procedure will be undertaken to ensure the correct side is being blocked.
      The skin will be disinfected. The ultrasound probe will scan the supraclavicular fossa to
      identify the subclavian artery. The brachial plexus is identified postero-lateral to the
      artery.

      Standard supraclavicular block

      The skin will be infiltrated with lidocaine. A needle attached to a nerve stimulator will be
      introduced. The target will be an area infero-medial to the brachial plexus. In this position
      10 - 20 ml of a 3:1 Lidocaine 2%: 0.5% Bupivacaine solution is injected. A more superficial
      injection is then made. A further 10-20 mls of the Lidocaine:Bupivacaine solution is
      deposited. The total volume will be recorded with a maximum of 30mls.

      Low volume supraclavicular block with ulnar nerve block

      The skin infiltration and target of the needle is the same as for the standard
      supraclavicular block. However, a maximum of 15ml of the solution will be injected. The arm
      is then abducted and supinated. The ulnar artery is identified. The ulnar nerve is seen
      medial to the artery. 5ml of the solution is deposited adjacent to the nerve.

      Low volume supraclavicular block with median nerve block

      The skin infiltration and target of the needle is the same as for the standard
      supraclavicular block. However, a maximum of 15ml of the solution will be injected. The
      patient's elbow is flexed and the nerve is visualized on ultrasound in the antecubital fossa
      lying medial to the brachial artery. Anesthetic solution is deposited in the forearm to
      target the median nerve.

      Intra-operative management

      Following block assessment, the patient will be transferred to the operating theatre.
      Additional midazolam may be given. Propofol at 50mcg/kg/minute will be commenced if required,
      and the rate can be increased to 75mcg/kg/minute. If the patient is unable to tolerate the
      procedure, sedation can be increased to at least 100mcg/kg/minute and the block is deemed an
      unsuccessful surgical block.

      Block Assessment

      Patients will be assessed for sensory and motor blockade of each nerve at 5 minute intervals.

      A successful anesthetic block will be defined as a sensation score in the ulnar or median
      area of 0 or 1, and an ulnar or median motor score of 2 or less. If this does not occur in
      the standard group, an ulnar or median nerve block will be performed. If this does not occur
      in the combined group, a general anesthetic will occur.

      Nerve block extent may also be assessed by objective means (e.g., strength testing with a
      dynamometer).

      A successful surgical block will be defined as requiring no further LA top-up or
      infiltration, and sedation no greater than 75mcg/kg/min.

      Data collection

      Data will be collected on a study sheet. Information will be kept confidential and there will
      be no patient identifiers on the form.

      The data collected will be age, sex, height and weight, the type of block used, the amount of
      local anesthetic used, the length of time taken to perform all blocks, the block assessment
      data. Intraoperative data will note whether additional local anaesthetic, heavy sedation or
      general anesthesia was required and the reason. Post-operative data will be a patient
      questionnaire asking about block-related and surgery-related pain score. A follow up phone
      call the day after surgery will determine the timing of return of power and sensation of the
      arm.
    
  