
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intraperitoneal (IP) carboplatin when given
      in combination with IV paclitaxel followed by IP paclitaxel in patients with stage III or IV
      ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cavity carcinoma.

      II. Determine the MTD of IP carboplatin and IV docetaxel when given in combination with IP
      paclitaxel in these patients.

      III. To determine the feasibility of the combination of IV paclitaxel, IP carboplatin and IV
      bevacizumab on day one followed by IP paclitaxel on day eight (Part C Only).

      IV. Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects and complications in patients treated with
      these regimens.

      V. Evaluate the neurotoxicity of this regimen at each cycle using the FACT/GOG-NTX4
      assessment tool to determine dose reduction in these patients.

      VI. Evaluate the techniques used for intraperitoneal catheter placement, surgical procedures,
      and reporting of outcomes in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of intraperitoneal (IP) carboplatin.

      Patients in the dose-escalation phase are not eligible to enter the feasibility phase.

      DOSE-ESCALATION PHASE (PART A or PART B): Patients receive IP carboplatin on day 1, and
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hour (part A) or docetaxel IV over 1 hour (Part B) on day 1, and IP
      paclitaxel on day 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      FEASIBILITY PHASE (PART C): Patients receive IP carboplatin on day 1, paclitaxel IV on day 1,
      and IP paclitaxel on day 8 in course 1 as in part A dose-escalation phase. Beginning in
      course 2 and all subsequent courses, patients receive IP carboplatin on day 1, IV paclitaxel
      on day 1, and IP paclitaxel on day 8 as in the dose-escalation phase, and bevacizumab IV over
      30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  