
    
      1. Research Assumptions Epilepsy is a frequent group of diseases, affecting 1% of the
           general population with a higher incidence in children. Anti-epileptic drugs are used as
           the main treatment. The choice of an anti-epileptic treatment is based on the
           benefit-risk balance. The purpose of the treatment should not only be efficacy, the
           presence of side effects is a major factor to be taken into account. Thus, in children
           with resistant epilepsy (20 to 30% of epilepsy), the objective is not necessarily to be
           seizure free but to achieve the lowest possible frequency of seizures with the lowest
           possible side effects.

           When assessing the benefit-risk ratio of antiepileptic treatment, it is important to
           keep in mind that the child has a developing brain whose main activity is learning.
           Special attention should be paid to minimize treatment related cognitive consequences.
           Be particularly wary of combination therapies (combinations of several antiepileptic
           treatments). Indeed, it is well established that they are more harmful than monotherapy.
           It is also important to avoid the use of drugs with too strong cognitive effect of their
           own. Some molecules such as phenobarbital or topiramate have been the subject of a few
           studies that have established their deleterious effect on the cognitive level.
           Benzodiazepines are available drug used as antiepileptic drugs. In France, clobazam and
           clonazepam have a Marketing Authorization for children.

           Although effective in children with epilepsy, benzodiazepines seem to raised a
           significant number of problems. One of them is the absence of study determining whether
           these molecules have cognitive consequences. In order to have more data to better
           establish the risk-benefit balance of benzodiazepines in the treatment of children with
           epilepsy, the investigators wish to conduct work to evaluate the cognitive consequences
           of benzodiazepines in children treated for epilepsy.

           Hypothesis tested: Benzodiazepines have cognitive consequences in children treated for
           epilepsy The investigators will conduct a prospective study on the cognitive impact of
           benzodiazepine withdrawal after successful curative epilepsy surgery in children. The
           investigators will focus, through neuropsychological tests, on the working memory and
           attention abilities of children with drug-resistant epilepsy who require surgery and are
           receiving a benzodiazepine. The three assessments (pre-surgical (seizures and
           benzodiazepine); post-surgical (no seizure and benzodiazepine) and post benzodiazepine
           discontinuation (no seizure and benzodiazepine)) will assess the impact of
           benzodiazepines on working memory and attention abilities.

           The data from this study will allow physicians to better understand the balance of
           benefit and risk balance of benzodiazepine use in children with epilepsy. These data
           could lead to the writing of a good use for the treatment of epilepsy in children and
           avoid misuse if the cognitive impact is significant.

        2. Description of the studied population and justification for its choice Children followed
           for drug-resistant epilepsy in preoperative assessment will be selected by the
           coordinator's team or one of the partners. Indeed, only this methodology (pre- and
           post-operative comparison with and without benzodiazepine) will make it possible to
           answer the question asked and in particular the comparison of post-operative evaluation
           with benzodiazepines with post-operative evaluation after stopping benzodiazepines

        3. Benzodiazepin as antiepileptic drugs Efficiency profile: The efficacy spectrum of
           clobazam and clonazepam is quite broad since these molecules have shown their efficacy
           in controlled trials on absences, myoclonias, atonic seizures and focal seizures as well
           as in open trials on generalized tonic-clonic and focal seizures. Some authors have even
           suggested that clonazepam may be the third line treatment in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.

           Cognitive side effects: As mentioned above, the cognitive effects of antiepileptics are
           an important concern in children with epilepsy. This is one of the main point in the
           benefit-risk ratio evaluation at treatment initiation or follow-up.

           The evaluation of this type of side effect is not easy from a methodological point of
           view and there are almost no data on this subject except for the most recent
           antiepileptics. In addition, this type of side effect is not always reported by
           children. Parents, on the other hand, do not easily notice cognitive effects when
           starting treatment, whereas they observe a difference when stopping the drug.The
           cognitive domains where antiepileptics have been shown to have a negative effect are
           speed of treatment and attention processes. Reviews of the cognitive effects of
           antiepileptics do not focus on benzodiazepines and there are no data on the cognitive
           effect of benzodiazepines on children in the general population to our knowledge. This
           may be because there are not only very few controlled or open studies that have sought
           to assess the cognitive effects of benzodiazepines used as a treatment in children with
           epilepsy. Clobazam appears to have like the other antiepileptic drugs some cognitive
           side effect. A number of studies that have been conducted in children with active
           epilepsy or epileptic encephalopathy suggest that the use of a benzodiazepine as an
           anti-epileptic treatment has a positive effect. This may be explained by the suppression
           of seizures or the suppression of the epileptic encephalopathy process, which have a
           greater cognitive effect than drugs. More recently, the study by Boshusein et al. used
           an interesting methodology that, once modified, would make it possible to assess the
           cognitive role of antiepileptics and to avoid the consequences of repeated seizures.
           These authors investigated the cognitive effect of discontinuation of treatment by
           comparing data from an intelligence quotient test (IQ) before and after epilepsy surgery
           showing that discontinuation of treatment (and cessation of seizures through surgery)
           was responsible for an increase in IQ.

        4. Benefits and risks for research participants It is difficult to assess the impact of
           antiepileptic drugs in children with epilepsy because the effect of treatments cannot be
           distinguished from the impact of repeated seizures. The originality here is our
           methodology which will allow us to have an analysis of the impact of the drug alone.

           The investigators will conduct a prospective study on the cognitive impact of
           benzodiazepine withdrawal after epilepsy control after epilepsy surgery in children.

           The investigators will focus, through neuropsychological tests, on the working memory
           and attention abilities of children with drug-resistant epilepsy who require surgery and
           are receiving a benzodiazepine. The three assessments (pre-surgical (seizures and
           benzodiazepine); post-surgical (no seizure and benzodiazepine) and after benzodiazepine
           discontinuation (no seizure and benzodiazepine) will assess the impact of
           benzodiazepines on working memory and attention span.

        5. Objectives Main objective: The main objective is to evaluate the impact on working
           memory of benzodiazepine discontinuation in children after epilepsy surgery.

           Secondary objectives: Evaluate the impact of benzodiazepine discontinuation on these
           same children on:

           Short-term memory and visuospatial memory Attention in its different forms Attention and
           speed of the visual attention Attention and speed on the sensorimotor level Attention
           and speed at the executive level

        6. Description of the research methodology Experimental design: This is a prospective
           cohort study, in which patients who will be operated on for respective epilepsy surgery
           in the case of focal epilepsy

      This study will include 3 visits:

        1. The first visit (V1) will allow for inclusion and first cognitive assessment, before
           surgery and with benzodiazepines. The purpose of this visit is to include the patient
           and the first cognitive assessment that will reflect the impairment associated with
           epilepsy with repeated seizures. At most, a delay of 3 months will occur between the V1
           visit and surgery, although in healthcare practice is often shorter.

        2. The second visit will take place 3 months after the surgery without any modification of
           the treatments (V2). It will allow for clinical reassessment (healing or presence
           seizure) as well as a new cognitive assessment, after surgery and with benzodiazepines.
           This visit will reflect the cognitive functioning after the surgical procedure. This
           visit will allow to evaluate the epilepsy status of the child after surgery. The
           decrease in benzodiazepine will be initiated from V2 over 3 to 6 months depending on the
           choice of the prescriber, as is usually done in practice. This decrease will be achieved
           as part of the care, and offered to children who have been seizure free for at least 1
           month at the time of V2.

        3. The third visit will allow the collection of clinical data and a new cognitive
           evaluation, after surgery and 3 months after the complete discontinuation of
           benzodiazepine (V3). This visit will provide data reflecting the cognitive consequences
           of the benzodiazepines withdraw. The decrease in benzodiazepine will be initiated from
           V2 over 3 to 6 months depending on the choice of the prescriber, as is usually done in
           practice. Visit 3 will therefore be between 9 and 12 months after the surgery. It is
           possible in rare cases that complete discontinuation of benzodiazepine may not be
           possible, in which case the assessment will be made 3 months after a stable and lower
           dose of benzodiazepine.

             -  It is therefore the evolution of cognitive functions between V2 and V3 that will
                make possible to meet the main objective. Visit 1 will allow the selection of the
                patient, it will also allow to have an assessment in comparison with V2 to evaluate
                the cognitive impact of the surgery combined with the presence or absence of
                repeated seizures according to each patient.

             -  There is no control group planned in this study. The investigators do not expect
                any change in cognitive functions of children with epilepsy if no major
                modification of treatment

             -  From a regulatory point of view, this is biomedical research, but only
                neuropsychological assessments are carried out as a result of the research. All
                other diagnostic and therapeutic actions (and in particular surgery and epilepsy
                and the reduction of antiepileptic treatment) are performed as part of the care
    
  