
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine whether the presence of a mutation in T-synthase or Cosmc and/or the presence of
      positive immunohistochemical expression of Tn antigen or sialyl Tn antigen in tumor specimens
      is associated with progression-free or overall survival in patients with stage IB2, II, III,
      or IVA cervical cancer undergoing pelvic and para-aortic (abdominal) lymphadenectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the presence of a mutation in T-synthase or Cosmc and/or the presence of
      positive immunohistochemical expression of Tn antigen or sialyl Tn antigen in tumor specimens
      is associated with lymph node metastasis or local control.

      II. Identify a glycoprotein profile from a customized gene expression array analysis in tumor
      specimens or a glycan profile from a customized glycan array in serum that is associated with
      lymph node metastasis, local control, disease recurrence/progression, or survival.

      III. Determine whether differences exist in T-synthase or Cosmc mutations, the
      immunohistochemical expression of Tn antigen or sialyl Tn antigen, and glycoprotein profiling
      (using customized gene expression array analysis) in matched primary tumor compared with
      metastatic lymph nodes that are associated with lymph node metastasis, local control, disease
      recurrence/progression, or survival.

      IV. Identify differences in glycoprotein expression profiling and glycan profiling in tumor
      specimens with or without a mutation in T-synthase or Cosmc, or in tumor specimens with or
      without positive immunohistochemical expression of Tn antigen or sialyl Tn antigen that are
      associated with lymph node metastasis, local control, disease recurrence/progression, or
      survival.

      OUTLINE:

      Primary and metastatic tumor specimens are collected during lymphadenectomy and used for
      tissue microarray analysis, mutational analysis of T-synthase and Cosmc, immunohistochemical
      staining of Tn antigen and sialyl Tn antigen, and customized gene expression array analysis
      of 400 genes associated with glycobiology. Pre-lymphadenectomy blood is collected from
      patients at baseline for customized glycan array analysis of 300 carbohydrates.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  