
    
      This is a window of opportunity trial evaluating the hypothesis that AXL levels correlate
      with clinical response to cetuximab in head and neck patients. Patients with head and neck
      squamous cell carcinoma who are scheduled to undergo surgical resection of their tumor and
      are candidates for cetuximab chemotherapy are eligible to participate.

      Primary:

      1. To test the hypothesis that low AXL correlates with clinical response to cetuximab in head
      and neck cancer patients

      Secondary:

      1. To further describe the safety of pre-operative administration of cetuximab

      Correlative:

        1. To correlate AXL expression with change in Ki67 following cetuximab in Head and Neck
           Cancer (HNC) patients

        2. To examine other putative markers of cetuximab sensitivity such as HER3 and change in
           circulating tumor cells

        3. To establish the first panel of patient-derived xenografts from patients with known
           sensitivity or resistance to cetuximab

      Following informed consent, tumor tissue from the research biopsy and a blood draw for
      circulating tumor cells will be obtained. The participant will then receive two weekly doses
      of pre-operative cetuximab during the interval between diagnostic biopsy and surgery (~14
      days), ensuring that no delay in standard of care (SOC) will occur.

      For dose #1, participants will receive cetuximab 400 mg/m2 via intravenous infusion over 2
      hours (maximum infusion rate 10 mg/min) as per the standard of care loading regimen for
      cetuximab monotherapy.

      For dose #2, participants will receive cetuximab 250 mg/m2 via intravenous infusion over 1
      hour (maximum infusion rate 10 mg/min) as per the standard of care dosing regimen for
      cetuximab monotherapy.

      At the time of surgery, another blood draw will be obtained for analysis of circulating tumor
      cells, and a portion of the resected tumor will be obtained for study analysis.

      Correlative studies will include the measurement of proteins hypothesized to be involved in
      cetuximab resistance such as AXL, Ki67, EGFR, and HER3 expression from both the biopsy and
      the surgical specimen. Blood will be analyzed for correlative analysis of circulating tumor
      cells. Tissue from the research biopsy will be utilized for participant-derived xenograft
      (PDX) development.
    
  