
    
      Many of the drugs in general anaesthesia can elicit adverse drug reactions which fall apart
      into two major types. First, reactions that are usually dose-dependent and related to the
      pharmacological properties of the drug and/or its metabolites. Second, reactions that are
      unrelated to the drug's pharmacological characteristics and that are less dose-dependent.
      These reactions comprise drug intolerance, idiosyncratic reactions and drug-induced
      immune-mediated allergic and nonimmune-mediated so-called pseudo-allergic. The degree of
      severity varies and does not allow differentiation between an IgE-mediated or non- IgE
      mediated reaction resulting from nonspecific mediator release. The incidence of perioperative
      anaphylactic reactions varies from region, there is no relevant literature about the
      incidence of perioperative drug allergies in China.in other countries this varies widely
      between 1/1700 and 1/20000. The mortality from these reaction is in the range from 3 to 6%,
      and an additional 2% of patients experience significant residual brain damage. A French
      multi-centre study show NMBAs are the most common agents, being the most frequently involved
      substances, ranging between 50 and 70%, followed by latex (12-16.7%), and in recent reports,
      by antibiotics (15%).

      Benjamin et al found in their experiments that members of all NMBD families (except
      succinylcholine) and the fluoroquinolone family of antibiotics activated mast cells in an
      Mrgprb2(the orthologue of the human G-protein-coupled receptor MRGPRX2)-dependent manner at
      concentrations as low as 0.5% of the clinical injection concentration. They determine that
      MRGPRX2 are targets of many small-molecule drugs associated with systemic pseudo-allergic
      reactions. In our study, patients with general anesthesia in Xiangya hospital of Central
      South University were selected as the subjects. Patients with anaphylaxis during anesthesia
      and has signed an informed consent were selected to extract MRGPRX2 gene exon sequences from
      blood specimen. The patient's general information and allergy information were then collected
      .After 4-6 weeks, we will conduct a skin test on suspicious drugs for patients who have
      undergone allergic reactions. The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between
      pseudo-allergic reaction and MRGPRX2 gene, and to find out the characteristics of
      perioperative allergic reaction in our hospital.
    
  