
    
      There is need for knowledge on modifiable risk factors for MSK pain in young ages to better
      target treatment and preventive. A combination of lifestyle factors has been associated with
      several health issues including MSK pain in adults, but has to the best of our knowledge not
      previously been investigated as a risk factor for MSK pain in the youth.

      OBJECTIVE The objective of this study is to investigate whether a combination of lifestyle
      factors in adolescence is associated with later persistent MSK pain in young adulthood.
      Lifestyle factors will be assessed by combing levels of physical activity, sleep problems,
      alcohol consumption, use of drugs and smoking.

      The analysis will be conducted in a mixed sample of adolescents with or without MSK pain, and
      in a subgroup of adolescents without MSK pain in the first survey.

      STUDY DESIGN AND PLAN This study will be a prospective cohort study using data from the large
      population-based Nord Trøndelag Health Study (HUNT). Data from YoungHUNT3 (2006-2008) and
      HUNT4 (2017-2019) will be used, including the same participants examined With 11-year
      follow-up. The data in Young-HUNT 3 was collected through questionnaires, interviews and
      measurements during school time. Adolescents, who did not attend school, received an
      invitation to participate by mail. The outcome data was obtained by electronic questionnaire
      or paper from HUNT 4.

      EXPOSURE VARIABLE A combined lifestyle variable will be composed based on scorings in the
      lifestyle variables physical activity level, sleep problems, alcohol consumption, drug use
      and smoking level from Young-HUNT3, which will all be categorized as healthy/ unhealthy (as
      defined below). The combined lifestyle variable will be arranged with 0 unhealthy lifestyle
      factors present as the reference category, and 1 factor, 2 factors and >3 unhealthy lifestyle
      factors present as the other categories. The combined variable will be investigated both with
      and without alcohol consumption.

        -  Physical activity level: less than 2-3 days a week with sports or exercise is classified
           as a unhealthy level.

        -  Sleep problems is measured by two questions; one of whether the adolescents have
           problems falling asleep at night and one of whether the adolescents wake up early and
           have problems falling asleep again. Answering "often" or "almost every night" on one or
           both of these questions is classified as unhealthy.

        -  Alcohol consumption is measured by a question of whether the participants have ever
           tried to drink alcohol, and a question of whether the participants have ever been
           drinking so much that they have felt intoxicated (drunk). Those who have never tried
           drinking alcohol or have been intoxicated ≤10 times will be classified as healthy.
           Reporting >10 intoxications will be classified as unhealthy.

        -  Use of drugs: those who answer that they have tried hash, marijuana or other drugs will
           form the unhealthy group.

        -  Smoking will be dichotomized with no smokers in the healthy group and daily and
           occasional smokers in the unhealthy group. Previously smokers will be included in the no
           smoking group.

      CONFOUNDING FACTORS

      Background factors

        -  Sex

        -  Age

        -  Perceived family economic

      Health factors

        -  Psychological distress, measured by the Symptom Checklist-5.

        -  Persistent MSK pain at baseline was assessed with the question "How often have you had
           the below-listed pain during the last 3 months?". The participants who answered that
           they had had pain in neck/shoulder, upper back, lower back, chest, left arm, right arm,
           left leg and/or right leg once a week or more often are considered to have persistent
           MSK pain at baseline.

      (Additional analyses will be conducted with adjustment for BMI, measured by kg/m2).

      ANALYSIS METHODS Statistical tests will be two-sided, and p-values <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. P-value and the 95% confidence intervals will be reported. All
      continuous variables will be investigated for normality through histograms and QQ-plots.
      Normally distributed descriptive data of study participant will be presented with means and
      standard deviations (SD), skewed data will be presented with median and ranges and
      categorical data will be presented as counts and percentages. The analysis will be conducted
      with STATA statistical software system.

      Missing data:

      For missing data on the exposure variable and confounding factors, multiple imputation will
      be considered. Variables with more than 20% missing data will be excluded. Participants with
      missing outcome data will be excluded from the analyses. Characteristics of the individuals
      lost to follow-up will be compared to characteristics of responders at follow-up.

      Incidence and prevalence:

      The prevalence and incidence rate of MSK pain will be presented.

      Relative Risk:

      General linear models with a binomial link function will be used to investigate the
      association between combined lifestyle factors in adolescence and persistent MSK pain in
      young adulthood. The combined lifestyle factor variable will be investigated both with and
      without alcohol as one included lifestyle factor. The associations will be investigated in
      unadjusted and adjusted analyses. The adjusted analyses will be conducted first with
      adjustment for background factors, second with adjustment for background factors,
      psychological distress and MSK pain at baseline. There will be conducted additional analyses
      with adjustment for BMI (kg/m2). The results will be reported as relative risks (RRs) with
      95% confidence intervals.

      Sub-group analyses:

      Subgroup analyses will be conducted on a sample of adolescents free from pain at baseline.
      There will also be conducted subgroup analyses for girls and boys separately, if there is a
      sufficient number of participants.
    
  