
    
      This observational study will employ a national probability sample of WIC participants and a
      longitudinal design to examine infant and toddler feeding behaviors and associated decision
      making. We will recruit and follow a core sample of infants and toddlers from birth through
      their second birthday and will oversample a supplemental group of WIC participants with low
      prevalence characteristics in the population to ensure representation of those groups (for
      instance, African-American mothers who breastfeed - a group with generally low levels of
      breastfeeding). The study will also gather information from key WIC Staff about the program,
      particularly about their breastfeeding policies and nutrition education activities. There are
      two categories of people from/about whom we will collect data - WIC Participants and WIC
      Program Representatives:

        -  WIC Participants: The target study participant is the infant/toddler, but we will
           recruit and conduct interviews with the mother (or primary caregiver), who are
           henceforth referred to as the participants. Participants must be at least 16 years old
           and parental consent and adolescent assent will be obtained for those under the age of
           majority in their state. The study will collect data about WIC participants in two ways:

        -  Interviews: Sampled WIC participants will be recruited and assigned to either a core or
           supplemental group. We will interview the core group up to thirteen times over a
           three-year period, with a prenatal interview (for those enrolled prenatally) and
           interviews every two months from the child's birth through age one, and about every
           three months between ages 1 and 2, and every 6 months between ages 2 and 3 (at ages 1,
           3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 18, 24, 30 and 36 months). The supplemental group will only
           participate in four interviews (at ages 1 or 3, 7, 13, and 24 months). Study
           participants will also be asked at each interview about their child's food intake in the
           previous 24 hours using the USDA Automated Multiple Pass Method (AMPM) and supporting
           materials; and a 10 percent subsample of the core group will be asked to report a second
           day of intake 7-10 days after the initial interviews at 13, 15, 18, 24 and 36 months.
           The interviews will be conducted over the phone using a Computer-Assisted Telephone
           Interview (CATI).

        -  Health Data: The study will also collect data from hospital birth records on the
           infants' weight at birth; and from WIC administrative records on the infants' length and
           weight and WIC package prescription at four times during the study (at ages 6, 12, 24
           and 36 months). When participants consent to enroll in the study, we will ask them to
           sign a Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) form releasing the
           records for the study. If a child in the core sample has dropped out of WIC, we will
           request data from their health care provider or ask the participant to travel to the
           nearest WIC site to be measured.

        -  WIC Program Representatives: Following the Sampling Plan described below the research
           team will recruit 80 WIC sites in 27 State Agencies to participate in the study and
           speak with them about the program.

        -  State and Local WIC Administrators: The study will conduct one, hour-long,
           semi-structured key informant interview with a State WIC administrator in each sampled
           State Agency, and a local WIC administrator for each sampled WIC site.

        -  WIC Site Staff: The study will also gather information from all staff (not to exceed 10)
           at sampled WIC sites through a one-time, 30-minute web-based survey.

      The WIC enrollees will be sampled from a stratified, nationally representative sample of 80
      WIC sites in 27 State Agencies. In addition to facilitating access to and creating efficient
      sampling frames for recruiting WIC participants, WIC program representatives in the WIC State
      and Local Agencies will provide important information to the study.

      The study will use sampling methods to select the WIC site sample and the WIC participant
      sample. We will sample the lowest WIC unit that delivers services to WIC participants, called
      a "service site". Within each service site we will sample new WIC enrollees within a
      pre-determined recruitment window.

        -  Sampling WIC Service Sites. We plan a two-stage sampling approach that uses the WIC 2010
           Participant Characteristics data (WIC PC 2010) to develop the WIC site sampling frame
           and a stratified sample design to select the sample of sites. In the first-stage we will
           use a group of characteristics to stratify the WIC sites into 40 strata. Because of
           uncertainties about the eligibility of the first-stage sampling units, these units will
           be selected in two phases. In the first phase a total of 160 sampling units in 42 State
           Agencies will be selected-4 from each of the 40 strata. After the phase 1 selection, we
           will list the service sites associated with each first-stage sampling unit selected and
           determine the eligibility of each unit. To be eligible for the study, a site must have
           an average minimum daily flow of 1.5 new WIC ITFPS-eligible enrollees per day and must
           be expected to remain in operation and enrolling new WIC participants during the WIC
           ITFPS recruitment period. In the second phase we will subsample eligible first-stage
           sampling units to arrive at the final sample of 80 first-stage sampling units (2 from
           each of the 40 strata). In first-stage sampling units that are local agencies with more
           than one eligible service site, a second stage of sampling will be conducted to select
           one service site. The final sample will consist of 80 eligible service sites. Once the
           second-stage sampling is complete, recruitment efforts will begin in earnest. Although
           due diligence will be used to recruit service sites, we anticipate that some sites may
           be unable or unwilling to cooperate. Such service sites will be replaced by members of a
           matched sample. This replacement of service sites by matched substitutes is similar to
           imputation.

        -  Sampling WIC participants within a sampled recruiting window. The WIC participant sample
           will be designed such that the total target number of sampled WIC enrollee is spread
           uniformly across the 80 sampled sites; that is, the recruitment of study participants
           will be designed so that each site will be expected to yield 98 sampled WIC enrollees.
           An important part of our sampling plan is the concept of recruiting "windows." A
           recruiting window will be a string of consecutive workdays during which we will be
           recruiting new WIC enrollees at each sampled service site. These windows will vary in
           length from 7 to 66 workdays. The length of the window will be pre-determined, based on
           typical daily enrollment volumes (obtained from the State following selection of the
           phase 1 sample of first-stage sampling units) and will be calculated in such a way as to
           yield an average of 98 sampled WIC enrollees per site. The 80 windows will be randomly
           assigned to a spread of starting dates across the 20-week field period for recruiting,
           with the pool of possible starting dates for a given site determined based on its
           average daily enrollments and enrollment schedule. Due to the variations in actual WIC
           enrollments over time, the actual number of sampled enrollees who enroll in WIC during
           the specified recruiting window will vary from site to site.

      The full OMB package is available for review by visiting the Office of Management and Budget
      site at:

      http://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewICR?ref_nbr=201306-0584-008

      OMB Control Number: 0584-0580
    
  