
    
      A mixed-method study will be conducted to assess participants' perceptions and preliminary
      efficacy of a self-monitoring based intervention aimed at the reduction of sedentary behavior
      in older adults (> 60 years).

      A convenience sample of 40 older adults will be recruited using Facebook advertisements, as
      well as from an existing database of older adults willing to participate in research studies.

      Older adults who agree to participate will be contacted by phone to make an appointment for a
      visit. During this first visit, participants will receive an informed consent. After signing
      the informed consent, a structured interview will be conducted to assess the participants'
      socio-demographic characteristics, domain-specific sedentary behavior and health status. A
      semi-structured interview will be conducted to examine participants' perceptions towards
      (reducing) sedentary behavior. Moreover, an inclinometer will be attached to the
      participants' thigh. Participants will be instructed to wear the inclinometer for one week.
      After one week, a researcher will visit the participants once again to collect the
      inclinometers. During this second visit, participants will receive a self-monitoring tool
      (i.e. the Activator) aimed at the reduction of sedentary behavior. Participants will be able
      to use the self-monitoring tool for four weeks. Apart from that, participants will receive a
      booklet with general sedentary behavior information and an explanation on how to use the
      self-monitoring tool. By the end of the intervention, the self-monitoring tools will be
      collected, and participants will be instructed to answer another structured interview and to
      wear the inclinometer for another week. At the end of this week, inclinometers will
      collected, and a semi-structured interview will be conducted with the older adults of the
      intervention group to gain insight into their experiences with self-monitoring as a behavior
      change technique to reduce sedentary behavior, as well as with the Activator.
    
  