
    
      Background: Tuberculosis (TB) remains the most important infectious disease worldwide. For
      controlling TB, the important strategy includes not only adequate anti-tuberculous treatment
      but also well control of latent TB infection (LTBI). Latent TB infection (LTBI) has 10% of
      reactivation or more in patients with immuno-compromised disorder. Although LTBI can be
      detected by interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) or tuberculin skin test, how to predict who
      will become active TB from LTBI is still unclear but important. In overall prophylactic
      treatment for LTBI, the lengthy duration and possible serious side effect too scared to
      general application especially 90% of population who may not get illness. Therefore, to
      recognize who develop active TB from LTBI is important for targeted prophylactic therapy. The
      good marker is not discovered at present. When TB bacilli arrive our lung, macrohage is the
      first line defense and necrosis rather than apoptosis is the dominant form of cell death,
      which affords a protective milieu for M. tuberculosis. Though the apoptosis is suppressed in
      TB, the apoptosis-associated markers have rarely been investigated in human LTBI vs. active
      TB. We set up a cohort study to detect active TB developing from LTBI and first-step conduct
      a case control study to compare apoptosis markers between LTBI and active TB for evaluating
      the apoptosis markers in discriminating TB infection status. The significant markers should
      be verified in further cohort study of LTBI patients.

      Hypothesis: The apoptosis-associated markers, including Fas ligand, Decoy-receptor 3,
      Lipoxin, and prostaglandin E2, are discriminative in patients with active TB from those with
      LTBI and thus might predict the potential of being active TB from LTBI.

      Study Aims:

      To compare the serum apoptosis-associated markers between patients with active TB and
      patients with LTBI To evaluate the efficiency of apoptosis-associated markers to
      differentiate potential of active TB from LTBI Methods: We prospectively enroll patients with
      active TB (n=100) and LTBI (n=100), defined by IGRA. Blood sample would be collected before
      they received definite treatment after yielding informed consent. We will examine serum
      apoptosis-associated markers including Fas ligand, Decoy-receptor 3, Lipoxin, and
      prostaglandin E2, and other cytokines and chemokines in serum sample and supernatant from
      T-cell after TB antigen stimulation. Their clinical characteristics will be recorded. We
      compare the laboratory and clinical data between the two groups and analyze the efficacy of
      diagnostic help from these markers.
    
  