
    
      The prevalence of chronic pain is very high in the US at approximately 30%. More than 10% of
      adults report having daily pain. Opioid pain medications [such as morphine] are prescribed
      for some pain conditions and, since they are very addictive, they can be used inappropriately
      and abused, to the point of causing overdose and death. This is currently a significant
      problem in the US and worldwide. Research on changes in the brain that cause addiction in
      pain patients is complicated, also because it is difficult to separate the effect of the
      drugs that cause addiction from the direct effect of pain on the brain. Studies in animals
      have found that pain per se can change the brain in ways that increase the risk of becoming
      addicted to pain medications. Therefore, we think that patients who have chronic pain and are
      prescribed opioid pain medications to treat surgery-related pain after surgery, although they
      never took opioids for a long time in their life, may be at increased risk of using too much
      opioid medications, and using opioids for a longer time than expected to treat their surgical
      pain.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the research results obtained in animal models
      of pain (that show that being in pain for some time increases opioid use beyond what is
      expected to treat the current pain) also apply to patients with chronic pain.

      For our study we are looking to recruit patients scheduled for abdominal surgery at Barnes
      Jewish Hospital. If eligible and enrolled, subjects will undergo sensory testing (a test of
      the sensitivity of the skin to hot and cold temperature and pressure) and complete
      questionnaires about their experience with pain, anxiety, depression and risk of substance
      abuse. They will also have a one-time blood draw for genetic testing, to look for a
      particular gene that is potentially associated with how we respond to pain medications and,
      potentially, with increased risk for addiction. After the surgery, patients will be assessed
      by the research team on day 1, week 1, week 4, week 8, and after 6 months with similar
      questionnaires to those that were completed pre-surgery. Patient satisfaction with their
      pre-surgical and post-surgical pain control will also be assessed by questionnaire.
    
  