
    
      Recent work from our research group demonstrated that the use of a 6-week psychoeducational
      intervention, called the PRO-SELF Pain Control Program, compared to standard care, resulted
      in clinically and statistically significant improvements in pain management in a sample of
      oncology outpatients with bone metastasis. While the overall effects of the intervention were
      significant, for approximately 70% of patients in the intervention group pain intensity
      scores did not decrease by > 30% and that worst pain intensity scores remained at or above 4
      at the end of the intervention. Therefore, as a logical extension of this study, we propose a
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) that will test the effectiveness of two different doses of
      the revised PRO-SELF Pain Control Program [i.e., PRO-SELF PLUS-HIGH and PRO-SELF PLUS-LOW] on
      pain intensity and analgesic prescriptions. In addition, the sustainability of the two doses
      of the intervention will be evaluated. Adult oncology outpatients with pain from bone
      metastasis will be recruited, stratified by site and by whether or not they participate alone
      or with a family caregiver, and randomized to one of the doses of the intervention. The
      psychoeducational intervention will be conducted by specially trained oncology nurses and
      will include the components of knowledge, skills training, and coaching to improve cancer
      pain management. Patients in both groups will be seen in their homes over the course of 10
      weeks with phone calls conducted in between the home visits. Patients in the HIGH-DOSE group
      will receive 6 visits and 10 phone calls [total time 12.3 hours]. Patients in the LOW-DOSE
      group will receive 4 visits and 6 phone calls [8.0 hours]. Follow-up visits to assess the
      sustainability of the intervention will be done at 2 weeks, 1 month and 3 months after the
      intervention. Both quantitative and qualitative analyses will be conducted to evaluate
      patient outcomes.
    
  