
    
      At least 5-15% of patients with Lyme disease (7,500-45,000 new cases a year) develop
      Post-treatment Lyme Syndrome (PTLS) - debilitating residual symptoms that last months to
      years, even after having received antibiotic treatment. Often patients with PTLS experience
      chronic pain in their muscles or joints or nerves.

      Because many PTLS patients have pain that persists despite antibiotics and because we know
      that medicines which modulate the pain pathways in the brain can help to reduce or eliminate
      pain, we plan to treat patients with a medicine that is FDA approved for the treatment of
      pain. This medicine is known as Milnacipran (the trade name is "Savella"); this medicine is
      not addictive and it has been shown to reduce chronic pain by its multiple actions on pain
      pathways. All patients in the study will be treated with this FDA approved medicine.

      Second, we wish to test whether the pain can be improved even further by adding a medicine
      which is known to modulate the glutamate transmission involved with pain in the brain. This
      medicine - D-Cycloserine - is actually an antibiotic, currently FDA approved for the
      treatment of tuberculosis. Because of its action on glutamate receptors, we are hypothesizing
      that it will help to decrease pain even further in patients with Lyme-related pain. In order
      to test this hypothesis, after 6 weeks of being on Milnacipran, all patients will then be
      given an additional treatment - either D-Cycloserine or a placebo pill (a placebo is a pill
      that does not contain any active medication.) At the end of 12 weeks, we will then evaluate
      improvement compared to when the patient started in the study using the same clinical and
      neuroimaging (fMRI) tests.

      Finally, we want to know whether patients with PTLS have over-active central pain circuits in
      the brain. Because pain is processed through the brain's pain circuits, we wish to examine
      whether people suffering from PTLS have hyper-active pain circuits that make them more
      sensitive to pain than those who have normally-active pain circuits. To do this, we will be
      comparing patients with PTLS to healthy volunteers by conducting careful neurologic and brain
      imaging (fMRI) studies.

      We hope that this study will provide valuable information about how the brain processes pain
      signals in PTLS and about whether this treatment approach is effective.
    
  