
    
      Randomized double-blind placebo controlled phase II trial

      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized phase II study, and the TNBC patients
      showing platinum-sensitivity after first- or second-line platinum-based chemotherapy will be
      screened. The total doses of platinum-based chemotherapy will be 4 or 6 doses for tri-weekly
      regimens and 12 or 18 doses for weekly regimen before randomization

      . The platinum sensitivity is determined as follows,

        1. Remaining stable disease after 6 tri-weekly doses or 18 weekly doses of platinum-based
           therapy (stable disease after 6 cycles)

        2. Remaining complete or partial response status after 4-6 tri-weekly doses or 12-18 weekly
           doses of platinum-based chemotherapy (partial or complete response after 4-6 cycles)

      The platinum sensitivity of the patients will be determined before enrollment to the clinical
      trial by review of central investigation institution (Yonsei Cancer Center) based on the the
      image reading results and, if necessary, the raw imaging data to determine that there is no
      tumor progression, tumor size increase, or new lesions.

      The platinum-based chemotherapy can be either monotherapy or combination doublet chemotherapy
      of carboplatin or cisplatin with following combination partners: Paclitaxel, Docetaxel,
      Gemcitabine, Eribulin, Vinorelbine, Capecitabine, and Nab-paclitaxel. The combined targeted
      therapy agents including bevacizumab will be allowed but should be discontinued before
      randomization.

      The patient with any BRCA1/2 mutation status is eligible. Germline BRCA1/2 test will be
      performed with reimbursement from South Korean health insurance in the study subject, if the
      subjects are under the age of 60 or have family history of BRCA-related cancers before
      enrollment. The testing results will be verified by the investigator. If the germline BRCA1/2
      test is not covered by national health insurance (patients over 60 years of age and no family
      history), the BRCA1/2 germline testing will be performed with study support.

      The germline BRCA mutation status will be determined before randomization if the patient do
      not have BRCA mutation results before. The eligible patients will be assigned to each
      treatment arm after 1:1 randomization. The patients will be stratified on randomization with
      following factors.

        1. 1st line platinum-based chemotherapy versus 2nd line platinum-based chemotherapy*

        2. Response (CR/PR vs. stable disease) to the prior platinum-based chemotherapy

        3. BRCA status: wild-type (including benign variants and variants of unknown significance)
           versus BRCA1/2-mutated (pathogenic mutation)

             -  For the patient who recurred within 12 months after the last dose of (neo)adjuvant
                chemotherapy for operable stage breast cancer, the (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy will
                be considered as one line of chemotherapy.

      The Arm A (Experimental arm) Maintenance therapy with talazoparib (1mg once daily) (once
      daily 1.0 mg oral administration), 103patients The Arm B (Control arm) Maintenance therapy
      with placebo (once daily 1.0 mg oral administration), 103patients

      The maintenance talazoparib will be initiated 4 to 8 weeks after the last dose of
      platinum-based chemotherapy. The talazoparib treatment will continue until disease
      progression by RECIST 1.1, unacceptable toxicity, or death.

      Computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be
      performed at baseline, and every 8 weeks until disease progression after then.
    
  