
    
      Objectives.

        1. Explore the feasibility of a multicenter study in post-GB patients;

        2. Explore the effects of acute exercise on food intake and energy expenditure post-GB;

        3. Explore the effects of acute exercise on the hormonal and inflammatory response
           post-exercise.

      This pilot study will employ crossover design. The Behavioural and Metabolic Research Unit
      (BMRU) at the School of Human Kinetics of the University of Ottawa will coordinate and
      standardize the project between the sites. The participants will need to go 5 times to one of
      the 3 evaluation sites (University of Ottawa: BMRU, Montreal: University of Montreal, School
      of kinesiology and physical activity or University of Sherbrooke: Research Aging Center of
      CIUSSS - CHUS).

      Considering this is a pilot project, no sample size calculations were conducted. Based on
      existing studies, 30 participants should be sufficient to achieve the preliminary objectives
      of this study.

      The participants will be asked to present themselves at the evaluation centre on 5 occasions
      (1 preliminary, 2 experimental, 2 to return leftovers and accelerometers).

      During the visits 1, 2 and 4 (1 preliminary and 2 experimental (exercise and control)), the
      participants will arrive at 7:00 a.m. at the laboratory after 12 hours nocturnal fast. At
      9:00 a.m., they will consume a standardized personalized breakfast. Participants will choose
      themselves the breakfast they want from a validated menu. They will be informed that they can
      consume the desired quantity of each product; the quantities will be measured to assure the
      breakfast for the other visits is identical.

      During the 1st session, depressive symptoms, the body composition (DEXA), resting metabolic
      rate and anthropometrics (weight, height, waist circumference) will be measured before
      breakfast. Afterwards, their socio-demographic information, motivation to eat and binge
      eating behaviors will be assessed. At 10:30 a.m., participants will perform submaximal
      exercise for 30 minutes to familiarize themselves with the treadmill, determine the speed and
      incline of the treadmill to achieve 55% estimated HRR and obtain an estimation of EE during
      the experimental condition. Subsequently to the first visit, the participants will wear an
      accelerometer for 7 days and bring it back for the 2nd visit. The day before the 2nd visit,
      the participants will fill out a food intake journal of the last 24 hours in order to consume
      the exact same foods (items, quantities and timeframe) the day before the 3rd session.

      At least one week after the 1st session, participants will present themselves to the
      evaluation site for the 2nd session to take part in one of the 2 experimental conditions
      (control and exercise), which will be randomly assigned and spaced a minimum of 15 days and a
      maximum of 2 months, yet to be performed the same day of the week. Women will only be tested
      between day 1 and 8 of their follicular phase. During the experimental conditions,
      participants will perform exercise on a treadmill (50 minutes at 55% of estimated HRR)
      (exercise condition) or the controlled condition (inactive period of calm and stress-free
      reading) at 10:30 a.m. Sixty minutes following exercise or the inactive period, an ad libitum
      buffet will be served to assess caloric and macro-nutritional intake. Appetite sensations
      will be assessed in the morning during fasting, before/after exercise, before/after ad
      libitum buffet as well as 1 and 2 hours after eating. Food rewards will be measured before
      and 1 hour after the meal. Blood samples will be collected 5 times by a nurse after a
      catheter has been installed, representing a total of 108 ml of blood collected (morning
      during fasting, before/after exercise or control condition, 30 minutes after exercise or
      control condition and before the buffet) to analyze appetite-related hormones (ghrelin,
      peptide YY (PYY) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)) and inflammatory parameters (IL-6,
      IL-10, IL-1ra, IL-8, TNF-α, sTNFR, MIP-1β, MCP-1). Finally, participants will wear an
      accelerometer (Actigraph® GT3X+) for 3 days following the sessions to determine their total
      EE outside of the laboratory. They will also leave with 3 days' worth of meals of their
      choice and will need to bring back any leftovers in order to calculate their caloric intake.

      In the exercise condition, a 50-minute effort at 55% of the estimated HRR will be performed
      on the treadmill following a 3-minute warm-up at 2.5 km/h and will be followed by a 2-minute
      active recovery period at 2.5 km/h then sitting for 3 minutes. The estimated maximum heart
      rate will be calculated from the most accurate prediction equation for a population with
      obesity: 208 - 0.7 × age. The heart rate will be monitored with a heart rate monitor
      throughout the exercise and recovery to ensure that the intensity of the exercise is
      maintained.

      The energy intake and macronutrients from the ad libitum will be measured with the validated
      technique of the food menu. A total of 62 items will be on the menu to ensure that sufficient
      hot meals, snacks, fruits, vegetables and beverages are available to the participants.
      Briefly, participants will be invited to choose from this validated menu, their breakfast,
      the meals they would like to have for lunch and after lunch the meals they would like to eat
      for the next 3 days (from midnight to midnight). The research assistant/student will instruct
      them to consume as much of these products as they want. All selected foods will be prepared
      and measured according to the guidelines described above (34). The food and beverages
      selected for the 3 days will be packed in plastic containers or bottles, which will be placed
      in a portable cooler for the participants to take with them. They must return all leftovers
      in their original containers. The selected and prepared foods will be weighted to the nearest
      gram using an electronic food scale before being consumed or placed in coolers. The
      macronutrient composition of foods and beverages consumed will be determined and analyzed in
      Ottawa using Food Processor SQL software (version 9.6.2; ESHA Research).

      Appetite and satiety will be measured using a computer-based visual analogue scale (VAS)
      (0-100mm). The desire to eat, hunger, satiety and potential food consumption will be
      assessed. The level of satiety will be evaluated using the "satiety quotient" method adapted
      from Green et al, which quantify variations in subjective appetite measurements (mm) for each
      100kcal of food consumed. The Leeds Food Preference Questionnaire (LFPQ) will be used to
      assess food reward, i.e. explicit food pleasure and implicit and explicit food motivation.

      Blood samples taken with a catheter placed in the anterior ulnar vein of the dominant arm
      will be collected by a qualified nurse. The blood plasma samples collected for hormone
      analysis (ghrelin, PYY, GLP-1) will be collected in EDTA tubes. Immediately after blood
      sampling, a precise protocol will be used for each targeted hormone to preserve their
      integrity.
    
  