
    
      1. Background:

           Acceleromyography at the adductor pollices muscle (ulnar nerve stimulation) is used to
           monitor the neuromuscular transmission function in infants, children and adults after
           the application of muscle relaxants. During repetitive stimulation of a motor nerve,
           amplitude of contractions of the corresponding muscle will increase to a plateau (twitch
           potentiation), which is known as the staircase phenomenon. This effect may influence the
           onset time and duration of twitch depression after the application of muscle relaxants.
           The staircase effect during the baseline stabilization period presents in a shorter time
           course and at lower degrees in smaller infants. In older infants, staircase effect
           presents in a longer period and is able to influence duration of twitch depression after
           the administration of muscle relaxants.

           There is no information about the staircase phenomenon at the adductor pollices muscle
           (ulnar nerve stimulation) in children between 1 month and 21 years.

           In adults , a 50-Hz tetanus administered before initial twitch stabilization is able to
           shorten the twitch stabilization period and to eliminate this phenomenon.

        2. Aim of the study:

           The purpose of this controlled, randomised, pragmatic study is to investigate the
           characteristics of twitch potentiation (T1%, first twitch of TOF-stimulation; TOFR,
           Train-of-Four-ratio) in children between 1 month and 21 years by using
           acceleromyography. In addition we stimulate the right and the left arm simultaneously
           with acceleromyography (TOF-stimulation). At the one hand a 50 Hz tetanus will be
           administered before twitch stabilization (TOF-stimulation). At the other hand
           TOF-stimulation for twitch stabilization will be started without tetanic stimulation

        3. Methods:

           Anaesthesia will be induced and maintained without muscle relaxants by propofol and
           remifentanil. After this acceleromyography will be performed simultaneously at the right
           and the left arm (adductor pollices muscle, ulnar nerve). At the one hand a 50 Hz
           tetanus will be administered before twitch stabilization (TOF-stimulation). At the
           contralateral side TOF-stimulation for twitch stabilization will be started without
           tetanus. TOF measurements will be collected by 2 TOF Watch SX and two notebooks for the
           course of 30 minutes.

        4. Inclusion criterions/ groups

           -general anesthesia (total intravenous anaesthesia)

           Groups (total amount= 80)

             -  group A: 18-21 years; n= 10

             -  group B: 12-18 years; n= 10

             -  group C: 6-12 years; n= 10

             -  group D: 3-6 years; n= 10

             -  group E: 25-60 months; n= 10

             -  group F: 12-24 months; n= 10

             -  group G: 6-11 months; n= 10

             -  group H: 1-5 months; n= 10.

        5. Exclusion criterions

             -  participation in another trial

             -  refusal of participation

             -  state after burns

             -  diabetes mellitus

             -  reflux disease

             -  difficult airway

             -  pregnancy

      Medications:

        -  volatile anesthetics

        -  antibiotics (aminoglycosides, polymyxin, clindamycin, lincomycin, tetracyclines)

        -  local anesthetics

        -  magnesium

        -  lithium

        -  Ca-chanel-blockers

        -  furosemide

        -  theophylline

        -  phenytoin

        -  cyclophosphamide

        -  metoclopramide

        -  β-blockers
    
  