
    
      AIDS dementia complex (ADC) is a condition characterized by cognitive impairment, psychomotor
      slowing, and behavioral change. A milder form of ADC, called HIV minor cognitive/motor
      disorder (MCMD), is characterized by similar symptoms but has less of an impact on daily
      functioning. The neurocognitive impairment that results from ADC and MCMD carries an
      increased risk of poor drug adherence, morbidity, and mortality. It is unclear if highly
      active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is effective in preserving neurocognitive function or
      in preventing or treating neurocognitive impairment. Distal symmetric sensory polyneuropathy
      (DSPN) and nucleoside-related neuropathy are two other serious conditions that HIV patients
      are at high risk for. DSPN is thought to be caused by active HIV infection;
      nucleoside-related neuropathy is thought to be caused by mitochondrial toxicity related to
      the use of certain antiretrovirals. These 2 conditions may lead to severe pain and discomfort
      in the feet. It is unknown what connection, if any, there is between DSPN and
      nucleoside-related neuropathy and the use of HAART. More data are needed on the natural
      history of these conditions.

      This trial is a substudy of a study of management of antiretroviral therapy (SMART). In the
      SMART study, patients will participate in one of two strategies: a drug conservation (DC)
      strategy and a viral suppression (VS) strategy. Participants in the DC group will stop or
      defer HAART, then receive episodic HAART treatment for the minimum time needed to maintain a
      CD4 cell count of at least 250 cells/mm3. Participants in the VS group will receive HAART to
      maintain a viral load as low as possible, regardless of CD4 count. The purpose of this study
      is to compare changes in neurocognitive functioning and peripheral neuropathy symptoms
      between the 2 strategies of the SMART study.

      Patients will participate in this substudy and the main SMART study at the same time. Within
      45 days prior to randomization into the main SMART study, participants will have baseline
      data collected for this substudy. This data will include peripheral neuropathy assessments,
      treatments for symptoms of peripheral neuropathy. At selected study sites, additional
      measures will assess neurocognitive function, depression, alcohol and drug use, and
      education. At 6 months, 12 months, and every 12 months thereafter, peripheral neuropathy
      symptoms and treatment for the symptoms will be assessed; a pain questionnaire will also be
      completed. Participants will be followed until the SMART study ends.
    
  