
    
      Introduction Atrial arrhythmias are a common comorbidity in patients with cardiac rhythm
      management (CRM) devices, such as pacemakers and ICD. External electrical cardioversion is an
      established method to achieve rhythm control in patients with atrial arrhythmia. A paucity of
      data on safety and efficacy of external electrical cardioversion in patients with cardiac
      rhythm management devices exists. Most publications are of older date and predominantly case
      reports or case collections. Few prospective studies with a population of cardiac rhythm
      management patients after external electrical cardioversion have been published in recent
      years.

      Thus, available data on the safety of external electrical cardioversion in cardiac rhythm
      management patients lacks statistical power to accurately reflect the true hazard of external
      electrical cardioversion in patients with cardiac rhythm management devices.

      Rationale Electrocardioversion in Propofol sedation for atrial or ventricular tachyarrhythmia
      is an established therapy. It is routinely used for patients with cardiac rhythm management
      devices and the risk of device and lead affectation is deemed to be low. This assumption is
      currently not supported by substantial and current scientific data, mostly relying on older
      reports. No large, prospective trials with a population of patients with modern cardiac
      rhythm management devices exists.

      Aim of the study The aim is to systematically include and follow all patients with cardiac
      rhythm management devices presenting for external electrical cardioversion, to analyse the
      effects of external electrical cardioversion on leads and devices. Thereby, providing
      reliable evidence and detecting possible SAE with a low incidence. Furthermore, to gather
      information on efficacy and recurrence rate in this population, to examine the value of
      external electrical cardioversion for rhythm control in these patients.
    
  