
    
      Drug-induced sleep endoscopy (DISE) was developed in 1991 as a technique to characterize
      upper airway collapse in patients with OSA. With the advent of various upper airway surgeries
      introduced in recent years, DISE has become increasingly utilized by the sleep surgeon as a
      surrogate for airway collapse during natural sleep in order to tailor a surgical approach for
      each patient. Propofol and/or midazolam infusions are typically used for sedation in these
      cases, however, there is limited evidence to suggest that these anesthetics reproduce natural
      sleep architecture. Therefore, it cannot be assumed that the pattern of collapse observed
      during DISE is reflective of natural sleep.

      The aim of this study is to validate whether the pattern of collapse recorded during DISE
      mirrors that of natural sleep. Furthermore, the investigators aim to develop a quantitative
      in vivo model for airway collapse in order to further our understanding of the
      pathophysiology of OSA. They will do this by comparing the findings from DISE with
      aerodynamic readings from within the upper airway during natural sleep. The proposed
      technique will employ technologies already approved by the FDA for clinical use. Capacitance
      circuitry, airflow sensors, and/or pressure transducers will be suspended within the upper
      aerodigestive tract along a thin, low-profile, and flexible tube. During Phase I of the
      study, this aerodynamic probe will be placed in the OR during DISE along the upper airway,
      namely in the retropalatal, retroglossal, and hypopharyngeal regions. Readings will be
      correlated and calibrated with DISE findings in real-time. During Phase II, these sensors
      will again be placed within the same patients during in-office sleep studies. The results
      from the sleep study will be analyzed in conjunction with OR findings in order to create an
      aerodynamic model for natural sleep. This will also allow the investigators to assess whether
      airway observations during DISE were valid representations of natural sleep.
    
  