
    
      Patients referring for the first time to the outpatient diabetes clinic in the department of
      Internal Medicine between January 2008 and December 2015 and matching the inclusion criteria
      were recruited.

      Diagnosis was confirmed on the basis of the Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) or HbA1c ≥6.5%
      plus fasting blood glucose ≥126 mg/dl.

      Anthropometric measurements were recorded, arterial pressure and vital parameters were
      registered, and blood samples were collected for routine analyses. Complete blood count,
      glucose, HbA1c, Serum Glutamic Oxaloacetic Transaminase (sGOT), Serum Glutamic Pyruvic
      Transaminase (sGPT), uric acid, were determined by standard techniques. Total and HDL
      cholesterol and triglycerides were assayed through the automated spectrophotometer, enzymatic
      colorimetric method, COBAS INTEGRA using commercial kits (Roche Diagnostics). Serum
      creatinine was measured by Jaffe' method, and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was
      calculated according to the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI)
      formula.

      Previous major acute CV events, including myocardial infarction, stroke, foot
      ulcer/gangrene/amputation and coronary, carotid and lower limb revascularisation, were
      adjudicated based on hospital discharge records.

      At the end of the baseline visit, patients were treated according to the good clinical
      practice recommended by the international guidelines, and followed a six-month or an yearly
      calendar of follow-up visits, until death or until 31 December 2018. All-cause mortality was
      assessed by checking the vital status of study participants on 31 December 2018; to this aim,
      investigators interrogated the Italian Health Card database, which provides updated
      information on all current Italian residents.

      Incident major acute cardiovascular events were registered on the basis of clinical records
      every year; retinopathy onset was assessed by fundoscopy on a yearly basis.
    
  