
    
      The aerodigestive tract is a complex system of integrated anatomical structures supporting
      ingestive and respiratory functions. The developmental origins of this system begin in utero
      where the prenatal growth of morphologic structures and their associated emerging behaviors
      form key physiologic foundations necessary to sustain life at birth. The quality of
      aerodigestive development is thus inextricably related to both the structural integrity of
      its growing anatomy and the emergence of processes that promote aerodigestive functioning.
      Our past research (NIH CC-00-99; NNMC #B99-089) focused specifically on emerging
      oropharyngeal, and laryngeal movements of neonatal swallowing and phonation. Through
      innovative sonographic techniques, this work documented ingestive development in the living
      fetus; however, respiratory aspects were not explored. Intuitively, disruptions to the
      fetal-maternal environment also influence respiratory development and, thus an arrest,
      disorder, or delay in maturation of upper airway mechanisms may directly affect subsequent
      postnatal respiratory function. Thus, the purposes of this protocol are to: 1) continue
      exploration of human fetal development by elucidating the association between upper airway
      growth and emerging prenatal respiratory function and, 2) determine identifiable patterns of
      normal respiratory maturation that may provide indicators of postnatal airway performance.

      This initiative is based on the premise that amniotic fluid volumes are influenced by the
      integrity of upper airway mechanisms and thus are important for aerodigestive-related
      development and fetal well being. In a collaborative effort with National Naval Medical
      Center, this project will use a novel standardized 4-axis sonographic examination to quantify
      growth and respiratory-related fluid flow mechanics in the upper airway of the living human
      fetus. The use of this noninvasive ultrasound technique as part of the clinical prenatal
      examination will not only discriminate function at four upper airway sites (perinasal, oral,
      pharyngeal, and tracheal), but provide estimates of amniotic fluid flow volumes,
      inspiratory-expiratory fluid flow velocities and durations, and Doppler waveform patterns
      associated with fetal breathing and ingestive processes. This provides a method from which we
      can begin to explore how deviations in amniotic fluid regulation may be associated with
      morbidity and mortality and, the predictive utility of these indices in understanding
      conditions such as oligohydramnios or polyhydramnios. This germinal database will include
      healthy fetuses 16.0 to 39.6 weeks' gestational age and cases with
      polyhydramnios/oligohydramnios. By elucidating how developing structures integrate with
      emerging upper respiratory behaviors, this work will document the maturational events
      underlying normal function at birth that in turn may facilitate future clinical strategies
      for successful postnatal care.
    
  