
    
      After obtaining permission of the Institutional Review Board of Konkuk University Medical
      Center, Seoul, South Korea , patients scheduled to undergo elective MVP due to more than
      moderate MS and left atrial enlargement with or without atrial fibrillation (AFib) signed
      written informed consent agreements and prospectively participate in the present study.

      In addition to the routine transthoracic echocardiographic evaluation, cardiac CT examination
      is performed in all recruited patients prior to surgery to determine MVA.

      Induction of anesthesia and tracheal intubation are performed after the administration of
      intravenous etomidate 0.1-0.2 mg/kg and rocuronium 0.9 mg/kg followed by continuous infusion
      of remifentanil (0.5-1.0 mcg/kg/min). After tracheal intubation, sevoflurane (1.0 inspired
      vol%) and infusion of rocuronium (0.2 mg/kg/hr) are administered for anesthesia maintenance.

      After anesthesia induction, pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) is placed in right internal
      jugular vein into pulmonary artery by pressure guidance and a 3D TEE probe (X-9™, Philips
      Medical Systems Andover, MA, USA) is inserted for the comprehensive intraoperative TEE
      examination using a 3D echocardiographic imaging platform (iE33; Philips Medical Systems,
      Andover, MA, USA). While momentarily turning off the ventilator, three consecutive
      velocity-time integrals (VTIs) of mitral inflow Doppler scans were obtained by applying the
      continuous wave Doppler parallel to the mitral inflow Color Doppler signal in the
      midesophageal long-axis view. In case of AFib, the biggest VTI among the 5 consecutive VTIs
      of the mitral inflow Doppler was used for determining PHT to detect maximal mitral inflow
      among irregular heartbeats. Immediately after recording the VTIs, a live 3D zoom "en face" MV
      view from the left atrium (LA) or left ventricle (LV) perspective is acquired.

      As baseline data, MVA is determined by using PHT method (MVA-PHT): PHT of the mitral inflow
      deceleration slope is determined using stored mitral inflow Doppler VTI and the MVA are
      automatically calculated assuming MVA = 220/PHT. At the same time, a 2D image of the smallest
      MVA perpendicular to the mitral inflow at the maximal MV opening was achieved by
      post-processing including aligning and cropping of the acquired 3D images with an installed
      software (3DQ™ in Q-lab™, Philips, USA). MVA was determined by circumferential tracing of the
      leaflet edges of the MV opening in the cropped and reconstructed tomographic image from
      stored 3D volume image (MVA-3D) (Fig. 1). All MVA measurements were repeated 3 times within a
      minimal time interval by the same expert cardiac anesthesiologists with the mean value used
      for analysis.

      All patients got a single type of MVP (Comprehensive Mitral Valve Apparatus Reconstruction™)
      consisting of following procedures under moderate hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) by
      one cardiac surgeon: restoration of a sufficient MV opening with repair of anterior or
      posterior MV leaflets, mitral commissure, and chordate; and lifting posterior annuloplasty
      using a flexible ready to use band. A Maze operation is additionally performed in patients
      who associated with Afib.

      Immediately after the weaning from the CPB and achieving stable hemodynamics (mean arterial
      blood pressure > 65 mmHg, heart rate 60-90 beats per minute, cardiac index > 2.0 L/min/m2),
      MVA-PHT and MVA-3D are determined in the same manner as the baseline data acquisition.

      The following intraoperative exclusion criteria are applied: 1) intraoperative conversion to
      MV replacement due to insufficient repair procedure, 2) the inability to delineate MV opening
      due to insufficient 3D imaging.

      Within 7 postoperative days, the MVA-CT is determined again for comparison to other methods
      by an expert cardiac radiologist in the same manner which applied preoperatively.

      Statistical analyses are conducted using SPSS 18.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). To assess
      intra-observer variability, the MVAs measured by PHT method and 3D planimetry with TEE are
      analyzed using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). The comparisons of MVA-PHT, MVA-3D,
      and MVA-CT before or after MVP are analysed used a One Way Repeated Measures Analysis of
      Variance and their pairwise multiple comparisons are performed via the Tukey method. The
      comparisons of the other continuous variables of echocardiographic findings are performed by
      paired t or Wilcoxon Signed Rank tests. The linear regression analysis is used to determine
      possible correlation between MVA by using each method. Data are expressed as mean ± SD (95%
      confidence interval. CI) or median (25%-75%), and number of the patients. A p value less than
      0.05 is considered statistically significant.
    
  