
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and time to loco-regional failure in women with locally
           advanced breast cancer treated with breast-conserving local therapy vs mastectomy
           followed by radiotherapy after they have received prior induction chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, initial stage (T0, T1, T2, T3, or Tx vs T4), response to prior
      induction chemotherapy (complete response (CR) vs other), and menopausal status
      (premenopausal vs postmenopausal). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo mastectomy followed by radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive breast-conserving treatment comprising 1 of 3 of the following
           therapeutic options:

             -  Regimen A: Patients receive radiotherapy alone.

             -  Regimen B: Patients with a partial response (PR) to prior induction chemotherapy
                undergo limited surgery followed by radiotherapy. Patients with a CR to prior
                induction chemotherapy undergo radiotherapy alone.

             -  Regimen C: Patients with a partial response (PR) or CR to prior induction
                chemotherapy undergo radiotherapy alone.

      Patients with a CR to radiotherapy receive no further treatment. Patients with a PR to
      radiotherapy undergo limited surgery.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at the end of therapy, every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed within 1 month, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years,
      and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,300 patients (650 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5 years.
    
  