
    
      Juvenile justice (JJ) is the public service system most impacted by alcohol and other drug
      (AOD) use in youth, and outcomes for these youth, their families, and society are grave.
      Thus, delivery of effective interventions with JJ youth is of considerable importance. The
      evidence-based practices (EBPs) with the strongest outcomes for JJ youth are family-based,
      but many communities do not have the resources to support their delivery. This is
      particularly true in rural areas where AOD treatment resources are scarce. Further, even when
      communities can support a family-based EBP, JJ youth face barriers to treatment
      participation. Indeed, JJ youth are routinely referred for treatment, but data indicate less
      than 1 in 5 actually receive treatment. Juvenile probation/parole officers (JPOs) are on the
      front line of this crisis. This workforce is in every community across the nation and
      routinely interfaces with JJ youth to try to achieve positive outcomes. However, JPOs often
      face limited options for treatment referrals; further, they do not have the time or training
      to deliver one of the full-scale, family-based EBPs. As a consequence, JPOs try to manage the
      behavior of their probationers with a small menu of youth-based interventions that have
      limited success (e.g., structured sanctions). One strategy for achieving better outcomes in
      low-resourced, rural settings that cannot deploy a full-scale EBP, called task-shifting,
      involves redistribution of tasks downstream to an indigenous workforce that has less
      training. Importantly, reviews indicate that the leading EBPs for JJ youth share a common
      change mechanism: activation of parents. Thus, while the family-based EBPs cannot be
      task-shifted, perhaps the central change mechanism of these EBPs (parent activation) can be
      shifted downstream to enhance JPO practice. JJ leaders already cite improved parent
      engagement as a top priority, but it is also one of the most challenging problems facing the
      JJ system. Fortuitously, within pediatric healthcare services, there is an effective
      intervention called parent activation (PA) comprised of concrete tasks by healthcare service
      providers to better engage and motivate parents of at-risk youth. PA has been delivered by
      clinicians and also by paraprofessionals. Thus, this healthcare service advance might be
      primed for use by JPOs to activate parents and achieve more positive JJ youth outcomes. The
      proposed stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial investigates the use and impact of PA by JPOs
      across 32+ rural counties. Aims are to: (1) determine the capacity of JPOs to deliver PA
      within JJ services, (2) examine impact of PA delivery on de-identified family outcomes, and
      (3) examine implementation outcomes, assessed via the Stages of Implementation Completion,
      for PA in the JJ service system, including JPO inner context variables that might impact
      implementation. In a context where the nation's behavioral healthcare service system is
      struggling to meet the needs of JJ youth, JPOs across the nation, and particularly in rural
      communities, are positioned to make a large impact via use of an advance from pediatric
      healthcare services.
    
  