
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a very common skin disorder that is characterized by pruritic
      inflammatory skin lesions, with patients usually having an individual or family history of
      atopic diseases in their background (e.g., allergic asthma and rhinitis). Defective skin
      barrier, immunological dysfunctions (type I and IV allergy), genetic disorders, and
      psychological factors contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. However, among these factors,
      CD4+ Th cells are reported to play a particularly crucial role in the pathogenesis of AD.
      Phototherapy is among the first-line approaches in the management of AD. In this context, a
      variety of studies have shown a beneficial effect of natural or artificial UV radiation in
      AD. Different broadband (BB) UV spectra (BB-UVA, BB-UVB, BB-UVA/BB-UVB) and combined
      treatment modalities such as balneophototherapy and PUVA have previously been proven to be
      effective in AD. A small controlled study has previously demonstrated that the combination of
      UVB/UVA and saltwater baths is superior to phototherapy alone. Previous data from
      uncontrolled studies also speak for the effectiveness of systemic psoralen plus UVA (PUVA)
      therapy. A controlled crossover study has shown that systemic PUVA therapy is clearly
      superior to UVA1 phototherapy both in terms of clinical score (SCORAD) and reduction of
      response time. Systemic PUVA has in relation to bath PUVA significantly greater adverse
      effects (eg, nausea, liver enzyme elevation, photocarcinogenesis). A direct comparison
      between NB-UVB and bath PUVA has only been studied by a half-side comparison in a small
      number of patients. Both therapies were proved equally effective. In a recent study, it has
      been shown a clear advantage of NB-UVB plus salt water baths in comparison to NB-UVB alone.
      Tolerability was comparable; both treatments showed to be safe.

      A randomized observer-blinded controlled crossover trial is conducted in which patients with
      AD receive a 4-week course of both NB-UVB and bath-PUVA or NB-UVB plus salt water baths.
      Clinical efficacy is assessed using the Six Area, Six Sign, Atopic Dermatitis (SASSAD) score
      and a visual analogue scale for pruritus. Assessment of health-related quality of life was
      performed using the Skindex-29. Moreover, immunohistochemical, RT-PCR and serological studies
      are planned.
    
  