
    
      Falls and fractures together represent one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality
      within the older adult population. Additionally, the consequences of falls and fractures
      contribute substantial costs to the health care system and negatively impact the quality of
      life of the individual. Given that Canada's aging population in increasing at an
      unprecedented rate, it is imperative that the prevention and management of falls and
      fractures is made a priority. One such population particularly vulnerable to falls and
      fractures are those diagnosed with osteoporosis or low bone mass.

      It has been estimated that approximately 10 billion individuals have been diagnosed with
      osteoporosis and another 34 million are at risk with low bone mass. Osteoporosis-related
      fragility fractures are a common consequence of osteoporosis and result in increased
      morbidity and mortality. Approximately 50% of those who suffer a hip fracture do not regain
      their previous level of mobility and functional independence thus resulting in many of these
      individuals relying on the use of assistive devices.

      Currently the emphasis of osteoporosis treatment and management is to prevent the occurrence
      of fragility fractures and the subsequent side effects that accompany them. A recent
      meta-analysis has shown that exercise can assist in the prevention and maintenance of bone
      loss in postmenopausal women. Other benefits of exercise such as increases in muscle strength
      and balance have been strongly established to indirectly prevent fractures through a
      reduction in falls risk. Those who are at a high risk of falls or fracture require patient
      specific assessment and individualized prescription that is not typically available within
      the community or at a low cost. Further, it may be difficult to engage these individuals if
      they have spent most of their life in a sedentary state and experience barriers such as a
      lack of transportation, and a lack of knowledge on appropriate types of exercise or how to
      initiate exercise into their daily living. Furthermore, many exercises may not be appropriate
      for all individuals depending on location of fracture and level of physical function. It has
      been emphasized that the focus should be on an individualized exercise program, which would
      encompass individual needs while recognizing individual limitations.

      Family physicians may be in an ideal position to deliver an exercise prescription to a
      patient, as they are often the first point of contact with the health care system. However,
      there have been a number of problems cited with using family physicians to implement the
      delivery of an exercise prescription. Among those barriers, a lack of time and a lack of
      knowledge have been identified as the most problematic. An interdisciplinary family health
      team model of care is becoming increasingly important in regards to the treatment of chronic
      conditions such as osteoporosis. Family health teams provide an ideal form of care where team
      members work together to deliver the program and enhance adherence.

      A limitation of many exercise interventions is that they fail to include a behavior change
      component which may be an important factor to consider when attempting to facilitate
      adherence to an exercise program. The Health Action Process Approach is a model of behavior
      change that has been widely used in a variety of health contexts including but not limited to
      physical activity. The rationale for the selection of this model is that it incorporates key
      principles of other behavior change models. Furthermore, the model has been cited as being a
      valid and reliable tool for predicting physical activity levels in older adults.

      This project outlines an exercise intervention that is multidisciplinary in nature and
      tailored to the individual to be employed within an interdisciplinary family health team.
      Additionally, a behavior change component is built into this intervention with key principles
      such as action planning and coping planning that are based on the HAPA model to facilitate
      the uptake of physical activity in this vulnerable population.
    
  