
    
      Acute Graft versus Host Disease (aGvHD) is the most deadly complication facing children who
      have allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). aGvHD occurs, in large part,
      because the T cells in the bone marrow graft do not "accept" the presence of the transplant
      recipient's cells. They mount a severe, debilitating, and often deadly attack against the
      recipient, striking the skin, the liver, and the gastrointestinal track, most prominently.
      For patients receiving bone marrow from an unrelated donor, the rate of aGvHD can reach as
      high as 80%, with up to half of patients dying from this complication. Given the lack of
      success in preventing aGvHD with current therapies, novel therapies to prevent this disease
      are desperately needed.

      Hypothesis and Aims: This trial is being conducted as a step toward testing the long-term
      hypothesis that the costimulation blockade agent abatacept can be added to a standard acute
      graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD) prophylaxis regimen (which includes a calcineurin inhibitor
      (CNI) and methotrexate), to improve disease-free survival after unrelated hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation (HSCT) for patients with hematologic malignancies. As a phase II study,
      the overall aim of this trial is to make a preliminary assessment of abatacept's clinical
      safety and efficacy using short-term outcomes. Thus, this trial is designed to test two
      hypotheses:

        1. A primary hypothesis that the addition of abatacept to calcineurin inhibition +
           methotrexate can decrease the incidence of early-onset (before day 100 post-transplant)
           severe (grades 3-4) aGvHD.

        2. A secondary hypothesis that its addition will not hinder post-transplant reconstitution
           of protective immunity against latent viruses.

      To test these two hypotheses, this study will have the following Specific Aims.

      Specific Aim #1: To conduct a multicenter Phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo
      controlled trial to assess the impact of abatacept on the incidence of aGVHD and its biology.
      To make this assessment patients will be randomized either to standard aGVHD prophylaxis with
      a CNI, methotrexate and placebo or to investigational prophylaxis with a CNI, methotrexate
      and abatacept. Correlative immunology studies will be performed to elucidate abatacept's
      effects on the graft-versus-host response.

      Specific Aim #2: To assess the impact of abatacept on post-transplant reconstitution of
      protective immunity against viruses. This will involve monitoring the longitudinal recovery
      of lymphocyte subsets and virus-specific immunity, using tetramer analysis and viral
      stimulation assays. It will also involve monitoring viral infection and disease.

      Background and Rationale:

      The Unmet Need: Allogeneic HSCT is an effective treatment for aggressive leukemias and other
      hematological malignancies, often representing the only option for cure. However, some of its
      benefit, especially in the case of unrelated donor transplantation, is off-set by a high rate
      of transplant-related mortality (approximately 30% of recipients of unrelated donor
      transplantation will die of transplant-related complications) stemming largely from severe
      aGVHD and infection. 1-7 aGvHD occurs when reconstituting donor T cells8 become activated
      against recipient tissues.9 This activation can result in severe immune-mediated tissue
      damage to the host, with the skin, liver and GI tract being the most common targets.
      aGvHD-mediated damage to these vital organs can result in significant morbidity, and in
      death. While whole-scale T cell depletion of the allograft can successfully reduce rates of
      aGvHD, patients receiving T cell-depleted grafts exhibit profound defects in protective
      immunity, and often die of infection or relapse of their primary disease.10-12 This has
      created an unmet clinical need for a strategy that more effectively prevents severe aGvHD
      while preserving the transplant recipient's protective immune response.

      Targeting T cell costimulation to prevent aGvHD: The immune activation observed in aGvHD
      bears close resemblance to the immune activation that occurs during both organ rejection and
      autoimmunity. Studies in these diseases have led to the development of a new class of agents,
      called 'costimulation blockade' reagents, which specifically target activated T cells and
      block their ability to become fully activated effector cells. 13 One of the most studied of
      the costimulatory pathways is the CD28:CD80/86 receptor:coreceptor interaction.14
      Considerable work on this pathway has been accomplished, and has demonstrated the efficacy of
      inhibition of CD28:CD80/86 signaling in inhibiting T cell-mediated immune activation. The
      first CD80/86-directed costimulation blockade agent, CTLA4Ig, or 'abatacept,' is approved for
      use in rheumatoid arthritis, both in adults and in children older than 6 years.15-18 The
      experience with abatacept from 3 large randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials, two in
      adults with rheumatoid arthritis and one in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (ages
      6 and older) indicates that it is a safe agent.19-21 In these three trials, abatacept was
      dosed at 10 mg/kg and was administered IV on day 1, 15, 29 (one trial used day 30) and then
      every 28 days for a total of 6 to 10 months of total treatment. Collectively, most patients
      also received weekly, oral, low-dose methotrexate and low dose prednisone concurrently. In
      these trials, abatacept was well tolerated. Acutely, infusional reactions were rare and mild
      and occurred at rates that did not differ significantly from those with placebo. Abatacept
      was not associated with any hematologic, renal, cardiac, pulmonary, hepatic or neurologic
      abnormalities. Similarly, the rates of both total and serious adverse events were low, and
      did not differ from those with placebo. Abatacept has been shown to be safe, even in extended
      open label trials,22,23 not associated with excessive PTLD or other malignancies. 22-25
      However, chronically-treated patients did experience a slightly higher risk of infections.
      22,24,25 Phase III studies of a second-generation, higher avidity abatacept analog,
      belatacept (which is identical to abatacept except for two amino acid substitutions) have
      demonstrated efficacy in preventing renal transplant rejection. 26,27 Patients who received
      10mg/kg of belatacept on days 1, 5, 14, 28, and every 28 days thereafter demonstrated
      improved renal function compared to those receiving cyclosporine, and similar graft
      survival.26,27 These results have led to the FDA approval of belatacept for a renal
      transplant indication. While overall rates of patient death, infection and serious infection
      in patients receiving belatacept were not different than in those receiving traditional
      immunosuppression,26,28 belatacept was associated with a statistically-significant increased
      rate of EBV-associated PTLD compared to cyclosporine-based immunosuppression (especially in
      patients that were EBV sero-negative prior to transplant).26,28 This observation raises an
      important question about the negative impact that belatacept and related compounds may have
      on protective immune responses to latent viruses. Rates of PTLD were much lower in EBV
      sero-positive patients,26,28 suggesting that any defect in protective immunity induced by
      belatacept may be more significant in the setting of primary EBV infection than during EBV
      reactivation. These observations underscore the critical importance of evaluating novel
      immunosuppressive strategies for their impact both on alloreactivity and on the
      post-transplant protective immune response.

      Prior to our work, abatacept had not been tested for its ability to prevent GvHD in BMT
      patients. However, there was considerable evidence from murine models to suggest that it
      might be an active compound against the immune activation that occurs during GvHD.29-33 In
      addition, our research group developed a non-human primate model of GvHD 34 and used this
      model to demonstrate that an abatacept-containing immunosuppressive regimen could
      significantly protect against the development of primate GvHD. 34 These results, along with
      the clinical evidence for efficacy of abatacept and belatacept in both autoimmunity and solid
      organ transplantation provided the rationale for the development of a first-in-disease
      feasibility trial of abatacept for GvHD prevention (Clinical Trials.org #NCT01012492). This
      trial, which has now completed enrollment, has documented encouraging early results with
      respect to both the safety and efficacy of abatacept for GvHD prevention (Kean et al., ASH
      2011). These results have led to the creation of the current Phase II clinical trial of
      abatacept for prevention of severe aGvHD.

      Research Design and Methods Study Design: This will be a phase II, multi-center, randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

      Study Population, Subject Recruitment and Selection: Patients will be recruited from the
      Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, the Emory
      University Adult Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, the University of Florida Adult Blood
      and Marrow Transplant Program, the Seattle Cancer Consortium including University of
      Washington, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance and from participating
      centers in the Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Consortium (PBMTC). A total of 40
      randomized 7/8 HLA matched patients and 140 8/8 HLA matched patients will be enrolled on this
      study. Patients who are enrolled, but determined to be Assignment Failures before receiving
      study drug/placebo will be replaced. 7/8 HLA matched patients enrolled prior to Protocol
      Amendment 4 and who were randomized to the study drug/placebo arm are not counted in either
      group of 40 or 140.
    
  