
    
      A number of published studies in anesthesia have demonstrated that certain patient factors
      may impact patient perioperative outcomes. Factors such as age, gender, cardiac function, and
      hemodynamic status all have been shown to be predictive indicators. The goal of the present
      study is to evaluate these factors with the effectiveness of the Goal Directed Fluid
      Management training on patient outcomes after major surgeries and document the final
      perioperative outcomes.

      This is an observational study in which patients' de-identified clinical information will be
      extracted from the University of California, Irvine Medical Center electronic medical record
      system to evaluate whether there has been a change in patients' outcomes after the
      Goal-Directed Fluid Management training curriculum was implemented. We will extract data from
      both before and after the training took place-- the time-frame is from June 15, 2011 to
      September 15, 2013. Specifically we will be looking at 30 day re-admission and 90 day
      mortality following surgery. There are no study procedures or use of biological material.
      Patient identifies are utilized in the secure database as this is utilized for clinical
      management. When the data is extracted from the database for research purposes the patient
      identifiers will be removed and no patient identifiers will be included in the information
      during statistical analysis or subsequent reporting. For publication, only aggregate data is
      utilized. No identifiable patient information will be released at any time.

      Statistical considerations may include: Sample Size Considerations, Predictors,
      Covariates/Cofounders, Statistical Goal(s), Statistical Approach, and Secondary Analysis.
      Specifically, statistical analysis will be performed using computerized software (SPSS for
      Windows version 12.0). For data that was non-normally distributed a Mann Mann-Whitney test
      will be used and normally distributed data will be compared using the Student T-test. Ordinal
      and nominal data will compared using Chi-Square analysis. A p value smaller or equal to 0.05
      will be considered significant. These statistical considerations will aid in supporting the
      study's hypothesis for patient outcomes improvement with Early Goal Directed Fluid Management
      training.
    
  