
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Objective 1 will test if dietary ganglioside treatment improves intestinal integrity,
      permeability and systemic inflammation in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

      Objective 2 will study the bioavailability of dietary ganglioside

      BACKGROUND & SCOPE

      This is a pilot study being conducted in patients with mild-moderate IBD as assessed by
      Crohn's disease activity index or Mayo Score. Our studies indicate that some ganglioside
      species prevent proinflammatory stimuli and prevent disruption of integrity of tight
      junctions between enterocytes, normalizing transepithelial electrical resistance in inflamed
      cells. Feeding ganglioside to rats prevented lipopolysaccharide-stimulated decrease in
      cellular tight junction protein occludin. Low level of GD3 ganglioside in the intestinal
      mucosa is associated with degradation of tight junction proteins. Increasing the GD3 content
      of the intestinal mucosa thus reduces the degradation of tight junction proteins improving
      the integrity of the brush border and improving the deleterious changes occurring in
      intestinal permeability. Improving intestinal integrity in subjects with IBD is important to
      manage diarrhea, infection, penetration of allergens, and malnutrition. Research in progress
      from our group demonstrates that dietary ganglioside decreased level of pro-inflammatory
      prostaglandin E2 in healthy human subjects and those with Crohn's disease. Also, daily
      consumption of ganglioside was very effective in improving the Crohn's disease activity index
      by an average of 43% over an eight-week study period.

      METHODS & PROCEDURE

      Subject Recruitment Healthy control subjects and patients with Crohn's disease and ulcerative
      colitis will be recruited in Edmonton from the University of Alberta Hospital
      gastroenterology clinic. Male and (non-pregnant) female adults (> 17 year of age) are
      eligible for study. Pre-operative IBD patients with mild to moderate disease including those
      with rectosigmoiditis, left-sided colitis, concurrent small bowel disease, and Crohn's will
      be recruited. Diagnosis will be based on established radiologic, endoscopic, and histologic
      criteria.

      Dietary Treatment with Ganglioside Ganglioside will be provided in the form of a
      ganglioside-enriched milk fat globule membrane. This buttermilk supernatant contains protein,
      lactose, and 0.4% ganglioside (75% GD3, 25% GM3). Normal preparation of butter yields
      buttermilk. The ganglioside fraction used in this study has been centrifuged and filtered
      again to remove the casein and whey protein. Participants will be randomized to consume
      either 1.0 g of ganglioside or placebo daily for eight weeks in addition to their standard
      drug treatment. The placebo milk fraction does not contain ganglioside, and is equal in
      protein and lactose content to the ganglioside fraction.

      Subject Involvement Participants will have blood drawn at baseline and week 2, 4, 6 and 8 of
      supplementation study. Subject disease Activity Index or Mayo Score will be obtained at weeks
      0 and 8. Participants will undergo non-invasive intestinal permeability testing at study
      weeks 0 and 8.
    
  