
    
      Elderly patients with parkinsonian syndrome and healthy age-matched controls are enrolled in
      this study. The subjects all undergo a brain MRI exam. Controls are selected to match the age
      distribution of patients.

      Clinical evaluation The day of the brain MRI examination, all patients undergo a neurological
      and neuropsychological evaluation. Diagnoses are established by a neurologist experienced
      with parkinsonian syndromes according to established guidelines: the UK Parkinson's Disease
      Society Brain Bank criteria for idiopathic PD, the National Institute of Neurological
      Disorders and Stroke and the Society for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy criteria for
      progressive supranuclear palsy, Lang's criteria for corticobasal dementia, Gilman's criteria
      for multiple system atrophy and Zijlmans's criteria for vascular parkinsonism.

      Impairment of the motor function related to parkinsonian syndrome is assessed using the Hoehn
      and Yahr scale (range 0-5), the Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living scale (range
      0-100%), the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS, range 0-199) and the Short
      Motor Disability scale (range 0-17).

      Cognitive impairment is assessed using the Mini Mental Sate Examination (MMSE) score (range
      0-30), the Grober and Buschke verbal-learning test (range 0-16), a semantic-processing task
      (LEXIS test, range 0-64), the forward/backward Digit span task (range 0-17) of the third
      Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and the Rey-Osterrieth Complex-Figure (ROCF) test (range
      0-36) to assess visuospatial abilities, attention, executive function and working memory.

      The Mattis Dementia-Rating scale (range 0-144) and the Beck Depression Inventory (range 0-63)
      are performed to look for depression. The Educational Attainment and the National Institute
      of Health Stroke Score (NIHSS) (range 0-42) are also recorded.

      MRI acquisition and processing. All patients undergo a brain MRI on a 3-Tesla scanner
      including 3D triple echo gradient echo acquisition to generate susceptibility weighted
      images, T1-weighted magnetisation-prepared rapid 3D gradient-echo (MPRAGE) and diffusion
      tensor imaging acquisition.

      Susceptibility weighted imaging raw data are preprocessed to obtain magnitude and phase
      images for each echo time. Quantitative susceptibility maps are then generated using SPM8
      software (Statistical Parametric Mapping, Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology,
      Institute of Neurology, London, UK; http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm/, Matlab 2014a, The
      MathWorks, Natick, MA, USA).
    
  