
    
      The Synergy Trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of a currently available medication
      (methylphenidate) combined with a CFS-specific dietary supplement (CFS Nutrient Formula) to
      treat Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS).

      The CFS Nutrient Formula to be used in this trial is a broad-spectrum micronutrient
      supplement that provides CFS patients with vitamins, minerals, and other cofactors (amino
      acids, antioxidants, and mitochondrial cofactors) to complement the low-dose Central Nervous
      System (CNS) stimulant (methylphenidate). In other words, therapeutic dosages of
      micronutrients are provided to support the functioning of the nervous, endocrine, and immune
      systems to a level at which a lower than customary dosage of methylphenidate can produce
      positive clinical effects on CFS symptoms and also be well tolerated.

      Methylphenidate is the generic form of Ritalin®. The dose being tested in this study is
      relatively low (5-10mg twice daily). This drug has been in clinical use for over 50 years for
      the treatment of Narcolepsy and Attention Deficit Disorder and has a well-described safety
      profile when used as recommended. Methylphenidate alone has been studied as a treatment for
      CFS in the past and has been shown to produce mild benefits and be well-tolerated. When
      provided as innovative therapy, methylphenidate plus this CFS Nutrient Formula has produced
      substantial improvements in CFS symptoms in a limited number of patients, and demonstrated
      excellent tolerability.

      Use of low dose methylphenidate hydrochloride coadministered with a CFS Nutrient Formula has
      not been previously evaluated in a controlled clinical study. The risk to patients using this
      combination is believed to be low, especially in the context of a well-controlled clinical
      study. Furthermore, this combination is not expected to increase the incidence or severity of
      adverse events associated with methylphenidate hydrochloride.
    
  