
    
      Chronic infection with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a significant public health problem in
      china. Progressive liver disease, as a result of chronic HCV infection, usually develops
      slowly over 20-50 years and may lead to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver failure
      and eventual death. Symptoms are typically mild and non-specific but nevertheless can cause a
      decrease in quality of life. Peginterferon alfa and ribavirin combination therapy is
      currently used in the china for treatment of chronic HCV. Successful treatment is considered
      to be attainment of a sustained virological response (SVR), defined as undetectable serum HCV
      ribonucleic acid (RNA) 6 months after cessation of treatment.

      PEG-IFN-SA is a new recombinant interferon variant. Its N-terminus is modified by 20KD
      molecular weight single-methoxy polyethylene glycol (PEG). It consists of 171 amino acids
      before modification. PEG-IFN-SA is reorganization, unnatural existence and a new type of
      interferon (171Arg126Asp171IFN) after modification. The safety, tolerance and antiviral
      activity of PEG-IFN-SA was tested in adults with HCV infection.

      PEG-IFN-SA was injected subcutaneously one times per week for 12 times. Peginterferon alfa-2a
      (Pegasys) is the positive control drug. 80 patients were randomly assigned to eight groups
      (PEG-IFN-SA 1.0μg/kg, Peginterferon alfa-2a 180 μg, PEG-IFN-SA 1.5 μg/kg，PEG-IFN-SA 2 μg/kg，
      PEG-IFN-SA 3 μg/kg，PEG-IFN-SA 1.5μg/kg + ribavirin 0.45g/bid group，Intergen 15μg/48hours for
      7 times and ribavirin 0.45g/bid for 10 times).

      Clinical and biological adverse effects were recorded every week such as headache, nausea and
      vomiting. HCV RNA level was tested by COBAS Taqman HCV Test system of Roche. Blood cell
      counts were tested using an automatic cell counter such as WBC, neutrophil, PLT and HGB.
      Biochemical indicators were tested by automatic biochemical analysis instrument.
    
  