
    
      This study is a double-blind, individually randomized, controlled, clinical efficacy trial
      with two vaccine groups: Vi-TCV (Typhoid conjugate) and MCV-A (meningococcal group A
      conjugate). This study will take place in Blantyre, Malawi, Africa. Participants (up to
      24,000) will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio. Children 9 months through 12 years of age in the
      Blantyre area who meet the inclusion criteria will be eligible for enrollment.

      Participants will be unaware of which study vaccine, Vi-TCV or MCV-A, is received. A subset
      of 600 children will have study visits on days 3, 7, 28 and 180 post-vaccination to assess
      select solicited events, unsolicited events, and all serious adverse events. Serious Adverse
      Events (SAEs) in all participants will be monitored through the end of the trial.

      For the evaluation of efficacy, passive surveillance will be conducted for up to 36 months to
      identify cases among vaccinated subjects. Children who meet the protocol-defined specimen
      collection criteria will have a blood culture collected. Additional information will be
      collected from any child who has a blood culture obtained. This will include information
      about the signs and symptoms of the illness and treatment given. Likewise, any child with
      blood culture-confirmed typhoid fever will have follow-up until the illness resolves.
      Additional information on the illness, treatment and complications will be recorded. Vaccine
      efficacy will be evaluated when the pre-specified number of cases is reached after a minimum
      of two years of follow-up on each participant.

      A subset of 600 children (200 in each of three age groups: 9-11 months, 1-5 years, and 6-12
      years) will be included in an additional Vaccine Immunogenicity and Reactogenicity Sub-study.
      More stringent exclusion criteria will apply for this subset. The purpose of this detailed
      evaluation is to assess the reactogenicity of the vaccine and the immune responses to Vi-TCV.
      Serum specimens will be collected on day 0 (before vaccination) and on post-vaccination days
      28 and 730 from all children included in the sub-study. For the children in the 9-11 month
      group, Vi-TCV or MCV-A will be administered with measles-containing vaccine, as per Malawi
      Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) schedule. These 9-11-month-old children will have
      antibody to measles assessed on days 0 and 28. All children in the sub-study will have visits
      at days 4 and 7 following vaccination for solicitation of local and systemic adverse events.
      Serious and non-serious adverse events will be assessed at days 28 and 180.
    
  