
    
      Approximately 1 in 4 children aged 5-18 report experiencing pain. As many as 2 in 3 of these
      children will develop a significant physical, emotional, social or academic impairment.
      Recent research has identified pediatric pain as an area where biological, psychological and
      social treatments can interact to provide substantial changes in pain symptoms. However,
      there is a lamentable dearth of empirical studies evaluating the efficacy of treatments for
      chronic pain in children. These findings necessitate more intensive efforts to improve
      methods on initial assessment and treatment, but an important first step is to improve the
      sensitivity of outcome evaluation.

      Existing measures of pediatric pain have been concerned with symptom intensity and the
      general locus of pain. Children are traditionally asked to mark with a number or a color the
      region in which they experience pain. This is helpful for understanding generality that a
      large area such as the head, joints, or stomach hurts. However, it does not allow the child
      the option to specify a narrow area of discomfort within a broader region (e.g., upper right
      quadrant of the stomach). Consequently, current pain instruments may lead to an inaccurate or
      imprecise understanding of a child's pain, which can adversely impact clinical care of the
      quality of clinical trials.

      The current study will compare a widely used paper-based "pain mapping" tool to a new
      electronic tool designed by study investigators to capture the same information as the paper
      measure, while adding more precision regarding pain regions and greater range in terms of
      pain intensity. We expect that children's responses on these two measures (pencil/paper and
      electronic) will be generally similar, but we expect that the electronic measure will map
      more closely onto the Attending Physician's notes regarding discrete pain location,
      intensity, and/or diagnosis.
    
  