
    
      This study is designed to answer questions about how a dietary pattern either high or low in
      dietary carbohydrate and fat availability and fat loss influence metabolic and hormonal
      processes that may affect breast cancer recurrence. The investigators hypothesize that in
      addition to the anticipated effects of fat loss on circulating levels of bioavailable sex
      steroids, that the effects of excess fat on breast cancer prognosis can be attributed to
      three interrelated metabolic processes: altered glucose metabolism (IGF-1, IGFBP-3, glycated
      proteins), chronic inflammation (C-reactive protein, IL-6, TNF-alpha) and excessive cellular
      oxidation (8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine and 8-isoprostane F-2 alpha).

      A 6 month intervention study involving 370 post menopausal women who have been treated for
      breast cancer is proposed. Randomized women, stratified by resected stage, systemic adjuvant
      therapy and body mass index (> 25 and < 35 Kg/m2), will serve as either a non-intervention
      control group or will follow a tailored diet-physical activity program designed to create a
      weekly negative energy balance equivalent to 3500 kcal. The intervention groups will receive
      the same physical activity protocol, but one of two diets that differ in dietary pattern.

      The specific aims are: Aim 1. Does a dietary pattern either high or low in available
      carbohydrate and fat alter the pattern of change observed in circulating factors involved in
      glucose homeostasis, chronic inflammation, cellular oxidation, and steroid hormone metabolism
      during progressive loss of body fat? The investigators will also examine how observed changes
      in these circulating factors related to changes indicators of breast cancer recurrence. Aim
      2. Do circulating factors associated with glucose homeostasis, chronic inflammation, and
      cellular oxidation display the same pattern of change in response to progressive fat loss as
      circulating analytes associated with sex steroid metabolism? Analytes of interest will be
      measured monthly throughout the study. Aim 3. Does dietary glycemic load affect the magnitude
      or rate of fat loss? Plasma adipokines such as leptin and adiponectin and plasma ghrelin will
      be measured to provide biological determinants that may help explain differences in response.

      The work proposed in this application should provide quantitative data about the importance
      of the magnitude of fat loss on metabolic and hormonal processes involved in cancer
      recurrence and provide guidance about effective dietary approaches that maximize weight loss
      benefits on breast cancer prognosis.
    
  