
    
      Pain management for children with a suspected fracture is suboptimal in the Emergency
      Department (ED). This type of musculoskeletal injury (MSK-I) often generates moderate to
      severe pain (> 49 mm on 0 to 100 mm Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)), and requires rapid and
      sustained pain management for the duration of the physical examination, diagnostic imaging
      (X-Ray), immobilization and occasionally fracture reduction. Current standard care includes
      the use of oral ibuprofen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), for
      mild-to-moderate MSK-I pain in the ED. However, ibuprofen has been shown to be inadequate for
      moderate-to-severe pain when used alone. A number of small/single centre studies suggest that
      intranasal fentanyl (INF) is effective for rapidly decreasing MSK-I related pain in children.
      with a quick onset of 10 minutes and a peak action of 20 minutes. However, the duration of
      its analgesic effect is limited to a maximum of 60 minutes, which does not provide an optimal
      pain management for the duration of the ED stay, which typically lasts up to three hours.
      Oral hydromorphone (HM) is a long-acting opioid that is more potent but causes less side
      effects than oral morphine. Its analgesic effect lasts up to 4 hours, and its peak of action
      is at 60 minutes after administration. Similarly, ibuprofen's peak of action is also at 60
      minutes and its analgesic effect lasts up to 6 hours. Typically, patients with a fracture
      have sustained pain throughout their ED stay due to imaging, splinting and repeated physical
      exams. Our objective is to examine the efficacy of a combination of intranasal and oral
      analgesics for pain management in children presenting to the ED with a suspected fracture.
      Our primary research question: For children presenting to the ED with a suspected fracture,
      is a combination of INF (1.5 mcg/kg, maximum dose of 100 mcg) and oral HM (0.04 mg/kg,
      maximum dose of 2 mg) more efficacious than a combination of INF (1.5 mcg/kg, maximum dose of
      100 mcg) and oral ibuprofen (10 mg/kg, maximum dose of 600 mg) to decrease pain to < 30 mm
      (on a 0 to 100mm Visual Analog Scale) at 60 minutes post-administration? Our primary
      hypothesis is: A combination of INF and oral HM will be more efficacious than a combination
      of INF and oral ibuprofen to decrease pain to <30 mm at 60 minutes post-administration.

      Methods. Design: This study is a double-blind, two-arm, four-centre RCT of a combination of
      analgesics for pain management of children presenting to the ED with a suspected fracture
      will be performed. Settings: Children will be recruited in the following EDs: CHU
      Sainte-Justine (Montreal, QC), Children Hospital of Eastern Ontario (Ottawa, ON), Stollery
      Children's Hospital (Edmonton, AB), and Children's Hospital of the London Health Sciences
      Centre (London, ON). Sample. Inclusion criteria: Will be include children: (a) with a pain
      score >49 mm on VAS at triage, (b) between the ages of 8 and 17 years, (c) presenting to the
      ED with a suspected fracture of the upper or lower limb, and (d) who can communicate in
      either French or English. Exclusion criteria: Will be exclude children with (a) known allergy
      to fentanyl, hydromorphone, ibuprofen, or artificial colouring, (b) triage nurse suspicion of
      child abuse, (c) inability to self-report pain, (d) chronic pain that necessitates daily
      analgesic use, (e) NSAID or opioid analgesic use within the three hours prior to ED
      presentation, (f) trauma to >1 limb, (g) known hepatic or renal disease/dysfunction, (h)
      known bleeding disorder, (i) neuro-cognitive disability that precludes assent and/or
      participating in the study, (j) known history of obstructive sleep apnea (k) a suspected
      fracture of the nose, or (l) significant head injury, as determined by the clinical
      team/triage nurse.

      Allocation and Randomization: A biostatistician, independent to our study team, will generate
      the randomization scheme that will consist of a computer-generated random listing of the
      treatment using a 1:1 allocation scheme. Randomization will be stratified by center using
      block-randomization (with permuted block sizes). Enrolled children will be allocated to (a)
      INF 1.5 mcg/kg (up to a maximum of 100 mcg) via intranasal atomization + oral HM 0.04 mg/kg
      (up to a maximum of 2 mg) OR (b) INF 1.5 mcg/kg (up to a maximum of 100 mcg) via intranasal
      atomization + oral ibuprofen 10 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 600 mg. Sample Size: Sample size
      calculations were made to achieve a power of 90 % at an alpha level of 5 % in the comparison
      of the proportion of children with a pain intensity score of less than 30 mm on the VAS at
      T-60 between the group with intranasal fentanyl + oral hydromorphone and intranasal fentanyl
      + oral ibuprofen group. The investigators expect that this proportion will be 75 % in the
      group with intranasal fentanyl + oral hydromorphone and 50 % in the group with intranasal
      fentanyl + oral ibuprofen, these estimations are based on results of previous trials as well
      as results of studies using INF with children. Ba sed on our team's previous studies, 8 % of
      loss to follow-up is expect (LFUP) at T-60, and, as such, 300 children will be randomize into
      two groups (150/group). For the primary safety outcome the investigators anticipate that the
      serious adverse events (SAEs) will be rare. In the case where no SAEs are observed, a sample
      size of 138 (150 - 8% LFUP) will yield an upper limit for the 95% CI of 2.1% for the rate of
      SAEs per arm. Assuming a low 5% rate is observed in the INF + ibuprofen arm, an absolute
      difference in the rates of SAEs as low as 11% between the INF + ibuprofen arm and INF + HM
      arm (5% vs 16%) can be detected with 80% power and an alpha level of 5%. Primary efficacy
      outcome: Proportion of children in each analgesic group with a pain intensity score <30 mm at
      60-minutes post-medication administration. The choice of measuring the proportion of children
      with pain <30 mm, as opposed to a more traditional measure of relative changes in VAS scores,
      reflects our team's commitment to patient-level outcomes; patients need to achieve a
      manageable (i.e. mild) level of pain to have reasonable functioning and satisfaction, as
      opposed to simply a relative decrease in pain. Primary safety outcome: Composite safety
      outcome where a safety event will be defined as: (a) clinical sedation (as measured by a
      score > 3 on the Ramsay Sedation Scale-RSS) [45], OR (b) a respiratory rate under the
      standardized normal minimal value for age, OR (c) an oxygen saturation level (SO2) <92% while
      breathing ambient (room) air, observed during the 120-min post-medication administration
      period. The RSS is a widely used, valid and reliable scale; it is the standard against which
      other sedation scales are compared. Secondary outcomes: (a) mean pain scores and mean
      differences in pain scores (between groups) at 10 min (T-10), 20 min (T-20), 30 min (T-30),
      60 min (T-60), 90 min (T-90), 120 min (T-120) after medication administration, during the
      medical examination (T-ME), and during radiographic procedure (T-XR), (b) the proportion of
      children administered a rescue analgesic in the 60 minutes following administration of study
      medication, (c) the proportion of children with side effects at T-10, T-20, T-30, T-60, T-90,
      T-120, T-ME and T-XR, (d) the proportion of children in each group with an RSS score between
      1 to 3, (e) parental and child reports of acceptability of the medication at the end of the
      trial, and (f) self-reported levels of satisfaction of children and parents with pain
      management at the end of the study period.

      Relevance: In response to the persistent problem of inadequate and delayed analgesia, the
      investigators believe that a combination of rapidly acting (INF) and longer-acting (oral HM
      or ibuprofen) medications will address both the delay in the time to effective analgesia and
      overall under-treatment of suspected fracture pain. The team anticipate that an RCT
      demonstrating the efficacy of a combination of fast and long-acting analgesics will
      significantly improve the treatment for children with a suspected fracture in the ED. The
      investigators hypothesize that use of INF and oral HM will provide rapid pain relief that is
      sustained for the duration of the ED visit. Promotion of adequate acute pain treatment of
      children presenting to the ED will prevent the known short and long-term effects of
      inadequately treated pain in children previously demonstrated by our team, including
      unpleasant memories, stress and anxiety upon future visits to healthcare and compromised
      functional outcomes such as missed school.
    
  