
    
      Nitric oxide (NO) is a potent endogenous vasodilator and has shown to inhibit key processes
      of atherosclerosis like monocyte adhesion, platelet aggregation, and vascular smooth muscle
      cell proliferation. Impaired endothelial NO production is a main feature of endothelial
      dysfunction, which by itself is an early step in the course of atherosclerotic vascular
      disease.

      Recent studies could confirm this close association between parameters of the NO pathway and
      cardiovascular disease and could further enhance the knowledge on the pathophysiological
      mechanisms. There is a significant relationship between insulin resistance and the endogenous
      NO synthase inhibitor asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA). Moreover, evidence could be
      provided that plasma levels of ADMA are a strong and independent predictor of mortality and
      cardiovascular outcome in haemodialysis patients.

      Patients with growth hormone deficiency are characterized by a 1.9 fold higher risk of death
      from cardiovascular disease. Again, there is good evidence, that alterations of the
      NO-pathway are involved in this increase of cardiovascular risk. A reduced endogenous
      systemic production of NO was found in patients with growth hormone deficiency, treatment
      with recombinant growth hormone normalized NO production. The effects of growth hormone on NO
      are possibly mediated by insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), which stimulates NO synthesis
      in vitro. The onset of IGF-I increase in healthy volunteers treated with GH is evident after
      12 h, the maximum effect takes place between 5 to 8 days. Also in adults with growth hormone
      deficiency, the major effects of growth hormone treatment on IGF-I levels are observed within
      2 weeks. After discontinuation of growth hormone therapy, IGF-1 levels return to base line
      within 2-3 days.

      The aim of the present study is to further elucidate the in vivo effects of GH on the NO
      pathway and NO mediated cardiovascular functions.
    
  