
    
      The first successful simulation validation study used a proficiency-based progression
      methodology. Since then the approach has been successfully deployed to produce superior
      technical skills but has not yet been validated for non-technical (communication) skills. It
      has also not yet been validated through the medium of virtual learning. The ISBAR (Identify,
      Situation, Background, Assessment and Recommendation) has been selected as the standardised
      tool for clinical communication in relation to an acutely deteriorating patient in many
      healthcare organisations worldwide, including Ireland.

      The aim of this study is to explore whether proficiency-based progression (PBP) could be
      applied to an e-learning training course for ISBAR performance to produce a superior skill
      set.

      The study will compare performance outcomes of students who receive the national e-learning
      programme only with those who receive it in combination with either standard e-learning
      course with scenarios or proficiency-based progression (PBP) e-learning course with
      scenarios.

      Participants will be prospectively randomized to one of three training groups. Following a
      pre-test observation through low-fidelity simulation, they will then undergo their respective
      training courses before undertaking a post-test performance assessment of an ISBAR
      communication relevant to a deteriorating patient in a low fidelity simulation environment:

        1. Online learning only (HSE) -the national e-learning programme only

        2. Scenarios (S) -national online learning plus online scenario course training

        3. Proficiency based progression (PBP) -national online learning plus proficiency-based
           progression online scenario course training.

      Main outcome and measures: A proficiency benchmark on the performance of ISBAR communication
      in the context of an acutely deteriorating patient.

      All participants will be required to supply baseline demographic information before
      undertaking the training.

      Performance metrics have previously been identified, operationally defined and agreed upon at
      a modified Delphi panel meeting consisting of medical experts for a series of paper-based
      simulation cases and a standardised high fidelity simulation case used as the assessment
      case. This case will be used in this study in a low fidelity environment. The proficiency
      benchmark for each case has been set based on the performance of experienced medical
      personnel on each case as a series of steps, errors and critical errors.

      Outcome assessment will be scored by reviewing auditory recordings of ISBAR performance by
      each participant on the standardised case in the low fidelity simulated environment.
    
  