
    
      Study sites , selection criteria and settings:

      This study was conducted in three different agro-ecological zones (AEZ) of Tanzania; these
      are Northern Highlands, South-western Highlands and Eastern Lowland zones. For each zone, one
      maize-producing district, primarily for home consumption, was purposively selected, Hanang'
      district representing the Northern Highlands, Kilosa district represent Eastern Lowland zone
      and Rungwe represents the South Western Highlands. For each district, ten villages; five
      interventions and five control was randomly selected. From each village, 10 households were
      chosen. The selection criterion of the households were to be a local maize cultivars /grower,
      capacity of storing maize for the period not less than five to six months after harvest and
      having lactating mother of a child less than 8 months of age. Therefore, a total of 300
      households; 100 selected from each of districts were involved in the study. The three
      districts each are divided into a divisions, wards and villages. A village is the lowest
      administrative unit and is considered as a geopolitical unit and intact social group. It has
      a local government authority and committees. Each village has one agriculture extension
      officer who is a Government employee under the Local Government Authority. The extension
      services provided includes the provision of farmers with knowledge, information, experiences
      and technologies needed to increase and sustain productivity and for improved wellbeing and
      livelihoods.

      Design:

      Study used a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial. Villages were randomly assigned to either
      the intervention or control study groups. The intervention duration was 6 months. The control
      group continued to receive routine agriculture extension services on good practices for
      handling crops , an agricultural extension service for farmers offered regularly by village
      agriculture extension officer at vilage level. The extension services provided includes the
      provision of farmers with knowledge, information, experiences and technologies needed to
      increase and sustain productivity, avoid crop spoilage during storage for improved wellbeing
      and livelihoods. The intervention group received post-harvset intervention package in
      addition to the routine agriculture education.

      Recruitment:

      One month before harvest , infants aged less than 8 months were recruited from the register
      of births in child and reproductive health clinics in each village. Infants of less than 8
      months of age were identified using their registration number and date of birth. In Tanzania,
      all infants born in clinics are registered soon after birth. In case of home deliveries,
      registration is done on the day the child is taken to the clinic for immunization. On
      registration, each child is allocated a registration number and the child's particulars
      including date and place of birth recorded. Inclusion criteria were to be a breastfeeding
      infant aged 0-8 months at the time of recruitment, parents to be local residence, maize
      grower and capacity of storing maize for the period not less than six months after harvest.
      An exclusion criterion was abnormalities impairing feeding or physical growth measurements of
      an infant.

      Ethical considerations:

      Application requesting ethical approval was made to the National Institute of Medical
      Research in Tanzania. Local government nutritionists, resident nurses and sociologists were
      involved in this study. With the help of village executive officers, mothers of the eligible
      infants were requested to gather at a nearby health facility or school to have informal
      meetings. During the meetings, the objective of the research, use of the results, benefits of
      the research to them and the procedure used to select them were explained and their formal
      consent sought. Mothers were also provided with written forms containing the same
      information. For the mothers who were not able to read and write, the resident nurse read the
      consent form and asked them for their verbal consent. For those mothers who gave their verbal
      consent, the local nurse wrote her/his name on the consent form and signed on it as a
      witness.

      Intervention:

      The developed post-harvest intervention package composed of 5 components, namely 1) hand
      sorting, 2) drying surface, 3) proper drying 4) application of insecticide, 5) dehulling was
      elaborated and discussed among Local Government agriculture workers. They later provided
      guidance to farmers explained the intervention strategy and demonstrated different techniques
      included in the package. Farmers were provided with guidelines on how to apply the developed
      package. The language of communication during the intervention delivery was Kiswahili, a
      written and spoken language in the country.

      Component 1: Hand sorting

      Separating damaged/infected maize kernel and cobs from health normal one helps to reduce
      spread of mould during storage. Farmers were shown how to identify damaged maize kernel and
      that are visibly mouldy. They were encouraged to remove and discard mouldy and damaged maize
      kernels before storage.

      Component 2: Drying practice

      Maize are commonly spread on the bare ground for sun drying, making them susceptible to
      humidity, fungal contamination from the soil, and difficult to gather in the event of
      unexpected rain. Farmers were trained on proper drying practices that include drying maize on
      mats. We provided intervention group with the drying mats.

      Component 3: Proper sun drying

      Incomplete sun drying leaves residual humidity in the maize during storage. Maize should be
      dried in such a manner that moisture levels are lower than those required to support mould
      growth during storage (generally less than 13%). This is necessary to prevent further growth
      of a number of fungal species that may be present on fresh grains. Farmers were shown how to
      judge the completeness of sun drying by applying the "salt and bottle technique"; with this
      technique, salt and maize grain are put together in the transparent glass bottle, then shaken
      for about 5 minutes, if salt sticks on the walls of the bottle and on maize grain surface, it
      indicates that the right moisture content has not been attained, when no stickiness is noted,
      then it indicates the completeness of drying. The technique was validated in the laboratory.

      Component 4: Application of insecticides

      One of the main factors affecting mycotoxins formation is the presence of insects in storage
      facilities, which produce humidity via metabolic activity and spread fungal spores. This may
      be minimised by use of suitable, registered insecticides and fungicides. Farmers were
      provided with packs of insecticides. Explanations on the application of insecticides were
      given to farmers according to the instruction of use for a particular insecticide.

      Component 5: Dehulling

      Mycotoxins are likely to be more concentrated in the outer parts (pericarp and embryo) of the
      maize grain so that removal of these parts would result in a reduction of the toxin level in
      maize. Importance of de-hulling was explained to farmers and were encouraged to de-hull maize
      before milling.

      Data collection and measuring impact of the intervention package:

      Sample collection:

      Maize grain samples intended for human consumption were collected at harvest and six months
      after harvest, while ready to cook maize flour and breast milk samples were taken six months
      after harvest. All samples were transported to Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority in Dar es
      Salaam for laboratory analysis. Maize grains were finely grounded before the analysis. An
      information sheet were prepared and completed for samples from each household to collect all
      the information on post-harvest practices.

      Dietary assessment:

      A food intake survey was conducted between five to six months after harvest. Replicas, 24h
      dietary recall technique was used to estimate amount of maize based food consumed by the
      infants and mothers. Two visits at an interval of 1 to 2 weeks were made to the home of each
      of the infants. In addition to 24 dietary recalls, food frequency questionnaire was
      administered to get information of the frequency of consumption of maize per week and other
      foods that are commonly consumed by the mother and the child. A questionnaire that was
      previously used by other researchers in communities in Tanzania which have food consumption
      habits similar to the communities in the area of our study was used. The amount of maize
      flour consumed by an infant from a thin (Uji) or stiff (ugali) porridge will be assessed
      using the Lucille food intake software of Ghent University. This will also be carried out in
      accordance to the quantity of food consumed and the food preparation techniques described in
      the Tanzania food composition tables. Breast milk intake will be estimated as documented by
      United State Environmental Protection Agency (US-EPA, 2011).

      Anthropometric measurement:

      Each child's weight and date of birth was obtained from his or her clinic card or aregister
      of birth in local health clinics.

      Mycotoxin analysis:

      Chemical and reagent: Aflatoxins total, aflatoxin M1 and Fumonisins standards. Acetonitrile,
      Acetic acid and Methanol of HPLC grade, Methanol, HCL, KOH, BORAX, OPA.

      Aflatoxin B1, B2, G1 and G2 were determined in the maize in accordance with the method
      described by Stroka et al (2000). It was extracted and cleaned using AflaStar immunoaffinity
      column (AIC), AFM1 was analysed in breast milk as described by (Magoha et al. 2014)
      extraceextracted and cleaned using immunoaffinity column for AFM1 (AFLAPREP M) and fumonisin
      analysis in breast milk and maize flour was analysed as described by (Magoha et al. 201a) and
      (Sydenham et al. 1992) respectively, in both cases samples were extracted and cleaned using
      SAX column, the extract were dried under nitrogen and reconsituted by ACN:H20 (1:1), and
      derivatization was done by OPA. Quantification of all toxins was done using HPLC with
      RF-10AXL detector.

      Exposure assessment and risk characterisation:

      The exposure of the children to mycotoxins will be assessed by combining the maize
      consumption data with the contamination data from the analyses. The exposure will be assessed
      individually, using individual consumption data and body weight (bw) of each infant according
      to the following formula:

      Ei,j = Ci x Lj/Bwi

      Where Ei,j is the exposure to the contaminant j (μg/kg bw/day) for the subject i, Ci, is the
      consumption level of the maize by the subject i (kg/ day , Lj is the level of contaminant j
      in the maize (μg/kg) , BWi is the body weight of the subject i (kg). The individual exposure
      to each mycotoxin will be compared with the health based guidance value (TDI, PMTDI, or
      PTWI), and the children rate exceeding the health-based guidance value will be calculated
      with the 95% confidence interval.

      Data management and statistical analysis:

      Data will be entered in double in Epipdata 3.1 (Odense Denmark). Data analysis will be
      carried out in SPSS version 16.0 for Windows . Statistical significance will be set at P<0.05
      for all tests. Chi square test will be used to determine association between post-harvest
      handling practices of maize and fumonisins and aflatoxins content in maize and breast milk
      and exposure to infants.
    
  