
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The importance of maintaining dietary calcium intake and normal calcium metabolism for
      optimal regulation of arterial blood pressure has been demonstrated in humans and animals.
      Recent reports have suggested that low dietary calcium intake and disturbances in maternal
      calcium metabolism are associated with increases in blood pressure in late gestation. These
      factors may be associated with an increased risk of developing pregnancy-induced
      hypertension.

      This study was conducted in response to a Request for Applications on Research on
      Hypertension in Pregnancy jointly released in 1986 by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Blood pressure, nutrient intake, and markers of calcium metabolism were prospectively
      assessed in normal, pregnant women. Nutrient intakes, including dietary calcium, were
      assessed during gestation weeks 24, 28, 32, 36, and the postpartum period using 3-day food
      records and 24-hour dietary recalls. Concomitantly, serum measures of calcium metabolism were
      assessed including serum total and ionized calcium, parathyroid hormone, calcitonin, vitamin
      D concentration, serum magnesium, phosphorus, sodium, and potassium concentrations. During
      weeks 24 and 32, urinary excretion of sodium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, phosphorus,
      cAMP, and creatinine were measured. Blood pressures were measured at every prenatal visit and
      postpartum. Measures of infant growth and blood pressure were assessed at 1, 6, and 12 months
      of age to determine if maternal dietary calcium intake exerted long-term influences on infant
      development and blood pressure.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  