
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the clinical effects of everolimus, in terms of pathologic response (i.e.,
           histologic P0, margin status, or capsular penetration) and surgical outcome, in patients
           with newly diagnosed localized prostate cancer treated with two different doses of
           everolimus prior to radical prostatectomy.

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of this drug in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the effect of this drug on prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in these
           patients.

        -  To determine the effect of this drug on levels of expression of PTEN, Akt, phospho-mTOR
           (i.e., Se2448), phospho-p70 S6 kinase (i.e., Thre389), phospho-Smad3 (i.e., Ser433/435),
           phospho-Smads 1/5 (i.e., Ser463/465), AR, and TUNEL in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive low-dose oral everolimus once daily for up to 8 weeks in the
           absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive high-dose oral everolimus once daily for up to 8 weeks in the
           absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 7 days after the last dose of everolimus, all patients undergo radical prostatectomy
      with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy.

      Tumor biopsy specimens acquired prior to treatment and prostate tumor tissue acquired at the
      time of radical prostatectomy are evaluated for biomarker correlative studies. Tissue samples
      are assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and tissue microarray analysis for expression of
      cellular and molecular biomarkers (i.e., p-S6, p-4E-BP1, and p-Akt) that correlate with
      response. Prostatectomy specimens are also assessed by pathologic analysis for
      histopathologic response (i.e., pathologic stage, Gleason score, margin status, and tumor
      size).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 6 weeks.
    
  