
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Phase I

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of lapatinib in
           patients with recurrent malignant glioblastoma multiforme who are taking CYP3A4
           enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAEDs).

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

      Phase II

        -  Determine the efficacy of this drug, in terms of objective tumor response rate, in
           patients who are taking EIAEDs and in those who are not taking EIAEDs.

        -  Correlate immunohistochemical measures of cellular proteins and receptors from tumor
           samples with anti-tumor activity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral lapatinib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every
           28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lapatinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive lapatinib as in phase I at the MTD. Patients are followed at
           1 month and then periodically for survival. Patients with stable or responding disease
           who go off therapy are followed every 3 months for up to one year and then periodically
           thereafter for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-24 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this
      study within 18 months. A total of 15-30 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of
      this study within 18 months.
    
  