
    
      1. Description of the Problem:

           The majority of breast cancer patients are treated with breast-conserving surgery
           followed by radiotherapy, giving loco-regional control rates similar to mastectomy.
           Currently, the "standard" breast radiotherapy technique includes treatment of the entire
           breast with a tangential opposed pair of photon beams. The standard technique leads to
           significant acute skin toxicity, ranging from breast erythema to moist desquamation, in
           approximately 40% of patients. This toxicity may lead to interruptions in treatment
           delivery; may increase the risk of developing late skin toxicity including
           telangiectasia, skin fibrosis and chronic breast pain; and may also be associated with a
           significant decrease in health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Published data from
           dosimetric studies suggest that dose variations in excess of 10% within the breast may
           be the most important predictor of acute radiation-induced skin toxicity (RR = 9.7), and
           that dose toxicity occurs more frequently in the inframamary fold. A study performed at
           TSRCC shows that intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) allows for significant
           improvements in dose homogeneity within the breast compared to standard breast
           radiotherapy techniques. Furthermore, the hot spot over 10% seen in the inframamary fold
           for patient with large breast volume is removed.

        2. Objectives:

             -  To determine if the occurence of acute skin toxicity in women receiving adjuvant
                breast radiation with IMRT is less frequent compared to women treated with
                conventional technique.

             -  To determine if the HRQOL scores, and specifically breast module subscale scores,
                in women receiving adjuvant breast radiation with IMRT is better than HRQOL scores
                in women receiving conventional technique.

             -  To perform a comparison of costs in the delivery of breast radiotherapy using IMRT
                to conventional technique.

             -  To determine if an increased acute skin toxicity translates into an increased late
                skin toxicity.

        3. Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that women receiving adjuvant breast radiation with IMRT will have
      significantly less acute skin toxicity and improved HRQOL compared to women treated with
      conventional techniques. We also hypothesize that there would not be increased cost related
      to IMRT compared to conventional technique.

      Research plan: A Phase III randomised controled trial is planned, with blocked stratification
      on breast size and boost delivery. Eligible women include those who have been referred to
      TSRCC following breast-conserving surgery. They will be randomized to receive either a
      conventional technique treatment, either breast IMRT. Acute skin toxicity will be assessed
      weekly during radiotherapy and up to one month following completion of radiotherapy using the
      previously validated RTOG acute skin toxicity scale. The occurence, duration and intensity of
      acute skin toxicity will be compared. HRQOL will be assessed during and after irradiation,
      using validated EORTC instruments (EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23). 340 patients will be accrued
      in order to detect a 15% reduction in the ocurence of acute skin toxicity with IMRT using an
      a=0.05, b=0.80.
    
  