
    
      Phase 3 (Study 3): Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial of the HEARTPA♀N Intervention.

      The HEARTPA♀N intervention is the first of its kind; there are no previous trials of the
      efficacy of such an intervention to decrease pain and improve HRQoL in women with cardiac
      pain. The investigators will undertake a process and preliminary effect evaluation of the
      HEARTPA♀N intervention for women with cardiac pain, as guided by the MRC framework. The
      primary objective is to determine the feasibility of implementing an RCT of the HEARTPA♀N
      intervention. A process evaluation will be conducted to examine: 1) the feasibility of
      randomization, recruitment and retention, 2) acceptability and barriers to implementing the
      intervention (including the symptom triage algorithms), and 3) the extent of engagement with
      the intervention. The investigators will also undertake a preliminary efficacy evaluation of
      the primary outcomes. Based on the investigator's theorized mechanism of change, they
      hypothesize that the HEARTPA♀N intervention will reduce pain and improve HRQoL (primary
      outcomes). The investigators will assess the variability and sensitivity to change for both
      outcomes. Prior to conducting a full scale RCT of a complex intervention, such as HEARTPA♀N,
      the MRC recommends that a pilot trial be performed. Results from this pilot trial will inform
      the success of a future RCT in three ways: 1) help determine sample size calculation for the
      full-scale trial, 2) test procedures (recruitment, randomization, follow-up), which will make
      up the design of the full-scale trial, and 3) test feasibility of implementing the
      intervention, particularly by estimating rates of recruitment and retention. HEARTPA♀N triage
      algorithms and self-management interventions will be developed using a strong theoretical
      framework, informed by needs assessments and a comprehensive integrated mixed methods
      systematic review, with preliminary acceptability and usability testing by end-users. The
      investigators anticipate minimal risk to safety but will track adverse events using the
      Adverse Event Form.
    
  