
    
      Almost 20 million prescriptions are written for warfarin each year in the US and yet it is
      one of the most problematic drugs in the modern medical formulary. Warfarin has a narrow
      therapeutic window and the hemorrhagic or thrombotic implications of modest over- or
      under-dosing can be devastating. Warfarin is one of the leading causes of emergency
      department visits and hospitalizations due to adverse drug events worldwide. Adverse events
      from warfarin are more common during the initial months of treatment before the optimal dose
      is determined. Moreover, there is substantial individual variation in response to warfarin
      necessitating frequent monitoring and dosage adjustments. The monitoring and dosing of
      warfarin is so problematic that many primary care physicians have abdicated this role to
      specialized "warfarin clinics" which are devoted solely to following patients on this agent.
      Unfortunately, no good alternatives to warfarin exist for the common indications requiring
      chronic anticoagulation such as atrial fibrillation, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary
      embolism, and artificial heart valves.

      Pharmacogenomics offers substantial hope for improved care of patients taking warfarin. One
      group estimated that formally integrating genetic testing into routine warfarin therapy in
      the US could result in the avoidance of 85,000 serious bleeding events and 17,000 strokes
      annually with a cost savings of over $1 billion annually. Common single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding Vitamin K Epoxide Reductase (VKOR) substantially
      affect one's sensitivity to warfarin, mediating a doubling or halving of the dose required
      for optimal anticoagulation. Warfarin inhibits clotting by inhibiting the enzyme VKOR, and
      thus inhibiting vitamin K dependent clotting factors. A number of recent retrospective
      studies have shown that polymorphisms in the VKOR gene may account for 20-30% of the variance
      in warfarin dose seen in patients on stable, long-term warfarin therapy.

      Another genetic determinant of variance in warfarin dose is the cytochrome p450 2C9 enzyme
      CYP2C9. It is almost wholly responsible for metabolism of the more active S-enantiomer of
      warfarin. The 2C9*2 and 2C9*3 polymorphisms in the CYP2C9 gene are associated with reduced
      warfarin metabolism, and a number of retrospective studies have shown that these
      polymorphisms may account for 10-15% of the variance in warfarin dosage in patients on
      stable, long-term warfarin therapy. In addition, the variant CYP2C9 alleles have been
      associated with longer times to stabilization of INR and a higher risk for bleeding events.
      These polymorphisms are seen in ~20-30% of the Caucasian population, but are rare in African
      Americans and Asians. Together, known VKOR and CYP2C9 variants may account for 40% of the
      variability in warfarin dosing.

      By combining clinical information such as weight, height, and concomitant medications with
      VKOR and CYP2C9 genotypic information, several algorithms have been devised that calculate
      warfarin doses. These algorithms have been shown to accurately predict warfarin doses in
      retrospective studies of patients already on long-term stable warfarin doses. Some small,
      pilot studies in orthopedic patients suggest that prospective genetic-based dosing is
      feasible and may result in achieving stable doses sooner in patients with certain genetic
      variants. However, the prospective studies are small, pilot studies limited to orthopedic
      patients that did not include medical patients with common indications requiring chronic oral
      anticoagulation. They are also limited by study designs that include only historical
      controls. No RCTs have been reported in the literature and further evaluation is needed to
      determine the utility and cost-effectiveness of genetic-based algorithms. The NHLBI is
      planning a double-blind, randomized three-arm trial, but the trial will not begin enrolling
      subjects until 2008 at the earliest and data analysis and dissemination is planned to begin
      beyond 2011.
    
  