
    
      Mutations of spectrin (Sp) involving the Sp heterodimer self-association site (the I domain
      of Sp) represent the most common group of membrane skeletal defects in hereditary
      elliptocytosis (HE) and a closely related disorder, hereditary pyropoikilocytosis (HPP). HPP
      is characterized by extreme anisocytic microcytosis, a severe spectrin dimer self-association
      defect and spectrin deficiency. The conventional explanation for the different phenotypes is
      that HPP subjects are compound heterozygotes for an sp defect that interferes with sp
      tetramer assembly and a second defect which results in decreased synthesis of functional sp.
      In contrast, HE subjects have normal spectrin content and a less severe sp self-association
      defect. The clinical expression of HE/HPP is influenced by the inheritance of modifying
      factors such as the Sp hypomorphic mutation, LELY. LELY is a low expression allele of the Sp
      gene characterized by a C>G mutation in codon 1857 of exon 40 and a C>T -12 mutation in
      intron 45 that is responsible for partial skipping of exon 46, which is essential for the
      functional assembly of /b sp dimers.

      CASE REPORT:

      Here we describe four members from a family of northern European descent in which members had
      different erythrocyte morphology ranging from atypical HPP to HE to normal and a novel Sp
      mutation. Quantitation of RBC membrane proteins of the propositus with atypical
      non-microcytic HPP revealed 48% spectrin dimers (control 10%) due to a marked increase in the
      74kD I Sp peptide. There was only a slight decrease in the spectrin/band 3 ratio, which
      correlated with the normocytic morphology. There was also an abnormal Sp peptide at 41kD
      suggesting presence of LELY. Sequencing of his Sp gene revealed heterozygosity for a novel
      mutation in exon 2, codon 34: CGG->CCG (Arg>Pro) and heterozygosity for LELY. These mutations
      were also present in his brother and daughter who have HE, while another son, who had
      Arg34Pro, but not LELY has repeatedly confirmed normal morphology.

      We plan to screen 11 other family members who are suspected to have HPP or HE. Blood samples
      will be obtained and the following will be performed:

        1. Quantitation of erythrocyte (RBC) membrane proteins

        2. DNA extraction from the WBC and screening for spectrin mutation with restriction enzymes
           (if needed we will sequence spectrin gene)

        3. Quantitative Real Time PCR testing will be done on RNA to assess the spectrin gene
           expression

        4. History, Clinical examination, CBC, chemistry and peripheral blood smear

      Quantitation of RBC membrane proteins will be done by looking for the abnormal increase in
      the amount of spectrin dimers in patients with HPP (control 10%). We will also look at the
      DNA for any known or yet unreported mutations in the spectrin gene and we will correlate the
      expression of spectrin gene wrt level of spectrin protein in the RNA.

      No statistical analysis will be done. This is an observation study designed to correlate
      clinical features with the above mentioned tests results.
    
  