
    
      Objective: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 4 (ALS4) is an inherited form of motor neuron
      disease caused by mutation in the senataxin (SETX) gene. The main goal of this study will be
      to collect clinical and molecular biomarkers from patients with ALS4 to understand the
      natural history and progression of the disease. The biomarkers identified will serve as
      potential tools for the evaluation of efficacy in future therapeutic studies in ALS4. The
      protocol will primarily seek to enroll patients with mutation in the SETX gene and follow
      these individuals annually for 3 years. Individuals with mutation in genes that are predicted
      to result in a similar disruption of RNA processing (such as ribonuclease H1 and H2
      (RNASEH1+2) genes and recessive mutations in SETX will serve as disease controls and
      participate in follow-up for 3 years to collect clinical and molecular biomarkers. ALS4 and
      disease control subjects who have had their mutation identified in protocol 00-N-0043 or
      protocol 12-N-0095, or those who have had previous genetic testing will be potential
      candidates for enrollment in this study. Healthy control populations (related, unaffected
      healthy controls and unrelated, healthy controls) will be screened for under this study and
      participate in a single visit to collect clinical and molecular biomarkers. Healthy control
      populations will participate in clinical and molecular biomarker collection for comparison to
      the ALS4 cohort. Related, unaffected healthy controls may also be screened under protocol
      00-N-0043. No clinical genetic testing will take place under this protocol; however, research
      testing of genetic modifiers may be performed.

      Study population: There will be a total of 315 subjects enrolled under this protocol. The
      protocol will seek to enroll up to 65 participants with mutation in SETX (ALS4) for annual
      follow-up, and up to 50 disease control participants with mutation in other genes which alter
      RNA processing (e.g., RNASEH1+2 and loss of function SETX mutations in patients with ataxia
      and oculomotor apraxia type 2[AOA2]). Up to 150 related, unaffected healthy relatives of the
      ALS4 and disease control groups may also be enrolled as controls. Additionally, a maximum of
      50 unrelated healthy volunteers who are age and sex matched to the affected ALS4 and disease
      control participants will also be enrolled.

      Study Design: Patients with ALS4 inherited defect in SETX will be evaluated at the NIH
      clinical center to characterize clinical features of the disease and collect clinical and
      molecular biomarkers. Disease controls will be evaluated to collect molecular biomarkers and
      clinical measurements at the discretion of the investigator. Patients with ALS4 and Disease
      Control participants will report to the NIH every 12 months (plus or minus 60 days) for
      clinical and molecular studies for a total of 4 visits. Healthy control populations (related,
      unaffected healthy controls and unrelated healthy controls) will be evaluated for a single
      visit to collect clinical and molecular biomarkers. An offsite visit, conducted in person at
      the participant s home, may be completed for the related, unaffected healthy control group,
      the disease control group, and in up to 15 ALS4 participants.

      Outcome measures: No specific primary and secondary outcomes will be specified; however, the
      change in the following measures from baseline may be used to characterize the baseline
      status and disease progression over the course of the study: magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      evaluation of the lower extremity (muscle volume and fat fraction), dual-energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA) scan of whole body composition (lean body mass), quantitative muscle
      strength testing (QMT) of the upper and lower extremities, 6 minute timed walk test (6MTWT),
      timed up and go (TUG), 30 second chair stand test, pinch strength test, activity card sort
      (ACS), disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand (DASH), and the grooved pegboard test.
      Molecular biomarkers of RNA processing will be evaluated in the ALS4 group and control groups
      (healthy and disease) to identify those molecular biomarkers that are disease specific
      (disease vs. control) as well as those that are informative of disease progression in ALS4
      (early vs. advanced disease). Clinical measurements of neuromuscular ultrasound, MRI, DEXA
      scan of whole body composition (lean body mass), QMT of the upper and lower extremities,
      6MTWT, TUG, 30 second chair stand test, pinch strength, ACS, DASH, and grooved pegboard test
      will provide a determination of disease severity in ALS4 patients and other inherited
      neurological disorders of RNA processing. The molecular biomarkers from ALS4 patients will be
      compared to the healthy control groups and the disease control group in order to determine
      which measurements are specific to the ALS4 disease.
    
  