
    
      Patients of the study arm (2/3 of the patients) will receive rituximab (375mg/m2) induction
      and subsequently everolimus-based immunosuppressive therapy. The control arm (1/3 of the
      patients) will receive thymoglobulin induction and tacrolimus-based immunosuppressive
      therapy. Everolimus will be given with an initial dose of 1 mg bid within 24 hrs after
      reperfusion, adjusted to a target trough blood level of 6-10 ng/ml for the first 6 months
      after transplantation. The control arm (1/3 of the patients) will receive thymoglobulin
      induction and tacrolimus-based immunosuppressive therapy. The dose of thymoglobulin would be
      1.0mg/kg/d for 3 days25. The first dose of thymoglobulin will be administered before graft
      kidney reperfusion, and so is rituximab. All patients will receive corticosteroid therapy as
      usual. The initial daily dose of tacrolimus will be 0.15 mg/kg/d given in two doses starting
      within 24 hours after transplantation. The doses of tacrolimus will be adjusted to target the
      whole blood trough levels between 8 to 12 ng/ml during the first 30 days after
      transplantation, and tapered to 6 to 10 ng/ml at 6 months. All patients will receive
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) starting at 2 g/d in divided doses, and then adjusted to maintain
      WBC between 4000~6000/mm3. All patients entering this study will receive co-trimoxazole as
      prophylactic medication for at least 12 weeks post-operatively. Valgancyclovir will be given
      for anti-viral prophylaxis. During the transplant operation, renal biopsy will be performed
      before vascular perfusion for baseline pathology, and a follow-up biopsy will be scheduled at
      2 years after transplantation. The primary endpoint will be incidence of acute rejection, and
      the secondary endpoints include renal function, graft and patient survival.

      Male and female adult patients who are to receive renal transplantation may enter the study.
      The intention is to enroll 90 patients who have fulfilled inclusion/exclusion criteria into
      the study. Sixty patients will receive rituximab and everolimus-based therapy, but the other
      thirty patients will receive thymoglobulin and tacrolimus-based therapy.
    
  