
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cancer in the world. In operable early stage patients NSCLS
      can be curable, but even after complete primary tumor resection, about 45% of early stage
      patients develop local or distant recurrence within 8-18 months. Recent studies have
      established that targeted therapies may fail to cure the disease because of tumor
      heterogeneity. The presence of genetic heterogeneity in different portions of a tumor have
      demonstrated its importance in tumor biology suggesting that pre-existing genetically
      different sub clones may be selected by therapy or differentially involved in the metastatic
      process, leading to treatment failure.

      The relationship of tumor heterogeneity with the poor clinical outcome suggests that its
      assessment could provide interesting and useful clinical information, especially, in terms of
      prognosis and treatment selection. It is now, well established that during the evolution of
      tumor new cellular clones could be emerged which differ genetically from the molecular
      signature of tumor cells evaluated at the time of initial diagnosis. This molecular evolution
      may further contribute to the tumor heterogeneity during the disease progression. The
      evaluation of the real-time molecular tumor heterogeneity requires repeated re-biopsies
      during the different clinical phases of NSCLC which, however, are invasive and not, always,
      feasible. This problem can be by-passed by the use of tumor-originating elements in the
      plasma and among these cellular products the isolation and analysis of cell tumor DNA (ctDNA)
      and the characterization of Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) represent important tools for
      identification and monitoring of molecular tumor alterations in cancer patients, representing
      what the investigators call "liquid biopsy". ctDNA is originated from cellular necrosis due
      to increased tumoral cellular turnover and cellular ischemia as well as from apoptosis of
      tumor cells or lysis of Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs). On the other hand, the CTCs, which
      designate the cells circulating in the blood, can be detected in several tumor types,
      irrespectively of the clinical phase, and their detection has been correlated with disease
      progression and treatment resistance. Therefore, the concomitant analysis of both ctDNA and
      CTCs could permit to better evaluate the genetic heterogeneity of the tumor since they
      continuously released from tumor cells throughout the clinical course of the disease and is
      considered to be proportional to tumor burden and tumor progression at each time-point.

      This is a multicenter, single arm, non-randomized translational research study. Patients with
      operable NSCLC will be enrolled in the study. Patients' peripheral blood will be obtained
      before the surgical excision of the primary tumor as well as 1-month post-op and every 3-6
      months thereafter until disease progression and upon disease relapse for the evaluation of
      ctDNA and CTCs. Different sites of the primary tumor as well as the regional involved lymph
      nodes and, in selected patients, biopsies from metastatic sites will be genotyped by NGS as
      well.
    
  