
    
      Airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) is a characteristic feature of the asthmatic condition in
      humans. There is an association between AHR and eosinophilic airway inflammation. However,
      even though eosinophilic inflammation can be abolished with appropriate therapy, it is
      typical that AHR improves only modestly with treatment. The determinants of AHR are poorly
      understood. Recent data implicate mediators such as the cytokine Interleukin-13 (IL-13),
      structural changes to the airway wall (remodeling), increased contractility of airway smooth
      muscle cells (ASMC) and loss of mechanical connections or tethering, as potential factors
      contributing to AHR.

      There is also uncertainty around the site of airway narrowing in asthma. In normal airways,
      bronchii around the 4th order have the greatest contribution to total resistance. It is
      hypothesized that the site of greatest resistance is moved distally in asthma and might even
      involve quite small airways close to the level of terminal bronchioles. Non-invasive methods
      to assess airway caliber in vivo are still unproven. One untested concern is that the airways
      of subjects with severe AHR have the potential to close completely putting them at risk of
      severe and even fatal airflow obstruction.

      We propose to study AHR in humans with asthma: we will determine the relationships between
      AHR and (i) eosinophilic inflammation in the airway (sputum cellularity) via sputum
      induction, (ii) soluble mediators of inflammation (IL-13, IL-4, IL-5), (iii) remodeling of
      the airway wall (sub-epithelial fibrosis, ASMC accumulation)via biopsy. In addition we will
      compare measurements of AHR assessed by inhalation challenge with the results of direct,
      local installation of methacholine. At bronchoscopy, methacholine is delivered to the airway
      and bronchoconstriction is assessed directly. This method will allow study of proximal and
      distal airways, identification of heterogeneity of responses among airways and the extent to
      which human airways can constrict in vivo.
    
  