
    
      This prospective, observational pilot study will identify women within 72 hours of delivery
      who have a positive urine drug screen for THC and who intend to breastfeed. Eligibility will
      not be dependent upon the disposition of the infant, either discharged shortly after birth or
      infants with NICU admission. The study will last six weeks from the time of enrollment.
      Mothers who consent to participate will complete an in-person survey on marijuana use and
      exposure during pregnancy at study entry and weekly surveys of current marijuana use. Samples
      of maternal breast milk, maternal urine, and infant urine will be collected at least three
      times, but no more than five times during the week (Monday - Friday) during infant
      hospitalization, dependent on maternal availability. If the infant is discharged from the
      hospital, visits will occur twice weekly during out-patient clinic visits. The presence of
      marijuana will be measured by THC concentrations in maternal breast milk, maternal urine and
      maternal plasma, collected by research staff at each visit. the investigators will ask
      mothers to refrain from feeding their baby their breast milk for at least 2 weeks after last
      marijuana exposure, which currently is the minimum time period recommended by lactation
      consultants in UCH and CHCO Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU). If a NICU admitted infant
      is medically stable to tolerate enteral feedings, they are given feedings either by mouth or
      by nasogastric feeding tubes, of either expressed breast milk, donor breast milk, or formula.
      The researchers current practice for infants admitted to the NICU is to offer donor breast to
      infants whose mothers cannot provide their own breast milk, for numerous reasons. Mothers of
      infants who are not in the NICU would be encouraged to pump breast milk and dump, for 2 weeks
      after last THC exposure while using formula until returning to breastfeeding. As this issue
      is commonly encountered in our clinical practice, the investigators find that many mothers
      are committed to providing safe feedings to their infants after given education regarding
      concerns of THC impact on infant development. The time point to safely return to breast milk
      following THC exposure is unknown, and is a primary aim of this study.

      There are numerous documented benefits to breast milk, especially in preterm infants however
      sufficient literature exists to question the safety of THC's effects on the developing brain
      which may also be particularly susceptible in prematurity. Due to these unknown and
      understudied but highly concerning effects, The researchers faculty Neonatology practice has
      agreed to the consensus of refraining from knowingly administering breast milk from mothers
      actively using THC. Exemptions do occur in certain clinical settings. If this occurs during a
      mother's study enrollment, subsequent samples would be marked appropriately and the
      analytical data will be carefully examined.
    
  