
    
      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to receive either CASAD orally or a placebo. You will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Treatment:

      You take either CASAD or placebo by mouth every 6 hours with about 1 cup (8 oz.) of water.
      You will also be given other supportive care and treatment for diarrhea (such as imodium and
      lomotil).

      You will be asked to keep a journal, which includes a record of the time you take the study
      drug each day and a history of your bowel movements every day you take CASAD or placebo.

      Study Visits:

      Before the dose:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs (blood
           pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate) will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked when your diarrhea started.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you have taken for the cancer and diarrhea.

        -  A stool sample will be collected to test for toxins.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to measure cytokines (proteins that may affect
           the immune system and inflammation) .

        -  You will be asked about your diarrhea and other symptoms. It should take about 5 minutes
           to answer these questions.

      At the same visit after the dose:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about your diarrhea.

        -  You will be asked if you have any side effects.

      On Day 1 (the day after your visit to the Emergency Center):

      -Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check your electrolytes and to measure cytokines
      and inflammation (optional).

      On Days 2-6 (this will be by phone or the staff will visit you if you are in the hospital):

        -  You will be asked about your diarrhea.

        -  You will be asked if you have any side effects.

      Length of Treatment:

      You will take the study drug or placebo for up to 6 days or when the diarrhea stops,
      whichever happens first. You will no longer be able to take the study drug or placebo if the
      diarrhea gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study
      directions.

      Follow-Up:

      After you are off study, the study nurse will call you and ask if you have had any other side
      effects since finishing the study treatment. The phone call should only last about 5 minutes.
      If you are still an inpatient at the hospital, the study nurse may visit you and ask you
      these questions in person.

      At your next scheduled appointment at MD Anderson, the nurse will meet with you to get your
      final journal and any unused study drug. If you do not return to MD Anderson, you will
      receive a self-addressed stamped envelope for you to return this information.

      This is an investigational study. CASAD is FDA approved as a food additive, but it has not
      been approved to treat a disease. Its use to treat diarrhea is investigational.

      Up to 24 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  