
    
      The role of steroids in the treatment of severe ulcerative colitis (UC) exacerbation is well
      established and recommended by professional societies. This recommendation is based on
      pivotal studies carried 50-60 years ago, by Truelove &Witts. Similarly, 5-aminosalycilates
      (5-ASA) agents in the form of mesalamine/mesalzine are well established proven therapy in
      mild-moderate UC, and the combination of oral 5-ASA with topical (per-rectal enema) 5-ASA was
      shown to be superior to oral 5ASA alone in patients with mild moderate UC. Thus, in most
      cases, when a patient with UC experiences a flare while taking 5-ASA therapy, treatment is
      usually optimized by maximizing the oral dose to 4gr/day and adding topical therapy until the
      flare is controlled. If this is unhelpful, or if the flare is severe to begin with,
      corticosteroids are usually prescribed. However, there are very scarce data comparing
      steroids versus 5-ASA in the treatment of severe UC exacerbation. In 1962 truelove et al
      compared topical and systemic corticosteroid therapy with sulphasalazine, and found steroids
      to be superior to sulfasalazine. Importantly, there are no data investigating whether the
      addition and/or continuation of 5-ASA agents as combination therapy with systemic
      corticosteroids is superior to corticosteroids alone in patients with moderate-severe active
      UC. This knowledge gap is pronounced in patients admitted to the hospital for intravenous
      corticosteroid treatment with moderate severe UC flare, in whom it is currently unknown if
      the addition of 5-ASA (Oral and/or topical) to corticosteroids will confer additional benefit
      and improve patients outcomes. Thus, in practical terms, the decision whether to stop or
      continue 5-ASA treatment or whether to add 5-ASA to steroids in the treatment of
      moderate-severe UC exacerbation is taken on an arbitrary basis. This is important shortcoming
      and knowledge gap in current medicine, as patients admitted with moderate-severe UC flare who
      do not respond to corticosteroids and require salvage therapy with infliximab, cyclosporine,
      or even urgent colectomy. This makes it prudent to explore any avenue for possible
      improvement of response to corticosteroids in this setting, for instance by addition of 5ASA.

      The aim of this study is: To compare the efficacy of steroids alone vs. combination of
      steroids + 5-ASA in the treatment of moderate- severe UC exacerbation.
    
  