
    
      All patients over 18 years, with rheumatoid arthritis treated for the first time with
      conventional anti-TNF therapy, Abatacept, Tocilizumab, Rituximab or patients with
      spondyloarthritis treated for the first time with NSAIDs that may be associated with
      conventional background treatments for peripheral or biological (anti-TNF, Usketinumab) may
      be included. However, they must be subject to a Social Security scheme and will only be able
      to participate in the research if they give their consent in writing after receiving full
      information.

      In addition to the usual visit and after verification of the criteria of inclusion and
      signature of consent, arterial stiffness and endothelial function measurement are performed
      at M0, M6, M12 and every year and also at each change of treatment, By measuring the pulse
      wave velocity and by determining the Alx by the SphygmoCor XCEL (AtCor Medical Pty Ltd, based
      in Australia (CE 0120). Cardiac Frequency at rest will be evaluated at M0, M6, M12, every
      year and also at each change of treatment, by the realization of an electrocardiogram. The
      intima-media thickness (EIM) of the carotid will be evaluated every 5 years According to the
      recommendation. EIM is a non-invasive ultrasound technique in which an ultrasound probe is
      placed opposite the right primitive carotid artery by convention. A measurement of
      endothelial function will be performed at M0, M6, M12 and then every year in patients

      A study of regional myocardial function by high-resolution echocardiography-STI will be
      carried out at M0, M6, M12 and then every year in non-hypertensive patients, without
      diabetes, without a cardiovascular history.

      A Serum / plasma / urine bank will be constituted at M0, M6, M12, every year and also at each
      change of treatment to determine the markers of cardiovascular risk. The plasma bank will be
      used for the determination of nitric oxide.

      A study of the body composition dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and pQCT allowing to
      evaluate lean mass, fat mass and bone mineral mass will be carried out at M0, then every year
      and also at each change of treatment M6 assessment of lean mass and fat mass only). When DXA
      is examined, a lateral incidence measurement of the rachis will be performed to calculate an
      arterial calcification score.

      Muscle strength will be measured by hydraulic hand dynamometer Jamar (Kinetec company) at M0,
      M6, M12 then every year and also at each change of treatment. Physical performances will be
      evaluated by a 6-minute walking test, 10 meters walking speed and "Timed up-and-go test"
      stool test, which combines both coordination mechanisms, proprioception and muscular strength
      of lower limbs than M0, M6, M12 and then every year and also with each change of treatment.

      The physical activity and physical inactivity of the patient and food habits will be assessed
      by the GPAQ (Global Physical Activity Questionnaire), FFQ and a Food questionnaire to M0, M6,
      M12 and every year and also to each change of treatment .

      Depression will be assessed by the HAD self-administered questionnaire at M0, M6, M12 and
      then every year and also at each change of treatment.

      Fibromyalgia will be assessed by the Fibromyalgia Rapid Screening Tool at M0, M6, M12 and
      then annually.

      Comorbidities will be assessed by a nurse at M0, M12 and then annually.

      All these examinations will be carried out in addition to the usual follow-up.
    
  