
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effectiveness of epoetin beta vs standard care for anemia management, in
           terms of increased hemoglobin levels and the correlation with reduced relapse/treatment
           failure rate, in patients with stage IIB, III, or IVA cervical cancer treated with
           cisplatin and radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the relapse-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the frequency and localization of relapses and metastases in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the type, frequency, and degree of adverse events in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the overall response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, parallel-group, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified according to country, disease stage, and brachytherapy technique. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients also undergo
           high-dose rate, low-dose rate, or boost brachytherapy. Patients receive cisplatin IV
           beginning on day 1 of radiotherapy and continuing weekly for 6 weeks. Patients also
           receive epoetin beta subcutaneously 3 times a week beginning 2 weeks before radiotherapy
           and continuing for 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy and brachytherapy and receive cisplatin as in arm
           I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after the last treatment, and at 3 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80-450 patients will be accrued for this study within 4-22.5
      months.
    
  