
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of TXA in reducing
      clinically significant bleeding in a novel patient population (ruptured AAA). The first phase
      of this study will involve a small pilot project, consisting of ~25 patients who will be
      administered TXA during their treatment for a ruptured AAA. We will compare the amount of
      clinically significant bleeding from a group of patients treated prospectively with TXA to
      data collected retrospectively over the previous year from a matched control group of
      patients who were treated for a ruptured AAA but not given TXA. At the conclusion of this
      pilot, if the data reveal that administration of TXA in patients with ruptured AAA reduces
      the incidence of clinically significant bleeding, then we will proceed to a multicenter
      national trial to determine the generalizability of TXA use to treat ruptured AAA in patients
      across Canada.

      METHODOLOGY This study employs a 1-year prospective non-randomized intervention design. All
      patients that present to a southern Saskatchewan hospital with a clinically-confirmed
      ruptured AAA during the 1-year enrollment period will be potential participants. We aim to
      enroll 25 consecutive patients with ruptured AAA.

      Regina (Regina General Hospital) is the primary site for this study. Rural hospitals in the
      surrounding area that refer patients to Regina for trauma surgery will be the secondary
      sites. Local Health Canada Qualified Investigators will be responsible for the managing the
      study at each hospital

      Diagnosis Patients presenting to a Saskatchewan emergency room (ER) with symptoms of a
      ruptured AAA might have an ultrasound or CT scan to confirm diagnosis as part of
      investigations. The current standard of care, however, is clinical assessment, which may be
      aided by prior imaging history of an unruptured AAA. Enrollment without radiologic
      confirmation at the time of presentation to the ER would take place upon the recommendation
      of the vascular surgeon in Regina. At that time, the patient's pharmaceutical history will be
      examined using the Pharmaceutical Information Program (PIP) system to determine if the
      patient has any contradictions to TXA as listed above for patients in Saskatchewan. Since
      other provinces do not have the PIP program, the study will be restricted to patients with
      Saskatchewan Health Cards.

      For patients that meet the study inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria, we
      will proceed with a three-part informed consent procedure based on the individual case (i.e.,
      patient is conscious and capable of giving informed consent, patient is incapable of giving
      informed consent so the patient's next-of-kin or legally authorized representative will
      provide verbal or written consent, or patient is incapable of giving consent and there is no
      next-of-kin or legally authorized representative that can be contacted in a timely manner (30
      minutes) so "Dual Physician Consent" will be used).

      TXA Administration Patients who have an ultrasound or CT in a hospital/care centre outside of
      the catchment area Regina (rural patients) will receive the first dose of TXA (one gram IV
      over ten minutes) by the local attending physician (ER or family physician). For patients who
      are diagnosed in Regina, the vascular surgeon will be responsible for ordering TXA upon
      diagnosis in the emergency room. Rural patients in the Regina catchment area will then be
      transferred to the trauma center in Regina and the vascular surgeon will be notified that the
      patient is part of the study and has received TXA. For all patients, the second dose of TXA
      (one gram IV will be administered over 8 hours) will be ordered by the vascular surgeon or
      anesthesiologist in the ER, the OR theatre or the intensive care unit in Regina. Dosing
      recommendations are based on data resulting from the CRASH-2 Trial.30

      If the patient stabilizes as a result of the TXA administration, the patient will proceed to
      the angiogram suite (interventional radiology) where a vascular surgeon will perform
      endovascular stenting. If the patient becomes or remains hemodynamically unstable after
      arrival, the patient will proceed to the operating room for laparotomy and open repair of the
      aneurysm. Procedures and subsequent treatment will remain the same as the current standard of
      care for ruptured AAA's. We will only collect data on the patient and his/her care during the
      patient's stay in hospital. Given that there is little risk of adverse events occurring from
      administration of TXA after hospital stay, once the patient has been released from hospital,
      there will be no direct follow-up.

      Statistical analysis We will compare data from the experimental group (TXA) to the data from
      the matched control patients collected retrospectively (controls). The patients will be
      matched on age, sex, ethnicity, history of peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery
      disease, aneurysms, and current medications (antihypertensives, anticoagulants, NSAIDs). Our
      primary analyses will compare outcomes that are measured on interval/ratio scales using
      independent t-tests or ANOVA's or non-parametric Mann-Whitney/Kruskal-Wallis if the data are
      skewed. For categorical data, chi-square or Fisher's Exact tests with effect size measures
      will be used to analyze the relationship between treatment and outcome (e.g. incidence of
      abdominal compartment syndrome in experimental vs. control group). We will use two-sided
      tests with alpha set at .05 to be able to detect if TXA produces worse outcomes than standard
      treatment.
    
  