
    
      To evaluate the efficacy and safety of mavrilimumab versus placebo in addition to best
      standard of care (SoC) in the treatment of COVID-19 pneumonia.

      As of May 13, 2020, COVID-19 has been confirmed in more than 4.2 million people worldwide.
      Mortality rate has been reported to be approximately 3.7%, which is nearly 4 times higher
      than that of influenza: there is an urgent need for effective treatment.

      Accumulating evidence suggests that patients with severe acute COVID-19 pneumonia have a
      cytokine storm syndrome, or unbalanced hyper-inflammatory response resulting in markedly
      elevated cytokine and chemokine production.

      GM-CSF is a cytokine with dual roles as a critical pulmonary hormone and proinflammatory
      properties that can exaggerate tissue inflammation. Recent preliminary uncontrolled clinical
      observations on 13 non-mechanically-ventilated patients in the promoter institution suggest
      that GM-CSF pathway blockade with mavrilimumab is an effective and well-tolerated treatment
      for COVID-19 pneumonia.

      We will perform a prospective, phase II, multi-center, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mavrilimumab in hospitalized
      patients with acute respiratory failure requiring oxygen supplementation in COVID- 19
      pneumonia and a hyper-inflammatory status. The study will randomize
      non-mechanically-ventilated adult patients to mavrilimumab or placebo, in addition to
      standard of care per local practice, which may include but not limited to anti-viral
      treatment, hydroxychloroquine, low-dose corticosteroids (≤ 10 mg of prednisone or equivalent)
      and/or supportive care. The total trial duration will be 12 weeks after single mavrilimumab
      or placebo infusion. Safety will be closely monitored by a dedicated external data safety
      monitoring board (DSMB) at regular intervals during the study.
    
  