
    
      Primary Objectives: The specific aims of this study are to 1) demonstrate that Heparin
      bladder instillations reduce the number of UTI episodes; 2) demonstrate Heparin bladder
      instillations increase median intervals between UTI; and 3) demonstrate that Heparin bladder
      instillations decrease urine inflammatory (NGAL) levels. Study Design: This study will be a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of subjects treated for documented
      recurrent urinary tract infections with heparin bladder instillation versus sterile saline
      instillations. The study recruits women (n = 30) with 3 or more UTI episodes in one year from
      the patient population at The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center (OUHSC) and The
      University of Oklahoma-Tulsa (OU-Tulsa) and randomly assigns them to treatment as usual care
      with sterile saline instillation (n =15) or treatment as usual with heparin bladder
      instillations (n = 15). Subjects are given 6 weekly bladder instillations with interval
      follow-ups; the primary outcome measures are number of UTI episodes during the six month
      study period and a survival analysis assesses time to the next UTI. The usual care of this
      study is antibiotic treatment for UTI only. Urine samples will be collected at certain
      intervals. Analysis: We will seek a statistically significant difference of the recurrent UTI
      rate for 6 months between heparin instillation and sterile saline instillation group.
      Assuming Recurrent UTI rate of sterile saline bladder instillation is 2.3.3 UTI episodes per
      six months, a 35% reduction in the recurrent UTI rate is deemed significant based on previous
      literature. A sample size 30 (15 for each group) will achieve 60% power to detect a 35%
      reduction in recurrent UTI rate at a 0.05 significance level. Allowing for a 25% drop out, a
      total of 30 subjects will be required. Significance: Recurrent UTIs are challenging to
      manage, especially if microbiological results are equivocal. In women who suffer from
      frequent recurrences, daily antibiotic use is the most effective strategy for recurrent UTI
      prevention compared to daily cranberry pills, daily estrogen therapy, and acupuncture.
      However even with this traditional approach of continuous antibiotic for 6 to 12 months, the
      rate of UTI was only reduced during prophylaxis and the rate of UTI was unchanged after
      stopping antibiotic treatment. Increasing antibiotic resistance rates require immediate
      identification of innovative alternative prophylactic therapies. The lack of non-antibiotic
      therapies gives an opportunity to develop innovative strategies to decrease recurrent UTIs
      and decrease the burden of UTIs. This study will augment the current evidence available on
      the aggregate effects of a treatment that emphasizes the optimization of both antibiotic
      regimens and non-antibiotic interventions.
    
  