
    
      Pregnant women coming in for routine prenatal diagnostic testing or prenatal care at two
      sites in Ukraine, Rivne Diagnostic Center or Khmelnytsky Regional Perinatal Center, were
      screened for alcohol consumption during pregnancy. Those who met the criteria of consuming
      4-5 drinks per occasion on 3-4 occasions in either the month around conception or the most
      recent month of pregnancy were eligible for recruitment into the alcohol exposed group, and
      the next available woman who consumed no more than 2 drinks on any occasion in the month
      around conception or the most recent month of pregnancy was eligible for recruitment into the
      alcohol low or no exposure group. Within alcohol group and within site, women were randomized
      on a 1:1 basis to receiving a study-provided prenatal vitamin (TheraVit) manufactured in the
      U.S. and registered in Ukraine as an over-the-counter product, or to receiving standard of
      care which is obstetric advice to take prenatal vitamins on their own. Within the group
      randomized to receiving the prenatal vitamins, women were further randomized on a 1:1 basis
      to receiving an additional 750 mg. of supplemental choline manufactured in the U.S., and
      registered in Ukraine as an over-the-counter product.

      Women in both cohorts were followed until delivery and those with live born children were
      followed until the child reached one year of age. The primary endpoint for the intervention
      was performance on the mental developmental index (MDI) and the psychomotor developmental
      index (PDI) components of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development II. The Bayley tests were
      administered at approximately 12 months adjusted chronological age by trained psychologists
      in Ukraine.

      The primary comparison for the study was within the alcohol-exposed group, comparing mean
      Bayley scores on MDI and separately on PDI between those randomized to receiving the study
      prenatal vitamin and those randomized to standard of care.

      Secondary comparisons for the study examined

        1. the mean MDI and PDI scores on the Bayley within the alcohol-exposed group in those
           randomized to receiving the prenatal vitamin plus choline vs. those who received the
           prenatal vitamin alone

        2. the mean MDI and PDI scores on the Bayley within the low or unexposed group in those who
           received the prenatal vitamin vs. those who did not

        3. the mean MDI and PDI scores on the Bayley within the low or unexposed group in those who
           received the prenatal vitamin plus choline vs. those who received the prenatal vitamin
           alone

        4. adjusted comparisons for all of the above taking into account participants who were
           taking vitamins on their own at the time of enrollment, and/or who were taking vitamins
           on their own if assigned to the standard of care group.
    
  