
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine a safe and tolerable schedule of pinometostat continuous intravenous infusion in
      combination with daunorubicin hydrochloride (daunorubicin) and cytarabine in patients with
      untreated, newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia harboring MLL rearrangement.

      II. Determine the rate of complete remission (complete remission [CR], CR with incomplete
      hematologic recovery [CRi]) in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia harboring
      MLL rearrangement after treatment with pinometostat in combination with daunorubicin and
      cytarabine.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. Estimate biologic activity of 7 day window
      treatment of pinometostat monotherapy.

      III. Estimate the toxicity profile of pinometostat alone (week 1) and in combination with
      daunorubicin and cytarabine.

      IV. Estimate event free and overall survival of patients with MLL rearranged acute myeloid
      leukemia after combination treatment with pinometostat, daunorubicin, and cytarabine.

      V. Estimate the early death rate (death =< 30 days) of pinometostat, daunorubicin, and
      cytarabine.

      VI. Determine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity by clinical flow
      cytometry on post-treatment recovery bone marrow.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pinometostat followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive pinometostat intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-35, daunorubicin
      hydrochloride IV over 10-30 minutes on days 8-10 and cytarabine IV continuously on days 8-14
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who do not achieve CR/CRi after treatment receive pinometostat6 IV continuously on
      days 1-28, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 10-30 minutes on days 1 and 2 and cytarabine IV
      continuously on days 1-5 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year, then every
      3 months for up to 4 years.
    
  