
    
      Aim 1 Family System: To test the effect of FYI on primary outcomes of youth psychosocial
      behaviors and sexual risk compared to a Wait List Control.

      1a. FYI will significantly improve our primary outcomes of externalizing (e.g. impulsivity,
      violence, theft) and internalizing (e.g. depression, withdrawal, anxiety, loneliness)
      behaviors and early and risky sex (i.e. sexual initiation at less than 16 years of age and
      sexual intercourse without a condom) (Effectiveness).

        1. b. FYI will significantly lower parental stress, improve maternal emotional health,
           enhance parenting skills and improve youth Social and Emotional Competence (SEC) to
           change primary outcomes (Mediation).

           Aim 2 Community System: To test the effect of ESPI on neighborhood environment compared
           to Wait List Control.

        2. a. ESPI significantly will increase our primary outcomes of social interaction, social
           cohesion, collective efficacy, and shared norms compared to wait list control
           (Effectiveness).

      2b. Engaging residents in community-designed and -led projects to develop common spaces will
      significantly improve neighborhood perceptions (e.g. attractiveness, safety) and provide
      opportunities for residents to interact to change primary outcomes (Mediation).

      Aim 3 Community and Family Systems: To test the effects of combining FYI and ESPI on the same
      youth and neighborhood environmental outcomes as in Aims 1 and 2 compared to FYI alone, ESPI
      alone, and a Wait List Control.

      3a. ESPI and FYI will significantly reduce primary youth and neighborhood environmental
      outcomes (Effectiveness).

      3b. ESPI and FYI will change neighborhood environmental and family processes to change
      primary outcomes of adolescent SEC, external and internal behaviors, and early and risky sex
      (Mediation).
    
  