
    
      Femoral neck fractures constitute both a social and economic challenge. The one year
      mortality of affected patients amounts to 33%, wherein cardio-vascular complications are the
      major contributor. It is an objective of the present study to investigate whether a
      multi-modal perioperative intervention can improve the outcome of these patients.

      We plan to carry out a prospective randomized controlled clinical study. Patients with an age
      above 60 years and proximal femoral fractures (femoral neck fractures or pertrochanteric
      femoral fractures) are to be included. These are divided into two groups, K and M. General
      anaesthesia is applied to both groups. In group K a commonly used therapy will be applied
      whereas in group M an intesified perioperative care will be carried out. The objectives are
      to provide sufficient analgesia, normotonia and normothermia. Hence, a femoral catheter is
      applied for pain therapy already preoperatively. Moreover, the pulmonal situation is improved
      by means of oxygen as needed. The cardiovascular situation is evaluated and optimized by
      means of extended hemodynamic monitoring both pre- and postoperatively. If needed, the
      nutrition of the patients is supplemented with highly caloric drinks.

      A primary common endpoint is the appearance of postoperative complications. These include
      cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, pulmonal, renal and surgical complications. Secondary
      endpoints are mortality, duration of the stay at the hospital and intensive care duration. It
      is the objective of the study to reduce the probability for at least one postoperative
      complication from 50% to 25% (α=0,05 and 1-β=0,80). To this end 132 patients would have to be
      included in the study.

      All participants are to be contacted by phone one year after the surgery and their health
      situation is to be determined.
    
  