
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common multifactorial syndrome in hospitalized patients.
      Patients in critical care units have the highest risk of developing AKI, which is related to
      an increase in morbidity and doubles in-hospital mortality (10.2% vs. 25.6%) and at 90 days
      (16.6% vs. 33.7%).

      The frequency of this condition reaches 39.3% of the critically ill patients hospitalized in
      the Intensive Care Units (ICU). Most cases occur early, 91% of cases occur within the first 5
      days of entry. There are numerous studies in the literature investigating risk factors
      related to the development of AKI in critically ill patients hospitalized in critical care
      units. Some of those who have been associated with severe AKI and need for renal replacement
      therapy are: invasive mechanical ventilation, septic shock, cardiogenic shock and
      hepato-renal syndrome; In addition, the presence of multiple organic faults (by Sequential
      Organ Failure Assessment scale) is closely related to the development of AKI, and the risk
      seems to increase in parallel with the number of organic failures. The pathophysiological
      relationship between invasive mechanical ventilation and the development of AKI is well
      known, both for direct and indirect effects, therefore patients with invasive ventilatory
      support represent a special risk group.

      In a recently published study evaluating the long-term prognosis of a cohort of patients who
      developed AKI with dialysis requirement, 62% of mortality was reported at 3.5 years, with an
      average survival of 8.1 to 8.9 months since the moment of dialytic requirement; almost 6% of
      patients in the study remained on renal replacement therapy at 3.5 years of follow-up, while
      42% had micro or macroalbuminuria. (Microalbuminuria 32% and macroalbuminuria 9.9%), with a
      reduction in estimated glomerular flitration rate of 38 ± 29 ml/min/1.73 m2 in the 3.5 years
      of follow-up.

      One of the major problems in the diagnosis and treatment of AKI is the difficulty in
      identifying it timely. From the moment of AKI occurs, the increase in the creatinine can be
      up to 72 h. For this reason, there is an intense search for biomarkers that allow the timely
      diagnosis of AKI. Several biomarkers for the early detection of AKI have been identified.
      These include: neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), a protein of the lipocalin
      family, present in neutrophil secondary granules. Upon renal damage this protein is released
      from the affected epithelium early. Studies that have evaluated its usefulness as a marker of
      renal damage have been performed mainly in children, and its usefulness in critically ill
      patients has been debated. Another biomarker that has been used for the detection of renal
      damage is the transmembrane glycoprotein Kim-1, which releases its extracellular ectodomain
      by the action of proteases. Under normal conditions, Kim-1 expression is very low and
      increases significantly when there is tubular damage, such as occurs during AKI. A
      characteristic feature of this molecule is that it is expressed only in injured renal tissue.
      Although the induction of Kim-1 after an AKI episode is important, unfortunately this protein
      has not been shown to be useful as an early biomarker of AKI. Recently, our group identified
      a new, non-invasive, and reliable biomarker to detect AKI earlier by measuring the
      concentration of the 72 kilodaltons heat shock protein (HSP72). Similar to Kim-1, this
      protein is practically not expressed under normal conditions, but is induced in the tubular
      epithelium after an episode of AKI. In addition to being a highly sensitive and early
      biomarker, it was able to stratify different degrees of renal injury and to monitor the
      efficacy of a renoprotective maneuver in animals undergoing ischemia/reperfusion. In
      addition, we have also observed that in critically ill patients, the detection of HSP72 in
      urine specimens made it possible to detect AKI 48 h before diagnosis of creatinine elevation
      or reduction of urinary flow.

      Aldosterone and kidney injury in hum There are limited number of studies aimed to evaluate
      the prevention of AKI with the use of any particular strategy, regard with the use of
      spironolactone either. However, in a study published by Dr. Brown's group in the United
      States aimed for decreasing the frequency of postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) by
      decreasing the concentration of cytokines and inflammation that has been linked to the
      development of fibrillation (147 patients), ramipril (151 patients) or spironolactone 25
      mg/day (147 patients) were randomly assigned to the study group. Of the secondary objectives
      of the study, serum K and creatinine levels were considered among other measurements. The
      frequency of AF in the postoperative period was similar. It should be noted that when
      analyzing other values such as blood pressure there were no differences between groups,
      despite being critically ill patients, thus the administration of these drugs did not affect
      AF. The need for amine use in the postoperative period was similar in the placebo group and
      the treatment groups. In the postoperative period, an increase in potassium levels was
      observed in the spironolactone group, but only in one case was necessary to suspend the
      treatment. The most important aspect of this study is that those patients with spironolactone
      or ramipril had a lower elevation of creatinine levels compared to the placebo group, which
      was interpreted as a prevention of renal damage independent of hemodynamic factors. Other
      observed results were that the group receiving spironolactone had a shorter hospital stay and
      a reduction in the time of invasive mechanical ventilation.

      The present project has an important diagnostic potential because it will not only contribute
      to the early detection in the clinical practice of AKI, it will help with a new timely
      intervention to the patient with a novel therapy and we believe that it will also help to
      stratify the damage and to identify patients susceptible to developing chronic renal failure.

      The AKI is a frequent complication in critically ill patients, with a reported incidence of
      up to 30-40% of patients entering these units. There is a directly proportional relationship
      between the incidence of AKI and a substantial increase in the morbidity and mortality of
      patients who develop it. In-hospital mortality has been reported at 35% and at 90 days up to
      34%. Although AKI has a multifactorial origin, invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV)
      represents an independent risk factor for the development of AKI because it exerts several
      deleterious effects on renal perfusion and systemic inflammation. In addition, critically ill
      patients with IMV who will develop AKI have an increased risk of death, so the development of
      strategies to reduce the risk of AKI in this group of patients is of great importance.

      The tools available to decrease the frequency of AKI are scarce and sometimes lack of
      clinical value. To date, there is no "specific" strategy, with adequate support in the
      literature to prevent AKI in critical ill patients.

      Modifying the incidence of AKI in this group of patients will modify morbimortality related
      to short, medium and probably long term.

      The primary involvement of aldosterone in renal damage opens a field of investigation in
      order to diminish or block its deleterious effects through the blockade of the
      mineralocorticoid receptor, in order to prevent, decrease the severity or accelerate the
      recovery of the AKI in these patients.

      Main Hypothesis:

      Administration of spironolactone will reduce significantly urinary excretion of tubular
      damage biomarkers such as NGAL, KIM-1 and HSP72 when compared with those of critically ill
      patients with invasive mechanical ventilation who will receive placebo.

      Sample Size Since there is no similar study in the literature and considering a previous work
      of our team, in which we measured the urinary levels of HSP72 as a biomarker just at the time
      of diagnosis of AKI, of the 56 patients included, only 17 (30.4%) developed AKI. The mean
      urinary levels of HSP72 in patients who did not develop AKI were 0.27±0.16 ng/ml, whereas in
      those diagnosed with AKI, the mean value was 4.78±1.92 ng/ml. Considering urinary levels of
      HSP72 in 56 patients, the mean was 1.64 ± 2.34 ng/ml. Making a theoretical model where we
      consider a possible reduction of 50% of the levels of the biomarker gives us a value of 0.82
      ng/ml and using the formula of sample size for independent means with the difference of means
      of 0.82 and equal variances with a confidence level of 95% and a power of 80%, gives us n of
      45 subjects per group. Therefore, we will recruit 90 patients for this study. When 20
      patients have been recruited in the study per group, an interim analysis will be performed to
      decide on the basis of the results if the study is continued or permanently discontinued.

      variables and outcomes to be measured The analysis of the determination of the urinary
      concentration of NGAL, KIM-1, HSP72 and markers of oxidative stress during the evaluation
      period as well as the determination of the frequency of AKI will be analyzed on an
      exploratory basis by subgroups according to the baseline characteristics

        -  baseline severity of chronic diseases (Charlson comorbidity index)

        -  baseline severity of acute disease (APACHE II)

        -  previous use of spironolactone or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor

        -  age (18-45, 45-64, 65-74, 75-90, 90)

      Frequency of Measurements: for the evaluation of the primary outcome, a urinary sample per
      day (through the Foley catheter) during treatment periods (days 1 to 5) and surveillance Days
      7 and 10 from study entry for the determination of markers of tubular damage and oxidative
      stress.

      For the evaluation of the secondary outcome and the detection of adverse events, data will be
      collected for each patient since informed consent is obtained in the Selection (Day -1 to 0),
      treatment period (days 1 to 5), follow-up period (Days 6 to 10) and in the late evaluation
      visit (day 30).

      Statistical analysis: the statistical analysis will be carried out by intention to treat as
      per protocol. Categorical variables will be shown as frequencies and proportions. The
      continuous variables will be analyzed with the Z of Kolmogorov-Smirnov to determine their
      distribution. Those with normal distribution will be shown with mean and standard deviation,
      while those with abnormal distribution will be presented with median and interquartile range.
      To compare the 2 groups Chi square for the categorical variables will be used. If it is shown
      that the AKI frequency is reduced, the relative risk reduction will be calculated. The
      numerical variables with normal distribution will be analyzed with one-way ANOVA and post hoc
      analysis with Bonferroni test, whereas in the case of variables with abnormal distribution,
      they will be analyzed with the Kruskal-Wallis test. A p less than 0.05 will be considered
      significant.

      Potential risks: The most important adverse effects are the potential development of
      hypotension and hyperkalemia, however given close monitoring with multiple assessments during
      the day their identification will be made in a timely manner to take the necessary action. In
      addition, with the administration of spironolactone, general malaise and fatigue may occur,
      which are uncommon and mild in intensity. In cases of prolonged treatment (weeks-months) can
      develop gynecomastia, menstrual alterations, amenorrhea, impotence, etc.; However the
      likelihood of developing these alterations is very low since the exposure time will be
      minimal.

      Safety measures for early diagnosis and prevention of risks and Early detection methods:
      routinely, patients with invasive mechanical ventilation in the institution are monitored
      closely. They usually receive monitoring of their vital signs every hour and at least a
      determination of creatinine, urea nitrogen in blood and electrolytes every 24 h. This will
      allow for the timely detection of adverse effects and suspension of study drugs if required.
    
  