
    
      The study seeks primarily to determine the effect of Mindfulness (conducted additionally to
      occupational therapy) on physical and mental capabilities of life of stroke patients.

      Furthermore, we want to find out if Mindfulness has a positive impact towards the quality of
      life and the daily burden of stroke patients and their caregivers.

      The overall purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of the process-basis,
      resources-basis, management-basis, and scientific basis for a further larger study. We want
      to conduct an exploratory case study as an A-B Design in which the A-Phase is "only regular
      occupational therapy" (no additive intervention) and the B-Phase contains the "regular
      occupational therapy" and "MBSR" (Mindfulness-Course; intervention).

      Four stroke patients and their closest relative will be included in the study (n=8).

      The study is non-blinded and no randomised allocation will take place. We will compare the
      outcomes of Phase B with the outcomes of Phase A of every person.

      The purpose of the exploratory case study is to analyse the feasibility of the study design
      that will be used in a subsequent research study.

      The study will last 16 weeks; split into two parts of eight weeks (A Phase and B-Phase).

        1. Baseline Measurement

           If the patient and the caregivers are included into the study they perform several
           measurements and questionnaires:

             -  Measurements to assess physical capabilities (Patient)

             -  Measurement to assess attention (Patient)

             -  Measurements to assess Quality of life daily burden of illness and caregiving
                (Patient and Caregiver

             -  Semi structured Interviews (Patient and Caregiver)

        2. A-Phase The stroke patient continues his/her regular occupational treatment for eight
           weeks.

           The caregivers get no study-related treatment.

        3. 2nd (Midterm)-Measurement Same procedure as the baseline measurement.

        4. B-Phase (Intervention Phase) Within the B-Phase of the study, the participant gets
           Mindfulness Training (intervention) in addition to the regular occupational therapy.

           Before Patients and Caregivers start the MBSR Course (Mindfulness) the get information
           from an experienced Mindfulness trainer about e.g. duration, contents of the course,
           etc. They have the opportunity to ask questions.

           The course lasts eight weeks. The MBSR group meet every week for 2.5h. The participants
           will get "homework" that they to perform at home (1h per day). If the duration of
           practice is to burdensome for the participants, then they can talk to the MBSR-trainer
           about time reduction.

        5. 3rd (Final) Measurement Same procedure as the baseline and second (Midterm-)
           measurement.
    
  