
    
      Stepping down of asthma medication in controlled asthma

      Principal investigator:

      Heikki Koskela, MD. Kuopio University Hospital, Unit for Medicine and Clinical Research,
      Division of Pulmonary Medicine

      The study will be started during the year 2012 and will continue for 36 months.

      Background

      In Finland, asthma is the second most important disorder justifying special reimbursement of
      asthma medication, thus causing large expenses to the society.

      Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are the mainstay of modern asthma therapy. When a medium-dose
      ICS fail to achieve asthma control, they can be combined with long-acting B2-agonist
      bronchodilators (LABA). Unfortunately, potential side effects of ICSs and LABAs are common
      with increased frequency with increased dozing. The most common side effects of ICS are
      benign, like sore and dry throat but also include serious adverse effects like growth
      retardation in children and adrenal insufficiency. LABAs, in turn can increase the risks of
      severe asthma exacerbations and even asthma-related deaths. Therefore, current guidelines for
      asthma management recommend that, after a period of symptom control, a reduction of the dose
      and cessation of the ICSs and LABAs should be attempted. There are two recommend strategies:
      The international Global initiative for asthma (GINA) guideline recommends reduction of the
      ICS dose first, with subsequent LABA cessation. On the contrary, the American Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) recommends cessation of LABAs first. In the present study we follow the
      FDA recommendations.

      At present there is limited experimental data on the optimal timing, sequence, and magnitude
      of treatment reductions in asthma. Usually, the decision for treatment reduction is based on
      the absence of symptoms for a certain period of time. However, even asthmatic subjects with
      minimal symptoms may suffer from asthma exacerbation after treatment reduction. Consequently,
      both physicians and asthmatics are often reluctant to reduce or stop asthma medications. Very
      probably this is a major reason for the fact that a great proportion of asthmatic subjects
      use unnecessarily high doses of asthma medications and multiple preparations. For example, in
      Finland combination preparations containing both LABA and ICS are more commonly prescribed
      than preparations containing only ICS (Finnish Social Insurance Institution statistics 2010).
      Very probably many asthmatics would do well even without any asthma medications: In an
      Italian study with stable asthmatics, all asthma medication could be stopped in 73 % of the
      subjects.

      There has been a great interest to find a biomarker that could identify asthmatic subjects
      that would tolerate treatment reduction without exacerbation and those in whom the reduction
      should not be tried. The following biomarkers have been evaluated to predict asthma
      exacerbation after ICS dose reduction/cessation: Airway challenges with histamine, mannitol,
      hypertonic saline, and adenosine as well as measurements of exhaled nitric oxide and sputum
      eosinophils. In adult subjects, the hypertonic airway challenges (mannitol, hypertonic
      saline) and the adenosine challenge have usually performed best in this respect. However,
      none of these biomarkers have been able to predict the outcome of the ICS treatment reduction
      accurately enough to become part of the clinical routine. To our knowledge, there are no
      studies that have tried to predict asthma exacerbation after LABA cessation.

      Hypertonic airway challenges have long been used to assess airways' tendency to constrict in
      response to external stimuli (=airway responsiveness). Asthmatic subjects are well known to
      be hyperresponsive to the bronchoconstrictive effect of hypertonic aerosols. During the
      recent years we have shown that asthmatic subjects are hypersensitive also to the
      cough-provoking effect of hypertonic aerosols. Furthermore, treatment with ICS decreases the
      sensitivity to the cough-provoking effect of hypertonic aerosols. Among asthmatics, cough
      responsiveness to hypertonic saline correlates closely with a well validated asthma control
      questionnaire. The bronchoconstrictive response and the cough response to hypertonicity are
      two separate phenomena and therefore provide additional information about the state of the
      subject's airways. The two responses can be measured during a single challenge.

      The cough response to hypertonic aerosols has never been evaluated whether it can predict the
      outcome of asthma treatment reduction in subjects with stable asthma. It is possible that
      analysis of both the bronchoconstrictive and the cough response might predict the asthma
      exacerbation better than analysis of only one of the responses.

      The study objectives

      Subjects: 70 well-controlled asthmatic patients with both LABA and ICS.

      The main objectives of the study:

        1. To investigate whether hypertonic saline bronchoconstrictive responsiveness can predict
           the outcome of asthma treatment reduction in subjects with stable asthma.

        2. To investigate whether hypertonic saline cough responsiveness can predict the outcome of
           asthma treatment reduction in subjects with stable asthma.

        3. To investigate whether the two responses together have a stronger predictive power than
           the responses separately.

      The secondary objective is to get an estimate about how large a proportion of Finnish stable
      asthmatic patients use their medications with unnecessarily high doses or would even manage
      well without any asthma medications.

      Methods

      Study design

      This is a prospective study in which the physician responsible for the subject management and
      medications is blinded from the saline challenge results and the nurse performing the saline
      challenges is blinded from medications. The study includes two periods: A two-week run-in
      period during which the subjects continue their regular asthma medications and their asthma
      control is ensured. After that, the stepping down of the asthma medication is started and
      continued until both ICS and LABA treatments have been stopped or until asthma exacerbation
      has occurred. The effect of every reduction is observed for six weeks before proceeding to
      the following step. If the medication is insufficient, an asthma exacerbation is very likely
      to take place within this time period. In previous studies, the exacerbations have taken
      place mean 16 - 17 days after steroid reduction.

      First step: LABA will be discontinued. The use of ICS is continued, using the same dosage,
      preparation, and inhaler as before.

      Second step: In subjects with a daily ICS dose of more than 500 ug of beclomethasone or
      equivalent (="medium to high dose"), the ICS dose is reduced to 500 ug of beclomethasone or
      equivalent ( = "low daily dose") according to GINA, see table 1. The reduced ICS dose will be
      administered with the same preparation and inhaler as before.

      Third step: In subjects with a daily ICS dose of less or equal to 500 ug of beclomethasone or
      equivalent ( = "low daily dose") the ICS will be stopped.

      Non-permitted medications

      The use of any asthma drug apart from ICS and LABAs can be continued throughout the study.
      However, on the study days the subject should not use any asthma drugs before the visit to
      the outpatient clinic. All medications to other illnesses will be continued throughout the
      study.

      Detailed description of the study

      Day 1. The subject will be interviewed (nurse) and the baseline questionnaire and asthma
      control questionnaire 19 will be filled in. The suitability of the subject for the study is
      evaluated according to the above-mentioned criteria. Written, informed consent is obtained.
      If skin allergy tests have not been performed before, it will be performed now. The use of
      asthma diary is instructed. It will be used throughout the study. A two-week diary monitoring
      with PEF values will be performed.

      Asthma diary:

      Every morning and evening: The number of rescue bronchodilating drug doses taken. Three peak
      flow (PEF) recordings before taking any asthma medication.

      Plus every morning: Awakenings at night due to asthma symptoms

      Day 2. The diary will be reviewed (physician). The subject will be included in the study if
      his/her asthma is well controlled, defined as asthma control questionnaire (ACQ) score equal
      or less than 0.75. The final ACQ score can be determined after the saline challenge since it
      includes spirometry and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) information is utilised
      when calculating the ACQ score. If the subject is included, a written asthma medication
      reduction plan is made, one copy is given to the subject and another is stored in the subject
      file. The threshold value for significant PEF reduction is calculated (see below). The
      subject is told about the signs and symptoms of asthma exacerbation and an action plan is
      made. The saline challenge will be performed (nurse) as described below. The first step-down
      in the medication is performed (LABA cessation).

      Definition of asthma exacerbation, at least one of the following:

        -  awakening at two consecutive nights due to asthma symptoms

        -  PEF less than 3 standard deviations from the mean PEF value obtained during the run-in
           period on three consecutive days 20

        -  bronchodilator use more than once a day on three consecutive days.

        -  whenever the subjects feels that his/her asthma symptoms have clearly increased

      Individually adjusted definition of asthma exacerbation is written in the asthma diary

      Action plan in case of exacerbation: The telephone numbers of the study physicians are given
      to the subject and she/he can contact them during the office hours. The telephone number of
      the respiratory physician in charge is given in case of an exacerbation occurring outside the
      office hours. The exacerbation will be treated according to the standard clinical practice,
      depending on the physician's judgement. An asthma exacerbation indicates end of the study.
      The contacted physician informs the research nurse about the exacerbation. The nurse marks
      down the date of exacerbation. The research nurse asks the patient to visit the outpatient
      clinic after two weeks. The subject will visit the study physician and the permanent asthma
      medication will be instructed.

      Action plan is written in the asthma diary

      Days 3, 4 and 5. The ACQ will be filled in and the diary will be reviewed (physician). If no
      exacerbations have occurred since the last step-down, the next step-down is made. The
      hypertonic saline challenge will be performed (nurse). However, if the previous step-down was
      steroid cessation, the study ends.

      Hypertonic saline challenge

      This test will be performed as we have previously described with some modifications:
      Spirometry is performed three times. After that the subject inhales isotonic
      phosphate-buffered saline for two minutes via a high-output ultrasonic nebuliser, using tidal
      breathing. The coughs occurring during the inhalation and two minutes after it will be
      counted up. The number of these "spontaneous" coughs will be subtracted from the coughs
      provoked by each hypertonic solution. After two minutes from the end of inhalation, the
      spirometry will be performed twice. The better of the two recorded FEV1 values will be used
      as the reference value when calculating the saline-induced bronchoconstriction. Subsequently,
      they inhale hypertonic phosphate-buffered saline solutions with osmolalities of 600, 900,
      1200, 1500, 1800 and 2100 milliosmoles (mOsm) /kg. The challenge will be stopped if either if
      a 15 % fall in FEV1 is recorded or if the final solution has been inhaled or if the patient
      feels severe discomfort. The cough response to saline will be calculated as the provocative
      osmolality to induce 15 cumulative coughs. The bronchoconstrictive response will be
      calculated as the provocative osmolality to induce 15 % fall in FEV1. If the patient feels
      dyspnoea or if the FEV1 falls equal or more than 15 % from baseline, Ventoline Evohaler two
      doses a 0.1 mg /Volumatic will be administered. After 15 minutes from that, spirometry will
      be performed twice.

      Ethics

      According to international studies, asthma patients often overmedicate themselves, thus being
      exposed to unnecessary side effects and expenses. Also, due to the vast amount of asthma
      patients, unnecessary asthma medication causes large expenses to the society. Therefore, the
      present study is indicated. It is evident that a proportion of the subjects will experience
      asthma exacerbation during the study. However, they have full-time contact to a respiratory
      physician. In the study setting, the asthma medication reduction takes place in a much more
      controlled fashion than in everyday clinical practice.

      A permission of the Institutional Ethics Committee has been received (Number 118//2011, dated
      29.11.2011).

      The time table and financing

      The study will be started during the year 2012 and will continue for 36 months. The
      investigators seek funding from the Finnish government research funding (VTR) and from
      private foundations.

      Investigators and affiliations

      Principal investigator: Heikki Koskela, MD, respiratory physician, Kuopio University
      Hospital, Unit of Medicine and Clinical Research, Department of Respiratory Medicine

      Minna Purokivi, MD, respiratory physician, Kuopio University Hospital, Unit of Medicine and
      Clinical Research, Department of Respiratory Medicine

      Jouko Kokkarinen, MD, respiratory physician, Kuopio University Hospital, Unit of Medicine and
      Clinical Research, Department of Respiratory Medicine

      Merja Esselström, registered nurse, MD, Kuopio University Hospital, Unit of Medicine and
      Clinical Research, Department of Respiratory Medicine

      Kirsi Kontra, Pharm. Lic. Kuopio University Hospital, Department of Pharmacy

      Analysis of the results, publication plan

      The analysis will consist of three parts, one publication will be written about each.

        1. The ability of the saline challenge to predict an exacerbation after cessation of LABA
           will be assessed by comparing the responses to saline between those who tolerated the
           first reduction (=LABA cessation) and those who did not tolerate it, utilising unpaired
           T-tests. Suitable cut-off values for saline responses will be sought and after that, the
           sensitivity and specificity of the saline responses to predict an asthma exacerbation
           after LABA cessation are defined.

        2. The subjects who tolerated the LABA reduction will undergo reductions 2 and 3. The
           ability of the saline test to predict an exacerbation after reduction/cessation of ICS
           will be assessed by comparing the results to saline between those who tolerated the
           second and the third reduction (= ICS reduction and ICS cessation) and those who did not
           tolerate it, utilising unpaired T-tests. Suitable cut-off values for saline responses
           will be sought and after that, the sensitivity and specificity of the saline responses
           to predict an asthma exacerbation after ICS reduction are defined.

        3. In addition, the proportion of the subjects who tolerated asthma medication
           reduction/cessation will be calculated and reported.
    
  