
    
      We conduct a prospective randomized study since July 2017 after IRB approval. Patients
      between the ages of 20 and 80 years presenting to the gastroenterology outpatient clinic for
      atypical GERD symptoms (cough, globus, and NCCP) with or without typical symptoms (heartburn
      or acid regurgitation) of GERD will be invited to participate. After signing informed
      consents and screening, patients with atypical GERD symptoms for more than one month and with
      a total Reflux Symptom Index (RSI) score ≥13 were eligible for enrollment.Patients who
      currently took pro-kinetic agents, baclofen, antacid, sucralfate, histamin-2 receptor
      antagonists, PPI, antitussive, non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, anxiolytics, or
      anti-depressants or takes aforementioned medication during study period, who have severe
      cardiac, pulmonary, hepatic, or renal disease, who have uncured underlying malignancy, will
      be excluded as are subjects with laryngeal or pharyngeal disorders, a history of
      gastrointestinal (GI) surgery, symptoms of GI tract obstruction, or a contraindication for
      PPI use.

      Personal characteristics including age, sex, habit of drinking and smoking, body mass index
      (BMI), waist circumference and underlying co-morbidity including diabetes, hypertension and
      dyslipidemia will be recorded. The findings of esophageal gastroduodenal scopy (EGD) will be
      recorded including the severity of erosive esophagitis (Los Angeles grade A-D or non-erosive
      reflux disease).The symptoms of atypical GERD including cough, globus sensation, and NCCP and
      the symptoms of typical GERD (heart burn and acid regurgitation) will be recorded everyday
      (daytime and night respectively) via diary before PPI therapy for 2 days and after PPI
      therapy for 8 weeks. The definitions of cough, globus sensation, NCCP, heart burn, and acid
      regurgitation will be according to a previous publication After enrollment, 120 subjects will
      randomly assign (at a 1:1 ratio) to receive either oral lansoprazole (Takepron OD 30 mg,
      Takeda Co. Ltd, Tokyo, Japan) once daily before breakfast or oral dexilansoprazole (Dexilant
      60 mg, Takeda Co. Ltd, Tokyo, Japan) once daily before breakfast for 8 weeks. Subjects will
      record their symptoms (cough, globus, NCCP, heart burn, and acid regurgitation) at daytime
      and nighttime everyday for 8 weeks. Symptoms suspecting drug adverse effect including nausea,
      diarrhea, constipation, headache, dizziness, fatigue, flatulence, etc will be recorded for 8
      weeks. Head elevation during sleeping, or on diet for body weight reduction, medication with
      pro-kinetic agents, baclofen, antacid, sucralfate, histamin-2 receptor antagonists, other
      PPI, antitussive, non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, anxiolytics, or anti-depressants will
      not be allowed during study period.

      Endpoints We will evaluate the response rate (symptom free) everyday during the 8-week PPI
      therapy for cough, globus sensation, NCCP, acid regurgitation, and heartburn respectively.
      The primary endpoint is to compare the cumulated incidence and the time of each symptom free
      during 8-week therapy period between the two study groups. The secondary endpoint will be the
      withdrawal or drop-out rate due to poor symptoms response or drug adverse effects.
    
  