
    
      An important observation of the induction triple chemotherapy regimen know as TPF is that
      there was an unprecedented high proportion of patients treated who had a complete response of
      their disease upon the completion of the induction phase. In a recent study by Haddad, et
      al., a biopsy was performed in all patients following induction chemotherapy and before
      starting concomitant chemoradiotherapy. Patients with an incomplete response to
      chemoradiotherapy or who had N3 disease had a neck dissection 6 to 12 weeks after
      chemoradiotherapy. Twenty-nine neck dissections were performed after chemoradiotherapy. The
      neck dissection result was pathologically positive in 7 (24%) patients (all alive with no
      evidence of disease) and negative in 22 (76%) patients (21 alive with no evidence of
      disease). Post-TPF, primary site biopsy result was negative in 64 patients (89%) and positive
      in 8 patients (11%). While the protocol required all patients to subsequently receive
      concomitant chemoradiation regardless of disease response to the induction component of the
      regimen, it is reasonable to question whether the complete responder subset really needed to
      undergo the same intensive chemoradiation treatment compared to the partial responders. Thus,
      a less intense therapy may be sufficient. The long term goal of this protocol is to alter the
      model of highly effective cancer therapy from what is maximally tolerated by the patient to
      what is minimally necessary for a cure.

      One treatment strategy for patients with advanced head and neck cancer who prove to be highly
      sensitive to chemotherapy is to combine the modalities of polychemotherapy and conservation
      surgery with the goal of avoiding radiation therapy. For those patients whose primary disease
      is classified as T2-3 (resectable), and who have a complete response following induction
      therapy, it is feasible to perform an organ preservation tumor nidusectomy at the primary
      site to verify that the clinical complete response is truly pathological complete response.
      Similarly, the clinical complete response observed for the associated nodal disease, can be
      verified pathologically by performing a selective neck dissection without causing significant
      morbidity. Both tumor nidusectomy and selective neck dissection has been shown to be an
      effective adjuvant in this setting. Building on these observations, the novel protocol
      outlined in this proposal has the potential to spare the use of radiation therapy for
      selective patients who have a complete response to induction chemotherapy and thereby improve
      their well being without compromising survival.
    
  