
    
      Background:

        -  We generated an HLA-A11:01-restricted murine T-cell receptor (mTCR) that specifically
           recognizes the G12D-mutated variant of KRAS (and other RAS family genes) expressed by
           many human cancers and constructed a single retroviral vector that contains alpha and
           beta chains that confer recognition of this antigen when transduced into PBL.

        -  In co-cultures with HLA-A11:01+ target cells expressing this mutated oncogene, mTCR
           transduced T-cells lyse target cells and secrete IFN-y with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      -Primary objectives:

        -  Phase I: Determine the safety of administering PBL transduced with anti-KRAS G12D mTCR
           in concert with preparative lymphodepletion and high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2;
           aldesleukin).

        -  Phase II: Determine if anti-KRAS G12D mTCR-transduced PBL can mediate the regression of
           tumors harboring the RAS G12D mutation.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must be/have:

             -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years and less than or eqaul to 70 years

             -  HLA-A*11:01 positive

             -  Metastatic or unresectable RAS G12D-expressing cancer which has progressed after
                standard therapy (if available).

        -  Patients may not have:

             -  Allergies or hypersensitivities to high-dose aldesleukin, cyclophosphamide, or
                fludarabine.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I/II, single center study of PBL transduced with anti-KRAS G12D mTCR in
           HLA-A*11:01 positive patients with advanced solid tumors expressing G12D mutated RAS.

        -  PBMC obtained by leukapheresis will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and
           aldesleukin in order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of these cells to retroviral vector supernatant
           containing replication-incompetent virus encoding the anti-KRAS G12D mTCR.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  On Day 0, patients will receive PBL transduced with the anti-KRAS G12D mTCR and will
           then begin high-dose aldesleukin.

        -  A complete evaluation of lesions will be conducted approximately 6 weeks (plus-minus 2
           weeks) after treatment.

        -  The study will be conducted using a phase I/II Simon minimax design, with two separate
           cohorts for the Phase II component: Cohort 2a, patients with RAS G12D pancreatic cancer,
           and Cohort 2b, patients with RAS G12D non-pancreatic cancer.

        -  A total of up to 70 patients may be required; approximately 24 patients in the Phase I
           portion of the study and 46 (21, plus an allowance of up to 2 non-evaluable per Phase II
           cohort) patients in the Phase II portion of the study.
    
  