
    
      Art therapy

      QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN. The researchers will review and report the process during the trial
      covering participant enrolment, consent, eligibility and allocation to trial groups, policies
      to protect participants, including reporting of harm and completeness, accuracy and
      timeliness of data collection.

      STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES. Participants will be recruited over a period of three months
      by mental health professionals (mental health nurses, psychologists, psychiatrists and
      occupational therapists). Participants will not receive financial reimbursement for taking
      part in this trial. Participants will be identified from outpatient services who meet all the
      study eligibility criteria (listed in section Eligibility). ICD-10 (International
      Classification of Diseases) and GAF (Global Assessment of Functioning) will be used to screen
      participants at recruitment.

      DATA DICTIONARY. All variables collected in this study will be listed and described in a case
      report form, with associated guidelines, to ensure consistency in all gathered data. The
      following data will be collected in this trial:

      Sociodemographical data. Medical history. Global Assessment of Functioning Scale (GAF)
      Questionnaire about the Process of Recovery (QPR-15) Personal Resiliency Nursing Outcomes
      Classification=1309 Duke-UNC Functional Social Support Questionnaire Service Utilisation:
      Client Service Receipt Inventory (CSRI)

      SAMPLE SIZE ASSESSMENT. The estimated sample size is n = 102, for a t test with two
      independent samples, with one tail, an effect size of 0.5, an α of 95% and a power of 80%.

      For the validation of the QPR-15, taking into account the subject-item ratio of at least 5: 1
      (15 items), and considering the minimum number of recommended subjects to perform an
      Exploratory Factor Analysis, The minimum number of participants must be 100.

      Thus, estimating losses of 20%, the total number of participants estimated for the study is n
      = 127.

      STATISTICS ANALYSIS PLAN. The results will be analyzed by intention to treat. The change of
      means in the main outcome variable between the two study groups will be analyzed with the
      Student's t-test and if the criteria for its application with the nonparametric Mann-Whitney
      U test are not met. For the categorical secondary variables, the Chi square test will be
      used. We will also consider the performance of a multivariate analysis of variance (ANCOVA)
      to introduce some possible covariate that differs between the two comparison groups in the
      first evaluation. For all comparisons, a confidence level of 95% will be used. The program R
      version 3.5.1 will be used. for all statistical analyzes.

      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS. A cost-effectiveness from a Health Service perspective (finances
      perspective) will be performed. The time horizon is one year and will include only direct
      costs. This refers to direct health costs (medication and healthcare use of mental health and
      social services including outpatient and emergencies visits and hospital admissions). .

      PLAN FOR MISSING DATA. Each researcher is responsible for ensuring that any missing data will
      be reported as missing in the study database. Procedures can sometimes be considered when
      using statistical methods that fail in the presence of any missing values, or when in the
      case of multiple-predictor statistical models all the data for an individual would be omitted
      because of a missing value in one of the predictors. For analyzes involving multiple
      regression analysis, a multiple imputation approach will be considered and used if
      statistically sound, depending on the proportion and pattern of missing values.

      METHODS TO ENSURE VALIDITY AND QUALITY OF DATA. Accurate and reliable data collection will be
      assured by verification and cross-check of the case report form (CRF) against the
      researcher´s records (source document verification). Source document verification will be
      conducted for 5% of data in subjects. Discrepancies and queries will be generated accordingly
      in the CRF for online resolution by the researcher at the site. In addition, the CRF data
      will be reviewed on an ongoing basis for medical and scientific plausibility.
    
  