
    
      Children with SCID generally do not survive beyond the first year of life without definitive
      treatment. The most effective current cure is hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) with a
      human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matched sibling. While a matched sibling HCT can successfully
      treat ART-SCID, fewer than 20% of affected children have such a donor, and even when a
      matched sibling donor is available there is often incomplete T and B cell immune
      reconstitution. ART-SCID is the most difficult type of SCID to cure by hematopoietic stem
      cell transplant using alternative donors. Engraftment typically requires intensive
      conditioning with high dose alkylating agents to prevent rejection and to open marrow niches.
      These patients also have a high risk of developing graft versus host disease (GVHD) when
      alternative donors are used. The great majority of patients have absent B cell reconstitution
      and require lifelong administration of immunoglobulin infusions. Patients with ART-SCID who
      do receive high doses of alkylators, especially when 2 agents are used, have poorer survival,
      abnormal dental development, endocrinopathies, and short stature in comparison with children
      exposed to no or limited alkylators or children with SCID types that are not associated with
      a DNA repair defect. For these reasons, a safer, more effective approach to curing ART-SCID
      is needed. Autologous gene-corrected hematopoeitic stem cell transplant may eliminate both
      the risk of GVHD and the need for alkylators to prevent rejection.

      The study design is a single-cohort, longitudinal experiment using non-randomized patients
      treated once with a lentiviral vector for gene-correction of Artemis-deficient SCID after
      conditioning with low-dose busulfan. No formal control group is planned for gauging safety;
      rather, intensive monitoring of the initial 6 enrollees will preclude continued accrual in
      the presence of safety signals, and long-term safety will be monitored for 15 years. Bone
      marrow stem cells will be harvested from participants who weigh ≤7.5 kilograms or have failed
      cytokine mobilization previously, and cytokine-mobilized peripheral blood stem cells will be
      harvested from participants weighing >7.5 kilograms. CD34 cells will be isolated using the
      CliniMACS® CD34 Reagent System cell sorter device. After a back-up untransduced cell graft
      has been cryopreserved, the remaining cells will be transduced with the AProArt lentiviral
      vector. These transduced cells will then be cryopreserved, and aliquots of the cells will
      undergo safety testing and be reserved for potency evaluation. All patients will receive
      busulfan conditioning targeted over 2 days to achieve a cumulative area under the curve (AUC)
      of 20 mg*hr/L (an ablative cumulative AUC is 60-90mg*hr/L). Following the infusion of
      AProArt-transduced cells, patients will be evaluated at 4, 6, 8, 16, and 24 weeks for
      evidence of gene transduced peripheral blood mononuclear cells and when possible cell
      lineages including T, B, NK and granulocyte/myeloid cells. If there is no evidence of gene
      transduced cells at 6 weeks (42 days) post infusion, a decision will be made regarding
      further therapy.

      After day 42 post-transplant, recipients will be followed for toxicity and durable
      reconstitution of T and B cell immunity. Immune reconstitution of T cells will be monitored
      on a regular basis. If the absolute neutrophil count is < 200/µl or platelets < 20,000/µl on
      3 independent determinations after day 42 post infusion of transduced cells, the patient may
      receive infusion of the back-up cells or an allogeneic hematopoeitic stem cell transplant.
      Patients who were neutropenic prior to conditioning (SCID-related neutropenia) but responsive
      to granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (GCSF) will not be considered to have failed,
      provided the absolute neutrophil count can be maintained above >500/µl with GCSF.

      After day 42, patients will be assessed weekly through 12 weeks post-transplant and at week
      16, monthly through month 6 post-transplant, and then 3 monthly through month 12. They will
      then be assessed at 6 monthly intervals during years 2-5 and annually through year 15. Study
      follow-up will include completion of Quality of Life questionnaires and administration of
      neurodevelopmental testing.

      An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be appointed for safety monitoring of
      this trial. The DSMB will review all data for safety on a regular schedule, based on numbers
      of enrolled subjects and will also conduct special urgent review of any protocol related
      Serious Adverse Events (SAE). As the trial is initiated, the DSMB will review results of each
      of the first 3 cases prior to proceeding with subsequent patients.
    
  