
    
      Cerebral blood flow (CBF) is normally autoregulated within a range of blood pressures, thus,
      allowing for a constant cerebral O2 supply commensurate with metabolic demands. The lower
      limit of blood pressure during general anesthesia deemed tolerable is usually empirically
      chosen without regard to an individual's lower autoregulatory threshold. This practice may
      lead to cerebral hypoperfusion in some patients placing them at risk for cerebral ischemic
      injury. This is particularly true during cardiac surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass where
      mean blood pressure is maintained at some level greater than 50 mm Hg or even lower during
      surgical mandated situations. This practice is concern for the rising number of aged surgical
      patients with cerebral vascular disease whom are prone to cerebral hypoperfusion.
      Individualizing blood pressure to be within the patient's autoregulatory range would more
      likely ensure adequate CBF during surgery. In this study we will evaluate whether real-time
      monitoring using a near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS) based method accurately detects the
      lower CBF autoregulation threshold in patients compared with a validated, but technically
      more challenging method of CBF autoregulation measurement using transcranial Doppler. This
      approach involves continuous calculation of a moving linear regression correlation
      coefficient between blood pressure and cerebral O2 saturation measured with NIRS as a
      surrogate for CBF. A correlation coefficient, termed cerebral oximetery index, is generated
      and displayed versus blood pressure. When CBF is dysregulated, this correlation coefficient
      becomes markedly positive indicating CBF is pressure passive. We will further assess the
      added value of this type of monitoring to detect the lower CBF autoregulatory threshold
      compared with predictions based on preoperative blood pressure. These aims will be addressed
      in the study of 178 patients greater than 60 years of age undergoing coronary artery bypass
      graft surgery and/or valve surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass. Due to the many hemodynamic
      fluctuations during cardiac surgery, autoregulatory thresholds can be determined without
      administration of vasoactive drugs. Neurological complications are an important source of
      patient morbidity, mortality, hospital costs, and impaired quality of life after cardiac and
      other types of surgery. NIRS monitoring is non-invasive, continuous, requires little
      caregiver intervention and, thus, would have wide applicability for providing information
      about CBF autoregulation in a variety of clinical settings including cardiac surgery. This
      adoption could be enhanced with the likely development of "plug-and-play" monitors.
    
  