
    
      Traumatic amputation is one of the major injuries seen as a result of Operation Iraqi and
      Enduring Freedom with the majority being single trans-tibial amputations (TTA). TTA
      experience significant reductions in thigh muscle strength of the amputated limb during the
      first year after amputation. The residual limb is less active in daily functions of standing
      and walking, resulting in progressive atrophy of the quadriceps muscles in terms of a
      decrease in thigh diameter which is estimated at 25% of pre-amputation diameter. An
      intervention that may be useful in TTA rehabilitation is neuromuscular electrical stimulation
      (NMES). The overall objectives of this study is to test two different approaches to
      prosthetic rehabilitation as potential treatments for improving muscle strength, pain and
      functional performance of daily activities in military personnel with TTA. Our central
      hypothesis is that a Nurse Managed NMES rehabilitation program will have greater improvements
      in muscle strength and pain as compared to the standard rehabilitation protocol alone. The
      rationale for this study is that NMES could have an additive effect to the Walter Reed Army
      Medical Center (WRAMC) standard of care program with greater improvements in muscle strength
      thus enhancing the performance of daily activities, Quality of Life (QOL), and decreasing
      disability. Such outcomes will ultimately result in decreased economic costs, accelerated
      rehabilitation, and potentially increase the possibility of these warriors returning to duty.
      The specific aims are to test Nurse Managed NMES relative to standard rehabilitation by
      comparing: (1) Lower extremity muscle strength; (2) QOL; and (3) Symptoms associated with
      phantom pain. In addition to the above aims, specific aims for the post prosthetic phase of
      the intervention are to compare the two groups for (4) functional performance of daily
      activities. After pre-testing, participants aged 18 to 55 yrs with a traumatic TTA will be
      randomly assigned to either the 1) Nurse Managed NMES rehabilitation program (n=30); or 2)
      WRAMC Amputee Protocol (n=30). Those in the NMES group will receive 12 weeks of electrical
      muscle stimulation 15 min/day, 5 days a week for 12 weeks. Both groups will receive the
      standard 12-week Walter Reed Army Medical Center rehabilitation protocol. Generalized
      Estimating Equation methods will be used to build regression models for statistical analysis
      of the longitudinal data. The significance of this research is that Nurse Managed NMES may be
      very important for accelerating the rehabilitation of amputees so they can achieve functional
      independence and regain lost muscle strength in preparation for return to duty.
    
  