
    
      Self-injurious behavior (SIB) in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can cause
      physical harm to the child and interfere with the child's ability to make use of educational
      programs and helpful treatments such as speech therapy. The turmoil caused by self-injurious
      behaviors in children with ASD invariably interferes with daily routines because family life
      often stops during these episodes and family members worry about setting off SIB between
      episodes. This project will use the detailed assessment methods developed in the field of
      behavior therapy to evaluate the potential for N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to treat children with
      ASD and moderate repetitive SIB. NAC is an over-the-counter dietary supplement that may have
      beneficial effects on the brain through its well-documented antioxidant effects and/or
      reduced glutamate signaling. In the proposed study, 14 children with ASD and repetitive SIB
      between the ages of 5 and 12 will be randomly assigned to gradually increasing doses of NAC
      or placebo for 9 weeks. The research team, parents and children will be blind to the
      treatment with NAC or placebo. Participants will come to the research site periodically to
      complete measures and behavioral assessments.

      After the 9 weeks of treatment, children randomized to NAC who showed improvement will be
      encouraged to continue taking the supplement outside the study. Children who were randomly
      assigned to the placebo and showed no improvement will be offered open-label treatment with
      NAC. Children who did not improve while taking NAC or those who improved while on the placebo
      will be advised on next steps by the study team.

      The goal of this feasibility study is establish the acceptability viability of study
      procedures in this vulnerable population, to learn about the potential benefits and adverse
      effects of NAC. Demonstrating these feasibility aims and the preliminary efficacy and safety
      of NAC is a prerequisite for planning a larger, more definitive, study.
    
  