
    
      Allogeneic BMT is a well-established treatment modality for malignant and non-malignant
      hematological diseases. Mature donor T cells within the stem-cell graft are the main
      mediators of the beneficial immune effects, but they are also responsible for the induction
      of GVHD, which becomes the major cause of morbidity and mortality post-transplant. Acute GVHD
      occurs within a 100-day period post-transplant and generally is manifested by dermatitis,
      enteritis, and hepatitis. The treatment of GVHD continues to be a challenge. To eliminate
      undesirable host-derived hematopoietic elements before BMT, patients are traditionally
      treated with myeloablative conditioning regimens involving high-dose chemotherapy and
      total-body irradiation. Standard GVHD prophylaxis and therapy comprise drugs that cause
      generalized immune suppression and place patients in danger of opportunistic infections and
      tumor relapse. For acute GVHD prevention, cyclosporine is often used; however, it is
      frequently necessary to administer long-term high-dose steroids as well.

      An acute GVHD patient's lack of response to steroids is associated with poor prognosis. The
      ideal prophylaxis treatment for BMT patients would be one that prevented the graft from
      attacking the host, and that modulated the host's immune response so that it would accept the
      transplant, while maintaining its ability to protect the body against opportunistic hostile
      agents.

      Pregnancy is an immune paradox: it allows maternal (host) acceptance of a semi-allograft
      (embryo), while it does not cause graft-versus-host or host-versus-graft reactions against
      the host/mother, or immune suppression. Therefore, the pregnant immunological status is
      compatible with the desired immune profile in patients undergoing BMT. By replicating the
      immune profile present in pregnancy in BMT patients, we may be able to reduce the occurrence
      of GVHD-related morbidity and mortality rates.

      Preimplantation factor (PIF-1) is a novel, embryo-secreted peptide whose synthetic version
      matches the native peptide's properties. PIF-1 appears to play an important role in mediating
      the maternal response to pregnancy in mammals. In preclinical studies, PIF-1 has been found
      to be effective in preclinical BMT-GVHD models, without apparent toxicity.
    
  