
    
      In this study, we intend to explore the feasibility and the effects of adding bevacizumab to
      Fl-TX in patients with intermediate stage head and neck cancer and selected patients with
      stage IV disease. As mentioned previously, although single modality therapy (surgery or
      radiotherapy alone) is often used to treat patients with Stage II head and neck malignancies,
      with substantial success, still there is a sizeable group of patients (approximately 30% or
      40%) who fail these treatments, and represent with locoregional recurrences which are much
      more difficult to treat. Furthermore, the common use of radical surgery in many instances
      leads to loss of organ function.

      Based on this knowledge, we feel that it is justifiable to include stage II patients (T2NO)
      in combined chemoradiation studies. Our extensive experience using chemoradiotherapy in
      patients with regionally advanced non-metastatic Stage 4 cancers of the head and neck area
      suggests that selected patients with low nodal status (Nondisease) including those with T4
      primaries (i.e. T4 NO MO and T4 Nl MO) have a lower risk of distant failure than patients
      that present with higher nodal status (N2 and N3 disease). Aggressive combined locoregional
      therapies such as the one that will be administered in the study, are in our opinion
      appropriate for this group of patients as they address the major concern which is
      locoregional failure.

      The primary goal of the study is exploration of the pharmacodynamic effects of bevacizumab
      (10 mg/kg) on appropriate markers of angiogenesis in tumor tissue in comparison to a
      non-bevacizumab containing chemoradiation regimen (FHX alone). These results will be
      correlated with a number of clinical endpoints including rapidity of clinical response,
      locoregional control rates, time to progression, need of salvage surgery, overall survival
      and measures of QOL and organ function. The predictive and prognostic value of specific
      molecular markers in patients with HNC will also be evaluated. In order to shorten the total
      duration of treatment without affecting the total administered dose, we have modified our
      traditional radiation schedule in FHX to include two treatment daily fractions as opposed to
      one. This modification will allow for the completion of all treatment in 4 to 5 cycles as
      opposed to the traditional 6 to 7 cycles. Given this modification in the radiation schedule,
      we considered it prudent to include a control arm (modified FHX) in addition to B-FHX, within
      a randomized design. The control arm will also help with the interpretation of the results
      obtained with the measurement of the correlative markers of angiogenesis.
    
  