
    
      The NORPLASMA MONITOR study:

      Main hypothesis: Plasma from selected COVID-19 convalescent blood donors contain
      neutralizing/therapeutic antibodies against Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
      (SARS-CoV-2) that may prevent generalized spreading of the infection if administered in a
      sufficient dose at the right time.

      The aim of the monitoring study is to monitor the treatment, characterize antibody
      properties, dose requirements and safety issues.

      In the NORPLASMA MONITOR study, the investigators will collect data from all patients treated
      with convalescent plasma in Norwegian hospitals/care institutions. The data will be compared
      to historical controls to evaluate efficacy, and for all transfusions, antibody
      characteristics and effective doses can be retrospectively calculated.

      The complete protocol is available on our web site
      https://www.ous-research.no/home/norplasma.

      Patients receiving COVID-19 convalescent plasma on a clinical indication as part of their
      treatment should be included in the MONITOR study.

      The purpose of the monitoring study is to collect as much clinical information as possible
      about patients with COVID-19 before and after administration of convalescent plasma, together
      with extensive data about blood donors and their antibody properties. Because the plasma
      units cannot be fully standardized before use, it is of vital importance to record enough
      data to allow necessary analysis and calculations, of e.g., antibody concentration in each
      recipient. Data will also be shared within the European Union (EU) to obtain results in a
      more efficient way from larger materials.

      For the execution of this study, the project group intends to establish cooperation with all
      hospitals/care institutions with transfusion procedures where COVID-19-patients are treated.
      Contact will be established via local coordinators in the blood centers, and clinical
      cooperation partners in relevant hospital departments will be recruited consecutively as
      COVID-19 patients where plasma treatment is considered indicated, are admitted. Since the
      treatment will be offered to these patients independent of study inclusion, it is important
      to communicate the value of the patient inclusion and data collection to their responsible
      care providers, so that participation can be encouraged.
    
  