
    
      The emergence of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) procedure brings up new
      challenges to anesthesiologists and urges us to contemplate the choice of anesthetics. In
      face of these challenges Dexmedetomdine with multiple unique traits can readily fit into this
      situation.

      Off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) procedure is an emerging procedure which might bring
      benefit to patients in comparison with conventional CABGs although final words about outcomes
      haven't been reached on the basis of recent literature. However, OPCAB technique definitely
      requires more involvement of anesthesiologists especially in cases where hemodynamic
      compromise is usually inevitable during anastomosis of Lcx or PDA and early extubation in the
      OR is expected1. Thus, the investigators are encountered with more intraoperative challenges
      caused by OPCAB than routine CABGs. Concerning about challenges the investigators might take
      on, the investigators shall not only pay more attention to surgeons' manipulation but also
      review anesthetics that the investigators have selected to find an optimal plan to minimize
      adverse effects on heart and other important organs. With this perspective, dexmedetomidine
      come into our sight with its peculiar traits of hemodynamic effects and assumed cardiac
      protective effects.

      Dexmedetomidine as a more selective α2-adrenoreceptor agonist than clonidine has gradually
      gain popularity in anesthetic and ICU settings for its unique pharmacologic characteristics.
      Dexmedetomidine provides sufficient sedative effects with minimal respiratory effect and then
      reduces the consumption of other sedative and antinociceptive drugs.Given specific
      requirements of OPCAB surgery, dexmedetomidine's may be more suitable in varying aspects.
      Firstly, dexmedetomine can dramatically diminish the level of serum catecholamine (CA). As
      the investigators know, the diminished level of catecholamine indicates less stress response
      to surgical stimuli and lower incidence of cardiac events. Secondly, the relatively slower HR
      by dexmedetomidine can decrease oxygen consumption of myocardium and consequently improve the
      perfusion of endangered ischemic area. In addition, the decreased HR which is assumably
      analogous to effects of esmolol or other β-blockers can reduce the occurrence of tachycardia
      and minimize the motion of heart when "bypass" procedure is performed on the target vessels.
      Thirdly, it has been reported that dexmedetomidine can alleviate sufferings of renal function
      during major thoracic surgery .Thus, it is implied that dexmedetomidine might in the similar
      way ameliorate the damage to renal system caused by hours of stress response and havoc of
      SIRS ,and then improve clinical prognosis . In view of assumptions the investigators have
      proposed on the ground of dexmedetomidine's characteristics and specific requirements of
      OPCAB surgery, the investigators are expecting that dexmdetomidine can fit the situation
      where patients' limited capacity of coronary artery and sophisticated pathophysiological
      courses have to be taken into account.
    
  