
    
      Objective: The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of the polypropylene tape
      in preventing cystocele recurrence when placed underneath the bladder base as a concomitant
      measure to the anterior colporrhaphy procedure.

      Methods: Fifty Caucasian women 50 to 77 years old (mean age 66.6 years), 2 pre and 48 post
      menopausal with stage II-IV pelvic organ prolapse, enrolled into the study. Vaginal
      reconstructive surgery included an anterior colporrhaphy in all patients, posterior
      colpoperineorrhaphy in 28 patients and hysterectomy in 36 patients. They were randomly
      divided in a control group of 22 women and a study group of 28 women. As reinforcement to the
      anterior colporrhaphy procedure a polypropylene tape (TVT-O) was placed not under the
      midurethra, as originally described in case of stress incontinence, but underneath the
      bladder base and was fixed there with polyglactin sutures, in the study group. The
      postoperative follow up was carried out in frequent intervals of 4 months (total 48 months).
      The assessment of the anatomic result included evaluation of the operated sites and of the
      position of the tapes inserted on clinical grounds and after perineal sonography, which
      measured the distance of the bladder base to the inferior edge of the symphysis pubis.

      Results: In all patients the postoperative correction of the anterior vaginal wall was
      sufficient; the mean distance of the bladder base to the inferior edge of the symphysis pubis
      was 1.5 cm (range 1.0-2.2 cm). Mean residual urine volume was 30 ml. There were
      postoperatively 2 cases of stress incontinence and two cases of urge incontinence one in each
      group. There was no case of tape erosion noted, no dyspareunia and no recurrent cystocele in
      the study group. Four cases of recurrent cystocele (20%) were reported in our control group.

      Conclusion: The tension free vaginal tape, particularly TVT-O, placed underneath the bladder
      base, when performed concomitantly to the anterior colporrhaphy appears to be safe and
      effective. While the preliminary results of our study are encouraging, larger series of
      patients and longer follow up are required to verify the effectiveness of the aforementioned
      modification.
    
  