
    
      Esophageal cancer is one of the common malignant tumors, especially in China and the annual
      incidence of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is 260,000 with the motility of 210,000. In
      western countries, the incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma (esophageal - gastric junction
      carcinoma) now dramatically increased than in the past. The pathological types of highest
      incidences are changing from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (Esophageal Squamous Cell
      Carcinoma, ESCC) to esophageal adenocarcinoma (Esophageal adenocarcinoma, EAC) whose
      incidence is about 60-70%. But in Asia, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is still the
      dominant pathological type, accounting for more than 95%. The prognosis of esophageal cancer
      is very poor. About 50% of patients have advanced disease at diagnosis and the natural course
      is only 6-8 months with a 5-year survival rate of 5-7%. In addition, though some patients
      received surgical treatment, disease will recurrent and metastasis in nearly 90% of the
      patients. For those patients in early stage (T1), there are still nearly 50% of patients
      relapse within 5 years. Therefore, in recent years, doctors and researchers in different
      countries are continued to seek effective treatment to improve the quality of life of
      patients with esophageal cancer and prolong survival.

      In past decades, there isn't much improvement of the outcome and survival of advanced
      esophageal cancer due to the lack of effective chemotherapy agents. The traditional
      chemotherapy drugs to treat esophageal cancer include 5 - fluorouracil and cisplatin and the
      combination of them results in a 25-35% response rate in both first-line and palliative
      treatment. And this combing is still the traditional chemotherapy regimens and wildly used in
      clinical studies to treat both esophageal gland, squamous cell carcinoma of the clinical
      study.

      Paclitaxel plus cisplatin regiment is another promising treatment of esophageal cancer and
      have been proved effective in a lot of studies. This combination has become a standard
      treatment of esophageal cancer, especially the esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. In one of
      our previous study, paclitaxel and cisplatin treatment showed encouraging clinical results
      with manageable side-effects in 131 patients of advanced esophageal cancer. These
      investigations have fully proved the efficacy and feasibility of the combination of
      paclitaxel with cisplatin regiment in the treatment of esophageal cancer. However, the lower
      solubility of paclitaxel limited its direct intravenous use. To solve this problem, the
      paclitaxel must inject with an addition of the surfactant polyoxyethylene castor oil.
      Polyoxyethylene castor oil paclitaxel could induce high incidence of acute hypersensitivity
      reactions, ie. severe allergic reactions, kidney damage, and neurotoxicity and cardiovascular
      toxicity which is characterized by axonal degeneration and demyelination. Though proper
      preventive treatment will greatly reduce the incidence of allergy, there are still a small
      number of patients have allergy reaction.

      As the investigators all know, the main adverse of cisplatin is the renal toxicity. The peak
      age of esophageal cancer patients are age 65 to 70 and many of them have simultaneously other
      diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, and chronic kidney disease which cause varying
      damages of renal function and limit the use of cisplatin in these patients. Therefore, it is
      urgent and crucial for doctors to seek an alternative of cisplatin in the combination
      chemotherapy treatment. There haven't well designed large scale clinical trials to evidence
      the non-platinum treatment in esophageal cancer. Therefore, the investigators designed this
      randomized clinical trial in which a novel combination of S-1 with paclitaxel is used to
      treat advanced esophageal cancer patients in compare with paclitaxel/cisplatin and
      5-FU/cisplatin treatment to explore its efficacy and toxicity. The investigators hope this
      study will provide some clues for the treatment of esophageal cancer patients.
    
  