
    
      Background: Colorectal cancer is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer in Taiwan. The
      five year relative survival rate of colorectal cancer is 61% and has become the third largest
      cancer survivor group. Survivors of colorectal cancer have to face long-term consequences of
      the disease and its treatment side effects, which in turn affect mood and psychological
      well-being. Overweight and unhealthy lifestyles will further impact on patient's prognosis
      and quality of life. The current follow-up systems often fail to adequately address patients'
      complex physical and mental needs. Self-management support may help colorectal cancer
      survivors to achieve healthy lifestyle and better adjustment. However, there is little
      research evidence to support it and also no theory-based self-management support
      interventions specifically designed for colorectal cancer survivors in Taiwan.

      Aim: The study aims is to test the efficacy of the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy -based
      self-management support program on the primary outcome, quality of life, and secondary
      outcomes, physical activity, fruit and vegetative intake, body mass index, sleep quality,
      emotion distress, and fatigue in colorectal cancer survivors .

      Design: An experimental design with repeated measures will be used to test the intervention
      efficacy. A convenient sample of 250 colorectal cancer (stage I-III) survivors who has
      completed initial treatments will be recruited and randomized to the control or intervention
      group. The intervention includes a colorectal cancer self-management information booklet, a
      DVD, two individual skill trainings and 12 follow-up telephone calls. These are to establish
      participants' self-management skills and healthy lifestyle, including physical activity and
      healthy eating fruits and vegetables. The control group will receive health education
      leaflets. Outcome variables will be assessed on the baseline, 2th, 4th, and 6th month in both
      groups.

      Instruments: The study instruments include a body weight scale, Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale, International Physical Activity Questionnaire, Eating at America's Table
      Study-Quick Food Scan, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, FACIT-Fatigue, and FACT-C.

      Data analysis: Descriptive analysis will be used to describe patients' demographics, disease
      variables, and outcome variables. The Chi-square, t-test, and General Linear Mix-effect Model
      will be used to test the efficacy of the study interventions.

      Significance: The study results will provide evidence for the efficacy of the self-management
      support intervention for enhancing healthy life style and quality of life in colorectal
      cancer survivors.
    
  