
    
      In premature infants the establishment of proper gastrointestinal function is challenging and
      often associated with delayed meconium passage. Meconium evacuation depends on gestational
      age and birthweight: the more immature an infant is, the later meconium passage starts and
      the longer meconium passage lasts. The mean duration of meconium evacuation in premature
      infants with a gestational age below 30 weeks is 8 days, while mature infants excrete their
      meconium in 2 days. The obstruction of deep intestinal segments by tenacious, sticky meconium
      frequently leads to gastric residuals, a distended abdomen and delayed food passage. The time
      lag to full enteral feedings is extended, the probability to acquire infections due to
      intravenous access for parenteral nutrition increases and the hospital stay of the infant is
      prolonged. However, the relation between meconium passage and feeding tolerance remains
      controversial. While one study showed that there is little concordance between first meconium
      passage and feeding tolerance, an other one showed that rapid and complete excretion of
      meconium is crucial for oral feeding tolerance and has a positive effect on it. Recently, the
      investigators performed a prospective randomized trial to determine, whether repeated
      prophylactic applications of small volume glycerin enemas accelerate passage of meconium in
      very low birth weight (VLBW) infants. Disappointingly, application of enemas did not
      accelerate meconium evacuation. A possible reason for the ineffectiveness of glycerin enemas
      is that the volume used was too small to mobilize tenacious meconium sufficiently from the
      colon and small bowel.

      Gastrografin is a radiopaque contrast agent for the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) which can be
      applied orally or rectally. In neonatal intensive care, Gastrografin is used to detect
      otherwise radiologically invisible perforations or an insufficient GIT anastomosis after
      surgery. Furthermore it is used for the treatment of meconium ileus. Gastrografin has a
      strong osmotic effect and leads to water influx into the intestine lumen. Thereby the
      peristaltic movement is accelerated and the premature infant excretes stool during the hours
      following application. Therefore Gastrografin might be more effective to mobilize meconium
      from small bowel and deep parts of the colon. The investigators hypothesized, that enteral
      application of Gastrografin accelerates meconium evacuation in premature infants, and thereby
      enhances feeding tolerance in this population. The objective of the present study is to
      determine whether the enteral application of the osmotic contrast agent Gastrografin®
      accelerates complete meconium excretion and improves feeding tolerance in very low birth
      weight infants.
    
  