
    
      Background

      Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and a platelet P2Y12 inhibitor is mandatory in
      patients after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Clopidogrel is the most widely used
      P2Y12 inhibitor with class I recommendation. However, clopidogrel is a pro-drug which has
      highly variable antiplatelet effect. Hypo-responsiveness to clopidogrel was associated with
      increased risk of thrombotic events after PCI.

      Increasing the dose of aspirin could not reduce thrombotic risk but resulted in elevated
      bleeding risk. Although new P2Y12 inhibitors have more potent antiplatelet effect and did
      reduce thrombotic risk compared with clopidogrel, the benefit was only demonstrated in
      patients undergoing PCI for moderate to high risk non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary
      syndrome (NSTE-ACS) or ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and was also
      associated with increased bleeding risk. Therefore, how to improve the antiplatelet therapy
      in patients taking aspirin and clopidogrel after PCI remains unclear.

      Berberine is an isoquinoline plant alkaloid which has anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant,
      anti-microbial, anti-tumoral and immunomodulatory properties, as well as anti-hypertensive,
      hypo-glycemic and cholesterol-lowering effects. In small studies conducted in patients with
      hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes, berberine with a daily dose of 600-1000 mg
      for 12 weeks had good safety profile and was well tolerated.

      In addition, berberine demonstrated antiplatelet effect. After in vivo administration in
      animals, berberine inhibited ex vivo platelet activation mediated by P2Y12 receptor and ex
      vivo platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP), arachidonic acid (AA),
      collagen, and thrombin, et al. After ex vivo administration, berberine inhibited ex vivo
      thromboxane B2 (TXB2) synthesis induced by ADP, AA, and collagen in animal platelets, as well
      as ex vivo platelet aggregation induced by collagen in a dose-dependent manner in platelets
      from healthy human volunteers. However, the antiplatelet effect of berberine has never been
      investigated in patients receiving DAPT after PCI.

      Design

      The APLABE-PCI is a single-center, randomized, open-label, controlled, dose-escalating,
      parallel-group study, which is designed to assess the anti-platelet effect of berberine in
      approximately 64 patients receiving aspirin and clopidogrel who are at > 8 but ≤ 40 weeks
      after PCI.

      The total study duration is expected to be approximately 19 weeks per patient, including a
      screening period, a 12±1 week treatment period, and a 4±1 week follow-up period.

      The visit schedule will be as follows:

        -  Visit 0 (V0): Day -21 to Day -1, Screening/Enrolment;

        -  Visit 1 (V1): Day 1, Randomization/First dose;

        -  Visit 2 (V2): Week 4±1, Dose adjustment 1;

        -  Visit 3 (V3): Week 8±1, Dose adjustment 2;

        -  Visit 4 (V4): Week 12±1, End of Treatment (EOT) /Last dose; •Visit 5 (V5): Week 16±1,
           Safety visit.

      The screening period will be up to 21 days. Once each patient has signed the informed
      consent, the eligibility of the patient will be evaluated and related laboratory assessments
      will be taken (Visit 0). All patients will continue taking aspirin and clopidogrel in the
      morning during the screening period.

      On the first day of the treatment period (Visit 1), eligible patients will return to the
      study center and be randomized into the Berberine Arm and the Control Arm. In the Berberine
      Arm, patients will receive berberine 200 mg twice daily for 4±1 weeks (Stage 1); then, 300 mg
      twice daily for 4±1 weeks (Stage 2); then, 400 mg twice daily for 4±1 weeks (Stage 3) in
      addition to standard treatment, including aspirin and clopidogrel. In the Control Arm,
      patients will receive standard treatment, including aspirin and clopidogrel, for 12±1 weeks.
      During the treatment period, patients in both arms will also take aspirin 100 mg once daily
      and clopidogrel 75 mg once daily for 12±1 weeks.

      The total daily dose of berberine will be taken separately in the morning and in the evening
      in approximately a 12-hour interval. On the first day of the treatment period (Visit 1), the
      morning dose (first dose) of berberine will be given 2-4 hour after aspirin and clopidogrel
      are taken together in the morning and immediately after the blood and urine samples for
      baseline platelet function tests are collected. Since the second day of the treatment period,
      the morning dose of berberine will be taken simultaneously with aspirin and clopidogrel in
      the morning.

      At the ends of Stage 1 (Visit 2), Stage 2 (Visit 3), and Stage 3 (Visit 4) (end of treatment,
      EOT), patients will return to the study center. During each stage, the last morning doses of
      all antiplatelet agents, including berberine, aspirin, and clopidogrel in the Berberine Arm,
      as well as aspirin and clopidogrel in the Control Arm, will be administered simultaneously at
      the study center in the morning on Visit 2, Visit 3, and Visit 4, respectively.

      A follow-up period will begin on the next day after Visit 4 and will continue for 4±1 weeks.
      During the follow-up period, patients in both arms will continue taking aspirin and
      clopidogrel. At the end of the follow-up period, patients will return to the study center for
      a safety visit (Visit 5).

      In the Berberine Arm, the blood and urine samples for platelet function tests will be
      obtained 2-4 hour after aspirin and clopidogrel are taken in the morning and before the first
      morning dose of berberine is taken on Visit 1, and 2-4 hours after the morning doses of
      berberine, aspirin and clopidogrel are taken on Visit 2, Visit 3, and Visit 4, respectively.
      In the Control Arm, the blood and urine samples for platelet function tests will be collected
      2-4 hours after the morning doses of aspirin and clopidogrel are given on Visit 1, Visit 2,
      Visit 3, and Visit 4, respectively.

      In the Berberine Arm, the blood and urine samples for safety assessment will be collected on
      Visit 0, and 2-4 hours after the morning doses of berberine, aspirin and clopidogrel are
      taken on Visit 2, Visit 3, and Visit 4, as well as on Visit 5, respectively. In the Control
      Arm, the blood and urine samples for safety assessment will be collected on Visit 0, and 2-4
      hours after the morning doses of aspirin and clopidogrel are taken on Visit 2, Visit 3, and
      Visit 4, as well as on Visit 5, respectively.

      Adverse events will be collected on Visit 1, Visit 2, Visit 3, Visit 4, and Visit 5,
      respectively. Cardiac ischemic events and bleeding events will be collected on Visit 2, Visit
      3, and Visit 4, respectively.

      The primary endpoint of the study is P2Y12 reaction unit (PRU) assessed by VerifyNow assay
      2-4 h after all the antiplatelet agents are taken simultaneously in the morning at the end of
      the treatment period (Visit 4, EOT), i.e., on the 12th (11th-13th) week of treatment.

      Conclusions

      The APLABE-PCI study will assess the anti-platelet effect of berberine in patients receiving
      aspirin and clopidogrel after PCI. The result of the present study would provide
      pharmacodynamical data for the design of future outcome studies.
    
  