
    
      This is a single arm study to assess the safety and performance of the Omega™ Left Atrial
      Appendage (LAA) Occluder in patients with Non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) and high
      bleeding risk.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the ISO standard ISO 14155 (Clinical
      investigation of medical devices for human subjects - Good clinical practice) and other legal
      requirements as applicable.

      The primary performance endpoint of the study is LAA closure (defined as complete seal or
      efficient seal with a peri-device leak ≤ 5 mm) at 60 days (+/- 15 days) visit documented by
      transoesophageal echocardiogram (TEE/TOE) with colour flow Doppler.

      The primary safety endpoint of the study is device-related complications (serious adverse
      events [SAEs]) through 60 days (+/- 15 days) post-procedural.

      Following consent a number of assessments will be undertaken prior to the procedure to ensure
      the study eligibility criteria are met. These assessments include; medical history, physical
      exams, ECG, blood tests, transthoracic echocardiogram, transesophageal echocardiogram and
      cardiac CT.

      The implant procedure will usually be performed under general anaesthetic. A thin catheter is
      inserted in the femoral vein in the right groin area and advanced under X-Ray guidance to the
      right atrium, then a very small needle is used to cross through to the left atrium to allow
      the delivery catheter to place the Omega in the Appendage, guided by both X-Ray and
      transesophageal echo. A medication regimen for endocarditis prophylaxis anticoagulation is
      recommended post procedure.

      Following discharge, patients will be seen again at 60 days, 6 months and 12 months to
      collect data for the primary performance endpoint (by TTE or TEE) and safety endpoints (mRS,
      stroke/TIA assessments, and ECG).

      An interim analysis is planned following the collection of 60 day data for the first 10
      patients implanted with the device. An additional interim analysis will be performed
      following the collection of 60 days (+/- 15 days) data for the first 50 patients implanted
      with the device.

      Final analysis will be performed once all 150 subjects have been implanted with the device
      and completed the study to further document and confirm the safety and effectiveness of the
      device.
    
  