
    
      Increasing or maintaining muscle mass is of great importance for populations ranging from
      athletes to patients and elderly. Resistance exercise and protein ingestion are two of the
      most potent stimulators of muscle protein synthesis. Both the physical characteristic of
      proteins (e.g. different digestion rates of whey and casein) and the amino acid composition,
      affects the potential of a certain protein to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. Given its
      superior ability to rapidly increase blood leucine concentrations to high levels, whey is
      often considered the most potent protein source to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. Native
      whey protein is produced by filtration of unprocessed milk. Consequently, native whey has
      different characteristics than milk. Of special interest is the higher amounts of the highly
      anabolic amino acid leucine in native whey.

      The higher levels of leucine can be of great interest for elderly individuals as some studies
      in elderly has shown an anabolic resistance to the effects of protein feeding and strength
      training. By increasing levels of leucine one might overcome this anabolic resistance in the
      elderly.

      The aim of this double-blinded, randomized, partial cross-over study is to compare the
      changes in muscle hypertrophy and strength after a 11 (elderly) or 12 (young) week training
      intervention with daily supplementation of either 2x20g of native whey or milk proteins in
      young and elderly individuals. In order to explain potential differences between supplements
      an acute study investigating acute responses in blood amino acid concentrations and
      intracellular signalling is planned, in a subgroup of participants, before and after the
      training intervention.

      The investigators hypothesize that native whey will induce greater muscle hypertrophy and
      strength gains than milk.
    
  