
    
      Reducing new HIV and STI infections among South African (SA) adolescent girls and young women
      (AGYW) is global public health priority. SA has the world's largest HIV epidemic, and SA AGYW
      acquire HIV at twice the rate of and seroconvert on average 5 - 7 years earlier than male
      peers. As new infections continue to outpace access to and availability of pre-exposure
      prophylaxis (PrEP) and antiretroviral therapy (ART), primary prevention remains the most
      viable strategy to stem new transmission. SA efforts to prevent HIV transmission in youth
      focus mostly on individual-level behavior change, but AGYW's persistent HIV disparities are
      explained by broad social and structural inequities that shape and constrain HIV-risk
      behaviors. Comprehensive HIV prevention packages that are integrated, synergistic, and
      tailored to the local epidemiology and cultural context are likely to achieve and sustain
      maximum reductions in HIV-risk. Female caregivers (FC) are an untapped resource in the HIV
      prevention toolbox and offer a novel opportunity to strengthen AGYW prevention efforts. AGYW
      may also be change agents for their FC who want to be positive role models for AGYW, and
      thus, adopt HIV prevention behaviors, including HTC and PrEP.

      This study will evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of Informed Motivated Aware
      and Responsible Adolescents and Adults (IMARA), a multilevel, innovative, family-based HIV
      prevention program that targets individual, social, and structural drivers of risk. IMARA
      demonstrated a 43% reduction in incident STI at 12-month follow-up among black 14-18-year-old
      girls in the US. IMARA has been systematically tailored for the SA context and piloted among
      AGYW and FC dyads. A two-arm RCT will now be conducted with about 525 AGYW (15-19 years old)
      and FC dyads. Following randomization, AGYW-FC dyads will participate in a 2-day group
      workshop (~12 hours) that includes joint and separate mother and daughter activities. AGYW
      and FC will complete baseline, 6-, and 12-month assessments, including testing for three STI
      (chlamydia, gonorrhea, and trichomoniasis). We will offer HTC and PrEP at each assessment and
      track uptake and linkage to care. AGYW and FC who are HIV-negative and interested in PrEP
      will receive a one-month supply and referral to a clinic. They will additionally receive
      treatment and counseling if testing positive for an STI and referral for care at an ART
      clinic if testing positive for HIV. Data will be collected to determine the costs of IMARA.
      Analyses will compare AGYW across the intervention and control programs on STI incidence, and
      PrEP and HTC uptake, in addition to secondary outcomes. We will also evaluate the costs and
      cost-effectiveness of IMARA with respect to the acquisition of STI and HIV, where possible
      considering power limitations. Additionally, the intervention's implementation will be
      explored. The study answers an urgent need to evaluate the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of combination HIV prevention packages for AGYW.
    
  