
    
      Prospective observational cohort study. Patients over 65 years of age, with TDM2 using
      insulin with or without the use of associated oral antidiabetic agents and with HbA1c between
      7% and 9%, will be identified by medical records at the Hospital da Cruz Vermelha
      Brasileira-Filial do Paraná and they will be invited to participate in the study by telephone
      and forwarded to the research center Cline Research Center where the study procedures will be
      carried out. Patients from the private clinic of neurology and endocrinology Cline will also
      be invited by telephone. In this way the sample of patients will include patients from the
      public and private health system.

      On the first visit to the research centers, after signing the informed consent form (ICF),
      patients will be evaluated for the presence of other comorbidities associated with diabetes
      such as the presence of cardiovascular disease, hypertension and dyslipidemia.

      The screening for the presence of sarcopenia will be performed with the application of the
      SARC-F questionnaire; measuring muscle strength with grip strength; the functional test of
      getting up from the chair without supporting the arms and walking for 3 meters, turning 180º
      and returning to sit. The time in which the elderly person performs this task is timed and
      the time up to 20 seconds is considered normal.

      Patients will undergo a complete physical examination and body composition analysis using the
      InBody 270 multifrequency bioimpedance to calculate the appendicular skeletal musculature.

      After the first evaluation at the research centers, patients will be referred to partner
      laboratories that use the same methodologies for measuring HbA1c, blood count, urea,
      creatinine, glutamic oxalacetic transaminase (TGO) and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (TGP),
      which will be performed only at the initial visit.

      During the second visit to the research center, the FreeStyle Libre Flash interstitial
      glucose sensor will be inserted for the first time in the posterior and upper arm and the
      patient will be instructed to read the glucose at least 10 times a day, being sure to check
      glucose for a period longer than 8 hours. The patient should be instructed to return to the
      research center every 2 weeks to change the sensor until completing the 6-week period.

      The patient's travel to the research center will be reimbursed by the study team. The study
      will be carried out at the Hospital da Cruz Vermelha Brasileira-Filial do Paraná, located in
      Curitiba in partnership with the independent research center Cline Research Center (CRC).
      Eligible patients will be randomly selected from clinical outpatients at participating
      institutions, concomitantly.
    
  