
    
      The proposed investigation is an experimental trial among 80 adults with obesity and
      internalized weight bias to determine preliminary effects of a smartphone-delivered brief
      self-compassion mindfulness intervention on internalized weight bias, compared to wait list
      control.

      All participants will receive a 4-week mindfulness-based intervention via smartphone.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms: (1) the intervention
      group, a self-compassion mindfulness practice tailored for weight and body concerns, or (2) a
      wait list control group, who will receive access to the intervention content following
      completion of end-of-treatment assessments. All intervention content will be delivered via
      text message using Duke REDCap with Twilio integration. The intervention group will also
      complete psychoeducation on internalized weight bias and self-compassion. We will measure a
      number of potential moderating and mediating constructs, such as depression, trauma history,
      etc.

      Intervention Components:

      Intervention Group:

      Guided Mindfulness Practice: Participants in the intervention group will receive
      compassion-based guided meditation audio recordings made publicly available by Kristin Neff
      at www.selfcompassion.org and Tara Brach at www.tarabrach.com. Many of these audio files were
      used in a previous investigation of self-compassion and body image (Albertson et al., 2015)
      and were selected due to their unique ability to target compassion and body concerns
      simultaneously. Daily mindfulness practice will require about 4-20 minutes per day to
      complete (days 2-28).

      Psychoeducation: Participants in the intervention group will receive psychoeducation
      delivered via study website over days 1-6 (see Table 2). They will receive a new lesson via
      text message on each of these days, each covering a different topic related to the
      intervention. The purpose of the psychoeducation phase is to orient users to their upcoming
      experience, provide education about internalized weight bias, the chronic stress system, the
      utility of self-compassion practice to regulate physiological and psychological targets, and
      guidance on establishing, maintaining, and generalizing a mindfulness practice. Engagement in
      psychoeducation materials will take approximately 20-30 minutes per day (days 1-6).

      Daily prompts: Participants will receive a text message every morning indicating their task
      for that day. Tasks include: review psychoeducation provided, or practice mindfulness today.
      Prompts will be brief and will require a minute or two to read. Assigned activity varies by
      day.

      Weekly prompts: Participants will receive a text message at the end of every week (Days 7,
      14, 21, and 28) with a link to a brief adherence survey. This will measure how many days they
      practiced that week. The brief adherence survey will take approximately 5 minutes to
      complete.
    
  