
    
      Introduction The cardiac rehabilitation optimizes a cardiac patient's physical,
      psychological, and social functioning, in addition to stabilizing, slowing, or even reversing
      the progression of the underlying atherosclerotic processes, thereby reducing morbidity and
      mortality. Patients who recently had had a myocardial infarction; or had undergone coronary
      artery bypass graft; or who had undergone percutaneous coronary interventions; or who are
      heart transplantation candidates or recipients; or have stable chronic heart failure,
      peripheral arterial disease with claudication, or other forms of CVD are candidates eligible
      for cardiac rehabilitation services ( , ).

      Recently, studies randomized clinical trials have reported the efficacy of the exercise
      training (ET) independently of format of exercise: aerobic, resistance, or combined exercise
      training in patients with coronary artery disease ( , ) and, others studies investigated the
      effects of ET on vascular endothelial function in patients with stable coronary artery
      disease ( ), ischemic heart disease ( ), recent myocardial infarction (4), and chronic heart
      failure (3, , ). ET is associated with an improvement in endothelial function, oxidative
      stress, and inflammation. Furthermore, the ET promotes beneficial effects on cardiovascular
      outcomes and decreases hospitalizations.

      Arterial endothelium function evaluated by flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) is a predictor of
      long-term adverse cardiovascular outcomes in healthy subjects ( ). Vascular endothelial
      dysfunction is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events and provides important
      prognostic data in addition to the more traditional risk factors ( ). Endothelial dysfunction
      plays an important role in patients with coronary atherosclerosis (both acute and chronic
      myocardial ischemia) and heart failure (3,5, ). Therefore, we aim to investigate the effect
      of combined exercise training on vascular endothelial function in sedentary patients
      submitted to coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) in late phase.

      Methods The protocol was approved by the local ethics committee of Associação de Caridade
      Santa Casa do Rio Grande Hospital, Rio Grande/RS - Brazil, under the protocol number
      003/2013. This study was non-randomized clinical trial. The written informed consent was
      obtained from all patients before of the onset of ET. The investigators invited all
      consecutive patients submitted to CABG alone at Cardiologic Hospital Doctor Pedro Bertoni of
      the Associação de Caridade Santa Casa do Rio Grande in the period of October, 2011 until
      October, 2012, who resided in the city of the Rio Grande (RS/Brazil), to participate of the
      ET. The investigators excluded the patients that performed others cardiologic procedures with
      the CABG. All patients were evaluated by cardiologist, and were ranked in Functional
      Classification of New York Heart Association (NYHA) such class I and II. Initially,
      twenty-four patients accepted and start to participate of ET, but only nine patients
      completed the program until the end.

      The program of exercise training (ET) was employed for 6 consecutive months with 3 sessions
      per week. The training of physical activity consisted of a combination of aerobic and
      resistance exercises for upper and lower limbs. Each session included: (1) 5-minute warm-up,
      (2) 30 minutes of aerobic exercise (performed in treadmills and stationary bikes); (3) 20
      minutes of resistance exercises with dumbbells for upper limbs and ankle support for lower
      limbs (exercises preformed in diagonals) that consisted of 6 sets of 10 resistance exercises
      repeated for upper limbs, and the same number of sets for lower limbs; and (4) 5-minute
      cool-down, totaling ninety minutes of session per day (90min/day) and, two hundred and
      seventy minutes per week (270min/week) ( ). Initialy, in aerobic exercises, the maximal HR to
      be achieved was established between 30-40% of HR at rest and, the aerobic exercise was
      limited by symptoms reported by patients. The initial weight of the dumbbells and ankle were
      established between 30-40% of one-repetition maximum test (1-RM test) and, gradually
      increased according to the symptoms reported by patients, without compensation of the trunk
      to perform the exercises, no history of muscle pain, and no muscle fatigue to complete all
      sessions. Heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), saturation pulse of oxygen, and blood
      pressure were measured at the beginning, middle and end of each session. The intensity and
      the velocity of the exercise program were progressively increased.

      The baseline assessment was performed before the beginning of ET and, consisted of: blood
      chemistry (glycemia, insulin, glycohemoglobin, total-, high-, and low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol, triglycerides); body mass index; strength of upper and lower limbs by 1-RM test
      of biceps brachialis and quadriceps, respectively; evaluation of functional capacity and;
      evaluation of vascular endothelial function.

      Cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoproteins (HDLc) and, glucose urea were measured
      using LAB TEST commercial kits (Lagoa Santa, MG, Brazil) and analyzed in LAB MAX 240® (Tokyo,
      Japan) equipment. The low density lipoproteins (LDLc) was calculated by Friedewald's formula.
      Glucose levels were measured by Trinder assay (calorimetry) in the equipment LAB MAX 240®
      (Tokyo, Japan). The insulin was assessed by chemiluminescence method using the Immulite® DPC
      equipment (Diagnostic Products Corporation - DPC, Los Angeles, CA, USA). The glycosylated
      hemoglobin (HbA1c) was determined by enzymatic method using the equipment LAB MAX 240®
      (Tokyo, Japan).

      The 6-minutes walking test (6MWT) is used to assess the functional capacity of the
      individual, which is extremely important to evaluate tolerance and exercise capacities for
      the evaluation clinical and prognosis of patients with cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases
      ( , ). The 6MWT was performed on the first day in a linear corridor with 40 meters of length,
      and the researcher performed the test giving verbal commands to the patient, which should be
      done the best speed supported by him, and the researcher asked to the patient what their
      physical sensations. Data were collected before, at 3 minutes and at the end of the test for
      respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), saturation pulse in portable pulse oximeter (Nonin®,
      model 9500, Plymouth, USA), and blood pressure systemic.

      Flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) was measured to evaluating arterial endothelium-dependent
      vasodilation using a high-resolution vascular ultrasound (Logiq P6, GE Healtcare, GE
      Ultrasound Korea Ltda.) according to American Heart Association Guideline ( ) with
      adjustments ( , ). Settings of depth and gain imaging were kept constant throughout the
      study. Briefly, changing in brachial artery diameter after 60 s of reactive hyperemia, after
      deflation of a cuff placed around the upper arm and inflated to 50 mmHg above the systolic
      blood pressure during five min, was compared with a baseline measurement. To evaluate basal
      blood flow and flow immediately after cuff release obtained no later than 15 s after cuff
      deflation we used a pulsed-wave Doppler velocity signals (assessed using Doppler bean-vessel
      angle ≤60º). The increased diameter after a sublingual nitroglycerin spray (0.4 mg) was used
      as a measurement of endothelium-independent vasodilation. The vessel diameter responses to
      reactive hyperemia and to nitroglycerin were expressed as the percentage changing relative to
      diameter immediately before cuff inflation and to diameter immediately before drug
      administration. Measurements of brachial artery diameter were accomplished off line by two
      evaluators using a semiautomatic quantitative analysis system after interventions. The second
      evaluator performing measures was blind to first evaluator's measures. Differences larger
      than 0.01 mm between assessors (mean vessel diameter) repeated were repeated. All data were
      measured twice, and final values were present as mean.

      A nutritional counseling was performed, in wich the patients were instructed to avoid
      consumption of saturated fat and high-calorie foodstuff, to intake of dietary fiber, to
      maintain good hydration and to implement a fractionation of meals throughout the day, besides
      to receive instructions of food preparation, according to "I Diretriz sobre o Consumo de
      Gorduras e Saúde Cardiovascular" in "Arquivos Brasileiros de Cardiologia" of the "Sociedade
      Brasileira de Cardiologia" ( ).

      All tests were repeated after 6 months, and the results were compared to baseline tests. The
      training program was stopped at this point.

      The data are presented as the means ± SD. Distribution of variables was tested by Shapiro
      Wilk normality test. Baseline values were compared to values after 6 months of training
      program by use paired t-test. A value of P<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  