
    
      Motor cortex stimulation (MCS) is a form of brain stimulation for patients with medically
      refractory neuropathic pain. The strength of stimulation can be individually adjusted by
      changing the voltage of stimulation. Too high voltage will produce side effects (e.g.
      seizures) while too low voltage will not provide pain control. The aim of this study is to
      analyze the optimal stimulation parameters in patients already implanted with a motor cortex
      stimulation who have received good pain relief. The actual voltage may vary widely between
      patients (because of the individual variations in tissue resistance) but the investigators
      feel that there may be an "ideal" voltage if it is measured as a percentage of motor
      threshold (PMT).

      If motor threshold is the voltage that can evoke a muscle contraction then a PMT = 80% would
      be a voltage that was eighty percent of that value. Although the actual voltage may be
      different between patients, the effective PMT may be similar since it represents a more
      physiologic measure of stimulation.

      Systematic analysis of the findings of this study might help the individual participant and
      future patients by reducing voltage to the lowest effective setting and reducing the chance
      of seizures.

      Motor cortex stimulation is used in the treatment of neuropathic pain since 1991 but still no
      guidelines for programming exist and programming is therefore mainly bases on trial and
      error. This is mostly due to many variables influencing the choice of stimulation parameters
      and significant individual differences in susceptibility to stimulation. Routinely the motor
      threshold is determined during programming to identify the superior limit of voltage at which
      twitching is induced. No stimulation above the motor threshold should be performed as this is
      known to cause seizures. The voltage of simulation that will be effective for an individual
      is unknown at the beginning of the treatment.

      The investigators try to find the lowest effective voltage because that will reduce the risk
      of stimulation-induced seizures and prolong the life of the pacemaker.
    
  