
    
      A total of 80 individuals, comprising 20 patients with stage II grade B periodontitis (P1
      Group), 20 patients with stage III grade B periodontitis (P2 Group), 20 patients with
      gingivitis (G Group), and 20 periodontally healthy controls (H Group) were involved in the
      study.

      The participants were classified into four groups depending on periodontal health status in
      accordance with the consensus reports of the 2017 World Workshop:

        1. periodontally healthy (H) group: no interproximal attachment loss (AL), probing depth
           (PD) ≤3 mm, bleeding on probing (BOP) scores <10%;

        2. gingivitis (G) group: no interproximal AL, PD ≤3 mm, and BOP ≥10%;

        3. stage II grade B periodontitis (P1) group: 3 <PD ≤5 mm and 3 ≤ clinical attachment loss
           (CAL) <5 mm in one or more sites of the 2 non-adjacent teeth in at least two quadrants
           of the mouth, full mouth BOP ≥ 10% and no tooth loss due to periodontitis

        4. stage III grade B periodontitis (P2) group: PD >5 mm and CAL ≥ 5 mm in one or more sites
           of the 2 non-adjacent teeth in at least two quadrants of the mouth, full mouth BOP >10%
           and tooth loss due to periodontitis of ≤4 teeth.

      Inclusion criteria were as follows:

        1. aged >18 years,

        2. having at least 16 natural teeth (excluding third molar),

        3. not having any diagnosed medical illness or drug intake that could affect the
           periodontal condition.

      Exclusion criteria were as follows:

        1. The patients who had taken antibiotics, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory or any other drugs
           within the past 3 months,

        2. received nonsurgical or surgical periodontal treatment,

        3. a restorative and endodontic therapy requirement,

        4. a removable partial denture and/or having orthodontic therapy

        5. Current pregnancy or lactation, obesity, heavy smoking and having serum C reactive
           protein (CRP) > 3mg/L.

      All individuals were examined at baseline and four weeks after non-surgical periodontal
      treatment including, whole mouth probing depth (PD), CAL, presence of bleeding on probing
      (BOP), papillar bleeding index (PBI), gingival index (GI) and plaque index (PI) except the
      third molars. PD and CAL were measured at six sites per tooth using a manual periodontal
      probe.

      The non-surgical periodontal treatment for P1 and P2 groups included supra- and subgingival
      scaling, root planing and oral hygiene instructions. Subgingival scaling and root planing
      were performed under local anesthesia in two sessions within the 48-72 h. Gingivitis group
      had supra-and subgingival scaling, polishing and oral hygiene instructions. The treatment of
      gingivitis and periodontitis patients were performed by a periodontist (BM) using hand and
      ultrasonic instruments. All measurements were performed by the same calibrated examiner (BM).

      Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) sampling

      GCF samples were obtained from four nonadjacent interproximal sites in two maxillar and two
      mandibular multi-rooted teeth by standardized filter paper strips. GCF samples were taken
      from four sites with GI <1, PD ≤ 3, PBI =0 and CAL =0 in the H group; from four sites with GI
      ≥2, PD ≤3, PBI >2 and CAL=0 in the G group; from four sites (deepest pockets 3 <PD ≤5) with
      GI ≥2, PBI >2 and 3 ≤CAL <5 mm in P1 group; and from four sites (deepest pockets PD ≥5) with
      GI ≥2, PBI >2 and CAL ≥5 mm in P2 group according to the baseline clinical measurements.

      Serum sampling

      Serum samples were taken following GCF sampling before the periodontal treatment. Six
      milliliters of venous blood were obtained by a standard venipuncture method and the serum was
      separated from blood by centrifugation at 1,500 g for 20 minutes.

      Biochemical Assays

      Levels of GCF ErbB4, Nrg4, IL-6, IL-10 and levels of serum ErbB4, Nrg4, nitric oxide synthase
      (NOS)2 and Arg1 were measured by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using
      commercial kits according to the manufacturer's guidelines.

      Statistical Analysis

      All data analyses were performed using a statistical software package. Comparisons of
      clinical and biochemical parameters between the study groups were performed using the
      Kruskal- Wallis with Mann Whitney U test with Bonferroni correction method. The intragroup
      comparisons (at baseline and first month) were performed using Wilcoxon test for paired
      samples. Associations among levels of the GCF and serum biomarkers and clinical parameters
      were also examined using the Spearman rank correlation analysis.
    
  