
    
      Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) is a systemic bone metabolism disease, characterized by
      progressive bone loss following menopause and a subsequent increase in fracture risk.
      Estrogen deficiency as a result of menopause is known to increase bone resorption and
      accelerate bone loss. Furthermore, postmenopausal women may exhibit iron accumulation, in
      addition to estrogen deficiency. Elevated iron levels are a risk factor for PMOP in
      postmenopausal women, and reducing the iron overload by iron chelators has been demonstrated
      to benefit bone cell metabolism in vitro and improve the bone in vivo by normalizing
      osteoclastic bone resorption and formation.

      Although the safety and efficacy of deferasirox have been evaluated in iron-overloaded
      patients extensively, there are no data in iron-accumulated postmenopausal women, let alone
      in iron-accumulated postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Therefore, at the currently
      planned dose, confirming safety and efficacy is essential in the current study to lay the
      groundwork for a future phase III clinical trial.

      This is a prospective, phase II, randomized, open label, placebo-controlled study of
      calcium-vitamin D3 plus deferasirox vs. calcium-vitamin D3 for postmenopausal osteoporosis.
      Ten postmenopausal women diagnosed with osteoporosis by DXA, who were accompanied by iron
      accumulation (serum 500ng/ml≤ferritin≤1000ng/ml), will be randomized to receive
      calcium-vitamin D3 plus deferasirox or calcium-vitamin D3 (n = 5 per arm).

      The primary objective is to determine the safety and tolerability of adjunctive deferasirox
      therapy in postmenopausal women being treated with calcium-vitamin D3 for osteoporosis, and
      to obtain exploratory data on the efficacy of the iron chelation treatment. The reduction in
      iron levels with deferasirox may provide a viable therapeutic option for mitigating the iron
      accumulation associated with PMOP.
    
  