
    
      Study design and participants:

      A cross-sectional survey of 106 women with incontinence was conducted at lady Willingdon
      hospital from June to November 2019. The medical officers of gynecology outdoor scrutinized
      all the women who had complained of urinary incontinence for at least one year and did not
      pursue any treatment for this problem previously.

      All the participants signed written informed consent and got their Proforma filled either by
      themselves or by assisting medical officer.

      In previous studies, delay to the treatment of >3 years was considered significant(15)(16);
      thus, all eligible women were divided into two groups based on the delay of up to three years
      and m than 3 years according to the duration of incontinence as stated by the subject and
      studied for predictors of incontinence.

      Ethical approval This study had ethical approval from King Edward Medical University,
      Pakistan. the study was conducted according to the Declaration of the Helsinki and obtained
      informed consent from participants before the study commenced. All information collected from
      the participants was kept confidential, and Proformas were wasted after entering data in the
      spss data sheet.

      Statistical analysis. The study results were calculated with SPSS version 20 (SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL, USA). The means and standard deviation were used to calculate the age of
      subjects and the duration of delay in seeking treatment. The subjects with potential risk
      factors were represented as numbers and percentages. The subjects with short delay(less than
      or equal to three years) and a long delay (greater than three years) were presented as number
      and percentages for reporting their incontinence. Univariate analysis was performed on all
      risk factors of delay and then multivariate analysis on significant risk factors to determine
      the most effective factors for delay in seeking treatment. P-value ≤ 0.05 was considered
      statistically significant.
    
  