
    
      Lymphedema is a swelling in the arm, chest wall and breast on the side of the breast cancer.
      Arm lymphedema develops as a result of breast cancer surgery and/ or radiation therapy.
      Compression therapy and exercise are commonly prescribed treatment to help reduce the arm
      swelling and to maintain the result. The exercise that is usually prescribed for lymphedema
      is called decongestive remedial exercise. It involves active, non-resisted movements that
      follow a specific order from proximal to distal and back proximally. The exercises start at
      the neck, move to the chest wall and then down the arm, and back.

      Two different types of compression garments have been proposed to help reduce swelling when
      women are exercising. One compression garment is made with a stiffer, less elastic type of
      material and is called a "flat-knit" garment. The other garment, the "Adjustable Compression
      Wrap" is a garment with an adjustable elastic strapping system that helps to reinforce the
      compression on the arm. Recent research suggests that these specialized garments enhance the
      muscle pump effect on lymph flow; however, no research has been conducted to test whether
      this actually results in improvements in arm lymphedema volume.

      Resistance exercise training helps to improve arm flexibility, strength, function, and
      quality of life in breast cancer survivors. Recent evidence has shown that breast cancer
      survivors with lymphedema, can safely perform resistance training (strength training),
      however, there is no impact (better or worse) on arm lymphedema volume.

      To date, no studies have been performed combining all potential therapeutic approaches for
      lymphedema management: resistance exercise, a therapeutic decongestive exercise sequence, and
      compression therapy. Women in the experimental arms of this study will wear a compression
      garment when performing progressive resistance exercise that follows the decongestive
      sequence. We will examine the effect of the combined intervention on arm lymphedema volume,
      function and quality of life.
    
  