
    
      Research rational

      The use of antibiotics as prophylaxis for surgical site infection (SSI) is well based in most
      fields of surgery. The use of prophylactic antibiotics can reduce the rate of post-surgical
      infections substantially. Nonetheless, overuse of these drugs is likely to expose patients to
      adverse effects, increase the rate of microbial drug resistance and lead to unnecessary
      expenses.

      In the field of dentistry there are recommendations for prevention of infective endocarditis.
      The use of antibiotics for SSI in the field of oral and maxillofacial surgery is not well
      established, with inconsistent and even contradictory recommendations.

      Sinus floor lift and augmentation is a common surgical procedure in modern dentistry. It aims
      to increase the amount of bone in the posterior maxilla, in the area of the premolar and
      molar teeth, prior to placement of dental implants. The procedure is performed in a per-oral
      approach; a mucoperiosteal flap is elevated, the lateral boney wall of the sinus is exposed
      and a window is cut with a surgical bur. The Schneiderian membrane (sinus periost) is
      separated and lifted from the bone and a bone graft material is placed into the newly created
      space. The graft material used can be an autograft, an allograft, a xenograft, an alloplast
      or a combination of these materials.

      The rate of post-operative infection after a sinus lift procedure reaches 7%. An evidence
      based approach for antibiotic prophylaxis for this procedure does not exist. The standard of
      care is based on clinical experience and protocols for placing dental implants in the jaws
      bone.

      The current protocols include broad spectrum antibiotics aimed at oral bacteria and main
      pathogens in acute bacterial sinusitis (Streptoccocus pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis,
      Haemophilus influenzae): amoxicillin+clavulanic acid or clindamycin /
      clarithromycin+metronidazole for patients with penicillin allergy. According to the common
      protocol, the antibiotics are given one day prior to surgery or at the day of surgery (one
      hour before the first cut) and are continued for seven days post-operatively. This practice
      contradicts the current recommendation for a shortened postoperative course of antimicrobials
      for less than 24 hours (10). No evidence suggests that prescribing antibiotics beyond 24
      hours lowers the rate of SSI. On the other hand, a prolonged prophylactic regimen elevates
      the risk of Clostridium difficile infection and contributes to antibiotic resistance.

      Lindenboom and Van den Akker have demonstrated in 2003 that not administrating prophylactic
      antibiotics at all prior to bone augmentation elevates the rate of SSI significantly in
      comparison with a patient who receives antibiotics. On the other hand, our clinical
      experience shows that short term prophylactic antibiotics (up to 3 days post-operatively) in
      sinus augmentation surgery and other bone augmentations in the oral cavity do not elevate the
      risk of SSI. The need to prescribe antibiotics for more than 24 hours post-operatively was
      never evaluated in a clinical trial.

      In the current trial we will test the hypothesis that a short prophylactic regimen does not
      differ from a prolonged one. On the contrary, we hypothesize that the adverse effects rate
      will be lower in patients that will receive antibiotics for a short period.

      Aim of the study

      This is a prospective randomized non-blinded trial which compares a short prophylactic
      regimen (till on day post-operatively) with a long prophylactic regimen (till seven days
      post-operatively as acceptable currently) in patients that undergo sinus augmentation
      surgery.

      Study hypothesis: both groups will display similar rates of SSIs.

      Materials and methods

      The participants will be recruited from patients in Tel-Aviv Medical Center dental clinic
      that are in need for a unilateral or bilateral sinus augmentation surgery.

      The recruited patients will meet the chief investigator for a thorough explanation on the
      trial, emphasizing the fact that the surgery itself is not the essence of this trial. After
      signing an informed consent for participating in the trial, the patients will be randomly
      split into two groups. The recruited patients will receive a prescription for antibiotics and
      how to take them: amoxicillin-clavulanate 875mg twice a day starting at the morning of
      surgery. Patient with penicillin allergy will receive a loading dose of clindamycin 300mg,
      followed by 150mg every 6 hours. The duration of treatment (one day or seven days
      post-operatively) will be determined according to the group attribution.

      The sinus augmentation surgeries will be performed by the attending surgeons at the Oral and
      Maxillofacial department, according to a unified protocol: a pre-op chlorhexidine 2% rinse,
      local anesthesia with Lidocaine 2% with adrenalin 1:100000, elevation of a mucoperiosteal
      flap to expose the lateral wall of the sinus, performing an access window in the bony wall
      and lifting the sinus membrane, augmentation of the cavity using a xenogeneic and /or
      allogeneic bone graft substitute and a collagen membrane, placement of dental implants if
      feasible and suturing of the flap.

      Augmenting the cavity with different materials reflects the common practice and based on the
      fact that these differences do not alter the rate of post-operative complications or dental
      implants failure in sinus augmentation sites.

      Further treatment with dexamethasone, decongestants and pain medications will be administered
      according to current protocols and are subject to the surgeon's judgment in order to reflect
      the common practice.

      The patients will be evaluated at the following appointed times until the placement/exposure
      of the dental implants: one week, two weeks, one month, two months, six months. These dates
      are part of the standard of care as a follow-up after sinus augmentation surgery.

      Patients will be withdrawn from the study if they will not attend the follow-up appointments.
    
  