
    
      A current systematic review by Odgers-Jewell et al (2017) revealed that little had been done
      to investigate the effectiveness of group based education in improving medication adherence
      among T2DM patients. This concur with the comprehensive review on interventions to improve
      medication adherence by Conn & Ruppar (2017), as the researchers conclude that there is an
      urgent need in evaluating the interventions to improve medication adherence that employs
      group-based approach.

      The evidence on the effectiveness of the KYM-TIFH in promoting medication adherence among
      T2DM patients remain lacking. Furthermore, the current measurement on the effectiveness of
      the campaign is the increment of the awareness level of public towards proper use of
      medicines (PSD 2013) without measuring the impact of the campaign on actual behavior change.

      Besides aforementioned, Malay ethnic was found to be the main contributor to the prevalence
      of poor MA (PSD 2013) due to forgetfulness (75.3%) and reluctant to take prescribed
      medications (43.8%). Facing the high prevalence of poor MA among Malay patients, an effective
      and efficient approach which could engage more patients within a shorter period of times to
      improve the medication adherence problems is highly preferred (Odgers-Jewell 2017). Hence,
      all the problem statements addressed above lead to the necessity of conducting this study,
      which aims to investigate the effectiveness of the SGBI "KYM-TIFH" in improving MA among
      Malay patients with T2DM.

      Based on the problems stated above, this study aims (1) to measure the effectiveness of
      MEDIHEALTH in improving the medication adherence level and the component of the extended TPB,
      (2) to identify the component of the extended TPB that predicts medication adherence after
      participating in MEDIHEALTH, and (3) to investigate the sustainability of the program.

      Based on the first specific objective, ten hypotheses are to be tested:

      H1a: Increase in intention to adhere would be mediated by improvements in attitude towards
      adherence after baseline, which is achieved by participating in MEDIHEALTH.

      H1b: Increase in intention to adhere would be mediated by improvements in subjective norm
      towards adherence after baseline, which is achieved by participating in MEDIHEALTH.

      H1c: Increase in medication adherence would be mediated by improvements in intention to
      adhere after baseline, which is achieved by participating in MEDIHEALTH.

      H1d: Increase in intention to adhere would be mediated by improvements in perceived
      behavioural control towards adherence after baseline, which is achieved by participating in
      MEDIHEALTH.

      H1e: Increase in intention to adhere would be mediated by improvements in adherence
      information after baseline, which is achieved by participating in MEDIHEALTH.

      H1f: Before the intervention, there are no significant differences of medication adherence
      level and the psychosocial variables related to it among the participants between the
      intervention group and the control group.

      H1g: After 3, 6 and 12 months of the program, the medication adherence levels among the
      participants in the intervention group are significantly greater than the medication
      adherence levels before the intervention.

      H1h: After 3, 6 and 12 months of the program, the medication adherence levels among the
      participants in the intervention group are significantly greater than the medication
      adherence levels of the participants in the control group.

      H1i: After 3, 6 and 12 months of the program, the HbA1c levels among the participants in the
      intervention group are significantly greater than the HbA1c before the intervention.

      H1j: After 3, 6 and 12 months of the program, the HbA1c levels among the participants in the
      intervention group are significantly greater than the HbA1c levels of the participants in the
      control group.

      For the second specific objective, eight hypotheses are to be tested:

      H2a: Improvement in attitude towards adherence will contribute to the increase in intention
      to adhere.

      H2b: Improvement in subjective norm towards adherence will contribute to the increase in
      intention to adhere.

      H2c: Improvement in perceived behavioural control towards adherence will contribute to the
      increase in intention to adhere.

      H2d: Improvement in perceived behavioural control towards adherence will contribute to the
      increase in medication adherence.

      H2e: Improvement in intention to adhere will contribute to the increase in medication
      adherence.

      H2f: Improvement in adherence information will contribute to the increase in perceived
      behavioural control towards adherence.

      H2g: Improvement in adherence information will contribute to the increase in medication
      adherence.

      H2i: Improvement in medication adherence level will contribute to the decrease in HbA1c
      level.

      Operational definitions:

        1. Medication adherence: Medication adherence is defined as the level of patients in
           complying with the medications prescribed by healthcare providers. Such level of
           compliance is measured through 13 items self-efficacy for appropriate medication use
           scale (Risser et al., 2007) which had been validated among chronic patients with low
           literacy.

        2. T2DM Malay patients: Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Malay patients of this study refers to all
           the patients who are prescribed with oral anti-hyperglycaemic agents (OHA) and obtain
           their medications supply from the pharmacy department of Kota Samarahan Health Clinic
           (KS-HC) and Petra Jaya Health Clinic (PJ-HC) during the study period. Such T2DM patients
           whose identity card show their religion as Islam, will be considered as Malay T2DM
           patients for this study.

        3. Structured group based intervention: The structured group based intervention of this
           study refers to the program "Know Your Medicine - Take it for Health" which was
           formulated and employed by the Pharmaceutical Services Division of Sarawak State Health
           Department in late 2016 under the national campaign "Know Your Medicine" to promote
           medication adherence among T2DM Malay patients. The official name of the intervention is
           "Kenali Ubat Anda - Ambillah untuk Kesihatan" in Malay language or "Know Your Medicine -
           Take it for Health" in English with abbreviation KYM-TIFH.

        4. Effectiveness: The effectiveness of this study refers to the improvement of HbA1c and
           medication adherence level among T2DM Malay patients before and after the SGBI with such
           improvement having a significant difference as compared to the results in control group.
           Furthermore, the effectiveness of the SGBI will be complemented by the qualitative data
           through focus group discussion and a semi-structured interview.

        5. Complications: The complications in this study refers to the diabetes-related
           complications including retinopathy, nephropathy, diabetic foot problems, ischemic heart
           disease and stroke that had been diagnosed by doctors and were documented in patients'
           medical records during the period of study.
    
  