
    
      This prospective, randomised and single blind study, with the physician follow up the
      patients for nausea and vomiting not informed on the grouping of the patients, was carried
      out at a single center between January 2017 and January 2018. The study protocol was approved
      by the local Ethics Committee was conducted in accordance with the principles of the
      Declaration of Helsinki Written informed consent was obtained from the patients.

      Pregnant patients above the age of 18 years, admitted to the hospital with HG diagnosis were
      included in the study. HG was diagnosed on the basis of having at least one of the symptoms
      of ketonuria, weight loss in excess of 5% of the body weight and serious vomiting more than
      twice per day. Patients with known psychiatric disorders, organic diseases causing nausea and
      vomiting, HG diagnosis in previous pregnancy and experience in hypnosis, meditation and
      mindfullness, and those who were multiparous or could not be cooperative with the treatment
      team were excluded from the study.

      The patients were randomly assigned by means of picking closed envolopes to the Group H (GH)
      to receive hypnosis with conventional therapy and the Group C (GC) only to receive
      conventional therapy. Data on patient demographics, severity of nausea, numbers of vomiting
      per day, serum glucose, AST and ALT levels were recorded. Nausea and vomiting severity were
      evaluated 4 times per day using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS 0-10; with 0=no nausea
      and10=extreme nausea).

      Conventional Ttreatment The treatment in HG is targeted to minimise the symptoms in order to
      reduce the adverse outcomes for the mother and the foetus. In our study, the conventional
      treatment was organized according to symptom severity, the clinical findings and the response
      given to the treatment. The basic protocol for the first 24 hours included intravenous
      hydration for 6 hours with NaCl (0.9 % x1000 cc) supplemented with KCL, the B1 and B6
      vitamins. Oral feeding was restricted and the second step treatment choice comprising H1
      receptor blocker dimenhydrinate (4 X 50 mg/day, po) was routinely used in all patients. When
      the VAS score was ≥4, the serotonin antagonist ondansetron (4mg, i.v.) was added to the
      treatment as the rescue medication. The daily nausea, numbers of vomiting were queried on a
      daily basis. The patients with vomiting incidence below 2 per day, tolerating oral nutrition
      and with urine cleared of ketonuria met the conditions of discharge. The duration of hospital
      stay and treatment procedures were followed and recorded.

      Hypnosis design Two sessions of hypnosis were carried out in addition to the conventional
      treatment on the first and second days of admission; and the paitents were instructed
      autohypnosis after the second session. This was repeated on the third day with the patients
      who could not satisfactorily acquire the technique and those who failed to succeed were
      excluded from the study. The GH included patients who carried out autohypnosis minimally 4
      times per day.
    
  