
    
      Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a common condition, effecting an estimated 1.5 million
      people in the UK and it is believed up to 80% of them may be undiagnosed [1]. During sleep
      the muscles supporting the upper airway tend to relax and the throat narrows. In patients
      with OSA the narrowing leads to collapse and pauses in breathing. These pauses in breathing
      are accompanied by a decrease in arterial oxygen saturation and to overcome the airway
      collapse the body responds by producing a surge in the sympathetic nervous system. This has
      the effect of stimulating the pharyngeal muscles to reopen the throat but also causes an
      increase in heart rate, blood pressure and disrupts the sleep cycle waking the patient up.
      These repeated disruptions to sleep leads to the patient feeling unrefreshed by sleep,
      excessively sleepy during the day and at increased risk of a sleepiness-related accident. The
      repetitive surges in the sympathetic nervous system also contributes to the risk of long term
      cardiovascular disease. The frequency with which these events occur determines the severity
      of obstructive sleep apnoea, less than 5 events per hour is considered normal, 5-15 mild,
      15-30 moderate and more than 30 severe disease. However the disease severity does not
      correlate with the degree of symptoms [2] meaning it is important to identify patients even
      if they have mild and moderate disease.

      OSA is effectively treated with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy. These
      machines blow air into the throat through a nose or face mask. This helps to splint the
      airway open and reduce the disruption to sleep. CPAP is an effective therapy improving
      sleepiness, snoring, mood and reduces the long term risk of cardiovascular disease seen in
      untreated patients with OSA.

      Full inpatient polysomnography testing is the gold standard investigation for diagnosis and
      exclusion of OSA [3]. However because polysomnography generally requires a hospital bed,
      significant technical input to set up and is time intensive to report it is impractical for
      the large numbers of patients referred to sleep services to undergo this test. Overnight
      oximetry recording has been established as an effective alternative for screening patients
      and identifying OSA in many sleep centres [4-6].

      For a single test to be effective it needs to be highly sensitive and the condition being
      investigated should be stable. However significant variation in the severity of obstructive
      sleep apnoea has been demonstrated from night to night in individual patients [7, 8].
      Therefore using oximetry or even polysomnography recording for a single night may not truly
      reflect the overall condition. Patients with mild and moderate disease show the most
      significant variations on a night to night basis, as the oxygen desaturation index (ODI,
      number of times the oxygen saturations dip per hour) rises, i.e. more severe OSA, less night
      to night variability is observed [9]. When patients with previously diagnosed OSA are
      withdrawn from CPAP treatment and overnight oximetry performed for two weeks only 22% of
      participants consistently remain within one severity category. The majority of these patients
      were in the severe category. Other studies have shown 40-50% of patients changing severity
      category in two to four nights recordings [7, 10] and that 16-20% of patients would not have
      received CPAP treatment based on a single night study but did so after repeating between one
      to three studies [10, 11].

      The most clinically relevant distinction to make is between no OSA and mild and moderate OSA
      as this determines whether a trial of CPAP therapy would be offered. These previous trials
      suggest it is within this milder spectrum of the disease where a single night's oximetry
      recording is least reliable and more than one night's recording may be required.

      Despite CPAP being a very successful treatment for OSA, adherence rates to treatment are
      variable [12, 13]. It has also be shown that adherence correlates with OSA severity [14]. In
      part this poor adherence to treatment suggests imperfect identification of patients. The
      investigators hypothesise that the current oximetry screening of a single night may not be
      effectively identifying all those patients who may benefit from CPAP. The investigators aim
      to identify how many additional patients are identified as having OSA with prolonged,
      multi-night recordings. A longer period of oximetry recording may improve the identification
      of those patients who may benefit from CPAP and may help to identify factors that predict a
      poorer response to CPAP therapy. Therefore this study will follow-up patients to see if those
      identified by prolonged oximetry screening tests leads to improved adherence to CPAP.

      Two different oximeters are used in this study. The Minolta i300 was chosen as it is the
      current device used within the investigators clinical service. This is not being used for
      prolonged recordings as the battery life makes it impractical to be used for more than two
      nights recording. Therefore the CheckMeO2 oximeter was chosen; this has a rechargeable
      battery and sufficient memory capacity to be used for the required 4 nights of recording.

      The CheckMe O2 device records oxygen saturations to nearest whole number every 4 seconds
      versus the Minolta device recording to one decimal place every second. It is felt that as the
      average length of a desaturation in obstructive sleep apnoea is 15-20 seconds the CheckMe O2
      device should be sufficiently accurate to detect OSA but by performing a simultaneous
      recording during the first night the investigators hope to establish if this frequency of
      recording is sufficient.
    
  