
    
      The day before operation, after verification of inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
      visiting anesthesiologist will explain to the patient the aim of the study. By signing an
      informed consent the patient will be recruited into the study. On the evening before
      operation the patient will receive the statin in a dose taken along.

      In the OR the anesthesiologist will verify if creatinin and blood urea nitrogen were measured
      the day before operation - if not, a blood sample for the test will be obtained and sent to
      perform the tests.

      Before induction of anesthesia a bi-spectral index (BIS) probe will be placed on the patients
      forehead. Above the BIS probe a INVOS(TM) probe for brain oximetry (5100 C Cerebral/Somatic
      Oximeter, Somanetics, Medtronic) will be placed.

      Brain oximetry by near infrared saturation (NIRS) and tissue saturation on thenar muscle will
      be recorded before and during operation on nine timepoints.

      As NIRS and thenar muscle saturation are non-routine non-invasive methods of intraoperative
      monitoring, patient had to sign an informed consent to participate into the study, and ethic
      committee approval for the study protocol was appealed and granted.

      General anesthesia will be induced by: fentanyl 0.2 mg, propofol 0.5-1.5 mg/kg in bolus
      200ml/godz.; and rocuronium - 0.5 mg/kg. After induction dexamethasone will be given in a
      dose of 0,7-1 mg/kg. For conduction of anesthesia before cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB)
      sevoflurane will be added to the inhaled mixture of air and oxygen. On CPB propofol will be
      given iv. In case of hemodynamic instability after commencing CPB, which will require
      catecholamines in a cumulative dose of > 1.5 standard, or in case of trouble to commence CPB,
      propofol will be replaced by midazolam in a dose 0.2-0.3 mg/kg/hour.

      During anesthesia, first post-operative day and hospital stay a total of 278 variables will
      be recorded: hemodynamic parameters, iv fluid doses, inotropes, vasopressors, diuretics,
      urine output, transfusions, etc.
    
  