
    
      To improve AIA and AI Adherence in older survivors, it will: first, adapt an evidence-based
      intervention (AIM 1) and then; test the adapted intervention with breast cancer survivors ≥65
      years. The Investigators will educate survivors about possible AI-related side effects and
      teach survivors ways to use PA to self-manage AIA (AIM 2), and support adherence to hormonal
      therapy recommendations (AIM 3). Given evidence that survivors experience AIA soon after
      initiating hormonal therapy, potentially eligible participants would be identified early in
      the treatment process. By identifying potential participants after diagnosis or during active
      treatment, survivors would have a minimal delay in beginning the exercise intervention after
      initiating hormonal therapy (i.e. AIs). All participants will have completed surgery,
      radiation and/or chemotherapy, which is consistent with current ASCO guidelines for AI use.

      Two groups will be randomized to either an information-only group (enhanced standard care) or
      an education plus exercise group (treatment). At the initial clinical visit during the
      intervention, participants in both groups will receive printed information along with their
      AI medication prescription. The treatment group will subsequently receive a one-on-one
      exercise consultation with a certified exercise trainer (e.g ACSM or similar), followed by a
      modified version of the Fit & Strong! program, which includes bi-weekly supervised exercise
      (60 minutes) and educational sessions (30 minutes).

      The exercise sessions will include light weights or resistance bands plus low-impact aerobic
      exercise, in which movements will be explained, demonstrated and modified based on the needs
      of participants. The exercise protocol will be reviewed and revised based on recommendations
      from clinical advisers. Educational materials will provide information about the purpose of
      AI medications (e.g., to reduce cancer recurrence) in layperson language and basic
      information about potential side effects. As part of in-person sessions, participants will
      develop a plan to continue exercise at home. Participants can do an activity of their choice
      (e.g., walking) and use resistance bands which will be provided for the at-home program which
      will begin after 8 weeks and will include follow up phone calls to assess progress and
      reinforce the program. Educational sessions will be modified to reflect relevant content and
      advice for older survivors beginning AIs. Assessments will be taken at 4 and 6 months, with
      follow up at 12 months.

      All supervised exercise sessions will be conducted remotely to accommodate recommended COVID
      safety protocols.
    
  