
    
      Patients do not want to think that an upper GIS endoscopy without sedation will be difficult.
      However, some complications can be seen like hypoxemia, allergic reaction, malignant
      hyperthermia, hypoventilation, respiratory depression, hypotension, bradycardia, apnea,
      hypoxia, etc. due to sedation applied during endoscopy.

      Non-pharmacological methods help reduce anxiety and pain. Although sedative and analgesic
      medications reduce anxiety and relieve pain, endoscopy is still painful for patients. During
      the endoscopy process, non-pharmacological methods are used to draw attention to another
      direction, but it is not encountered that the stress ball is used as one of these methods in
      the endoscopy procedure.

      This study was planned as a single-center prospective randomized controlled study for the
      treatment of the stress ball method used during the endoscopy procedure, pain in anxiety and
      satisfaction levels.

      The data obtained in the study will be analyzed using the SPSS (Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences) for Windows 22.0 program. Number, percentage, mean, standard deviation will
      be used as descriptive statistical methods in the evaluation of data. In comparing the
      difference between two independent groups, Student's t test will be used for data conforming
      to normal distribution, and Mann-Whitney U test will be used for data that do not comply with
      normal distribution. The difference between two repeated measurements will be analyzed with
      dependent groups t-test for data conforming to normal distribution, and Wilcoxon test for
      data that do not conform to normal distribution. The difference between three and more
      measurements that do not comply with the normal distribution will be compared with the
      analysis of variance in repeated measures for data that do not fit the normal distribution,
      and with the Friedman test for data that do not comply with the normal distribution. A value
      of P <0.05 will be considered as statistically significant.
    
  