
    
      Cancer-related fatigue is a common and disabling symptom in patients undergoing outpatient
      therapies to treat their cancers. Despite a consistent increase in both awareness and
      research, cancer-related fatigue remains poorly understood and poorly treated by the
      worldwide medical community.

      The physical and emotional impact of cancer-related fatigue on Activities of Daily Living and
      Independent Activities of Daily Living can be profound. Simple tasks such as preparing meals
      and performing household chores become laborious. Walking up and down the aisles of grocery
      stores may send a patient directly to bed for the rest of the day upon returning home. In
      addition, if cancer-related fatigue contributes to prolonged bed rest, the secondary
      development of other medical problems can further impact quality of life and possibly length
      of life. Furthermore, the economic impact of cancer-related fatigue includes patients taking
      more days off work and reducing the number of hours they are able to work. Lastly,
      cancer-related fatigue often impacts the psychosocial well-being and family dynamics of
      patients, caregivers and their families.

      Exercise is the strongest non-pharmacological intervention for management of cancer-related
      fatigue. Certain exercises have specifically demonstrated reduction in fatigue. An exercise
      program that incorporates strengthening and aerobic conditioning can decrease fatigue scores.
      Improvements in patient-reported cancer-related fatigue through the use of exercise has been
      demonstrated in various diseases, such as anemia, and several cancer types, most notably
      breast cancer. Furthermore, home exercise programs have shown meaningful improvements in
      patient reported fatigue.

      This study will determine the effect that the addition of a 6-week Physical
      Therapist-directed home exercise program has on the pattern, severity, and quality of life of
      patient reported fatigue.
    
  