
    
      Programs that integrate medical care and drug treatment have shown great promise in improving
      health and substance use related outcomes. The overlap in the epidemics of HIV (with its
      complex medical needs) and drug abuse makes HIV-infected drug users a population likely to
      benefit from the integration of primary care and drug treatment. The Drug Addiction Treatment
      Act of 2000 and the approval of buprenorphine for the office-based treatment of opioid
      addiction provide a new opportunity to integrate addiction treatment and medical care for
      people with HIV. Research has demonstrated the effectiveness of buprenorphine in reducing
      illicit drug use among opioid dependent people. However, little is known about implementing
      such programs in HIV care settings, their cost, what effect they have on the health outcomes
      and substance use behavior of PLWH/A, or their broader impact on providers, institutions, and
      local systems.

      Through this study, approximately 1,350 HIV-infected individuals who meet criteria for opioid
      dependence will be selected by eleven model demonstration projects located in ten HIV care
      centers across the U.S. Information on patients' drug use, HIV health status, service
      utilization, quality of life, and satisfaction with services as well as information about
      providers' practices and attitudes towards treating drug dependent patients will be collected
      through face-to-face interviews, audio computer-assisted self-interviewing, written surveys,
      and chart abstractions. These data will be used to help replicate effective programs that
      integrated HIV care and drug treatment and to improve the care of HIV-infected opioid
      dependent individuals.

      Comparisons: All eleven programs will compare a group of patients who receive integrated
      buprenorphine treatment and HIV care to a group of patients who receive an alternate
      intervention. However, the program designs and comparison group interventions vary across the
      sites and are locally determined. Some sites will implement randomized control designs, while
      others will use observational methods.
    
  