
    
      The study entails a one-time blood draw that will be used to obtain phenotypic data and DNA
      of all eligible mood disorders patients, and their parents (if applicable), who are treated
      within the Psychiatry Department at University Hospitals Case Medical Center (UHCMC). In rare
      instances, if a participant is unable to cooperate with a blood draw, a saliva sample will be
      collected instead of drawing blood. All eligible participants will be diagnosed with bipolar
      disorder or major depressive disorder, or be a parent of a child diagnosed with bipolar
      disorder or major depressive disorder, and will be seen for the study visit at the Department
      of Psychiatry at University Hospitals of Cleveland, 10524 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH,
      44106. Required lab specimens will be collected at University Hospitals Laboratory Services
      or the Department of Psychiatry, and analyzed at UHCMC and Case Western Reserve University
      (CWRU) or at an NIH sponsored sequencing or genotyping laboratory.

      DNA sample from eligible subjects will undergo whole genome genetic analysis using
      array-based genotyping or sequencing technologies. The clinical phenotypes, treatment
      response profiles and genotype data will be analyzed using single and multivariate analyses
      in order to identify genes and genomic regions contributing to inter-patient variability in
      disease susceptibility, clinical phenotypes and treatment responses. Alternatively, as
      sequencing costs decline continuously, the DNA samples may undergo targeted genomic region
      deep sequencing or whole genome sequencing analysis.

      Any clinical patient, research participant or parent of a child patient, seven years and
      older, within the Department of Psychiatry will be targeted for enrollment. Eligible
      participants will be diagnosed with DSM-IV bipolar disorder (type I, II, or not otherwise
      specified) or DSM-IV major depressive disorder, as determined by an extensive clinical
      interview and the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview-Plus (MINI-Plus) if
      applicable or will be a parent of a child diagnosed with bipolar disorder or major depressive
      disorder.

      The primary phenotype definition for the genetic analyses proposed here is DSM-IV diagnosis
      (BD or MDD), phenotypic variables (comorbidities etc.), and treatment response, defined
      either continuously (change in symptom measures) or categorically (response/non-response),
      made on the basis of structured diagnostic instruments.

      In summary, we expect the following types of phenotypic data (as shown in the attached
      minimum data set CRF) to be available for majority of participants:

        -  Demographic information including gender, age and ethnicity.

        -  Psychiatric diagnosis and history including age of onset and course of mood disorder
           etc.

        -  Family history of illness including psychiatric disorders, diabetes and cardiovascular
           diseases.

      The additional clinical variables (from minimum dataset and clinical trials) may define mood
      disorder subtypes that are more genetically homogeneous and therefore more likely to reveal
      the influence of genes.

      Once a participant has signed the informed consent form, a blood sample of approximately 4
      teaspoons of blood, or a saliva sample of approximately half a teaspoon of saliva, will be
      collected for DNA extraction. The DNA samples will be linked with phenotypic data collected
      from the study participants. The blood draw or saliva collection and minimum data set
      questions are the only procedures that participants will need to complete once they decide to
      participate in the study. The informed consent form will specify that the demographic and
      diagnostic information used for this study will be taken from participation within another
      study or from the medical records of clinical patients; participants will not participate in
      this study if they do not provide consent to use their data retrospectively.
    
  