
    
      This double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study will evaluate the efficacy, safety,
      and tolerability of three different dose levels of Auxora in patients with acute pancreatitis
      and accompanying SIRS.

      Approximately 216 patients will be randomized 1:1:1:1 into one of 4 groups using a computer
      generated randomization scheme accessed through an interactive voice/web response system
      (IXRS). Randomization will be first stratified by gender (male or female) and then by risk
      for organ failure in the gender subgroups (higher or lower). Higher risk for organ failure is
      defined by the presence of both an elevated hematocrit (HCT ≥44% for men or ≥40% for women)
      and hypoxemia (imputed PaO2/FiO2 ≤360). Lower risk for organ failure is defined by the
      absence of either or both an elevated hematocrit and hypoxemia. The PaO2/FiO2 will be
      determined using an arterial blood gas or imputed using pulse oximetry.

      All patients will have received a Screening CECT of the abdomen/pancreas before being
      randomized into the study. CECTs performed as standard of care may be used as the Screening
      CECT but must have been performed in the 12 hours before Consent or after Consent and before
      Randomization.

      The Start of First Infusion of Study Drug (SFISD) should occur within 8 hours of the patient
      or LAR providing informed consent. Patients randomized to Group 1 will receive 2.0 mg/kg of
      Auxora intravenously every 24 hours (±1 hour) for a total of three doses. Patients randomized
      to Group 2 will receive 1.0 mg/kg of Auxora intravenously every 24 hours (±1 hour) for a
      total of three doses. Patients randomized to Group 3 will receive 0.5 mg/kg of Auxora
      intravenously every 24 hours (±1 hour) for a total of three doses. Patients randomized to
      Group 4 will receive emulsion without any active pharmaceutical ingredient. Patients in Group
      4 will receive one of three randomly assigned dose volumes, 1.25 mL/kg, 0.625 mL/kg, or
      0.3125 mL/kg, which will be administered intravenously every 24 hours (±1 hour) for a total
      of three doses. The dosing will be based on actual body weight obtained at the time of
      hospitalization or screening for the study. As described in the pharmacy manual, the upper
      limit of the volume of Auxora and volume of Placebo that will be administered will be 156.25
      mL. The sponsor, investigators and patients will be blinded to the assigned group. In the
      event of a medical emergency, investigators will be able to receive the treatment assignment
      if required to provide optimal care of the patient.

      For all 4 groups, a study physician or appropriately trained delegate will perform
      assessments at screening, at the baseline assessment, immediately prior to the SFISD, and
      then every 24 hours until 240 hours after the SFISD, or until discharge if earlier. If
      patients remain hospitalized at Day 12, assessments will then be performed every 48 hours
      starting on Day 12 until Day 28, or until discharge if earlier. Patients discharged from the
      hospital before Day 25 will return at Day 30 (+5 days) to perform the Day 30 assessments. If
      patients are discharged on Days 25-29, the Day 30 assessments may be performed prior to
      discharge.

      Patients will receive another CECT of the abdomen/pancreas at the Day 30 (±5 days) visit. All
      CECTs performed as standard of care after randomization and before the Day 30 CECT will also
      be captured. A blinded central reader will read the Screening, Day 30, and any standard of
      care CECTs obtained between randomization and 30 days.

      Patients will complete the modified American Neurogastroenterology and Motility Society
      Gastrointestinal Cardinal Symptom Index Daily Diary (mGCSI-DD) worksheet at the baseline
      assessment, at 96 hours, 168hours, Day 14 and Day 21 (for patients who remain hospitalized on
      these days), on the day of discharge, and daily at bedtime after discharge until the Day 30
      visit. Patients who are discharged on Days 25-29 will not complete the mGCSI worksheet after
      discharge.

      It is recommended that all patients randomized in the study should receive care consistent
      with the 2018 American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute Technical Review of
      the Initial Medical Management of Acute Pancreatitis. Patients should receive local standard
      of care (SOC) for the management of other medical conditions.

      In patients with acute pancreatitis, the AGA strongly recommends early oral feeding (within
      24 hours) rather than keeping the patient nil per mouth (Nil per Os, NPO). Patients
      randomized into the study, therefore, will be offered a low fat, ≥500-calorie solid meal at
      each mealtime after the infusion of the first dose of study drug if alert and not on
      mechanical ventilation. If the patient does not wish to eat the solid meal when offered or is
      unable to tolerate the solid meal, they should then be offered a liquid meal. The same
      approach should occur at each subsequent mealtime. When patients eat a solid meal, it should
      be recorded if they ate ≥50% of the meal and if they either vomited or experienced an
      increase in abdominal pain in the two hours after eating a meal.

      It is also recommended that all patients randomized in the study should not be discharged
      from the hospital until solid food is tolerated, abdominal pain has resolved or been
      adequately controlled, and there is no clinical evidence of infection. Tolerating solid food
      is defined as eating ≥50% of a low fat, ≥500-calorie solid meal without an increase in
      abdominal pain or vomiting. If the patient is not tolerating either solid or liquid meals,
      tube feedings should be considered.

      All protocol required laboratory testing, except biomarker and PK samples, will be performed
      at the local laboratory. Results from the biomarkers and PK blood samples collected as part
      of the protocol and being tested at a central lab will not be available to assist the PI or
      treating physician in managing the patient.
    
  