
    
      Patients with sleep disordered breathing (SDB) experience nighttime sleep fragmentation and
      often become hypoxic during the night. The fragmentation and hypoxemia can frequently result
      in daytime impairments including impairments in cognitive functioning. The state-of-the-art
      treatment for SDB is Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP). Many SDB patients who are
      successfully treated with CPAP show improvement in memory and other cognitive functions. Data
      have shown that there is a strong relationship between SDB and dementia with patients with
      Alzheimer's Disease (AD) having a high rate of SDB. This proposal will examine whether
      treating SDB with CPAP in patients with AD will result in improvement in cognitive
      functioning. The specific aims are to assess whether patients with mild AD and SDB will
      tolerate CPAP and be compliant with treatment; to examine the effect of CPAP treatment on SDB
      in patients with mild AD and SDB; to examine the effect of CPAP treatment on cognitive
      functioning in patients with mild AD and SDB; to examine whether improvement is greater after
      six weeks of CPAP treatment than after three weeks of treatment. Since caregivers are often
      disturbed by the patients poor sleep, we will also evaluate the effect of the patients'
      treatment on their caregivers. Specifically, the secondary aims are to evaluate whether
      caregivers feel that CPAP improves the patient's sleep and to evaluate whether caregivers
      feel that their own sleep improves as the patient's sleep improves. Patient identified as
      having mild AD and SDB will have an extensive neuropsychological battery. Half will be
      randomized to CPAP treatment and the other half to shamCPAP. After three weeks
      neuropsychological tests will be repeated. The shamCPAP will be switched to CPAP and the CPAP
      group will remain on CPAP for an additional three weeks. Neuropsychological tests will again
      be repeated. The long-term goal of this line of research is to find a new approach that might
      improve the quality of life, delay the dementing process, postpone institutionalization and
      save millions of dollars in nursing care costs.
    
  