
    
      Dietary proteins have shown to be the most satiating macronutrient, however it is not clear
      whether various types of protein exert the same effect. The latest evidence on animal versus
      plant proteins show no differences on appetite and ad libitum energy intake, neither on
      weight loss but well-designed studies that control for macronutrient composition of
      protein-rich foods are rare and therefore needed.

      Dietary fibre have also shown to play a role in appetite regulation, especially viscous
      dietary fibre have a greater effect on short-term satiety and subsequent energy intake than
      less viscous dietary fibers. A combination of dietary fibre and protein would therefore be
      beneficial in formulation of satiety-enhancing foods targeted consumers who want to maintain
      or loose weight.

      Pork is a good source of high-quality protein and essential vitamins and minerals. The fat
      content of most retail pork cuts lives up to the Nordic Key Hole nutrition label having less
      than 10 g fat per 100 gram. Pork can therefore be recognized as a lean meat type delivering
      key nutrients as part of the diet. Processed pork products such as sausages, liver pate and
      salamis are nutritionally characterized as high-fat products. However, today the meat
      industry puts a lot of effort into product development of meat products with a healthier
      nutritional profile.

      The investigators have previously shown that the addition of wheat and rye bran to sausages
      with 10% fat reduced appetite sensations. Also, the satisfying effect of dietary fibers was
      more pronounced when added to sausages than when added to bread. These findings point towards
      a potential for using dietary fibre in meat products in order to improve the nutritional
      profile of the product as well as the satiating effects.

      The overall objective is to investigate the effects of protein quality and a combination of
      dietary fibre and protein on appetite regulation. Dietary protein and fibre will be combined
      into an animal protein based food (fiber-meat balls), a vegetable protein based food (veggie
      "meat balls"), a meal (meat balls with fiber bread) and compared to animal protein per se
      (meat balls). The study will use measures of ad libitum energy intake and visual-analogue
      scales of appetite in combination with biological markers targeted satiety.

      This study will contribute to a substantial increase in the knowledge on macronutrients and
      their stimulating effects on appetite-regulating hormones. The study will focus on healthy
      and palatable pork products containing dietary fibre in order to be applicable to the food
      industry. The current evidence supports the need for satiating-enhancing foods high in
      protein and dietary fibre. However, macronutrients and their stimulating effects on
      appetite-regulating hormones have not been adequately investigated in well-controlled studies
      using real foods. Likewise, there is no clear evidence that animal protein is superior to
      vegetable protein with regard to their satiating effects on appetite and appetite-regulating
      hormones.
    
  