
    
      The most advanced technologies for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) include
      insulin pumps for continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) and glucose sensors
      allowing continuous glucose monitoring(CGM). Randomized controlled trials have shown that
      access to CGM can improve control in poorly-controlled patients regardless of insulin
      treatment therapy via reduced hyper- and hypoglycaemic excursions and improved mean HbA1c
      value.

      The Medtronic personal CGM device is composed of a glucose sensor linked to a MiniLink
      REAL-Time Transmitter, which transmits data from the glucose sensor to the insulin pump. The
      integration of these two technologies (CSII and personal CGM) into one system is called
      sensor-augmented pump therapy (SAP).The devices are CE-marked and routinely used in clinical
      practice in the Swedish market.

      Based on the clinical evidences provided, the Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits
      Agency (TLV) concluded that the personal CGM when used in combination to a Medtronic insulin
      pump as SAP should be included in the Swedish reimbursement system. However the decision was
      upon specific patient indications:

      Patients with two or more severe hypoglycemias/year that require help from another person or
      Patients with HbA1c of at least 9%, in cases where optimized insulin therapy has not been
      effective or Children taking at least 10 medically required plasma glucose tests
      (fingersticks) per 24 hours and that certain follow-up information has to be complemented and
      submitted to TLV before March 1st, 2012.

      TLV requires follow-up information on T1 diabetes patients using SAP in Swedish clinical
      practice and based on the following outcome parameters:

      HbA1c-level of the patients Quality of life with use of CGM Side effects and therapy
      interruptions. Use and costs of the therapy Frequency of hypoglycemia Therefore, this project
      will observe the routine practice of personal CGM utilization in combination to Medtronic
      insulin pumps in T1DM patients in Sweden in approximately 15 investigational centers.

      The aim of this project is to reflect the daily practice in personal CGM therapy (sensor and
      MiniLink REAL-Time Transmitter) usage in diabetes patients treated with Medtronic insulin
      pumps in Sweden. Data on the HbA1c value before and up to six months use of personal CGM will
      be collected and information on the outcomes requested by TLV will be included in the study.
      The patient reported outcomes will be supplemented with patient preference data and will be
      estimated with a willingness-to-pay (WTP) approach.
    
  