
    
      Alemtuzumab is a drug that is designed to specifically attack some types of leukemia and
      lymphoma cells. In addition, it weakens the immune system, helping to prevent the rejection
      of donor marrow or stem cells.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be admitted to the
      hospital for treatment. Alemtuzumab will be injected into your vein over a period of 4 hours.
      This will be done 5 days in a row (Days 1 to 5). Drugs diphenhydramine (Benadryl), solumedrol
      and acetaminophen (Tylenol) will be given in to decrease the risk of or ease side effects
      before each dose of the alemtuzumab.

      You will also receive Carmustine over one hour on the first day. From the second to the fifth
      day, you will receive cytarabine and etoposide twice a day. On the six day, you will receive
      melphalan once. Both drugs will be given through a catheter (plastic tube) that extends into
      the large chest vein. The catheter will be left in place throughout treatment on this study.
      Some participants, depending on their type of disease, will also receive rituximab. Rituximab
      will be given during the first day of chemotherapy then once a week for a total of 4 doses.

      When chemotherapy is finished, blood stem cells from a donor will be given through the
      catheter. G-CSF, a growth factor that promotes the production of blood cells, will be
      injected under the skin once a day until your blood cell counts recover to a certain level.

      Blood tests (about 2 tablespoons each) , urine tests, bone marrow aspirations, and x-rays
      will be done as needed to track the effects of the transplant. The blood tests will be drawn
      daily while in the hospital and then at least twice weekly as an outpatient for the first 100
      days. The CT scans and bone marrow studies will be done at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months and then
      every 6 months for at least 3 years after transplant. You may also have transfusions of blood
      and platelets as needed.

      You will need to stay in the hospital about 3 to 4 weeks. You will be taken off study if
      their disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. You must stay in the Houston area
      for about 100 days after the transplant. After that, you will be asked to return to Houston
      every 6 months for the next 3-5 years for scans (CT, gallium, or PET scans), and bone marrow
      aspirations over the next 3-5 years.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved the drugs used in this study. Their
      use together in this study is investigational. About 142 patients will take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  