
    
      The intense post-CPB systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is well described in
      neonates and infants. Increased production and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines,
      including Tumor Necrosis Factor, Interleukin1-B, and Interleukin-6 may suppress myocardial
      contractility, induce capillary leak, and activate complement and the clotting cascade -
      together leading to potential organ injury and death. SIRS is also frequently accompanied by
      impairment of the humoral immune response. One potential reason for this acquired
      immunodeficiency after cardiac surgery is the removal of immunoglobulins (Ig)s from the
      vascular space into other compartments where they are either sequestered or lost from the
      body altogether. We recently demonstrated that such Ig depletion from the intravascular
      compartment occurs in neonates following cardiac surgery. In a retrospective study of 53
      children <3 months of age, we showed that plasma Immunoglobulin G (IgG) concentration drops
      precipitously after cardiac surgery and does not return to preoperative levels by 7 days; 51%
      of patients had hypogammaglobulinemia.

      An important question is whether post-CPB low IgG has clinical consequence. IgG plays an
      essential role in the humoral immune system, activating complement and inducing the
      phagocytic system to neutralize pathogens. IgG deficiency is a known risk factor for
      infections in other pediatric populations. We were the first to demonstrate that post-CPB
      hypogammaglobulinemia is associated with worse clinical outcomes, including increased
      secondary infections (37% vs.12% in those without low IgG, p<0.05). These novel findings are
      paramount in that they identify a potential modifiable risk factor to improve outcomes after
      pediatric cardiac surgery with CPB. Additionally, low IgG is accompanied by fluid overload
      and prolonged mechanical ventilation. Igs constitute an important component of plasma oncotic
      pressure, so hypogammaglobulinemia may exacerbate anasarca, prolonging postoperative
      convalescence and increasing the morbidities associated with increased ICU length of stay.9

      Igs have an increasingly recognized role in modulating the innate immune response. Present
      use of IVIG exceeds mere antibody replacement and extends to the treatment of autoimmune and
      inflammatory conditions. In fact, more than 75% of IVIG use in the U.S. today is for the
      treatment of inflammatory conditions, where proposed mechanisms include reduction of
      pro-inflammatory cytokine and adhesion molecule expression, superantigen neutralization,
      restoration of glucocorticoid responsiveness, and blockade of complement fragment deposition.
      It is plausible that IVIG could benefit neonates after cardiac surgery not only via
      restoration of humoral opsonization capacity, but also as a modulator of innate immunity and
      SIRS. According to this model, tissue injury, CPB, and shock trigger SIRS, leading to
      hypogammaglobulinemia and resultant increased susceptibility to inflammatory dysregulation
      which might be ameliorated via administration of IVIG.

      In an adult study, IVIG failed to benefit postoperative cardiac patients with severe SIRS.
      However, the dose of IVIG given was relatively small compared with that typically given for
      autoimmune and inflammatory conditions. Neonates and infants may be more susceptible to the
      harmful effects of acquired hypogammaglobulinemia than adults as they may be unable to
      generate adequate quantities of antibodies in response to pathogens, relying mainly on
      maternal Igs until around the 4th to 6th month of life. In addition, they display an
      exaggerated inflammatory response to CPB as compared with older children and adults, so they
      might stand to benefit more from IVIG as an immunomodulator.

      Because of the increased vulnerability to acquired infection and other morbidities in the
      setting of hypogammaglobulinemia as result of enhanced SIRS and immune dysfunction, it is
      feasible that normalization of IgG concentration in the neonatal and infant population may
      improve clinical outcomes via restoration of the humoral immune system, modulation of the
      innate immune system, and restoration of intravascular oncotic pressure. The appropriate IgG
      level threshold for treatment and optimal plasma IgG level to target after administration of
      IVIG are presently unknown.
    
  