
    
      We propose a longitudinal study of the natural history of the collagen-related disorder
      osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). The overall objectives are to 1) obtain a comprehensive
      assessment of the natural history and progression of the multiple secondary features of
      osteogenesis imperfecta, and 2) further the understanding of genotype-phenotype correlation
      using biosamples collected from well-characterized affected individuals. This study is in
      part a continuation of protocol 97-CH-0064, and thus will continue to follow individuals with
      OI enrolled in that protocol, to incorporate biosamples obtained, and to analyze data
      collected under that protocol.

      The major objectives of protocol 97-CH-0064 have focused on radiographic features including
      scoliosis and rib deformities, bone density, intensive rehabilitation, and physical therapy.
      New developments in genetics, bone tissue biology, and pathophysiology of OI in the past
      decade, along with the increasing life expectancy of affected individuals, highlight a need
      for the continuation and expansion of this natural history study to understand the full
      phenotypic disease spectrum, and to generate biobanks of tissue samples from
      well-characterized study participants for continued research.

      This proposed protocol will:

        1. Continue to follow study participants, use biosamples, and analyze data gathered under
           protocol 97-CH-0064 (which will be closed upon the start of this protocol).

        2. Expand to include currently known collagen-related OI types V-XVIII and potential
           additional types, in addition to collagen OI types III and IV included under protocol
           97-CH-0064.

        3. Extend the age criteria for study participants to include individuals of all ages, with
           age at study enrollment targeted to those from birth to 12 years. This will allow us to
           follow clinical outcomes of young adults who had aged out of prior NICHD OI research
           programs.

      The major objectives will focus on:

        1. Continued comprehensive assessment of radiographic, bone density, audiology, dental,
           cardiovascular, pulmonary, and neurologic manifestations, and physical rehabilitation.
           The immediate goals from this will encompass a) identifying underlying contributing
           factors and comorbidities for scoliosis, b) gaining insight into occurrence and
           progression of cardiac valvular abnormalities, and c) elucidating the pathogenesis of
           primary lung parenchymal defects in individuals with OI.

        2. Additional comprehensive assessment of endocrine and renal systems. The novel evaluation
           of metabolism in individuals with OI will allow understanding of obesity prevalence in
           this population.

        3. Continued genetic and molecular biology investigations of OI.
    
  