
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the efficacy of the levonorgestrel intrauterine device (LIUD)
      (levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system) alone to treat complex atypical hyperplasia or
      stage Ia grade 1 endometrioid endometrial carcinoma with response rate.

      II. Estimate the efficacy of the LIUD in combination with everolimus to treat LIUD-refractory
      complex atypical hyperplasia or stage Ia grade 1 endometrioid endometrial carcinoma with
      response rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Document the toxicity profile of the levonorgestrel intrauterine device alone or in
      combination with everolimus using the National Institutes of Health-National Cancer Institute
      (NIH-NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (v) 4.0.

      II. Estimate overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) of patients with complex
      atypical hyperplasia or stage Ia grade 1 endometrioid endometrial cancer treated with the
      levonorgestrel IUD alone or in combination with everolimus.

      III. Estimate the response duration associated with the levonorgestrel IUD alone or in
      combination with everolimus in patients with complex atypical hyperplasia or stage Ia grade 1
      endometrioid endometrial cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine if response to therapy can be predicted based on the molecular profile of the
      tumor, including estrogen-induced genes and relevant pathway members, or by change in gene
      expression after therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      First Stage

        -  If D&C confirms EEC grade 1 or CAH-patient enrolled

        -  If the patient is found to have stable disease at 3 months continue on to the second
           stage of the study to be randomized.

        -  If the patient has a complete response at 3 months; EMB 3 months later to confirm
           complete response.

        -  Once complete response confirmed, patient Continues EMB every 6-12 months until disease
           progression per provider.

        -  If the patient has progressive disease at 3 months- OFF STUDY Second Stage

        -  Patients with stable disease at and 3 month EMB, recurrent disease at a subsequent EMB,
           or entering protocol with outside IUD in place showing stable disease demonstrating
           progesterone resistance

      LIUD Only Arm

        -  Visits every 3 months

        -  EMB at 6 months

        -  if regression/SD: continue on study

        -  EMB at 9 months and 1 year:

        -  Off study for PD or D&C at MD's discretion

        -  SD at 1 year: off study

        -  CR at 1 year: SOC EMB 3 months later then Q6 months if confirmed CR

        -  If continuing on study: Q6mo EMB until progression, D&C, or pt./provider decision

      LIUD+Everolimus Arm

        -  If progression at cycle 3, 6, 9:

        -  Discontinue everolimus, patient taken off study

        -  CR at cycle 9:

        -  EMB to confirm response at cycle 12

        -  If response confirmed -EMB every 6 cycles (6 months)

        -  Continue evaluations on each cycle day 1

        -  SD at cycle 9:

        -  Discontinue everolimus, come off study
    
  