
    
      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease of unknown etiology, which
      usually occurs in young adults (II-IV decade of life).

      Epidemiological data have shown a north-south gradient of both incidence and prevalence of UC
      in European countries, with a higher prevalence in northern European countries than in the
      Mediterranean area. However, recent data show a reduction in these differences in the last
      two decades. The reasons of this reduction are unknown, but it is possible that these
      differences are related to a change in dietary habits in southern European countries where a
      diet rich in fresh fruits and vegetables (the so-called "Mediterranean diet") is gradually
      being replaced by a typical diet of the industrialized countries of northern Europe,
      characterized by high consumption of frozen or pre-packaged foods of the food industry.

      These changes in the diet regime have also replaced the type of oil contained in foods,
      ranging from olive oil (typical of the Mediterranean diet) to fats of animal origin or
      vegetable oils not coming from the olives.

      Olive oil is universally recognized as the symbol of the Mediterranean diet and its
      beneficial properties have been extensively studied.

      In particular, there are scientific evidence showing an effect of virgin olive oil on the
      lipid metabolism, on chronic inflammation, on blood pressure, and the regulation and
      detoxification of free radicals.

      In particular, beneficial effects would in part be related to polyphenols, potent natural
      antioxidants contained in olive oil.

      Monocultivar Coratina extra virgin olive oil (MC-EVOO) is an Apulian olive oil that, while
      possessing an extraordinary health effect superior to other cultivars, is not very used
      because of its distinctive characteristics of bitter and spicy. The bitter and the spicy of
      the extra virgin olive oil obtained from Coratina monocultivar are not defects in the oil but
      are the expression of a very high concentration of polyphenols (up to 800-1000 mg / kg of
      oil) compared to other varieties which, as well as providing extraordinary health benefits to
      the consumer, extend the expiration date of the oil itself, preserving it from oxidative
      action.

      The MC-EVOO is a typical of the Apulia Region and it is characterized by:

        1. high content of polyphenols

        2. natural 100% product, with no residues of chemical solvents and other toxic and harmful
           contaminants.

      No studies have been published so far that have demonstrated a potential toxic effects of
      polyphenols. Instead, EVOO-C supplementation could potentially have positive effects on lipid
      metabolism and body weight.

      Epidemiological studies suggest that daily intake of fruits and vegetables high in
      polyphenols or the addition of olive oil containing many polyphenols is associated with a
      reduced risk of chronic diseases including cardiovascular, inflammatory, metabolic,
      neurodegenerative, and some neoplasms.

      Also the results of in vitro study showed these properties but these results have to be
      carefully evaluated because in vivo the polyphenols, after being absorbed into the intestine
      and conjugated in the liver, arrive in the blood in methylated, sulphated and glycogenated
      form.

      These molecules are completely different from the structural point of view of native
      molecules. Moreover, their presence is in the concentration of nano or micro molecules. These
      molecules have different biological properties from native ones and are distributed
      differently in different tissues and cells.

      In addition, in the in-vitro studies native polyphenol molecules have been used at high
      concentrations, or above physiological (over 100 micromoles).

      This is the first reason why a clinical trial case study was planned. Polyphenols also
      modulate cell membranes, enzymes, transcription factors and receptors. This is the second
      reason why nutrigenomics will be studied during the course of the clinical trial to evaluate
      the effects of polyphenols on the molecular and cellular mechanisms of the inflammatory
      processes that are present in the ulcerative colitis.

      In vivo experiments demonstrated that the administration of a diet associated with daily
      intake of EVOO reduces histological lesions and symptomatology in rats with a DDS induced
      colitis. A diet supplemented with hydroxytyrosol (a component of olive oil) showed a
      reduction of the inflammatory process at the inflamed colon of the rats.

      These data show that EVOO supplementation in a diet can improve the course of the disease.

      Experimental studies in humans are limited. The first study published over 25 years ago
      concluded that administering a supplement of fish oil to the diet produced a modest reduction
      in corticosteroid in the active phases of the disease, but not a benefit in maintenance
      therapy over olive oil. This work presents important limitations:

        1. the content of polyphenols in the oils used is unknown

        2. the remission time between the two oils was not statistically significant

        3. there are no data on inflammation of the colon before and after treatment Recently, an
           in vitro study performed on intestinal mucosa obtained from 14 active UC patients showed
           that samples treated with oleuropein had a reduced expression of two inflammatory
           factors, COX-2 and IL-17, suggesting that olive oil containing oleuropein can improve
           inflammatory status.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate whether MC- EVOO supplementation in moderate to severe UC
      patients needing a steroid cycle may increase the clinical response rate to medical therapy.
    
  