
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of cediranib (cediranib maleate) to chemoradiation treatment
      enhances treatment efficacy as measured by the 6-month progression-free survival rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of cediranib to chemoradiation treatment enhances treatment
      efficacy as measured by overall survival.

      II. To determine if the addition of cediranib to chemoradiation treatment enhances treatment
      efficacy as measured by progression-free survival.

      III. To determine if there is an association between tumor O6-methylguanine-deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) methyltransferase (MGMT) gene methylation status and treatment response and
      outcome.

      IV. To compare and record the toxicities of the cediranib + chemoradiation arm versus the
      chemoradiation arm.

      V. To evaluate whether 6-month progression-free survival is associated with overall survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 3 days. Patients
      then undergo radiation therapy (intensity-modulated radiation therapy or 3-dimensional
      conformal radiation therapy) QD, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks and receive temozolomide PO QD
      and cediranib maleate PO QD for 6 weeks. Patients then receive temozolomide PO QD alone on
      days 1-5. Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 3 days. Patients then undergo radiation therapy
      (intensity-modulated radiation therapy or 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy) QD, 5
      days a week, for 6 weeks and receive temozolomide PO QD and placebo PO QD for 6 weeks.
      Patients then receive temozolomide PO QD alone on days 1-5. Treatment with temozolomide
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  