
    
      Study Drugs:

      CMC-544 is a monoclonal antibody (a substance that can locate and bind to cancer cells). It
      is designed to attach to C22, a molecule that is found on most cancer cells with ALL. This
      may cause the cancer cells to die.

      Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that is designed to attach to leukemia cells and activate
      a series of events that may cause the cancer cells to die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive CMC-544 by vein
      over about 60 minutes on Day 1 of each study "cycle" or over 60 minutes at a lowered dose on
      Days 1, 8 and 15 of each cycle, depending on when you joined the study. No matter what dosing
      schedule you are on, you will receive the same total dosage of CMC-544. Each study cycle is
      about 3-4 weeks.

      If the disease is not responding to the CMC-544 after 2 cycles, you will begin receiving
      rituximab. On Day 1 of Cycle 3, you will receive rituximab by vein over about 8 hours. On Day
      2 of Cycle 3, you will receive CMC-544 alone by vein over about 60 minutes. Then, starting on
      Day 1 of Cycle 4, you will begin receiving rituximab by vein over about 8 hours and CMC-544
      by vein over about 60 minutes at least 2-4 hours after you receive the rituximab. You will
      receive this combination 1 time every week.

      Your dose of the study drug(s) may change depending on any side effects you may have.

      Study Visits:

      You will have study visits within 1 week before Day 1 of each study cycle. At each study
      visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked how you are feeling and about any drugs you may be taking.

        -  You will have an ECG before you receive treatment with CMC-544 (+ 2 days).

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) may be drawn to test how the study drug(s) may affect cancer
           cells before you receive the CMC-544 infusion.

        -  If you are receiving rituximab and if you have a history of irregular heartbeat or chest
           pain (due to heart trouble), you will have ECGs performed before the start of the
           rituximab, once during the infusion, and within 2 hours after the infusion. Rituximab
           infusion will be stopped if you experience any serious episodes of irregular heartbeat.

        -  If you are receiving rituximab, you may be examined for any signs or symptoms of bowel
           obstruction (blockage) and/or perforation (hole in the intestines, which may cause the
           contents to leak). Appropriate radiologic tests and surgical consults will be performed
           as needed.

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon each time) will be drawn 1-3 times each week during Cycles 1 and 2,
      and at least 1 time every week during all other cycles for routine tests. Your doctor may
      decide to have more than 3 blood draws during Cycles 1 and 2.

      You will have a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy between Days 14-21 (+/- 3 days) of Cycle 1
      then every 1-2 cycles to check the status of the disease. You may have additional bone marrow
      aspirates and/or biopsies if your doctor feels it is necessary.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive CMC 544 with or without rituximab for up to 12 months. You will be taken off
      study if the disease gets worse or if you have intolerable side effects

      Follow-up Visits:

      You will have a follow-up visit 30 days after your last dose of the study drug(s). At this
      visit, you will be asked about any side effects you may be having. If you cannot make it to
      the clinic for this visit, it can be done over the phone with a member of the study staff.
      The phone call should last about 10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Rituximab is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of lymphoid cancer. Neither CMC-544 nor the CMC-544/rituximab combination are
      FDA approved or commercially available. Their use in this study is investigational.

      Up to 90 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  