
    
      Etomidate had been a standard induction agent as it results in increased hemodynamic
      stability compared to propofol. This is seen as a major advantage in patients that frequently
      have a fragile haemodynamic situation.

      A major side effect of Etomidate is the resulting adrenal dysfunction, which hampers the
      bodies stress response and has been shown to cause a higher mortality in infectious contexts
      such as sepsis. It remains unclear to what extend this attenuated stress response has an
      impact on the post-operative context in cardiosurgical patients. First preliminary data show
      that patients receiving Etomidate as an induction agent are more prone to infection than
      those receiving a different agent, a definitive correlation is nevertheless still lacking.

      This is a retrospective before-after-study comparing the rate of infectious complications in
      patients receiving either valve and/or coronary cardiac surgery at the Charité -
      Universitätsmedizin Berlin between October 1st, 2012 and January 31th, 2015. On October 1st,
      2013 the standard operating procedures for anesthesia for cardiac surgery were amended and
      the induction agent at the Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin was switched from Etomidate
      to Propofol. The investigators are therefore comparing patients undergoing cardiac surgery
      between October 1st, 2012 and September 30th, 2013 as the Etomidate group with patients
      undergoing surgery between February 1st, 2014 and January 31st, 2015 as the Propofol group.
      The gap in between the two groups (October 1st, 2013 - January 31st, 2014) was defined as a
      washout phase to account for a potential delay in implementation of the renewed standard
      operating procedures. Patients will be investigated unmatched as well as matched according to
      (Age, Body Mass Index, American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status classification
      system (ASA), New York Heart Association Functional Classification (NYHA), Surgical Mode and
      Diabetes). The data for both groups will be acquired from the 2 electronic patient data
      management systems at our hospital (COPRA System, Sasbachwalden, Germany, and SAP, Walldorf,
      Germany).
    
  