
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare, prospectively, the breast cancer detection rate and recall rate of single
           reading using computer-aided detection vs standard double reading in women undergoing
           screening mammography.

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, randomized, multicenter study. Participants are randomized to
      1 of 3 screening arms.

        -  Arm I (double reading): Screening mammograms are independently reviewed by two readers
           (i.e., radiologist or radiographer), each of whom reports on any abnormalities and
           decides whether a participant is recalled for further assessment or returned home to
           routine screening. In the event there is disagreement between the readers' findings, a
           third reader acts as an arbitrator by rendering an interpretation of the mammogram and
           making the final decision to recall the participant or return to routine screening.

        -  Arm II (single reading with computer-aided detection [CAD]): Screening mammograms are
           reviewed initially by a single reader who reports on any abnormalities. The reader then
           re-examines the mammogram with the aid of CAD, a system that uses computer prompts to
           recall suspicious features or abnormalities that may have been overlooked or previously
           dismissed as being normal. Based on these evaluations, a recommendation is made by the
           reader to either recall the participant for further assessment or return home to routine
           screening. If there is a discrepancy between the reader's interpretation and the CAD
           findings, another reader may be consulted to review the mammogram.

        -  Arm III (double reading followed by single reading with CAD): Screening mammograms are
           reviewed by double reading as in arm I followed by single reading with CAD as in arm II.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30,000 participants will be accrued for this study.
    
  