
    
      Indirect pulp capping is a common dental procedure carried out on painful teeth with deep
      cavities resulting from dental decay in an attempt to prolong the life of the tooth / pulp
      while relieving pain, This study aims primarily to assess the response of the pulp of the
      tooth to two different clinical procedures used in the treatment of deep caries. One group of
      patients will be treated with a standard clinical procedure which involve mechanical rotary
      burs with no magnification for caries removal, the other group will be treated with a more
      conservative clinical procedure using CarisolvTM gel with the aid of an operating microscope
      for caries removal. The study also involves taking of samples from the tooth decay for
      microbiological / biochemical analysis and evaluation to determine the species richness in
      the bacterial community associated with this condition. The study also compare the
      radiographical findings of 3D cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) scans with that of normal
      Xrays in detecting the presence of early bone changes associated with the roots of these
      teeth.

      The study carried out at King's College London/ Dental Institute at Guy's Hospital and form
      part of the routine dental treatment done at the emergency dental clinics with the exception
      of the CBCT scans. Volunteers given written information about the process and given time to
      consider participation. Once any questions have been answered, fully informed written consent
      obtained if they are interested in taking part. At least one deep cavity causing toothache
      requiring indirect pulp capping detected and diagnosed through conventional clinical and Xray
      dental assessment. The procedure involves removal of the decay using one of the proposed
      clinical techniques and the placement of a pulp capping material according to manufacturer's
      instructions and the definitive filling will be placed, follow up will at 12 months.
      Radiographic assessment including cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) will be done at
      baseline and 12 months. It is hoped that data analysed from this study will provide a
      definitive clinical and radiographic evidence base for the outcome of the indirect pulp
      capping operative treatment procedure.
    
  