
    
      This randomized prospective clinical trial aims to evaluate timing savings in performing
      labor epidural analgesia and the success rate of labor analgesia with and without the
      guidance of a handheld ultrasound device in various BMI groups.

      In routine clinical setting, patients admitted to clinic and evaluated labor condition. If
      patient in active labor and request epidural for labor pain, the standard care team inform
      obstetric anesthesia epidural team by using pager. Standard of care anesthesia epidural team
      perform preoperative evaluation and placed the catheter.

      The patients in active labor will receive labor epidural analgesia, regardless of the study
      participation. There is no changes epidural local anesthetic type and doses. The research
      intervention is only placing hand-hold ultrasound to the back of the patient and see the land
      mark visually before the epidural catheter placement. The remaining catheter placement is the
      same as the control group.

      Study Procedures:

      A Total of 300 eligible parturients will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups either
      the ultrasound imaging guidance or the traditional landmark palpation group for labor
      epidural needle placement. The research intervention is simply placing a hand-held ultrasound
      device on the back of the patient and insert the epidural needle with ultrasound image
      guidance.

      Parturient will receive epidural catheter regardless of the study participation. In the
      traditional landmark method, anesthetist palpates the structure to determine the site of the
      initial needle insertion site. The needle will be protruded as in usual standard practice.
      Anesthetist may remove and insert needle again until feeling epidural space. When anesthetist
      determine the tip of the needle is in the epidural space, the epidural catheter will be
      protruded through the needle.
    
  