
    
      1. Introduction. Cancer of the prostate (PCa) is currently the leading newly diagnosed
           cancer and the second most common cause of cancer deaths among men in the industrialized
           world . In Denmark alone more than 4000 men are yearly diagnosed with PCa . As PCa
           primarily affects elderly patients, one can assume that PCa will become one of the most
           important medical issues in the developed world due to the already high incidence
           combined with a growing population of elderly men.

           The aetiology of the disease is not well understood. In its most common form PCa evolves
           from the glandular tissue of the prostate. Metastatic spread will most commonly happen
           as lymphogenous spread to the regional lymph nodes or as haematogenous spread to the red
           bone marrow .

           Intended curative treatment of PCa is associated with considerable side effects, in
           particular incontinence, impotence and radiation damage to the surrounding tissues.
           Furthermore, over 30% of patients with organ-confined disease, which was treated with
           radical prostatectomy, will have biochemical relapse within 10 years . Relapse may be
           due to local recurrent disease suggesting poor surgical quality or poor initial staging
           with undetected metastases at the time of treatment.

           At diagnosis patients are stratified as having low, intermediary or high risk of
           dissieminatio according to D'Amico. Patients with intermediate or high risk of
           dissemination will be examined further with whole-body bone scintigraphy (WBS) and
           pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND).

        2. Background. 2.1. Current staging and limitations. WBS has been the examination of choice
           for evaluation of potential dissemination to bone. WBS utilizes 99mTc-labeled methylene
           diphosphonate (99mTc-MDP) that binds to the bone matrix formed by the osteoblasts. Gamma
           cameras detect the γ-radiation emitted by the decaying tracer thereby creating a
           2-dimentional image depicting local osteoblast activity .

           Several limitations apply to the use of WBS in staging of patients with PCa. Sensitivity
           has reported as low as 39% in lesion-based analysis in patients with a low number of
           lesions . This combines with a low sensitivity due to many equivocal lesions caused by
           other bone pathology than metastasis.

           Sensitivity and specificity is improved by the use of single-photon emission computed
           tomography (SPECT), where the same tracer as with WBS is used to generate a
           three-dimensional image using a rotating gamma camera. This method also gives better
           anatomical information on the exact position of a potential metastasis.

           The examination of choice for the evaluation of potential metastases to lymph nodes is
           extended PLND . This procedure is done either prior to radiotherapy or during
           prostatectomy in patients with intermediate or high risk of dissemination. The optimal
           extent of the dissection is debated. The extended PLND performed at our institution
           includes the nodes in the obturator fossa, the nodes over the external iliac artery and
           vein, the nodes around the internal iliac artery and the nodes along the common iliac
           artery up to the crossing of the ureter. This dissection is assumed to include
           approximately 75% of lymph nodes known to harbor primary prostatic lymph node metastases
           . Extended PLND is surgically demanding with risk of lymphocele formation, infectious
           complications and severe bleeding due the lymph nodes' close proximity to the large
           vessels in the pelvis. All in all extended PLND is perhaps the best option for lymph
           node staging of PCa but it cannot be considered as optimal due to the above-mentioned
           issues.

           2.2 Positron Emission Tomography (PET). Positron Emission Tomography combined with
           Computerized Tomography (PET/CT) is a well-established tool in diagnosing and staging of
           several types of cancer . PET is an imaging technique where pairs of gamma rays emitted
           by positron-emitting radionuclide tracer are detected, producing a three-dimensional
           image of tracer concentration based on the amount of gamma rays emitted. The radioactive
           tracer is coupled to a biologically active molecule depending on the organ or metabolic
           process of interest . These images can then be fused with CT to create a combined
           functional and high-resolution anatomical image. Several tracers have been developed for
           use in cancer diagnostics and staging. As of now, PET/CT has no generally accepted role
           in the diagnosing or staging of PCa neither in Europe nor in the US .

           2.2.1 Choline. Choline is a precursor for phosphatidylcholine, a phospholipid that is
           integrated in the cell membrane making it a marker for cell membrane turnover and
           metabolism . 11C-Choline was first used as a PET tracer in 1997 . Since then many
           studies have been performed with 11C-Choline and later 18F-Choline (FCH) having
           approximately the same properties as 11C-Choline, but with a longer half-life (110 min
           vs. 20 min) making it more versatile in every-day use. A recent study from our
           department tested the use of FCH-PET/CT in detecting lymph node metastasis in 210
           patients with PCa . The study concluded that FCH-PET/CT was not ideally suited for lymph
           node staging but could give additional information about bone metastasis. Several other
           investigators have also implied this , . A likely reason for the better detection of
           metastasis to the bone is that bone metastasis in an early stage is actually bone-marrow
           metastases rather than bone matrix metastasis and that it most likely that bone-marrow
           metastases proceed to bone matrix metastases. These will not be detectable by WBS (and
           probably not by CT and MRI either). Larger prospective series on the use of FCH-PET/CT
           for imaging of bone metastasis in PCa-patients have not yet been produced.

        3. Trial objective. To compare the diagnostic accuracy in detecting bone metastases of WBS,
           SPECT and FCH PET/CT in 280 patients with newly diagnosed PCa with intermediate or high
           risk of disseminated disease

        4. Method. The patients will have two scans performed, first one with two acquisitions
           using only one administration of tracer i.e. a WBS followed by a SPECT acquisition and
           on another day a FCH-PET/CT. Image acquisition will be performed approximately 60 min
           after intravenous injection of the tracer.

      The scans are performed in random order within three weeks and the images interpreted by a
      specialist in nuclear medicine and a specialist in radiology. Patients who already have had
      WBS performed will only have a FCH-PET/CT performed.

      Images are interpreted based on visual evaluation with supplementary measurements of
      Standardized uptake values (SUV).

      In case of agreement between the scans, the patient will proceed to clinical treatment as
      usual. In case of disagreement between the three modalities a MRI will be performed on the
      lesion of interest. If the results after MRI are still inconclusive a bone biopsy with
      emphasis on getting marrow tissue as well as bone matrix, will be performed. This will in
      many cases not be possible due to the size of the lesion and in these cases MRI will serve as
      reference standard.
    
  