
    
      ECMO induces both a risk of clotting and bleeding. Therapeutic anticoagulation is recommended
      during ECMO. While preventing clotting, anticoagulation triggers a higher risk of bleeding.
      However, anticoagulation does not completely avoid clotting due to complex interactions
      between the circuit, the patients' blood and the anticoagulant. Unfractionated heparin (UFH)
      is the most commonly used anticoagulant and requires monitoring. No clear recommendation
      exists. The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) as well as the anti-factor Xa
      activity (anti-Xa) are plasma-based tests used to monitor UFH. The evidence for their use is
      poor and they do no correlate well. Moreover, these two tests do not take into account all
      the elements of blood and do not reflect the entire coagulation process.

      Thromboelastography is a whole-blood point-of-care test that describes each phases of the
      clotting process from the activation of coagulation factors to the later lysis to the
      thrombus. TEG is also sensitive to UFH and can be used to quantify its effect. The use of
      heparinase during TEG also permits to evaluate the coagulation process during the use of
      heparin. This could give an important understanding of the effect of the ECMO itself on the
      circuit and help to develop a strategy to prevent bleeding and clotting as well as monitor
      heparin treatment.

      The hypothesis for this study is that the use of thromboelastography will identify situations
      with high risk of bleeding and allow interventions to reduce hemorrhagic events and blood
      products transfusions. It is also hypothesized that the monitoring of unfractionated heparin
      (UFH) with TEG is feasible and could lead to the use of less UFH during the course of ECMO.

      The objectives of this study are 1) to determine and calibrate the TEG R-time values
      corresponding to aPTT therapeutic range for patients under therapeutic UFH during ECMO
      course, 2) to determine the level of correlation of TEG parameters with other anticoagulation
      tests [Prothrombin Time (PT), anti-Xa, activated clotting time (ACT)], fibrinogen level,
      platelets count and d-dimers, 3) to determine the TEG values that are associated with the
      administration of blood-derived coagulation products in clinical practice 4) to identify TEG
      cutoff points that are associated with an increased risk of bleeding/clotting in ECMO
      patients 5) use these observational data to develop a TEG-based algorithm for anticoagulation
      management and blood products replacement that could be tested in a future study.

      This study will you the last version of TEG, TEG-6s which is a fully automated point-of-care
      device.
    
  