
    
      This project is one out of nine projects and four translational platforms forming the core of
      an interdisciplinary consortium to research on the most important areas of uncertainties and
      unmet needs in early recognition and diagnostic assessment, prevention of relapse, and
      therapeutic strategies of BD.

      Within this project, currently used diagnostic tools for subthreshold bipolar symptoms
      (BPSS-P, EPIbipolar, BAR criteria) will be deployed within the first 24 months in defined
      risk groups. Predictive power of individual risk factors/risk constellations will be
      determined regarding the manifestation and prodromal development of BD within ≥24 months
      (follow-up every 6 months). Potential resilience factors are ascertained. Additionally, the
      diagnostic tools will be used in a representative cohort (IMAGEN, to ascertain the prevalence
      of clinical/neurobiological at-risk constellations in non-selected youth and young adults,
      data from previous follow-ups will be used, suffering/help-seeking behavior will be
      assessed). Regarding treatment, at-risk subjects identified will be staged according to a
      pilot staging model. Treatment guidance is provided linked to the model, however, the
      naturalistic setting allows for individual decision making. Reasons for decisions will be
      ascertained, efficacy will be assessed with respect to symptomatology, psychosocial
      functioning and conversion to full BD, tolerability/safety will be assessed according to
      research standard. Outcomes will be assessed within ≥ 24 months. Using the results, the
      clinical staging model & guidance will be refined. The long-term goal is to provide a model
      for research and clinical initiatives.

      Synopsis of study goals:

        1. Determination of the predictive power of individual risk factors and risk constellations
           in defined risk groups for BD,

        2. Identification of resilience factors,

        3. Integration of results for further development of diagnostic tools and harmonization of
           the diagnostic process across centers,

        4. Investigation of the process of treatment decision making, efficacy (acute/preventive
           effects) and tolerability/safety in at-risk subjects in a naturalistic setting, testing
           the feasibility of a pilot clinical staging model with treatment guidance,

        5. Refinement of the staging model and guidance.
    
  