
    
      Background:

      There is a need for adolescent and young adult (AYA) cancer research because the number of
      new cancers in young people is increasing and the survivor population is growing.
      Interventions that try to reduce problems that affect people after cancer are particularly
      important since its treatments can have negative effects on survivors' physical and mental
      health even decades after diagnosis.

      Aim:

      Given the many positive effects of physical activity (e.g. improved fitness and quality of
      life), the study aims to encourage AYA cancer survivors to be more physically active as they
      shift from treatment to survivorship care. The main goal of this study is to see if a
      home-based, mobile health (mHealth) physical activity intervention can increase physical
      activity levels by at least 90 minutes/week compared to baseline in AYA cancer survivors.

      Methods:

      The investigators will conduct a two-center randomized controlled trial of 320 AYA cancer
      survivors. Participants (N=320) will be Albertan residents, diagnosed with a first cancer
      between the ages of 15 and 39 years, and within one year of cancer treatment completion. At
      the start of the study, participants will complete fitness testing and questionnaires.
      Participants will then be randomly put into either a control or intervention group. The
      control group will receive educational information only. The intervention group will also
      receive a personalized physical activity plan, an activity tracker watch, access to a
      private, online survivor community, motivational text messages and check-in calls/e-mails.
      Fitness testing and questionnaires will be repeated at 6 and 12 months to see if the
      intervention increased physical activity levels and improved health outcomes among the
      participants in the intervention group compared to controls. A final measurement at 24 months
      will test long-term use.
    
  