
    
      There is increasing need to develop new models of rehabilitation to postpone older people's
      disabilities and institutional care. One alternative is home-based rehabilitation with
      emphasis on functional-based exercises and nutrition.

      Our objective is to study the effects of home-based physiotherapy (physical exercise) for 12
      months followed by 12 months' follow-up in older people, either with an operated hip fracture
      (60+ y) or with signs of frailty (65+ y). The primary outcome measure is duration of living
      at home (vs. assisted living and institutional care). Power calculations are based on the
      assumption that at 24 months persons assigned to physiotherapy (physical exercise) have lived
      at home for six months longer vs. those in usual care. Usual care follows the standard care
      procedures in South Karelia social and health care district (Eksote), Finland. The population
      in Eksote area is 133, 000. Secondary outcomes are physical functioning, falls,
      health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL), use and costs of social and health services, and
      mortality.

      We will recruit 300 persons with hip fracture and 300 with signs of frailty. After the
      operation, persons with hip fracture will be transferred from the surgery unit to a
      rehabilitation hospital, where spend approximately four weeks before discharge. The other
      patient group includes persons with frailty signs. They will be screened among outpatients
      and inpatients using modified frailty questionnaires by Abellan van Kan et al. (2008) and
      Morley et al. (2012). Diagnosis of frailty is based on Fried´s criteria (2001). Both patient
      groups will be randomized separately into an intervention arm (home-based physiotherapy
      (physical exercise) twice a week for 12 months) and a control arm (usual care), resulting in
      150 patients in each group.

      Physiotherapy (physical exercise) is carried out by private physiotherapists, who have been
      trained to follow the intervention protocol. Physiotherapy (physical exercise) is
      individually designed to meet the patient's functional capacity and needs but at the same
      time it is progressive. Each physiotherapy (physical exercise) session includes muscle
      strength and endurance training (especially for lower limbs), balance and coordination
      training and functional training. Functional training includes activities of daily living
      (ADL) and walking exercises. In addition, the physiotherapists give counseling on nutrition
      (based on Mini Nutritional Assessment, MNA) and follow the participant´s weight.

      An assessor-physiotherapist and assessor-nurse performs measurements at the participant's
      home at baseline, and after 3, 6 and 12 months. Assessments include, among others, modified
      Fried's frailty criteria, Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), Functional Independence
      Measure (FIM), HRQoL (15 D), MNA, Falls Efficacy Scale - International (FES-I), Social
      Provision Scale (SPS), Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), and Geriatric Depression
      Scale-15 (GDS-15). In addition we collect register data on living and housing conditions, use
      and costs of social and health care services, and mortality at the end of the follow-up (24
      months since the beginning of the study).

      Recruitment will begin in December 2014 and last for three years. Data analyses and reporting
      will take place in 2017-21. The study is supported by the Social Insurance Institution of
      Finland, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Finland.

      References

        -  Abellan van Kan G, Rolland Y, Bergman H, Morley JE, Kritchevsky SB, Vellas B. (2008).
           The I.A.N.A Task Force on frailty assessment of older people in clinical practice. J
           Nutr Health Aging.12(1):29-37

        -  Fried LP, Tangen CM, Walston J, Newman AB, Hirsch C, Gottdiener J, Seeman T, Tracy R,
           Kop WJ, Burke G, McBurnie MA. (2001). Cardiovascular Health Study Collaborative Research
           Group. Frailty in older adults: evidence for a phenotype. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med
           Sci;56(3):M146-56.

        -  Morley JE, Malmstrom TK, Miller DK.(2012). A simple frailty questionnaire (FRAIL)
           predicts outcomes in middle aged African Americans. J Nutr Health Aging 16(7):601-8.
    
  