
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Phase 1 I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib in patients with recurrent
      malignant glioma or recurrent or progressive meningioma.

      II. Determine the safety profile of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the
      pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

      Phase 2 I. Determine the 6-month progression-free survival (recurrent malignant glioma)
      II.12-month survival of patients treated with this drug (stable glioblastoma post radiation
      therapy)

      Phase 2 - Secondary Recurrent Malignant Glioma I. Objective Tumor Response rate associated
      with erlotinib therapy in recurrent or progressive malignant glioma.

      III. 12-month survival of patients treated with this drug Determine the safety profile of
      this drug in these patients. IV.. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these
      patients

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      study phase (I vs II), concurrent enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAEDs) (yes vs no),
      histology (recurrent GBM vs recurrent anaplastic glioma vs recurrent meningioma vs stable
      GBM), preoperative candidacy (yes vs no), and concurrent steroids (yes vs no).

      Phase I: Patients concurrently receiving EIAEDs receive oral erlotinib once daily. Courses
      repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of
      6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Phase II: Once the MTD is determined, additional patients concurrently receiving EIAEDs are
      treated with erlotinib as above at the phase II dose. Patients not concurrently receiving
      EIAEDs are treated with erlotinib as above at a predetermined dose.

      Patients are followed for survival.
    
  