
    
      This study will characterize the pharmacokinetics of colchicine after an oral dosing regimen
      of 4.8 mg over 6 hours. In addition, it will determine whether or not there is a trend toward
      effect of this high dose regimen on the electrocardiogram (ECG), mainly the corrected QT
      interval (QTc), via comparison to a 400 mg dose of moxifloxacin, a positive control for QTc
      prolongation. Eighteen healthy, non-smoking, non-obese, non-pregnant adults between the ages
      of 18 to 55 years of age will be randomized in a double blind fashion to either the
      colchicine or moxifloxacin treatment groups. On the day prior to the study (Day -1), subjects
      will receive colchicine and moxifloxacin placebos according to the same schedule and
      conditions as will be present during the study, and baseline ECG's will be determined by 24
      hour 12-lead Holter monitoring. On Day 1, after a minimum 10 hour overnight fast, subjects
      enrolled in the colchicine treatment group (N=15) will receive two 0.6 mg capsules (plus one
      dose moxifloxacin placebo) followed by an additional 0.6 mg colchicine dose (plus one dose
      moxifloxacin placebo) every hour for 6 additional doses; subjects in the moxifloxacin
      treatment group will receive placebo doses matching the colchicine treatment group over the
      first 5 hours, then 400 mg moxifloxacin (plus one dose colchicine placebo) at the 6 hour
      point. Fasting will continue for 4 hours after the first dose at which time a standardized
      meal will be served. Blood will be drawn from all participants at times sufficient to
      adequately define the pharmacokinetics of colchicine. During the study, continuous 24-hour
      ECG monitoring via 12-lead Holter monitor will be performed. Triplicate ECG records will be
      extracted from 5 minute observation periods throughout the 24 hours post dose. Finally, all
      study subjects will be monitored for adverse effects throughout the entire study period.
    
  