
    
      1. STUDY OBJECTIVE

           The purpose of the BeneMACs Long-Term LVAD Study is to demonstrate that survival in non
           transplant patients implanted with the HeartMate II LVAD as destination therapy in
           Belgium and the Netherlands are equivalent to or better than published results in the
           scientific literature with approved devices. (see section 4.6.4) Implants will be
           performed following the HeartMate II guidelines.

        2. STUDY ENTRY CRITERIA - PATIENT SELECTION

           2.1 Characterization of Patient Population The HeartMate II will be implanted as
           destination therapy in patients who are not candidates for cardiac transplantation.

        3. METHODS

      3.1 Study Design

      The study is a prospective, non-randomized, non-blinded multi-center study with historical
      control. The study will consist of the assignment of eligible patients to treatment with the
      LVAD. The first 10 patients to have the device implanted will be enrolled in the study.

      3.2 Study End point

      Patients enrolled in the study will be followed until end points defined as death, 2-year
      support on the HeartMate II, device removal, transplantation, or recovery.

      3.3 Number of Clinical Sites and Patients

      The study will be conducted at up to three (3) clinical sites. A total of 10 patients (3-4
      patients per site) will be enrolled and implanted with the HM II.

      3.4 Data Collection and Follow-up:

      All data will be entered into INTERMACS® through their web-based data entry system. Complete
      documentation and the Site User's Guide are contained at the data entry website
      (www.intermacs.org). INTERMACS (the Interagency Registry of Mechanical Assisted Circulatory
      Support) was formed as a partnership between the National Heart Lung, and Blood Institute
      (NHLBI), the FDA, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), participating hospitals
      and industry (reference 7.2). It is the main MCS registry in the United States. In addition
      to its primary purpose, the validated database used by INTERMACS is also being made available
      as a service to other studies of mechanical circulatory support devices such as the BeneMACs
      study.

      All data for the BeneMACs study will be held separately from the main INTERMACS database, and
      used only for the purpose of the BeneMACs study.
    
  