
    
      PREGS is a derivative of pregnenolone which the obligatory precursor of all steroid hormones
      originating from the gonads and adrenal glands. In rodents, PREGS has been demonstrated to
      improve memory performance in various behavioural tests. In humans, PREGS is one the most
      abundant circulating steroids. There are some indications about its decrease in blood during
      aging, and in brain samples from aged patients with AD, low concentrations of PREGS have been
      correlated with high levels of beta-amyloid peptide and phosphorylated tau protein. To date,
      a precise and rigorous evaluation of PREGS blood concentrations during aging is lacking and
      the relationship between these concentrations and the memory loss associated with AD has not
      been established.

      Primary objective To show that plasma concentrations of PREGS are decreased in AD patients ("
      case ") compared to free-AD subjects (" controls "), matched for gender and age.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To show that plasma concentrations of PREGS are inversely correlated with the severity
           of memory deficits in AD patients.

        -  To show that plasma concentrations of PREGS are correlated with the memory scores in the
           controls.

        -  To show that plasma concentrations of PREGS decrease in the controls.

        -  To search for a relationship between some of PREGS metabolites and age or the severity
           of memory deficits.

      This is a case-control study that will comprise 200 subjects aged over 70 years, including
      100 outpatients with mild to moderate AD and 100 AD-free volunteer controls matched on age
      and gender. These two groups will be stratified into age-sub-groups [70-74] [75-79] [80-84]
      [85-89] > 90 years and will include 10 men and 10 women per sub-group.

      AD patients and controls will be enrolled and evaluated in the geriatric centres of 5
      hospitals namely BICETRE, BROCA, PAUL BROUSSE, PITIE-SALPETRIERE and ROTHSCHILD. They will
      all be submitted to a clinical examination, biological analyses, cognitive tests and a brain
      magnetic resonance imaging scan. Blood will be collected from all subjects for steroid
      analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, a sensitive and accurate methodology that
      allows simultaneous quantification of several steroids in the same individual sample. PREGS
      and some of its metabolites will be identified and quantified at the "Institute medical of
      heath" (INSERM U788).
    
  