
    
      Background: Molar-Incisor Hypomineralisation (MIH) is defined as a qualitative defect that
      occurs during the mineralization phase of enamel of at least one first permanent molar. The
      opacities vary in size and color and are demarcated by healthy enamel. MIH molars present
      lower mechanical properties when compared to non-affected molars, due to the enamel's
      decreased mineralization. Allied to that, patients often report dental hypersensitivity,
      which impairs the mechanical removal of dental plaque; therefore, those molars are more prone
      to post-eruptive fractures and present higher risk of developing dental caries. This trial
      will compare the application of Glass Ionomer Cement (GIC) sealant with no-intervention for
      the most clinically- and cost-effective strategy for managing MIH molars without
      post-eruptive breakdown, in a school setting, using low-technology and child-friendly dental
      techniques. Methods/Design: This two-arm, parallel group, patient-randomized controlled,
      superiority trial will have treatment provided in schools. Schoolchildren (age 6-9),
      presenting at least one MIH molar (n molars = 195,) will have random allocation to treatment
      with or without the application of a GIC sealant (GC Fuji TRIAGE®, GC Europe, Leuven,
      Belgium). Baseline measures and outcome data will be assessed through participant report and
      clinical examination. The primary outcome is the presence of post-eruptive fracture and
      development of caries lesions. Secondary outcomes are: (1) self-reported dental
      hypersensitivity; (2) oral health-related-quality of life, reported by children; (3) plaque
      index, (4) gingival health, (5) caries status (according to ICCMS scores) in primary and
      permanent teeth; (6) the incremental cost-effectiveness. A trained and calibrated examiner
      will evaluate the treated teeth every six months post treatment for a period of 36 months.
      Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression tests will be used to investigate the primary outcome. The
      Logistic Regression and Poisson Regression Analysis will be used to analyze the secondary
      outcomes (α=5%).
    
  