
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) in women with stage II-III triple-negative
      breast cancer without a complete pathologic response (cPR) who receive a regimen of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy (chemoT), surgery, and/or irradiation followed by 8 infusions of
      ~10-15 x 10^9 Her2Bi-armed activated T cells (ATC) (aATC) given twice per week for 4 weeks in
      combination with IL-2 (aldesleukin) (300,000 IU/m^2/day) and GM-CSF (sargramostim) (250
      μg/m^2/twice per week) beginning 3 days before the 1st infusion and ending 1 week after the
      last infusion (defined as immunotherapy).

      II. To estimate the change from baseline (pre immunotherapy [IT]) to post-IT in specific
      cytotoxicity and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) enzyme-linked immunosorbent spots (Elispots) of
      lymphocytes in the blood directed at breast cancer cells.

      III. To investigate if pathologic response and the changes in numbers and proportion of
      infiltrating cells and cancer stem cells in the tumor at the time of surgery are associated
      with progressive disease.

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive dose-dense AC-T regimen comprising doxorubicin
      hydrochloride intravenously (IV) and cyclophosphamide IV once every 2 weeks for 4 courses
      followed by paclitaxel IV once every 2 weeks for 4 courses or paclitaxel IV once weekly for
      12 weeks. Or, patients receive TAC regimen comprising docetaxel IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride
      IV, and cyclophosphamide IV once every 3 weeks for 6 courses. Treatment continues in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      IMMUNOTHERAPY: Beginning 3 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy, patients receive
      Her2Bi-armed activated T cells IV over 5-30 minutes twice weekly for 4 weeks. Patients also
      receive aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning 3 days before the first T cell
      infusion and ending 1 week after the last infusion.

      SURGERY: Patients then undergo surgical resection of the breast 2 weeks later.

      After completion of study treatment, patients may be followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.
    
  