
    
      3.1 Study Design This study is designed as a 42-day drug efficacy study to evaluate clinical
      and parasitological responses after treatment of P.vivax malaria infections. Symptomatic
      patients with P. vivax mono-infections, meeting the study criteria, will be enrolled into the
      study, and treated with CQ (total dose 25gm/kg over 3 days). The treatment will be directly
      observed and the patients will be actively followed-up for 42 days according to an extended
      WHO protocol. At the end of the follow-up time, all patients will be treated with primaquine
      following national guidelines for the radical cure of P.vivax infections.

      3.2 Study Site and Population The study will be carried out in Krong Pa district, Gia Lai
      province where both P.falciparum and P.vivax malaria incidence are among the highest in the
      country. The study will be located in Chu'R Cam commune where the study team will be working
      with the local health staff and all surrounding communes with malaria patients.

      The local population is mainly composed by the JaRai ethnic minority and the main occupation
      consist of slash and burn agriculture (mainly maize, manioc and rice) in forest fields,
      together with seasonal work in rubber plantations, and small-scale production of goods for
      daily subsistence or trade e.g. coffee and cashew nuts. The climate is tropical with the dry
      season from November to April and the rainy season from May to October. The area is hilly and
      forested (secondary forest) and the main malaria vector is Anopheles dirus.

      3.4 Trial Population The target population includes all P.vivax infected patients (children
      and adults) either presenting spontaneously at the CHC or identified through active screening
      in the community.

      3.5 Trial Procedures 3.5.1 Screening and recruitment All consulting patients who meet the
      basic enrolment criteria during screening will be assigned a consecutive screening number and
      evaluated in greater depth by the medical doctor. Once the patient meets all the enrolment
      criteria, he or she (or a parent or guardian in case of children) will be asked for consent
      to participate in the study. Then, he/she will be allocated a study number (ID=sequential
      numbering). Any person who decides not to participate in the study will be examined, treated
      and followed-up by the health facility staff according to the standard of care established by
      the Ministry of Health.

      At enrolment (Day 0) the patient will be and examined and a standardized pre-coded
      questionnaire will be filled in. A venous blood sample will be collected into sterile
      vacutainer tubes containing EDTA or acid-citrate-dextrose (EDTA/ACD) from all patients at
      enrolment. A minimum of 5ml of blood -and maximum of 8 ml- will be collected from adults, and
      1ml/kg up to 5ml will be collected from children. Two blood drops will be added into a 1.5 ml
      tube containing 500 µL of RNAprotect reagent (Qiagen).

      3.5.2 Treatment All patients will receive a full treatment with CQ at a dose of 25 mg of CQ
      base per kg body weight (bw) given over 3 days and under direct supervision. Patients will be
      observed for 60 minutes after treatment for adverse reactions or vomiting. Those patients
      vomiting their medication within the first 30 minutes will receive a repeat full dose; those
      vomiting from 30-60 minutes will receive half dose. If the patient vomits again, he or she
      will be withdrawn and offered rescue therapy.

      Rescue Medication:

      Oral=CQ (3 days, 25mg/kg) together with primaquine (0.25mg/kg/day for 14 days); Intravenous
      (IV)= Artesunate (4mg/kg/day) for a minimum of 24h and until the patient is able to take oral
      drug. Then continue with oral DHA-PPQ for 3days.

      Radical cure. primaquine treatment will be delayed until the end of the follow up, and given
      as recommended by the national guidelines, i.e. 0.25mg/kg/day for 14 days to all patients
      with negative G6PD rapid test.

      3.5.3 Follow up From Day 0 until parasite clearance patients will be monitored every 12 hours
      by blood microscopy at least until Day 3 and longer if necessary until parasite clearance
      defined as two consecutive negative slides.

      At each visit, the patient will be interviewed and examined and a finger prick blood sample
      will be collected for the following outcomes: two blood slides for LM observation (thick and
      thin film), 200μl of blood in an EDTA/ACD microtainer tube for DNA extraction, and 2 drops of
      blood into another microtainer tube containing RNAprotect for RNA extraction. At Day 3, an
      additional drop of blood will be taken to measure Hb concentration with Hemocue method.

      Day 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42 Patients will be interviewed and examined, the follow-up form will
      be completed, and any adverse event documented. A finger prick blood sample will be collected
      for the following outcomes: two blood slides for LM observation (thick and thin film), 200μl
      of blood in an EDTA/ACD microtainer tube for DNA extraction, and 2 drops of blood in
      RNAprotect containing microtainer tube.

      In addition, at Day 7, 100μl of blood will be taken on filter paper to determine blood CQ
      concentration. At Days 7, 14, 28, and 42 Hb concentration (Hemocue) will be measured from
      finger prick.

      Day of P.vivax recurrence: If recurrence is confirmed a further venous blood sample will be
      collected prior to rescue treatment administration. 100μl of this venous blood will be
      spotted on filter paper to determine blood CQ concentration, the remaining being used for ex
      vivo assay and cryopreservation as detailed in Annex VI-C.

      3.5.4 Loss to follow-up protocol violations Loss to follow-up occurs when, despite all
      reasonable efforts, an enrolled patient does not attend the scheduled visits and cannot be
      found. No treatment outcome will be assigned to these patients. These patients will be
      classified as lost to follow-up and censored or excluded from the analysis.

      Study patients who meet any of the following criteria will be classified as withdrawn: i)
      withdrawal of consent; ii) failure to complete treatment; iii) serious adverse events
      necessitating termination of treatment before the full course is completed; iv) enrolment
      violation; v) voluntary protocol violation; vi) involuntary protocol violation

      3.5.5 Laboratory procedures and evaluation Microscopy Three slides (thin/thick blood smears)
      should be obtained at screening, one being stained rapidly (10% Giemsa for 10 min) for
      examination in a limited number of fields to ensure the presence of P.vivax asexual forms at
      a minimum parasitaemia of 250/ul. Once the patient is enrolled, the other two slides will be
      stained more carefully (3% Giemsa for 45 min). Density, will be expressed as the number of
      asexual parasites per µl of blood, and calculated dividing the number of asexual parasites by
      the number of WBCs counted and corrected by the estimated WBCs density (typically 8000 per
      µl). When the asexual parasite count is less than 10 per 200 WBCs, counting will be done
      against at least 500 WBCs. A blood slide will be considered negative when examination of 1000
      WBCs reveals no asexual parasites.

        -  Ring stage parasitaemia: The number of ring stages will be counted in all positive
           slides at Day 0 and at Day of recurrence against 200 asexual parasites; only isolates
           for which the proportion of ring stages exceeds 65% will be used for the ex vivo drug
           assay.

        -  Gametocytes: density will be computed by counting the number of gametocytes per 500
           WBCs.

      Haemoglobin levels Hb levels will be measured on whole blood collected into micro-cuvette
      using Hemocue following manufacturer instructions.

      Measurement of CQ concentration at Day 7 and day of recurrence from 100 µl of blood expelled
      onto chromatography paper (31ETCHR, Whatman) Parasite molecular detection and genotyping DNA
      will be extracted at ITM/NIMPE from finger-prick blood samples collected in microtainers.
      Molecular confirmation of Plasmodium species at Day 0 will be performed by qPCR targeting 18S
      ribosomal gene. The same qPCR method will be used to identify and quantify P. vivax
      infections at Day 0 and follow up samples.

      P. vivax genotypes will be identified through PCR amplification of 3 markers particularly
      effective for finger-printing in clinical trials (MS16, Pv3.2 and msp1F3) followed by
      capillary gel electrophoresis.

      RNA extraction and RT-qPCR for gametocytes RNA will be extracted from RNAprotect samples at
      ITM/NIMPE using affinity columns and DNAse digestion of genomic DNA. To detect and quantify
      P. vivax gametocyte stages a reverse transcription qPCR (RT-qPCR) targeting Pvs25 gene
      transcripts will be done on D0 and in all follow-up samples.

      Drug resistance laboratory analysis (Day 0 and of recurrence) Briefly, blood will be
      centrifuged and plasma will be stored at -20ºC. The upper part of buffy coat will be removed
      carefully and stored at -20ºC. Red blood cells (RBCs) will be resuspended in PBS (1:1) and
      leukocytes will be depleted using cellulose columns (Sigma). Filtered cells will be washed
      and pellet measured before resuspending at 50% hematocrite in McCoy medium (blood medium
      mixture, BMM, 4ml).

      Ex vivo drug sensitivity assays: Briefly, plates with predosed 7-point 2-fold dilutions of
      CQ, PPQ, DHA and quinine will be prepared following WWARN procedures
      [http://www.wwarn.org/sites/default/files/INV08_PFalciparumDrugSensitivity.pdf]. Minimal
      inhibitory concentrations and IC50 will be calculated using the In Vitro Analysis and
      Reporting Tool (IVART) developed online by the WWARN.

      G6PD deficiency test: all patients will be tested for G6PD deficiency using the point-of-care
      test by CareStart (Access Bio, New Jersey, USA) before PQ treatment.

      4. Quality Assurance Site monitoring visits will be scheduled on a regular basis. During
      these visits, information recorded on the case report forms will be verified against source
      documents. After the case report forms are collated at the end of the trial, they will be
      reviewed for completeness and accuracy. The data will be double entered into an electronic
      database, where specially designed computer checks are used to identify selected protocol
      violations and data errors.

      All blood films on admission will be read at the study site as well as by a senior
      microscopist at a coordinating centre. In addition, an external quality control will be done
      at ITM on 10% of randomly selected slides. For each of the molecular assays (qPCR, RT-qPCR
      and parasite genotyping) 10% of the samples processed at NIMPE will be randomly chosen to be
      re-analysed at ITM. External quality control of ex vivo drug assay results will be done at
      ITM where the slides will be re-examined for 10% of randomly chosen isolates.

      5. Statistical Analytical Plan The analysis of the Day 42 cure rate will be performed both
      for the intention-to-treat (ITT) patient population and the evaluable patient population (Per
      Protocol). Data analyses will be performed using STATA 12 software. For categorical variables
      percentages and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be calculated following the
      Wilson's method. Proportions will be compared by calculating the *2 with Yates' correction or
      by Fisher's exact test where appropriate. Normally distributed continuous data will be
      compared by Student's t test and analysis of variance. Data not conforming to a normal
      distribution will be compared by the Mann-Whitney U test or Kruskal-Wallis analysis of
      variance. The correlation between 2 continuous variables will be assessed using either the
      Pearson or Spearman's rank correlation coefficient as required.

      The overall risk of treatment failure by Day 28 and by Day 42 will be calculated by Kaplan
      Meier method, and comparisons between risk groups will be done using the log rank test. The
      PCR adjusted risk at Day 28 and 42 will also be calculated following the genotyping results
      of each recurrent P.vivax infection. Parasite clearance time and rate will be estimated using
      the PCE online tool developed by WWARN
      (http://www.wwarn.org/toolkit/data-management/parasite-clearance-estimator). The Mean IC50
      and IC90 for CQ will be estimated using the In vitro Analysis and reporting tool (IVART)
      developed by WWARN (http://www.wwarn.org/toolkit/data-management/ivart).

      Hematological changes will be evaluated by measuring the changes in Hb concentration between
      day0, 3, 7, 14, 28 and 42, respectively.

      6. Ethical Issues 6.1 Ethical clearance to conduct the study will have been obtained from the
      Ethics Committee of the NIMPE, Hanoi and from the Ethics Committee of the University of
      Antwerp, as well as from the Institutional Review Board at the ITM, Anwerp.

      6.2 Consent Process Patients will be included in the study only if they (or parents or
      guardians of children) give informed consent. The consent request is available in English and
      translated into Vietnamese to be read entirely to the patient, parent or guardian. Details
      about the trial and its benefits and potential risks will be explained. Once any questions
      have been answered, a signature will be requested on the document. If the patient is
      illiterate, a literate witness must sign; if possible, the signatory will be selected by the
      participant and will have no connection to the research team.
    
  