
    
      Exposure Therapy (ET) is the current gold standard for treating Post Traumatic Stress
      Disorder (PTSD). Although ET has the best evidence in its favor, it is also clear that the
      treatment is less than perfect in achieving remission of PTSD. Attempts have been made to
      improve on traditional ET by augmenting the exposure using Virtual Reality (VR). Open label
      trials of VR assisted ET (VRET) showed this method to be safe and effective, and suggested
      remission rates that were higher than normally seen with ET alone. For the treatment of
      phobias, head to head comparison with traditional ET has shown VRET to be superior. For PTSD,
      trials that directly pit VRET against traditional ET, and against other traditional therapy,
      are ongoing, but it is already clear that some individuals who fail to respond to traditional
      ET do get better once VR is added. Lost in the rush to develop VRET, however, has been any
      direct testing of its signature aspect, the VR itself. There are theoretical reasons to
      believe that VR might enhance ET in special ways. However there are other reasons to believe
      that any form of Augmented Exposure Therapy (AET) that introduced sights and sounds from the
      trauma would do just as well. VR, although exciting, is expensive, cumbersome, and not
      available at most treatment facilities. If similar effects could be achieved using more
      primitive technology, it would open up the possibility of enhanced ET to a much wider range
      of patients. Conversely, if VRET were shown to be superior to simplified AET, it would argue
      for a unique role of VR in psychotherapy. Not only would this be theoretically important for
      neuroscientists, it would indicate VRET as a "platinum" standard for treating PTSD. For the
      past four years, programs at Naval Medical Center San Diego (NMCSD) and Naval Hospital Camp
      Pendleton have collaborated with VR companies and researcher to build and test VR systems to
      treat PTSD in Service Members returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. NMCSD thus has the
      experience to perform the necessary experiments. The existing equipment also means that NMCSD
      has the unique ability to carry out such a test without any additional input from the
      companies that make VR systems. We propose to perform a randomized, head-to-head study that
      compares VRET to AET. We propose to perform a randomized, head-to-head study that compares
      VRET to AET. Up to 300 patients would be recruited with the goal of treating 40 patients with
      VR and 40 patients with the control (AET) therapy. The same techniques, measures, and
      controls would be used that NMCSD has already put in place to develop VRET for PTSD. Also, a
      cost-benefit analysis would be used to determine the benefits of VRET.
    
  