
    
      Intimate Partner Violence Intimate partner violence (IPV), which is most often characterized
      as violence against women, is endemic in our society. Recent data from the National Violence
      Against Women Survey (NVAWS) suggests that for every 1000 women age 18 and older in the
      United States, there are 3.2 rape victimizations, 44.2 physical assaults, and 5 stalkings
      annually. The economic burden of IPV is estimated at $5.8 billion annually, which includes
      direct medical costs and lost days of work experienced by the victim. A substantial portion
      of this toll on the economy, at greater than 50%, is borne by our private-sector partners in
      the form of increased healthcare utilization that is covered by employee health benefits,
      high employee turnover, decreased productivity, and increased security measures. As
      businesses become increasingly aware of this burden, more are instituting policies and
      procedures designed to help victims of IPV in a move to ameliorate the destructive effects of
      violence on their bottom line.

      Recent efforts by the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control=s Division of
      Violence Prevention have focused prevention efforts targeted towards potential IPV
      perpetrators rather than victims. The rationale for this new direction in research is the
      idea that primary prevention that targets potential batterers may ultimately affect the
      health of women more effectively than targeting secondary/tertiary prevention efforts towards
      IPV victims. The idea is to stop potential batterers from ever abusing an intimate partner in
      the first place, rather than empowering a victim of abuse to prevent the violence from
      continuing. However, there is a paucity of data on the risk and protective factors for IPV
      perpetration and the economic impact that IPV perpetrators have on the health care and
      business sectors that would warrant such an investment of scarce public health resources.
      Until this information is known, developing and evaluating primary prevention programs that
      target potential abusers is quite challenging, as is our ability to engage our private-sector
      partners to direct their health promotion resources towards these activities.

      Workplace Productivity Employers are increasingly interested in identifying and measuring the
      relationship between the health issues of their employees and work productivity. Information
      about this relationship can help guide employers on what types of prevention interventions
      will be most effective and cost-effective. Performance measures to assess productivity must
      reflect specific aspects of work output, at a specific point in time, for a specific person.
      However, only a few modern jobs (e.g., a factory line worker) require workers to perform
      repetitive tasks that can be easily counted or tracked. Even in industries where employee
      performance can be tracked objectively, companies often lack reliable systems to capture and
      review such data. Proxies such as promotions or pay raises also lack the detail necessary to
      connect a health outcome or behavior with a worker's ability to perform. Without defined
      business criteria and established metrics to monitor daily output and individual performance,
      an obvious alternative is asking employees to self-rate their own performance.

      Several self-assessment instruments are currently being used in a research setting to
      estimate work performance and detect the effects of health on performance and productivity
      (1). Depending upon the health issue(s) under investigation, different instruments may be
      more or less helpful. In some cases, e.g., measuring the impact of arthritis on productivity,
      the physical aspect of work might be the most important dimension of productivity to measure.
      In other cases, questions about "how often" work was affected may be less important than "how
      much" work was affected. In general, the most important dimensions of work to capture
      include: physical effort, social interactions, memory or concentration. For example, some
      jobs involve high risk if a person is fatigued or distracted (bus drivers), others do not.
      Some jobs require the use of replacement workers (e.g., police or teachers) when a person
      misses work because of a health issue, others do not. Whatever the occupation, certain
      aspects of work performance will be affected. Self-assessment tools can be specifically
      tailored to measure the work impact of controlling behavior on an employee's productivity -
      as measured by days missed from work - also called absenteeism, and reduced on-the-job
      productivity - also called presenteeism.

      Justification for the current study A major challenge in encouraging the private sector to
      consider funding workplace promotion and prevention interventions is to provide evidence of
      returns on investment. One way to do this is by providing evidence that, if not addressed,
      disease and injury can lead to reductions in individual productivity and overall workplace
      productivity that can result in substantial losses to the company. To provide this evidence
      for IPV prevention, this involves measuring productivity in the baseline population and
      comparing those productivity levels with persons with elevated levels of controlling
      behavior, violence, or propensity for perpetrating IPV.

      Quantifying this relationship is a first step towards understanding the potentially
      devastating effects that IPV has on our society in general and for the business sector in
      particular. These data could be instrumental in making the business case for investment in
      effective and cost effective workplace health promotion interventions that focus on domestic
      violence perpetrators, in addition to victims, with the ultimate goal of reducing the
      incidence of IPV in our communities.

      Trying to identify people who behave in controlling ways (some of them illegal) towards their
      intimate partners through a workplace-based anonymous survey do not have implications for the
      employer in terms of "duty to warn" or other reporting requirements. First, no personal
      identifiers will be collected through this survey, so it would not be possible to make any
      reports. We will not have any names, ID numbers, or any other information that would permit
      reporting a person to the police or referring him or her to treatment. Second, the employer
      will never see the data. Only the researchers will be able to view the data, which removes
      the employer from the information loop entirely, much as school administrators are protected
      when students at their high schools report recent marijuana use on the YRBS. Third, "duty to
      warn" requirements are applicable when a person has specific knowledge about a crime that is
      going to occur-not if they have a generalized sense that a person may at some time have
      engaged in any form of abusive behavior, or even less specifically, that a person has a
      "propensity for abuse" (which is what this project will collect). This survey will not
      collect explicit information about criminal abuse perpetration that has occurred in the
      immediate past, present or immediate future. Fourth, it is essential for victim safety that
      victims know exactly when they may be at sharply increased risk of harm due to any type of
      intervention with the perpetrator. Perpetrators may assume the victim is responsible for the
      report, or blame her for the consequences of the report, and thus may be in more danger
      because of the third-party report than if no report had been made. Significant work has been
      done to discourage third-party IPV reporting in the healthcare community for precisely this
      reason.

      The HEALTHY PEOPLE 2010 objectives addressed by this proposal include:

      15-32 Reduce the rate of physical assault by current or former intimate partners to 3.6
      physical assaults per 1,000 persons aged 12 years and older.

      15-35 Reduce the annual rate of rape or attempted rape to 0.7 rapes or attempted rapes per
      1,000 persons.

      15-36 Reduce sexual assault other than rape to 0.2 sexual assaults other than rape per 1,000
      persons aged 12 years and older.

      15-37 Reduce physical assaults to 25.5 physical assaults per 1,000 persons aged 12 years and
      older.

      As described previously, violence against women results in substantial morbidity and
      mortality in our society, with over 50 victimizations occurring annually for every 1000 women
      over the age of 18. The economic toll is considerable and the private sector, by virtue of
      subsidizing healthcare insurance and providing employee leave benefits, incurs at least half
      of the costs associated with IPV. Since employers are in the unique position to offer health
      promotion and prevention initiatives that can target potential (and confirmed) perpetrators
      and victims of domestic violence, it is critical for CDC to stimulate these initiatives and
      to provide evidence-based recommendations where applicable. Stimulating initiatives first
      requires evidence that domestic abuse affects the employer. While some information is known
      about how a victim of domestic violence affects the workplace, little is known about how the
      IPV perpetrator affects the workplace. Targeting research efforts towards the primary
      prevention of IPV is a newly developing initiative for NCIPC, as is our interest in
      collaborating with the private sector. This research study provides a unique opportunity to
      further both of these priorities and to advance our overall mission to reduce the incidence
      of violence against women in our society.

      Overview of the present study The current project involves the pilot testing of an
      employer-based self-assessment tool to measure productivity. The goals of this research
      project are 1) to identify the relationship between controlling behavior/propensity for
      abusiveness and work productivity, 2) to quantify productivity losses for persons with
      elevated controlling behaviors, and 3) to provide feedback on the research findings to the
      business community.
    
  