
    
      Cleft palate is a condition which affects up to 1:500 births. Current practice is that
      children are enrolled in a multidisciplinary care team and undergo primary cleft palate
      repair at 12 months of age. These children are admitted to hospital overnight for observation
      of airway compromise, bleeding and analgesics. The use of fibrin sealant is gaining
      popularity and its use in pediatric surgery is becoming more commonplace. It acts as both a
      hemostatic agent as well as an adhesive. A review of the current literature on fibrin sealant
      has shown that in adults and children it may decrease post operative inflammation and pain.
      In 1994 Moralee et al published that the use of fibrin sealant in tonsillectomy patients in
      lieu of diathermy resulted in decreased pain in the early post operative period and that it
      was equally effective as a hemostatic method. Another study published in 2005 by healy et al
      showed that when fibrin sealant was applied to the donor site from a thigh split thickness
      skin graft patients experienced significantly less pain over a 14 day study period. Tisseel
      is a safe product when used appropriately. It is contraindicated for injection
      intra-arterially and in those with allergy. It is derived from plasma however viral
      transmission has not been shown to occur in this product. A full product monograph is
      available. It is the investigators hypothesis that the use of tisseel in pediatric patients
      undergoing cleft palate repair will result in decreased post operative pain.

      The proposed study is a prospective randomized control trial. The control group will have
      electrocautery as the primary method of hemostasis control and the treatment group will have
      tisseel applied to the incision. The primary outcome of the study is post operative pain.
      Secondary outcomes will be the amount of analgesics required during the hospital admission,
      time to discharge, time to first feeding, minor complication rates- infection, dehiscence,
      respiratory compromise, and long term sequelae- oronasal fistula formation, need for
      revision, velopharyngeal insufficiency. Statistical calculations for sample size have
      determined that 16 patients will be needed in each group. This was calculated based on an
      alpha of 0.05 and power(beta) of 0.8. Statistical significance will be set as p<0.05.

      Recruitment will be directed at parents/guardians of patients to undergo cleft palate repair.
      Details of the study will be explained to parents pre-operatively. Currently the pediatric
      plastic surgeons at the Stollery Children's Hospital use tisseel in their repair techniques
      however the investigators do not have concrete data suggesting it has a clear benefit for
      this procedure. Two surgeons will be enrolling patients and performing surgeries
      independently with or without the assistance of residents and/or medical students. After
      informed consent by the primary decision maker, the patient will be randomized, via concealed
      envelop, to have Tisseel used or have electrocautery used as a hemostatic mechanism. The
      parents/guardians will be blinded to the randomization. The operating room staff will know
      the results of the randomization and will need to prepare the Tisseel product. All other
      health care providers caring for the patient in the recovery period will be blinded to the
      randomization. Post-operative pain scores will be determined using the FLACC (Face, Legs,
      Activity, Cry, Consolability) scoring system. This system is a validated objective pain
      scoring system used in young children post procedure. Patients will be assessed in the
      standard fashion. Pain scores and analgesic medications given will be recorded as per current
      nursing policy as well as on the study record which will be placed in the patient's chart.
      Parents will be shown how to assess FLACC scores and if patient is discharged prior to 72
      hours, the parent or guardian will be asked to record the FLACC score at certain time points.
      The record of time to first feeding will be recorded on the study record form. Patients will
      be discharged from hospital when current criteria for safe discharge are met. Clinic follow
      up will be conducted in the current standard method at the surgeon's discretion. It will be
      noted on the patient's hospital chart that they were enrolled in this study in order to track
      long-term outcomes listed above.

      Student t-test will be used to compare the outcome data. Demographic parameters will be
      collected to validate the randomization of the study groups. Age at time of surgery,
      associated congenital malformations including cleft lip and prior orthodontic
      surgery/interventions will be recorded and stored in a password protected data storage
      device. Results of the study will be made available to the parent/guardians of the study
      patients. It is estimated that the study will require one year of recruitment and data
      collection for the primary outcome.
    
  