
    
      Emerging data support a link between sleep disordered breathing (SDB) and adverse pregnancy
      outcomes, particularly preeclampsia. Furthermore, SDB, which is characterized by intermittent
      nocturnal hypoxia-reoxygenation as well as sleep disruption, results in endothelial
      dysfunction and metabolic dysregulation, the same biological pathways that have been
      associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. Obesity is a well-known risk factor for both
      adverse pregnancy outcomes and SDB, and has been associated with the same aforementioned
      biological aberrations. Therefore, obesity complicates the definition of a causal
      relationship between SDB and pregnancy outcomes. While some classic cardiovascular risk
      factors (prehypertension) are certainly relevant in pregnancy, there are also
      well-established risk factors that are unique to pregnancy (uterine vascular stiffness,
      placental angiogenic factors). The interplay between SDB, obesity and these unique
      cardiovascular risk factors remains undefined, and this proposal aims to address this
      knowledge gap. Without this data, our ability to understand how we can mitigate these risks
      through the use of therapeutic interventions for SDB, such as CPAP (continuous positive
      airway pressure), is compromised. To further address this knowledge gap, we will make use of
      the placenta's ability to accumulate evidence of damage over time and provide a record of
      maternal vascular health throughout gestation. Numerous placental lesions deriving from
      maternal vascular disease have been identified and can be readily detected on placental
      pathology. These lesions can provide a measure of the severity of hypoxic stress experienced
      by the fetus during gestation.

      The investigators' central hypothesis is that SDB is an effect modifier that increases
      maternal cardiovascular risk and placental hypoxic injury in obese pregnant women, and that
      CPAP treatment during pregnancy will result in an improved cardiovascular risk and placental
      profile. To test this hypothesis the investigaotrs will identify a cohort of obese women both
      with and without SDB. The investigators will examine SDB's impact on maternal vascular
      stiffness (uterine artery Doppler), angiogenesis (pregnancy specific angiogenic factors e.g.,
      sFLT-1) and metabolism (insulin resistance) across pregnancy (Aim 1). The investigators will
      perform a randomized controlled trial of autotitrating- CPAP verses sham-CPAP in pregnancy to
      examine the impact of CPAP treatment during pregnancy on cardiovascular risk (Aim 2) and will
      explore the interplay between SDB, CPAP and evidence of maternal vascular disease and chronic
      fetal hypoxia by evaluating the placental profile of obese women with and without SDB (Aim
      3).
    
  