
    
      Nasal Potential Difference (NPD) measurements will be conducted on participants. The NPD
      measurement, is a bioelectric assay of CFTR-dependent ion transport that has been used in a
      variety of protocols designed to detect CFTR function. A 4-Step protocol will be utilized.
      The nasal cavities will be perfused in a step-wise fashion with the following solutions: 1)
      Ringer's solution, 2) Ringer's solution + amiloride 100μM, 3) Low-Cl--containing solution,
      and 4) Low-Cl- + isoproterenol (10 µM). The potential difference will be monitored in nasal
      epithelium in comparison to an agar filled reference butterfly electrode placed in the volar
      aspect of the forearm, and connected via a calomel cell to a high impedance voltmeter.

      Following placement of the subcutaneous reference bridge, the nasal probe will be secured 1-3
      cm within the inferior meatus and secured in position at the most polarizing position. Each
      nare will then be sequentially perfused with Ringer solution. All nasal potential difference
      tracings will be scored independently by a single reviewer.

      The investigator and an internal committee comprised of Gregory Fleming James Associate
      Scientists will oversee the safety of the study. Our internal committee is a
      multidisciplinary group consisting of physician and subspecialists who, collectively, have
      experience in treatment patients with cystic fibrosis and other airway disease in the conduct
      of randomized clinical trials. The primary responsibility of this committee is to protect the
      safety and welfare of subjects consenting to the investigator's procurement of remnant tissue
      during endoscopic sinus procedure. Members are responsible for reviewing procedural conduct,
      including acquisition of consents and materials, to protect patient well-being. An interim
      data safety review will be conducted on a yearly basis. The committee will consist of at
      least 3 members with clinical trials experience in airway diseases. During annual review,
      issues relating to the safety and process for acquiring human tissues will be reviewed.
      Summary reports from each annual meeting will be prepared and will address concerns about the
      procurement of tissue or any other information deemed pertinent to the review.
    
  