
    
      The hormone cortisol is a key regulator of metabolism that influences the use of glucose
      (sugar) and fat as fuels. Persistently increased cortisol levels, as in Cushing s syndrome,
      lead to obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and lipid abnormalities including elevated
      triglyceride levels and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels. These same disorders are
      also present in patients without Cushing s syndrome, suggesting that cortisol may be involved
      in their pathogenesis. Mifepristone is a cortisol-like drug that blocks cortisol action in
      the body. It can reverse lipid abnormalities, diabetes and obesity in Cushing s syndrome
      patients but its effects on these conditions have not been tested in patients without the
      syndrome.

      The long-term aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate the ability of mifepristone to
      reverse or improve glucose intolerance, dyslipidemia, hypertension and weight gain. An
      initial 7-day prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover study is proposed here
      to look at the effect of short-term administration of oral mifepristone or placebo on glucose
      intolerance. Given that there are no human data available on the effect of mifepristone on
      insulin sensitivity, this will be a pilot study of 15 subjects. Data from this study will
      then be used to design a larger trial to evaluate long-term effects on blood pressure and
      weight, as well as glucose and triglyceride control.

      Overweight or obese subjects with abnormal glucose tolerance will undergo each of the two
      treatments in a randomized order, including mifepristone by mouth and a look-alike inert
      tablet by mouth. Each treatment study will include two or three days of baseline tests that
      will be repeated after seven days of treatment. Treatments will be separated by at least six
      and no more than eight weeks. The tests will include blood drawing, urine collection,
      administration of glucose and insulin by vein, and a cortisol-like material to evaluate the
      metabolism of cortisol and a related hormone, corticosterone.
    
  