
    
      Dementia is an increasingly prevalent, costly and burdensome condition. The dramatic aging of
      the US population is creating a dementia "epidemic" that our health care system is poorly
      prepared to handle. More than 5 million people are affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD) and
      related dementias in 2016, with that number estimated to nearly triple to 13.8 million by
      2050. The direct health care costs alone for dementia care are projected to increase from
      $236 billion in 2016 to more than $1 trillion in 2050. In addition to cognitive and
      functional deterioration, patients with dementia experience behavioral and psychological
      complications such as agitation and depression. Family caregivers of patients with dementia
      experience higher levels of anxiety, depression, chronic fatigue, and an increased mortality
      risk.

      Dementia and palliative care are national research priorities. Both dementia and palliative
      care have been identified as priority conditions for research and quality improvement by
      numerous organizations such as the Institute of Medicine, National Quality Forum, the Centers
      for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and NIA.
      In addition, a workgroup developing milestones for care and support under the U.S. National
      Alzheimer's Plan has explicitly stated that palliative care needs to be incorporated
      throughout the course of caring for patients and families affected by dementia.

      2.0 Rationale and Specific Aims

      Aim 1: To test the effect of the IN-PEACE intervention on patients' neuropsychiatric symptoms
      (e.g., agitation/aggression, anxiety, repetitive behaviors). Mixed effects models will be
      used to compare repeated NPI-Q scores obtained at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24 months.
      Repeatedly measured NPI-Q scores will be the dependent variable in the model.

      Aim 2: To test the effect of the IN-PEACE intervention on patients' overall symptom outcomes.
      Analyses in this aim will use repeatedly measured SM-EOLD scores over 24 months of follow-up
      as the dependent variable in the mixed effects model, similarly to the approach described for
      Aim 1.

      Aim 3: To test the effect of the IN-PEACE intervention on caregivers' distress and mood. Aim
      3 analyses will use repeatedly measured caregiver NPI-Q distress scores and caregiver PHQ-9
      over 24 months of follow-up as the dependent variables in separate mixed effects models,
      similar to the approach for Aim 1.

      Aim 4: Evaluate the effect of the IN-PEACE intervention on ER/hospital use.
      ER/hospitalization events will be obtained from accessing electronic medical records
      maintained by the Indiana Health Information Exchange (IHIE) and the Indiana Network for
      Patient Care (INPC). Poisson regression models will be used to compare rates of any
      ER/hospitalization event between the two groups while adjusting for dementia severity and
      significant baseline variables that differ between the two groups.
    
  