
    
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a heterogeneous neurobehavioral disorder
      characterized by a persistent pattern of developmentally inappropriate inattentiveness,
      impulsivity, and hyperactivity. It is the most common pediatric neurobiological condition
      affecting approximately 5-7% of children worldwide (Faraone, Stephen V., Sergeant, J. et al.
      2003; Thomas et al. 2015.

      Sleep difficulties, including prolonged sleep onset latency and decreased total sleep time
      have a significant negative impact on the functioning of children (Shakankiry, 2011). This
      may manifest as mood and behavioural disturbances which may even mimic the classic symptoms
      of ADHD; hyperactivity, poor impulse control, and inattention. This can in turn negatively
      affect the day to day activities of a child such as social interactions and learning. A
      meta-analysis in 2015 (Kidwell et al.) showed that stimulant medications impair sleep of
      children and adolescents. Some researchers have argued that stimulant medication may improve
      sleep (Chatoor et al, 1983 and Stein et al. 2012). Importantly there appears to be
      heterogeneity in the effects of stimulant medication on sleep with some people sleeping
      better and some people worse after taking Foquest速 (unpublished data on file PURDUE,
      communications with Jodan Ratz, 2019).

      To date, seven pharmacokinetic studies of FOQUEST and six phase 3 clinical trials have been
      conducted. FOQUEST has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of ADHD symptoms in
      double-blind, randomized clinical trials in children (aged 6 to 12), adolescents (aged 12 to
      17) and adults (aged 18 or older). However, some clinicians have raised the concern that the
      extended duration of Foquest, may have a negative impact on sleep.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of Foquest速 on sleep, using actigraphy
      and sleep diaries, in children aged 6-12 compared to baseline on no medication. This study
      will particularly evaluate the effect of Foquest速 on sleep latency and self and parent
      reported sleep restorative quality. This would be a novel study as there is no objective or
      subjective data on the effect of the Foquest速 on sleep latency and total sleep time in
      children aged 6-12.
    
  