
    
      Study design:

      Double-Blinded Randomised controlled trial

      Study aim:

      This is an in vivo study that aims to compare the salivary fluoride concentrations of
      different fluoride formulations in the form of toothpaste with and without post-brushing
      water rinsing.

      Study objectives:

      To compare the salivary fluoride concentrations of different fluoride formulations in the
      form of toothpaste, with and without post-brushing water rinsing. Toothpaste formulations are
      to include: sodium fluoride (NaF), sodium monofluorophosphate (MFP), sodium fluoride plus
      sodium monofluorophosphate combined (NaF + MFP), Amine fluoride (AmF) and stannous fluoride
      and sodium fluoride combined (SnF + NaF). Fluoride-free toothpaste will serve as a control in
      this study. Concentration is to be standardised for all the formulations.

      Results of this study would reflect on the oral hygiene instructions given to patients in
      term of tooth brushing frequency, fluoride-containing dentifrices of different formulations
      and post-brushing rinsing practice.

      Null hypothesis:

      The null hypotheses for this study are:

      All of the following toothpaste formulations have no significant difference in term of
      salivary clearance rate:

      oNon-fluoridated toothpaste oSodium fluoride (Naf) toothpaste oSodium fluoride and sodium
      monofluorophosphate combined toothpaste (NaF+ MFP) oStannous fluoride and sodium fluoride
      combined (SnF+NaF) toothpaste oAmine fluoride toothpaste (AmF) oSodium monofluorophosphate
      toothpaste

      Materials under investigation:

      The experimental materials to be investigated are taken from the list of the available brands
      in UK published in delivering better oral health: an evidence-based toolkit for prevention.

        -  Control toothpaste (0 ppmF)

        -  Sodium fluoride toothpaste 1,450 ppm F

        -  Sodium monofluorophosphate toothpaste1,450 ppm F

        -  Sodium monofluorophosphate + sodium fluoride combined toothpaste 1,450 ppm F

        -  Stannous fluoride + sodium fluoride combined toothpaste1,450 ppm F

        -  Amine fluoride toothpaste 1,400 ppm F

      Sample size and power calculation:

      Statistical advice was sought and sample size calculation was performed using PASS 11.0
      software. A sample of at least 3 participants is needed for each group. The study aims to
      test 12 different groups, with 5 participants in each group, giving a total number of 60
      participants.

      As recommended by the Research Ethics Committee (REC) committee the investigators have rerun
      the power calculations again, using raw data from Issa and Toumba, 2004 without the data from
      the control groups, and similar results were obtained.

      The Research Ethics Committee (REC) has approved increasing the sample size to at least 120
      participants in total.

      Obtaining informed consent Contact details are enclosed in the recruitment emails, flyers and
      information sheet. Information sheet and a copy of the consent sheet will be sent to
      participants by emails, post or they can come and pick it up at their comfort. Participants
      will still have the opportunity to contact the lead researcher for further questions or
      queries through either her contact number or her university email.

      The information sheet to this research study will be used as an invitation letter as well.

      On the research day, consent sheets will be explained and an informed consent will be
      obtained from all participants. The original copy of the consent sheet will be kept by the
      lead researcher and participants will retain the copy of their signed consent form.

      Anonymising patients Participants will be identified by a numerical number rather than their
      names.

      Blinding toothpaste groups A third party will put toothpastes in small identical containers
      labelled with the group number (G1-12), batch number and expiry date. This will be done
      randomly using the following website.

      https://www.randomlists.com/team-generator A file will be attached in the checklist
      explaining the randomisation process.

      Random assignments of toothpastes to participants With aid of the following website
      (https://www.randomlists.com/team-generator), each reference number (participant number) will
      be randomly assigned to one of 12 groups.

      Ethical approval:

      All the required information will be provided to the Ethical committee (Leeds Health
      Authority / United Leeds Teaching Hospitals) in advance for ethical approval to be obtained
      prior commencement of the study.

      Elective assessment of participants:

      When participants contact the lead examiner (responding to the email or posters) about
      participating in the research study, volunteers will be asked several questions about their
      medical history (medical questionnaire) to determine whether they fall within ASA I and ASA
      II categories. Other ASA categories (ASA III or higher) will be excluded from the study,
      informed consent will not be obtained and no further information (i.e. information sheet)
      will be sent out.

      If participants contact the lead examiner by email, then the medical history questionnaire
      will be asked by replying to their email. If however, the participants show interest over the
      phone, then the medical questionnaire will be obtained over the phone. For participants who
      show interest over the phone, they will be given the option whether they want the information
      sheet mailed to them, emailed or if they prefer to pick it up at their convenience.

      For participants who are included in the research gender, age and carious status will be
      recorded on the assessment sheet. This information will remain anonymous and will not
      identify participants since each participant will be identified by a number.

      After result analysis, results will be disseminated to all participants attached with an
      appreciation letter.

      The American Society of Anaesthesiologist (ASA) Physical Status Classification ASA 1 A normal
      healthy patient ASA 2 A patient with mild systemic disease ASA 3 A patient with severe
      systemic disease ASA 4 A patient with severe systemic disease that is a constant threat to
      life ASA 5 A moribund patient who is not to survive without the operation ASA 6 A declared
      brained-dead patient whose organs are being removed for donor purposes

      Publicity and recruitment of participants Participant recruitment will be performed by the
      means of recruitment flyers and circular emails. Recruitment flyers will be posted across the
      Worsley building of the University of Leeds (Level 6 and Level 7, Worsley building, West
      Yorkshire, LS2 9JT) and Leeds Dental Institute (Leeds, West Yorkshire, LS2 9LU). Circular
      emails will be emailed to all University students, after permission from the school's office.
      This means that the population targeted would be staff and students of the University of
      Leeds and possibly their families, visitors to the University of Leeds and patients under the
      care of Leeds Dental Institute.

      The recruitment of NHS patients will follow a similar process to the other volunteers.
      Recruitment leaflets will be put at the reception and waiting areas of each different
      department. A copy of the information sheet and the consent sheet can be obtained from the
      receptionists upon request. Participants who wish to take part in this study will have to
      contact the lead examiner (Marwah Albahrani) through the contact details on the recruitment
      flyers and the information sheets. Informed consent will obtained following the procedure
      explained under the subheading "obtaining informed consent".

      The emails will be short and the subject line will include a short description of the study
      followed by the word "circular". Subject line: Participant needed for tooth-brushing -
      Circular.

      The email will start with:

      'Circular email for use for recruitment of participants for study ref: Ethics reference
      number, approved by [INSERT NAME OF ETHICS SUBCOMMITTEE/PANEL].

      This project contributes to the University's role in conducting research, and teaching
      research methods. You are under no obligation to reply to this email, however if you choose
      to, participation in this research is voluntary and you may withdraw at anytime. Please see
      attached for more details.

      A copy of the recruitment flyer, the information sheet and consent sheet will be attached to
      the circular email.

      Sending out appointments for participants An appointment message will be sent out to
      participant's contact numbers informing them with the date of the research appointment.

      Message reminders one day before appointment A reminder message will be sent one day before
      the appointment. This will also include fasting and tooth-brushing instructions.

      A list of which patient is going to be in which group will be published before the day of the
      appointment according to the blinding and randomisation procedures explained above.

      For each participant, 1.0 ml whole mixed saliva will be collected in a plastic beaker
      labelled with their reference number, group, rinsing method and time interval. Participants
      will then be asked to brush their teeth with pre-weighed amount of toothpaste for 2 full
      minutes.

      Depending on which group, participants will be either asked to spit the excess toothpaste and
      not rinse their mouth for the entire appointment or participants might be ask to rinse their
      mouth with 10 ml of water for 5 seconds.

      Each participant will have a slip stating times at which their saliva samples (1.0 ml) will
      be collected. After each sample collection, the time interval will be ticked off on the slip.
      Participants will be waiting in the waiting room and will be instructed to refrain from
      eating or drinking during the length of their appointment. Saliva samples will be collected
      by the lead investigator (M. Albahrani) 6 times at the following time intervals: 0,1, 15, 30,
      60 and 90 minutes.

      Participants will be given £10 to compensate for their time, transport and food expenses.

      Sample analysis Fluoride concentration will be measured using an ion-specific sensitive
      electrode connected to an ion analyser.

      REPRODUCIBILITY OF THE MEASRUMENTS Reproducibility of the results will be checked by using
      fluoride ion standard solutions.

      Data management and analysis

      Two way mirroring ANOVA meaning that:

        1. ANOVA statistical test will be performed comparing salivary fluoride concentration
           between the different time intervals of the same group.

        2. ANOVA statistical test will be also performed to compare salivary fluoride concentration
           between different groups at the same time interval.
    
  