
    
      Detailed Description:

      The cosmetic discipline of hair restoration is rooted in numerous landmark studies and
      progressive medical science in the medical literature. , , , , With the advent of advance
      theories and science within the scope of regenerative medicine, numerous reports are noted in
      the literature. , , , , , using biological modalities, e.g., HD-PRP concentrates defined as >
      4-6 times patient circulating baselines, for stimulation of scalp tissues and hair follicles
      in androgenetic alopecic (AGA).

      Design of this study is intended to be a prospective, randomized, multicenter trial with
      blinding of outcomes for independent observer, clinical provider and patient
      observation/satisfaction studies. The study proposes adipose-derived (AD) biocellular
      material when mixed with platelet high density concentrates (HD-PRP) offers a potential
      advantage for a markedly more effective therapeutic profile in areas of follicular
      miniaturization, tissue age related senescence, and effect the decreased vascular
      capabilities by stimulation of vasculoneogenesis. The benefits of using autologous
      adipose-derived stem/stromal cell (ADSCs) populations are cell proliferation and
      vasculogenesis that is intrinsically linked with native immunomodulatory capacities. Reports
      describing the safety and efficacy of this biocellular combination have been reported in peer
      reviewed literature. , In the second and third arm of this study, the use of regenerative
      protocols currently being utilized in the treatment of degenerative musculoskeletal
      conditions is employed. These protocols feature the use of an emulsified AD-tSVF and
      emulsified cell enriched AD-cSVF containing the full heterogeneous stem/stromal cell
      population and matrix that is injected into the regions of scalp containing the
      microenvironment (niche) of the hair follicle. In Arm 3, cellular enrichment of the
      emulsified AD-tSVF is accomplished via a semi-automated, closed sterile system (Healeon
      CentriCyte 1000 system) to isolate and concentrate AD-cSVF. The AD-cSVF is then mixed with
      high-density platelet rich plasma (HD-PRP) concentrates and emulsified AD-tSVF tissues
      (AD-tSVF) prior to scalp injection. This injected cell-enriched product contains native
      adipose tissue scaffolding, autologous HD-PRP, and enriched adipose stem/stromal
      cell-enriched concentration of stromal/stem cells (AD-cSVF).

      The goal of this study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the HD-PRP + AD-tSVF +
      AD-cSVF biocellular injections into the scalp of men and women with a diagnosis of
      non-scaring alopecias, with full reporting of AE and SAE (adverse events). The biocellular
      material is injected 3-5 mm in depth within the mid-reticular dermis to upper subcutaneous
      fat layer of the scalp for the purpose of regenerating the miniaturized hair follicle, and
      delivering a milieu of stromal/stem cells that facilitate regenerative changes within the
      tissue sites. In addition to providing tissue scaffolding, and a greater number of
      stromal/stem cells to the tissues surrounding the follicular niche, the novel use and
      emulsification of AD tissues with cell-enriched biocellular material permits ergonomic
      facilitation of layered injection patterns in the scalp with small gauge (25-27 gauge)
      needles This emulsified AD Biocellular methodology reduces injection pressure requirements
      using smaller gauge needles. When clinically compared to the use of much larger needles
      required to inject non-emulsified AD-tSVF, it is an improvement on current techniques.

      Successful stem/stromal cell-enrichment of AD-tSVF and HD PRP biocellular mixture has been
      reported in numerous peer-reviewed and published clinical experiences of injections for
      structural tissue augmentation in plastic surgery, chronic wound therapies, and ultrasound
      guided musculoskeletal treatments in orthopedic surgery. A "retrograde" filling technique
      creating a potential space and subsequently injecting into this space the biocellular
      material as the needle is withdrawn is advanced in this study.

      All patients will undergo venipuncture for obtaining HD-PRP concentrates following FDA
      approved Emcyte II manufacturer's guidelines. Those patients having biocellular treatment
      with also undergo a small volume closed syringe microcannula lipoaspiration to acquire
      AD-tSVF tissues, which will be emulsified via the Healeon ACM System per manufacturer's
      guidelines. Cellular testing of samples in Arm 2 and Arm 3 will be performed by flow
      cytometry (ORFLO, MoxiFlow, Ketchum, ID, USA) for viability and cell concentrations. The
      trial will include the biocellular mixture of HD-PRP + emulsified AD-tSVF (Arm 2) and/or,
      HD-PRP + emulsified AD-tSVF + AD-cSVF (Arm 3). Study will utilize a standardized high-density
      PRP concentration system on all patients in the same volume. The definition of HD-PRP
      concentrates is a minimum =/>4 times patient circulating platelet counts.

      A detailed patient medical history, informed consent, and screening evaluation will determine
      eligibility and candidacy for the study. Each patient will undergo a small volume
      lipoaspiration (defined as <100 cc) under local anesthesia with, or without, oral sedation.
      Candidates will be assigned to one of three treatment ARMs. The treatment ARMS are: ARM 1:
      HD-PRP + Matristem Matrix (A-Cell) (control); ARM 2: HD-PRP + emulsified AD-tSVF; and, ARM 3:
      HD-PRP + emulsified AD-tSVF + cell-enriched AD-cSVF. All patients will receive a standard
      ring block local anesthesia of the scalp treatment areas, followed by retrograde injection
      pattern of the biocellular material.

      Recording of the platelet baseline and treatment concentrates, flow cytometric examination of
      cell viability, and cell counts of AD-cSVF will be completed on each patient. Biocellular
      injections and treatment will be given on two (2) separate procedures three (3) months apart.
      Follow up clinical examinations are to be performed at 6 months and 1year period with
      completion of outcomes analyses including independent observer, clinician, and subject
      satisfaction. The volume of the HD-PRP concentrates will be the standardized in volume for
      all trial ARMs.

      Immediate reporting to the study group for all AR and SAR will be documented and recorded for
      the safety records directly to Ken Williams, DO, as Principal Clinical Investigator. This
      Clinical Trial will have a sample size of 60 patients at up to six (6) centers utilizing the
      same protocols, equipment and reporting requirements.
    
  