
    
      The investigators aim to perform a prospective observational study of term parturients
      undergoing caesarean section. Patients undergoing elective and emergency caesarean section
      will be eligible for inclusion. Patients will be invited to fill out the survey before their
      caesarean section if feasible and then again at 24 and 48 hours. A subset of patients will be
      asked to repeat the second survey 30-60 minutes later to assess test-retest reliability. The
      patient demographics will be recorded at the initial survey. The time taken to fill out the
      11-item ObsQoR-11 will be recorded. The QoR-15 score will also be completed at the same time
      and will allow comparison of the scores. The patient's Global health score will be assessed
      on a 0-100 scale from worst imaginable health state to best imaginable health state. At 24
      and 48 hours patients will be asked to rate their overall recovery from surgery yesterday on
      a 15-point scale ranging from -7 to +7. This will facilitate an anchor-based determination of
      the MCID.

      The validation of the ObsQoR-11 score will follow as per the Consensus based Standards for
      the selection of health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) initiative. The assessment tool will
      be evaluated under the domains of validity, reliability, responsiveness and feasibility. The
      QoR-15 score will be similarly assessed to allow a comparison.

      Validity will be assessed using two separate methods:

        1. Convergent and discriminant validity - Comparison of the ObsQoR-11 score to 100mm Global
           health score.

        2. Content validity - ObsQoR-11 will be assessed for correlation with patient age and
           length of hospital stay.

      Reliability as a measure of consistency will be assessed based on the following methods:

        1. Internal consistency - the averaged correlation between each of the items within
           theObsQoR-11.

        2. Split half reliability - assessed by evaluating the correlation between random split
           segments.

        3. Test-retest reliability - a subset of patients will be reassessed at 30-60 minutes and
           the correlation between scores assessed.

        4. Floor and ceiling effects - this will be evaluated by whether <15% of patients achieved
           the highest (110/110) or lowest (0/110) possible scores.

      Responsiveness is a measure of the ability to detect a clinically important change.

        1. Cohen effect size - the mean change in scores from before surgery to 24 hours after
           surgery divided by the standard deviation at baseline.

        2. Standardised response mean - the change in the scores before surgery to 24 hours after
           surgery divided by the standard deviation of the change in scores.

        3. Mean ObsQoR-11 scores - mean scores compared before surgery to 24 hours after surgery.

      Feasibility

        1. Assessment of recruitment rate.

        2. Successful recruitment rate.

        3. Time taken to complete the ObsQoR-11.

      The MCID will be determined based on an anchor-based method. The change in the mean score of
      the ObsQoR-11 score will be compared to the patient's own assessment of her change in health
      status using a Likert scale. We opted to follow a similar statistical method from an
      influential paper for estimation of the MCID. This will be based on calculation of the 0.3 SD
      (standard deviation), SEM (standard error of the mean) and the 5% range.
    
  