
    
      In response to an increased focus on improving patient outcomes and satisfaction with
      surgical care, a growing body of clinical evidence has recently been dedicated to enhanced
      recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols. These evidence-based perioperative pathways aim to
      optimize patients undergoing surgery in the preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative
      periods. ERAS protocols have incorporated the use of multimodal analgesia to minimize the use
      of intra- and postoperative opioid analgesics. Lidocaine, ketamine, magnesium, gabapentin,
      acetaminophen and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are some of the adjuvant analgesics
      used in combination with regional blocks to optimize analgesia and recovery. Multimodal
      analgesia has dependably been shown to significantly reduce postoperative opioid requirements
      as well as opioid-related side effects such as postoperative nausea and vomiting. Both oral
      and intravenous acetaminophen preparations have been shown to be useful adjuvants in
      multimodal analgesia. Intravenous acetaminophen has been of interest for its utility in
      post-surgical patients, who have not yet been cleared for oral intake. Intravenous
      acetaminophen should also be preferred over oral acetaminophen in patients after major
      abdominal surgery where absorption of medications given through oral route is erratic.
      Although the efficacy of intravenous acetaminophen as a postoperative pain adjunct is known,
      its exact role in ERAS protocols and non-narcotic multimodal analgesic regimens for major
      abdominal surgery has not been studied in randomized clinical trials to define its efficacy.
      The primary goal of this study is to assess the utility of a postoperative intravenous
      acetaminophen dosing schedule in minimizing postoperative pain, opioid consumption and
      opioid-related side effects. We also aim to study overall patient satisfaction and
      cost-effectiveness (direct and indirect costs) of this regimen as part of ERAS protocol at a
      large tertiary medical center.
    
  