
    
      Two Intravenous lines will be inserted one at a distal point on the arm to be blocked and
      other one in the other arm for fluids infusion. The block will be executed by injecting the
      target medicine in 10 ml increments in a blinded manner of total of 40 ml (study drugs
      diluted in normal saline 0.9% solution.

        1. Group (L): will receive lidocaine 3 mg/kg total of 40 ml (control group)

        2. Group (M): will receive lidocaine 3 mg/kg total of 40 ml plus Magnesium sulphate 30
           mg/kg maximum 1.5 gm, mixed with the second 20 ml of block solution.

        3. Group (F): will receive lidocaine 3 mg/kg total of 40 ml plus fentanyl 1 mcg/kg, mixed
           with lidocaine given after the first 20 ml of block solution.

      Equipment: Local anesthetic agent: lidocaine HCl (2%), Rubber tourniquet, IV catheters (20-
      or 24-gauge), 500-mL or 1-L bag of IV solution (crystalloid), Infusion set, Pneumatic
      tourniquet, ideally with a double cuff, One Esmarch bandage (about 150 cm in length, 10 cm in
      width), Syringes.

      Preparation: The patient lies in the supine position with the vein selected for block
      placement is readily accessible. Baseline vital signs are assessed; blood pressure, oxygen
      saturation, and ECG monitoring. Intravenous access in the non-operated extremity is obtained.
      Small doses of benzodiazepine for anxiolysis or small aliquots of opioids in case of
      discomfort will be available if needed. For safety and securing success, pneumatic cuffs will
      always be checked for air leaks prior to each IVRA procedure. Clinical staff performing the
      technique should have ready access to intra-lipid in case it is needed.

      Technique:

        1. Secure IV cannula in the extremity opposite to the block side.

        2. A double pneumatic tourniquet is fixed on a padding layer of soft cloth or cotton with
           the proximal cuff high on the upper arm.

        3. An IV cannula is inserted and secured into a peripheral vein of the operative limb, as
           far distally as possible.

        4. The entire limb is elevated for 1 to 2 minutes to allow for passive exsanguination.
           Afterwards, while still keeping the limb high, a rubber (Esmarch) bandage is wrapped
           around it spirally from distal end proximally till the distal cuff of the double
           tourniquet.

        5. The artery is digitally occluded by inflating the proximal cuff 100 mm Hg above systolic
           arterial blood pressure.

        6. After reaching the correct pressure, the Esmarch bandage is removed.

        7. A total of 40 mL of the study medicine according to the protocol is injected slowly in
           10 ml increments via the IV catheter.

        8. After the injection, the arm is lowered to the level of the table. The used IV cannula
           is removed, and in a sterile manner, pressure is quickly applied over the puncture site.

      The onset of anesthesia is + 5 minutes after injection. When the patient reports the
      tourniquet pain, the distal cuff should be inflated and the proximal cuff is deflated about
      20 to 30 minutes after the beginning of anesthesia
    
  