
    
      POPULATION: Approximately 340 patients will be enrolled in this study. Patients will be 13 to
      29 years of age with any cancer (original diagnosis or relapse), currently receiving
      treatment and expected to be on treatment for at least 4 - 6 months following Baseline
      assessment, and able to communicate effectively in English, Spanish, or French. Approximately
      170 patients will be enrolled in each of the two treatment groups. Each group will receive
      either the "Re-Mission" video game and a popular interactive video game, or just the popular
      interactive video game.

      DESIGN: This is a multi-center, randomized trial, with patients randomized to one of two
      groups. One group (50% of patients) will receive the active intervention, which is the
      psycho-educational video game module called Re-Mission and a popular video game (hereafter
      "RE-MISSION") and another group (50 % of patients) will be in a game control group and
      receive a popular video game only (hereafter "GAME CONTROL. The games in the RE-MISSION and
      GAME CONTROL groups are delivered on identical mini, personal computers (hereafter
      "Mini-PC").

      INTERVENTION: Each patient in the RE-MISSION group will be asked to play "Re-Mission" along
      with the popular video game for at least one hour a week for a period of ten to fourteen
      weeks. "Re-Mission" presents a 3-D environment in which the player can manipulate a humanoid
      character inside the virtual body of a patient with cancer. Game-play consists of guiding the
      character to destroy cancer cells and other "enemies" in the body (e.g., bacteria) while
      avoiding injury or weakness. During the process of playing the game and guiding the character
      through a series of missions, the player learns about chemotherapy and other medical
      treatments, health-promoting self-care behaviors, infections, and pain management. In
      addition, the game has also been designed to facilitate the patient's ability to share
      knowledge and concerns with others.

      DURATION OF STUDY: 9 -12 months
    
  