
    
      Background: Studies have identified viscous dietary fibre as potentially attenuating
      cholesterol, including psyllium husk that reduces LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) thus, may alleviate
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) treatment.

      Objective: To update evidence on the effect of psyllium on LDL-C, and provide assessment of
      its impact on new lipid markers: non-HDL cholesterol (non-HDL-C) and apolipoprotein-B (apoB).

      Design: Conduct of the systematic review and meta-analysis will follow the Cochrane handbook
      for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred Reporting
      Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data Sources & Study Selection: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and The Cochrane Central Register of
      Controlled Trials will be searched using appropriate search terms. Independent reviewers will
      extract information about study design, sample size, subject characteristics, dose,
      follow-up, and placebo/compare. RCTs that investigate the effect of psyllium fibre on LDL-C,
      non-HDL-C or apoB will be included with a minimum follow-up period ≥ 3 weeks. The amount of
      psyllium fibre must be reported and effects on outcomes LDL-C, non-HDL-C or apoB must be
      isolatable. Studies detailing sufficient information for non-HDL-C calculation will also be
      considered. Unpublished trials are considered and no restriction placed on language.

      Outcomes: LDL-C, non-HDL-C, apoB

      Data Extraction: Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes. Standard computations
      and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data. Risk of bias and overall study
      quality will be assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool and GRADE approach.

      Data Synthesis: Data will be pooled using the generic inverse variance method with random
      effects models. Heterogeneity assessed by the Cochran Q-statistic and quantified by I2.
      Sensitivity analysis and a priori subgroup analyses will be performed to explore sources of
      heterogeneity. A spline curve model (MKSPLINE procedure) will be utilized to illustrate a
      non-linear dose-response curve. Publication bias will be investigated by visual inspection of
      funnel plots and formally tested using Egger's and Begg's tests. If significant, a Trim and
      Fill analyses will be performed.
    
  