
    
      Sixty-six (66) subjects are planned to be enrolled into the trial. each subject's duration of
      participation will be 24 weeks on therapy with a 4 week post-treatment visit. A run-in phase
      of 2 weeks will be required prior to randomization/enrollment.

      All subjects will receive appropriate and standard care for chronic wounds, including
      dressings, bandages, and off-loading, if required. All subjects will receive either saline,
      fibrin or MSCs in fibrin using an identical double-barreled syringe to keep the blind.
      Therefore, subjects will then be randomized to one of three groups:

        1. conventional standard therapy and control saline spray

        2. conventional standard therapy and fibrin spray

        3. conventional standard therapy and MSCs (autologous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem
           cell)in fibrin spray

      Screening Visit:

      All inclusion and exclusion information will be reviewed to make sure that the subject is
      eligible for entry into the study. The following procedures will be performed during this two
      week period:

      Biopsy - One (3 x 6 mm) biopsy will be taken from the edge of the wound for additional
      diagnostic tests and for culturing of cells. The second (3-4 mm) biopsy will be taken from
      the thigh for culturing of cells in the laboratory to assess the healing process. The thigh
      biopsy will then be excised by taking about 3/4 inch long by 1/4 inch wide margin from around
      it, and suturing it closed. The reason for this biopsy of the normal skin is so that it can
      be used to compare the healing process to the chronic wound.

      Blood Sampling - Blood will be drawn for laboratory testing to assess the overall well-being,
      HIV, Hepatitis B & C and if the subject is a woman able to bear children, to test for
      pregnancy.

      Wound Measurements - Wound measurements will be taken to determine the size of the wound and
      to assess for healing.

      Randomization Visit:

      If the wound has not reduced significantly in size, and the subject is still eligible for the
      study; he/she will be assigned to a study treatment. The decision as to which treatment
      he/she will receive will be determined by a process called randomization. Randomization is a
      mathematical process used to guarantee that each participant in the study has an equal chance
      of being assigned to any of the treatment options available.

      The treatment groups that the subject may be assigned to are as follows:

      Group #1 - Conventional Therapy and Control Saline Spray -The subject will receive
      conventional therapy, wound measurements, photography and observations. At the Day 1
      treatment visit a double-barrel syringe system will be used to deliver topically normal
      saline to the wound. Up to 2 additional treatments will be applied at Weeks 3 & 6 (+ or - 2
      or 3 days).

      Group #2 -Conventional Therapy and Fibrin Spray - The subject will receive conventional
      therapy, wound measurements, photography, and observations. At the Day 1 treatment visit a
      double-barrel syringe system will be used to deliver topically fibrin alone to the wound. Up
      to 2 additional treatments will be applied at Weeks 3 & 6 (+ or - 2 or 3 days).

      Group #3 - Conventional Therapy and Autologous Bone Marrow-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in
      Fibrin Spray - The subject will receive conventional therapy, wound measurements, photography
      and observations. At the Day 1 treatment visit a double-barrel syringe system will be used to
      deliver topically autologous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells in fibrin. Up to 2
      additional treatments will be applied at Weeks 3 & 6 (+ or - 2 or 3 days) if your wound is
      not healed.

      Conventional Therapy - The subject will receive standard of care and accepted conventional
      therapy, regardless of which of the three groups you will be randomized in. This standard of
      care involves the use of dressings, bandages and protective ways to increase healing of your
      wound.

      Bone Marrow Aspirate - Depending on the treatment group that the subject is assigned to, they
      will have either a bone marrow aspirate and/or sham (imitation) aspirate performed at this
      visit.

      Day 1 Treatment Visit:

      All groups will receive the study treatment that was assigned at the randomization visit.
      Wound measurements, clinical observations, wound dressings, adverse event reporting and
      photography will be performed.

      Weekly Follow-up Visits (Weeks 1-24):

      All groups will return weekly for conventional therapy, wound measurements, clinical
      observations, wound dressing changes, adverse event report, and photography. Two additional
      study treatments will be given at Weeks 3 & 6 (+ or - 2 or 3 days) if the wound is not
      healed.

      Post-Treatment Follow-up Visit (Week 28):

      All groups will return one month after 24 weeks of treatment for evaluation, wound
      measurements, and photography.

      Follow-up wound Biopsies:

      Participants in all three study treatment groups will be asked to have an additional biopsy
      of the wound edge at Week 6. This biopsy will only be taken if the wound has not healed.
    
  