
    
      Fragility fractures are in this study defined as a fracture of the spine, hip, pelvis,
      proximal humerus och distal radius caused by low energy trauma. A trauma not exceeding the
      force implied on the body from a fall from standing height on a flat surface, is regarded to
      be a low energy trauma.

      The educational intervention targets general practitioners and nurses from the PHCC as well
      as physiotherapists, occupational therapists and dietitians from a nearby rehabilitation
      centre.

      All professions go through the same web course before educational session #1 which is held at
      the PHCC. The web course includes basic knowledge about risk factors for fragility fractures

      At session #1 all professions first participate in a common seminar of 45 minutes. After that
      physicians, nurses and rehabilitation related professions each have an additional seminar of
      45 minutes, that means three separate seminars. Three teachers lead the seminars; a
      specialist in family medicine, a nurse specialized in primary care and a physiotherapist.
      They are all present during all of the seminars at each PHCC and the same three individuals
      leads the seminars at all PHCCs. The seminars focus on identification of persons at high risk
      of fracture and different methods to lower that risk. The importance of multiprofessional
      care for these patients is stressed. The participants are given opportunity to discuss how
      they might facilitate cooperation between the different health vare professions. Development
      of local routines for multiprofessional care is encouraged.

      Educational session #2 is held approximally 6 months after session #1. Session #2 invites the
      same health care professionals as session #1. There are three parts. A first part of 45
      minutes for the physicians and nurses. A second part of 45 minutes where personnel from the
      rehabilitation center joins. The third part of 45 minutes incudes just the rehabilitation
      personnel.

      At session #2 includes a short review of the contents discussed in session #1. The focus
      however is on the development of new local routines to secure the ability for patients with a
      high risk of fracture to be offered multiprofessional care. What needs to be done and who
      does what at your PHCC/rehabilitation center? The participants also get feedback on the
      number of patients being treated with bone-specific drugs before and after the start of the
      intervention.

      Inclusion of patients stops at december 1 2020. Referrals to the PHCC of the patients
      included last will be conducted during January 2021.

      Primary outcome data is gathered at each PHCC from the medical journals of the enlisted
      patients aged >60 with fragility fractures. Data includes the time frame one year before
      start of study, until two years after the last patient was incuded.

      Secondary outcomes, fractures and fall related injuries will be collected from National
      health care registers, three and five years after the last patient was included.
    
  