
    
      Chronic pain following breast cancer surgery is a significant problem for women. There are
      over 3 million women in the United States living as breast cancer survivors. Sustained
      post-surgical pain is one of the most troubling side-effects for these women and continues to
      affect around 25-60% of breast cancer survivors, with approximately half classifying pain as
      being moderate to severe. Chronic cancer-related pain is associated with increased fatigue,
      depression, anxiety, sleep disruption, and decreased quality of life and function.

      Acute pre- and post-operative pain are significant predictors of sustained pain following
      breast cancer surgery, but are insufficiently managed. The etiology of persistent breast
      cancer related pain following surgery is multifactorial and may be the direct effect of
      cancer or cancer treatment (e.g. surgery). Known risk factors for this chronic pain include
      younger age, higher body mass index, type of surgery (axillary lymph node dissection), and
      presence of a mood disturbance. Cancer patients may develop pain from neurotoxicity from
      adjuvant chemotherapy, and radiation may also play a role, and causes persistent pain in 13 -
      26% of patients.

      Two of the most significant factors that determine persistent pain following breast cancer
      surgery are the degree of pre-surgical pain and acute post-surgical pain. Recent reports have
      suggested that treatments aimed at reducing these factors may be effective at preventing the
      development of chronic pain following breast cancer surgery. Existing pre-emptive treatments
      to reduce this acute surgical pain include the use of nerve blocks and/or pharmacologic
      agents such as opioids, NSAIDs, ketamine, and gabapentin. While some pharmacologic approaches
      yield clinically meaningful reductions in post-operative pain in the research setting, there
      remains controversy in the field. For example in breast surgery specifically, a recent
      meta-analysis showed that thoracic paravertebral blocks have a statistically significant
      effect on reducing chronic pain, but the effect was not clinically meaningful and was
      associated with procedural risks such as vascular puncture.

      In addition to the risk of developing pain following breast cancer surgery, women also report
      increased acute and chronic surgical pain following breast reconstruction surgery. In one of
      the first studies to examine pain post-reconstruction surgery, Wallace et al. found that the
      incidence of pain one year following breast cancer mastectomy plus reconstruction was 49% as
      compared to 31% for mastectomy alone. This increase was both statistically and clinically
      significant, and remains a current undertreated problem. Overall many women develop
      persistent pain after breast cancer surgery following either tumor removal or breast
      reconstruction. We know that this is influenced by acute pre- and post-surgical pain, but
      unfortunately the existing measures available for clinicians to prevent persistent
      post-surgical pain are not adequate.

      Opioids are commonly used analgesics in the perioperative surgical setting; however, they are
      accompanied by significant limitations. Opioids are the most common pharmacologic
      intervention used for acute perioperative surgical pain. They are known to decrease pain via
      activation of specific receptors (mu, delta, and kappa), which inhibit neuronal firing
      resulting in reduced nociceptive activity. Although widely prescribed there are significant
      limitations for opioid use including tolerance, addiction, diversion, and even mortality.
      There were over 33,000 opioid deaths in the US in 2016 alone and the majority of these have
      been from opioid prescriptions. The US is currently experiencing an opioid epidemic wherein
      Americans constitute only 5% of the global population yet we consume over 80% of the world's
      opioid supply. Unfortunately, while opioids are needed in the surgical setting, the problem
      of increased opioid use is itself compounded by surgery. Patients receiving even low-risk
      surgeries are 44% more likely to become de novo long-term opioid consumers. With respect to
      breast cancer surgery, the odds of developing chronic opioid consumption following mastectomy
      increases by approximately 300%. Although the reason(s) for developing chronic opioid
      consumption are largely unknown, patients that receive a new opioid prescription within 7
      days post-surgery, as compared to those who do not, are more likely to still be receiving
      opioids one year out. Thus acute pre-surgical and post-surgical pain, in addition to being
      risk factors for persistent chronic pain, may also increase the probability of becoming a
      chronic opioid consumer. There is an unmet need for analgesic interventions that are opioid
      sparing in the breast cancer surgical setting. This study proposes that acupressure may be
      one such option.

      Acupressure Self-administered acupressure is one possible safe, self-management technique
      which may be effective for improving post-operative pain and opioid consumption. Acupressure,
      a technique derived from acupuncture, is a component of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) in
      which pressure is applied to specific acupoints on the body using a finger or small device,
      to treat disease. Prior research has demonstrated that acupressure, self-administered by
      women with breast cancer, significantly reduced clinically significant pain by approximately
      one-third and was superior to standard therapies. Moreover, these self-rated improvements
      were maintained up to one month after treatment was discontinued.

      Acupressure has been found to be effective for acute post-surgical pain, but no studies have
      examined the impact on the development of chronic pain or acute and chronic opioid use in any
      patient population. Four previous studies in diverse patient populations (appendectomy,
      cesarean section, gastric cancer, and knee arthroscopy) have found that acupressure delivered
      by an acupressure practitioner was able to significantly decrease post-surgical pain compared
      to either usual care or sham acupressure from as early as 60 minutes after surgery to as long
      as 3 days post-surgery, however no study has measured pain beyond 3 days post-surgery.29-32
      As such, it is unknown what impact if any acupressure has on the development of chronic pain
      post-surgery. Also, no study has examined the impact of acupressure on either acute or
      chronic opioid use. In contrast, the one study that used an acuband (a band worn around the
      wrist with a nub over the acupressure point to provide stimulation) at the P6 point commonly
      used to treat nausea and vomiting had no impact on post-surgical pain 24 hours after
      receiving an appendectomy.

      Along with a lack of research on acupressure's impact on chronic pain and opioid use the
      impact of this intervention on breast cancer patients undergoing surgery (mastectomy,
      lumpectomy, delayed or immediate reconstruction) is unknown. This study is a pilot randomized
      clinical trial to explore this intervention in 72 breast cancer patients scheduled for
      surgery.
    
  