
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the difference in overall survival (OS) for patients given neoadjuvant
      gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine) and cisplatin prior to re-resection followed by
      adjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin compared to patients who receive only adjuvant gemcitabine
      and cisplatin after re-resection for incidental gallbladder cancer (IGBC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the incidence of residual disease at the time of re-resection between patients
      with IGBC who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to re-resection and those who receive
      only adjuvant chemotherapy after re-resection.

      II. To assess the clinical effect of preoperative chemotherapy compared to upfront
      re-resection on resectability among 3 cohorts: all enrolled patients, all patients who
      undergo staging laparoscopy, and all patients who undergo laparotomy.

      III. To determine the difference in progression-free survival (PFS) for patients with IGBC
      who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to and after re-resection compared to patients
      who receive only adjuvant chemotherapy after re-resection.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Within 4 weeks of randomization, patients undergo surgery to remove part of the liver,
      the lymph nodes around the liver, and possibly the bile ducts. Patients then receive
      gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and cisplatin IV over 30 minutes-24 hours on
      days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes and cisplatin over 30 minutes-24
      hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 4-8 weeks after completion of
      chemotherapy, patients whose disease has not spread to other places in the body
      (metastasized) undergo surgery as in Arm I. Patients with successful surgery then resume
      treatment with gemcitabine IV and cisplatin IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 1 year after surgery or until disease recurrence, whichever comes
      first, for up to 5 years.
    
  