
    
      Project Summary: Pregnancy and the postpartum period are associated with an increased risk of
      HIV acquisition. HIV acquisition is of particular concern during pregnancy and while the
      mother is breastfeeding given the associated increased risk of mother-to-child transmission
      (MTCT). Approximately 10% of pregnant women attending antenatal care (ANC) in Mozambique are
      in serodiscordant relationships (HIV-negative woman/ HIV-positive man). High rates of MTCT
      (14%; 12,000 infants/ year) may be affected by the high rate at which pregnant women
      seroconvert after their first ANC visit. Beginning in 2018, pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP)
      was available to serodiscordant couples, yet only 44% of pregnant women were retained in care
      at 3 months.

      Our current R01-funded project, Partners-based HIV Treatment for Seroconcordant Couples
      (R01MH113478), is testing a couple-based intervention for HIV-positive expectant parents
      living in extremely rural communities. Our Men for Health intervention ("Homens para Saúde+"-
      HoPS+) consists of (1) couple-based HIV care and treatment; (2) couple-centered education;
      and (3) expert-patient support. Preliminary data the HoPS+ study suggest that couple-based
      counseling and education is more successful at reducing maternal depression than individual
      care. However, couple-based sessions have not led to significantly greater improvements in
      HIV knowledge or social support. Given the importance of these factors on treatment
      adherence, this grant would allow us to revise the peer engagement strategy to increase
      knowledge transfer and engender partner support.

      The investigators propose testing the impact of a peer-delivered oral storytelling
      intervention to increase retention in, and adherence to, PrEP/ART among expectant
      serodiscordant couples. People are 7 times more likely to remember a story compared to facts
      alone. Couples are also highly influenced by their immediate and extended families; >95% of
      patients disclose their HIV status to members of their family. The investigators hypothesize
      that the use of oral storytelling will facilitate learning and encourage family support and
      advocacy. The investigator will compare this model to couple-based education and counseling.
      This innovative intervention tests a culturally relevant approach to improve ART/PrEP
      delivery. The investigators propose a rigorous individually randomized controlled trial at
      one of our current HoPS+ sites where 11% of expectant couples were serodiscordant in 2018.
      The investigators will randomize 35 HIV-uninfected pregnant women and their HIV-infected
      partners to either the intervention or control condition.

      The Specific Aims of this study are: (1) Compare the effect of a storytelling intervention
      (vs. couples-based counseling) on participant knowledge, motivation, and behavioral skills
      associated with PrEP retention and adherence; and (2) Evaluate the impact of a storytelling
      intervention on adherence to PrEP/ART medications. Our team of Mozambican and U.S.
      investigators has a proven record of international HIV research success, specific recent
      experience with partner-based HIV and PrEP delivery, and experience with the use of
      theater/storytelling to change HIV-related behaviors.
    
  