
    
      While the BETTER program has been shown to successfully increase the number of preventive
      care and screening actions completed by patient participants after six months, it is known
      that it is difficult to maintain new health behaviours in the long-term. Unfortunately, it is
      not feasible to fund health professionals to offer repeated follow-up visits over the time
      needed to turn initial behaviour changes into long-term habits. Therefore, the investigators
      are building upon the existing BETTER program by adding a peer health coaching extension that
      will provide time-limited coaching for patients who want support as they work towards
      achieving preventive health goals. This approach takes advantage of growing awareness of the
      role of lay health coaches in improving and extending the quality and value of primary care.

      This is a three-site, pragmatic, wait-list-controlled, randomized, Type 1 hybrid
      effectiveness-implementation trial with blinded outcome collection after 12 months. One site
      will be an urban, academic, hospital-based clinic; the second will be a clinic serving a
      greater proportion of patients from rural areas; and the third site will be a suburban clinic
      with a large South Asian population. Following receipt of the BETTER program (a single visit
      with a prevention practitioner), investigators will invite women who are 40-65 years old to
      receive behaviour change support for six months from a peer health coach (PHC). PHCs will do
      a 24-hr training course, which includes special techniques to support health behaviour
      change, before they are matched to a patient. At the suburban site, only South Asian PHCs
      will be recruited and this work is being guided by a South Asian Community Advisory Council
      made up of members of various community organizations in that region. Patients who enroll in
      BETTER Women will be randomized to receive peer health coaching either immediately
      (intervention group) or after a 12-month delay (wait-list control group).

      Effectiveness of the program will be assessed by evaluating for each patient, how many of a
      set of target chronic disease prevention and screening actions were completed at one year, in
      comparison to baseline. Investigators will also assess whether patients achieved the health
      goals that they set with their prevention practitioners, physiological markers of health, as
      well as habits and behaviours related to diet, physical activity, smoking and alcohol use.
      These outcomes will be collected via electronic surveys administered at baseline, 3-, 6-, and
      12-months post enrollment as well as through extraction of data from the patients' electronic
      medical records and BETTER program documents. These outcomes will be compared between the two
      groups of patients in the study.

      An embedded process evaluation will be conducted during the trial to examine the
      implementation of the program. The process evaluation will include collection of program
      data, electronic surveys administered to patients as well as qualitative interviews with
      intervention group patients, peer health coaches and prevention practitioners. Investigators
      will examine how acceptable the program was to patients; whether and why any adaptations were
      made; how well the program was utilized; how well the PHCs delivered the intervention (e.g.,
      what behaviour change techniques were used); how engaged patients and PHCs were with the
      program; and mechanism(s) of action. Ultimately, investigators expect to gain an
      understanding of the program's sustainability, acceptability, cost-effectiveness, and factors
      that might impact future attempts at spread and scale.

      Investigators expect to see that women in the intervention group (i.e., those who had a PHC)
      will complete more preventive and screening actions after one year. Investigators also expect
      to see that women in the intervention group will make more progress on achieving health goals
      and making lifestyle changes which reduce the risk of chronic diseases and cancers, that the
      intervention will increase women's access to resources in their primary care clinics and
      community, as well as improve the women's ability to maintain healthy behaviours.
    
  