
    
      Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is an age-related disease that characterized by permanent
      regional dilation of the abdominal aortae, which results in catastrophic event of rupture and
      sudden death. Currently, no effective drug to limit the progression or reduce the risk of
      rupture has been developed.

      Metabolic pathways, including glucose metabolism, lipid metabolism, and amino acid
      metabolism, have indispensable roles in normal and dysfunctional vasculature. The Krebs cycle
      is responsible for obtaining energy from food in the form of ATP, and ATP is essential for
      muscle contraction and correct functioning of all organs. Besides, tight control of
      mitochondrial functions is critical for maintaining metabolism balance.

      As an important metabolite in Krebs cycle, alpha-ketoglutarate not only improved energy
      metabolism, but also extended lifespan and reduced morbidity in aging mice. It is widely used
      in the market as a nutritional supplement specially by athletes to increase muscle strength.
      Until now, no obvious toxic and side effects to the body was observed. Given the high
      bioavailability, we propose that dietary supplementation with alpha-ketoglutarate can improve
      the outcome in patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm of 39-49 mm in diameter.

      Therefore, the project team intends to establish the abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture risk
      prediction model in the elderly cohort in the early stage, and randomize groups in patients
      with an abdominal aortic aneurysm of 39-49 mm in diameter based on whether or not to
      supplement alpha-ketoglutarate. There are two cohorts: the alpha-ketoglutarate intervention
      cohort and the parallel control cohort. By observing the efficacy in terms of change in
      aortic diameter and abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture incidence in the two groups during the
      follow-up period, it provides evidence-based medical evidence for the future clinical
      application of alpha-ketoglutarate.
    
  