
    
      Background: Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) constitutes around 3% of all solid tumors and cure for
      metastatic sidease is reported for less than 5% of patients. Together with melanoma it is
      considered the most immune responsive tumor, moreover it is a common practice to resect
      primary tumor or large metastasis even in the metastatic settings. Antiangiogenesis
      treatments are currently the favored antitumor drugs, however their use has rarely resulted
      in complete response/ cure. Recently it has been demonstrated that these drugs can elicit a
      shift in the immune environment in RCC patients (improved T1 responses reduced Treg
      responses).Our department has experience in the treatment 200 melanoma patients with cellular
      vaccination and in the preparation of primary tumor cell lines from various tumors including
      RCC. Interestingly , immune modulators such as antiCTLA-4 Ab have demonstrated impressive
      activity in patients previously vaccinated with cellular vaccinations.

      Working hypothesis: Vaccination with autologous cellular vaccines of RCC patients will induce
      clinical and immunological responses and help in formulation of better combined vaccination
      strategies in this cancer. Our aims are: 1) Growth and characterization of primary RCC cell
      lines,2)vaccination with autologous cellular vaccines in combination with sunitinib. 3)
      Clinical and immunologic characterizations for derivation of prognostic and predictive
      factors.

      Methods: primary or metastatic tumor resected in one of several Israeli hospitals will be
      used to derive autologous cell lines used for vaccinations following DNP modifications in
      combination with the regular Sunitinib treatments. Immunological and clinical followup of the
      patients will be performed and primary cell lines will be grown for further in-vitro testing
      including possible future use for allogeneic vaccines. Expected result Good safety profile
      combined with significant clinical and immunological responses are expected.

      Importance: This research might result in clinical benefit to the treated patients and will
      be important in the formulation of effective immune strategies in kidney cancer.

      Probable implications to Medicine: RCC vaccine in combination with other therapies has the
      potential to lead to longer survival and even cure the proposed study will help in the
      formulation of such a vaccine.
    
  