
    
      Cystography is a frequent examination, performed in the context of acute pyelonephritis.

      However, its realization has decreased significantly, in particular because of the invasive
      aspect and urinary infections identified retrospectively. (1) (2) (3) (4)

      The only indications to the University Hospital of Caen are:

        -  2 acute pyelonephritis

        -  or 1 acute pyelonephritis if the pelvic ureter> 5 mm in boys

      There are 2 techniques for performing cystography:

        -  The first is retrograde cystography which is performed most often in our center, and
           whose disadvantages are the traumatic effect and the increased risk of urinary tract
           infection. (5)

        -  The 2nd technique is cystography by the pubic route for which the bladder must be full,
           which is difficult in newborns not clean The advantages, however, are the ability to
           take urine directly into the bladder for bacteriological and cytological analysis, to be
           less traumatic and totally sterile. (5) (6)

      Urinary tract infections during the month following cystography are considered secondary to
      cystography. (7) They are estimated at 6% in old studies (7) However, there is no recent
      study on the prevalence of urinary tract infections after cystography (article (7): 6%:
      Complications of voiding cystourethrography in the evaluation of infants with prenatally
      detected hydronephrosis, The Journal of Urology, 162, 1221-1223, september 1999)

      The main objective of our study is therefore to have recent data on the rate of retrograde
      post cystographic urinary tract infections in the month following the examination.

      The secondary objectives are to analyze the rate of urinary tract infections according to
      age, sex, indications, and circumstances.

      Material and method:

      Epidemiological, observational, multicenter, prospective study over a period from January
      2018 to January 2019. No therapeutic modification will be undertaken at the end of the study.

      Included patients are all children under 16 years of age with retrograde cystography and
      excluded patients are children over 16 years old and those with ongoing infection.

      During the realization of the cystography the information required for the study will be
      noted, namely:

        -  name

        -  age

        -  sex

        -  indication of cystography / ultrasound data

        -  antibiotic preventive or not

        -  results of cystography

        -  antibiotic post cystography or not

        -  parental consent and parents' contact information

      Clear, fair, and appropriate information about the study is then given to the parents.

      They are informed, that with their authorization, they will receive a call to a month of the
      cystography to know if their child presented a urinary infection (fever, BU and ECBU
      positive) after the gestexamure.

      Their written consent is collected. The data collected after the telephone passages are
      listed in a table and will be analyzed at the end of the study.
    
  