
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Test the feasibility of the recruitment and study protocol.

      II. Evaluate the short-term impact of the program on the diagnosed parents' and the parent's
      perceptions of their children's adjustment using a within group design (pre-posttest design).

      III. To compare outcomes from the telephone-delivered program with outcomes obtained from the
      in-person program (between group design).

      OUTLINE:

      Participants complete the Enhancing Connections Telephone Program comprising 5, 1 hour
      educational telephone sessions over 3 months. During session 1, parents receive help defining
      the child's experience with the cancer as distinct from their own and ways to manage their
      own cancer-related emotions so that they do not emotionally flood the child. During session
      2, parents receive assistance with developing skills to deeply listen and attend to the
      child's thoughts and feelings, complementing the parent's tendency to be a teacher, not a
      deep listener, of the child's thoughts, concerns, worries or understandings. During session
      3, parents receive additional communication and parenting skills enabling them to initiate
      difficult cancer-related conversations and also interact with an upset child or one who is
      not forthcoming. During session 4, parents receive help focusing on and non-judgmentally
      interpreting the child's ways of coping with the cancer. It includes exercises that assist
      the parent to relinquish negative assumptions about the child's behavior related to the
      parent's cancer. Concurrently the session offers the ill parent ways to elicit their child's
      report of what the parent can do to assist the child cope with the child's cancer-related
      pressures. During session 5, parents focus on the gains they made in prior sessions and what
      they have accomplished, in their own words, in parenting their child about the cancer. The
      session also assists the ill parent to identify available resources that can be used after
      program completion to maintain the parent's newly acquired gains from the program.
    
  