
    
      -  The selected patients will be informed of the nature of the research work and informed
           consent will be obtained then randomized in equal proportions between control group
           conventional immediate implant placement with immediate temporization and study group
           socket shield technique with immediate temporization.

        -  Patients of both groups will be subjected to CBCT (diagnostic for upper arch).

        -  Intra operative procedures (for both groups) followed by CBCT will be taken for every
           patient

        -  Infiltration local anesthesia will be given to the patient (Articaine 4% 1:100 000
           epinephrine)

        -  Scrubbing and draping of the patient will be carried out in a standard fashion for intra
           oral procedures.

        -  In the study group: along surgical fissure bur will be used for hemisectioning.

        -  The palatal portion will be carefully separated and extracted by a periotome and
           forceps.

        -  The osteomy site will be inspected and cleaned from any granulation tissue and the
           implant will be placed palatal to the tooth fragment.

        -  The jump gap was grafted with a xenogeneic bone particulate (De-proteinized bovine bone
           mineral Small granules (0.25-1 mm), the implant gained primary stability from bone
           apical and palatal sufficient to immediately restore with provisional restoration.

        -  In the control group: the root was hemisected using a fissure bur in a mesio-distal
           direction, and a traumatic removal of the palatal fragment of the root was achieved (no
           pressure was applied on it), then the buccal fragment was reduced using surgical bur
           leaving a thin layer of the root aspect intact to the buccal plate of the bone.

        -  The implant is placed in the socket in a way leaving space away from the remaining
           buccal plate without grafting this jumping gap

        -  The provisional restorations were relieved of occlusal contacts in centric occlusion and
           excursive movements. These restorations remained in situ for at least 6 to 12 weeks
           prior to any modifications or commencement of definitive restorative therapy

        -  A soft diet was recommended for the duration of the implant-healing phase. The patient
           was advised against functioning or activities to the implant site.
    
  