
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the effects of a standardized nursing intervention protocol (SNIP) model with
           an advanced practice nurse vs usual care on overall quality of life and psychological
           distress from initial treatment to 6 months after diagnosis in patients with ovarian
           cancer.

        -  To compare symptom control in these patients.

        -  To compare geriatric assessment outcomes in these patients.

        -  To compare the effects of the SNIP intervention vs usual care on resource use by these
           patients.

        -  To test the effects of SNIP on patients' and clinicians' satisfaction with care.

        -  To describe the effects of SNIP on management of transitions from one phase of chronic
           illness to another.

        -  To identify subgroups of patients with ovarian cancer who benefit most from the SNIP in
           relation to sociodemographic characteristics, disease/treatment factors, and geriatric
           assessment predictors.

        -  To obtain feedback from clinicians regarding interpretation of findings and application
           to the routine care of ovarian cancer patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to age (18 to 60 years vs 61 years and over).
      Patients are sequentially enrolled into 1 of 2 groups. Patients are initially enrolled in
      group I. Once enrollment in group I is completed, additional patients are enrolled in group
      II.

        -  Group I (usual care): Patients complete questionnaires, including the FACT-Ovarian,
           Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale, Psychological Distress Thermometer, and Comprehensive
           Geriatric Assessment, at baseline and at 3 and 6 months. Clinicians also complete
           questionnaires, including the Clinician Satisfaction with Intervention Questionnaire.
           Patients' medical charts are reviewed to collect information about treatment, episodes
           of care, and readmissions.

        -  Group II (advanced practice nurse [APN] intervention): Patients undergo face-to-face
           individualized teaching sessions with an APN twice a month for 2 months. The sessions
           focus on the patient's physical, psychological, social, and spiritual well-being and the
           content is tailored to the patient's preferences and needs. Patients are then contacted
           by the APN via telephone once a month for 4 months to clarify questions and content from
           the teaching sessions, review any patient concerns, including concerns associated with a
           transition, and coordinate interdisciplinary resources, including community resources,
           as needed. Patients and clinicians complete questionnaires as in group I. Patients'
           medical charts are also reviewed.
    
  