
    
      The Global Burden Disease Study 2017 estimated that 544.9 million people worldwide had a
      chronic respiratory disease (CRD). Globally, it is estimated that 3.914.196 deaths were due
      to CRDs in 2017, accounting for 7% of total all-cause deaths, ranking CRDs as the third
      leading cause of death worldwide. Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is a well-established,
      cost-effective intervention for the management of CRDs (e.g., COPD, ILD), which has been
      found to improve exercise capacity, dyspnoea and quality of life. Unfortunately, PR remains
      an underutilized resource in the community. Despite substantial improvement following PR,
      benefits tend to decline over time (approximately, within a 12-month period) and there is
      currently no strong evidence that patients translate those benefits into a more active
      lifestyle. This is of utmost importance since physical activity (PA) levels predict important
      outcomes in COPD, for example, with low PA levels being associated with a higher risk of
      exacerbation-related hospitalization and mortality. That said, it is still unknown how best
      to maintain long-term effects of PR, whilst promoting patients' adherence to a physically
      active lifestyle. Most studies reporting on interventions to improve PA among patients with
      CRDs (e.g., COPD) focus exclusively on patients' individual factors, disregarding
      interpersonal/social and environmental factors associated with PA. Community-based PA
      interventions adjusted to the local context, which leverage existing social support and
      community (infra)structures, may be key elements for success. Indeed, the community offers a
      variety of physical activity modalities (e.g., urban trails, physical activity/exercise
      classes at the municipality level), which can be explored and further personalized to meet
      patients' needs and preferences. By targeting the community, as opposed to the "individual
      per se", the possibility of promoting a behavioral change towards a more physically active
      lifestyle becomes more likely. Building on existing knowledge, CENTR(AR) primary aim is to
      implement and assess the effectiveness of a personalised community-based PA program to
      increase PA levels, as well as prevent/stop the decline and consolidate PR benefits (in
      several health-related domains) in people with CRDs, following PR.

      Additionally, CENTR(AR) will also aim at:

      1) Improving access to and delivery of community-based PR for people with CRDs in Primary
      Healthcare Centres (PHC) within the Centre Region of Portugal; 2) Identifying barriers and
      facilitators, as well as preferences and motivations of adherence to PA; 3)
      Educating/Empowering/Capacitating non-health professionals delivering municipal physical
      activity/exercise classes, to ensure patients' safety and quality care; 4) Designing and
      validating urban walking and/or cycling trails by a) measuring the physiological response and
      energy expenditure associated with the use of those trails; b) assessing the
      environmental/physical features of the urban trails; 5) Validating the available municipal
      physical activity/exercise classes (as described in 3); 6) Promoting intersectoral
      collaboration at the municipality level, leveraging partnerships between PHC and existing
      community physical activities, thereby filling in the gaps in the continuity of care after
      PR; 7) Increasing health literacy amongst municipal professionals in regard to CRDs, as well
      as health promotion and community empowerment.

      Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT)

      Aims & Outcomes Primary aim: Assess the effectiveness of a community-based PA program,
      tailored to patient's needs and preferences, to increase PA levels in people with CRDs.

      Secondary aim(s): Determine the short-, mid- and long-term effects of CENTR(AR) on exercise
      capacity, functional status, HRQoL, symptoms, AECOPD and healthcare utilisation, peripheral
      muscle strength, motivation for exercise, and emotional status; Establish the influence of
      patients' motivations and preferences in adhering to the CENTRAR program and engaging in a
      physically active lifestyle.

      At each time-point, the following data will be collected: Socio-demographic and
      anthropometric data; Lung function; Healthcare utilization; Health-related quality of life
      (HRQoL); Impact of disease; Fatigue; Dyspnoea; Cough and sputum; Social support and social
      network; Anxiety and depression; Motivation to exercise; Perception of change; Exercise
      capacity; Peripheral muscle strength; Functional status; Balance; Physical activity levels;
      Adverse events; Adherence; Qualitative data (individual and focus groups interviews)

      Study Design & Intervention

      After completion of PR, participants will be randomised to an experimental group (EG) or a
      control group (CG). The EG will enrol in a 6-month personalised community-based PA program,
      which will/should be attended twice-weekly, minimum. During the first month the
      physiotherapist will guide patients through all available physical activities; afterwards,
      patients will be asked to choose one or two activities, according to their preferences, which
      they will attend for five more months. Physiotherapists' support will gradually decrease over
      time. The CG will receive a leaflet with PA recommendations.

      Sample Size Estimation

      The sample size was estimated using G*Power 3.1.9.6, with an effect size specification "as in
      G*Power 3.0", for the within-between interaction of a repeated measures ANOVA with two groups
      (control and experimental) and 3 measurements (immediately after, and 6 to 12 months post-PR)
      of the defined primary outcome (MVPA). The investigators considered an α of 0.05, a power of
      0.80, a repeated measures correlation of 0.5, a nonsphericity correction of 1 and an expected
      effect size f of 0.30. The effect size f was derived from the partial η2 of 0.21 (f=0.516)
      obtained from a study which aimed to assess the impact of a PA-focused behavioural
      intervention during and after PR on PA levels in patients with COPD. A smaller f value of
      0.30 was chosen to account for a longer follow-up period (up to 12 months) and differences in
      selected time-points. The calculated sample size was 20 (i.e., 10 in each group) COPD
      patients and considering a possible 50% dropout rate, the final sample size was determined to
      be 40. Since no significant differences are expected in the primary outcome between COPD and
      ILD patients, a sample size of 40 was also determined for the latter. In summary, a total
      sample size of 80 was found to be required to detect significant within-between group
      differences in MVPA.
    
  