
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and interferon
      gamma-1b (IFN-G) (Actimmune) combination immunotherapy in subjects with previously treated
      mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome. (Treatment Group 1) II. To determine whether the
      combination of interferon gamma-1b (ACTIMMUNE) and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) improves the ORR
      of pembrolizumab in patients with unresectable or metastatic synovial sarcoma. (Treatment
      Group 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the safety/tolerability and clinical activity of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and
      IFN-G (Actimmune) in subjects with previously treated mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome
      with respect to (Treatment Group 1):

      Ia. Safety and tolerability. Ib. Time to response (TTR). Ic. Duration of response (DOR). Id.
      Progression-free survival (PFS). Ie. Event-free survival (EFS). If. Percentage of all
      patients who have a response duration of at least 12 months (ORR12).

      II. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients
      with advanced synovial sarcoma receiving interferon gamma-1b and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).
      (Treatment Group 2) III. To determine the tolerability of the combination of interferon
      gamma-1b and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) version 5.0. (Treatment Group 2)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the relationship between the following putative biomarkers for combination
      immunotherapy of MK-3475 pembrolizumab) and IFN-gamma (Actimmune) and clinical outcomes (as
      measured by safety/tolerability and ORR, DOR, PFS, EFS) in subjects with previously treated
      mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome, including tumor/microenvironment (PD-1/PD-L1/PD-L2
      expression, cytotoxic T lymphocyte [CTL]s, regulatory T cell [Treg]s, macrophages, dendritic
      cell [DC]s; nanostring gene expression profile), systemic immune response (flow cytometry,
      mass cytometry [CyTOF], Luminex multiplexed cytokine profile), and molecular/genomic immune
      correlates (exome sequencing, high throughput sequencing [HTS] for T cell receptor [TCR]).
      (Treatment Group 1)

      II. To investigate paired, serial biopsy specimens from pre-treatment and 8-12 weeks after
      starting treatment for the following (Treatment Group 2):

      IIa. MHC class I expression (scored by pathologist). IIb. Number of infiltrating T cells per
      mm^2. IIc. Tumor associated macrophage number and phenotype using multiplex
      immunohistochemistry.

      IId. T cell clonality. IIe. Gene expression profiling.

      III. To investigate peripheral blood samples from patients to determine (Treatment Group 2):

      IIIa. The number and phenotype of T cells specific for computed tomography (CT) antigens and
      potential neo-antigens.

      IIb. The phenotype and activation state of circulating monocytes and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cell (PBMC).

      IIc. Cytokines associated with response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unexpected
      toxicity. Patients also receive interferon gamma-1b subcutaneously (SC) 3 times per week for
      12 weeks, and then follow 3 weeks on and 3 weeks off schedule for up to 2 years in the
      absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      GROUP II: Patients pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and interferon gamma-1b SC once
      a week. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression
      or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 12
      weeks for up to 1 year.
    
  