
    
      Objective:

      Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a broad category of genetically heterogeneous diseases involving
      progressive visual loss by a constriction of visual field and loss of night vision. In up to
      one-third of patients, the peripheral vision loss can be compounded by central visual acuity
      loss from the development of cystic macular changes. While RP is a genetic disease, the
      etiology of progressive cell death, including that of associated cystoid macular edema (CME),
      is not completely understood. Inflammatory processes involving the activation of resident
      immune cells of the retina called microglia have been hypothesized to contribute. Minocycline
      inhibits the activation of microglia, decreasing the production of inflammatory factors
      implicated in RP progression. The objective of this study is to investigate the safety and
      possible efficacy of oral minocycline in participants with CME and RP.

      Study Population:

      Five participants, ages 12 and older, with unilateral or bilateral CME associated with RP
      will be enrolled initially. However, up to an additional five participants may be enrolled to
      replace participants who may withdraw from the study prior to reaching the Month 6 visit.

      Design:

      This is a pilot, single-center, uncontrolled, open-label, prospective, Phase 1/2 clinical
      trial to evaluate minocycline as a potential treatment for CME secondary to RP. A
      pre-treatment phase lasting two months will be instituted prior to investigational product
      (IP) initiation to assess the anatomical variability of CME as well as variability of other
      measurable parameters as part of the natural history of the disease. Participants will
      receive an oral dose of 100 mg (or appropriate weight adjusted pediatric dose) of minocycline
      twice daily for 12 months. There will be a common termination date, which will take place
      when the last recruited participant has received 12 months of IP. Participants who were
      recruited in the earlier part of the study will continue taking IP and be followed every two
      months until the common termination date. At each visit, participants will have visual acuity
      measured and will undergo optical coherence tomography (OCT) testing to measure retinal
      thickness. Measures of central visual field sensitivity full-field electroretinograms (ERG)
      and microperimetry (MP-1) will also be collected.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is the change in CME based on OCT measurements in the study eye at 6
      months compared to pre-treatment values. Secondary outcomes include changes in OCT thickness,
      changes in amplitude of photopic and scotopic responses on ERG testing, changes in
      microperimetry, and changes in visual field as measured by HVF 30-2 visual field testing at 6
      months and 12 months compared to pre-treatment values, as well as CME changes on OCT at 12
      months compared to pre-treatment values. Pre-treatment measurements will be analyzed to
      measure the natural variability of the CME as well as to measure the variability of the
      functional testing. Safety outcomes will include the number and severity of adverse events
      (AEs). Ocular safety outcomes will be indicated by changes in visual acuity, ocular surface
      changes, intraocular inflammation and any other ocular changes not consistent with the
      natural progression of RP.
    
  