
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Investigations into hemostatic abnormalities associated with sickle cell disease have been
      numerous. The data suggested that thrombin generation and fibrin formation were increased
      during steady state, with conflicting data whether further activation occurred in
      vaso-occlusive crisis. Platelet activation during VOC occurred, with variable findings during
      steady state. A selective, concomitant evaluation of the hemostatic pathways i.e. intrinsic,
      tissue factor (TF) or extrinsic activation, fibrinolysis, and platelet-endothelial activation
      had not been reported. Neither had a longitudinal evaluation been performed in infants during
      the unique transition period when HbF levels fall from 70 to 80 percent to less than 10
      percent.

      The study was part of an initiative on "Coagulation, Platelets and Thrombosis in Sickle
      Disease Pathophysiology". The Request for Applications was released in October 1994.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The studies used appropriate 'negative' and 'positive' control groups. Studies included
      intrinsic markers [kininogen profiling, high molecular weight kininogen (HK) and low
      molecular weight kininogen (LK) cleavages, western blotting of HK and LK, and
      kallikrein-alpha2 macroglobulin; extrinsic markers [TF and factor V11a]; other activation and
      fibrinolytic markers [prothrombin F1.2, FPA, TAT, tPA, PAI-I, D-dimer and plasma alpha2
      antiplasmin]; platelet- endothelial markers [evaluation of activation dependent epitopes].
      Unequivocal demonstration of contact pathway activation during VOC provided a crucial link
      between VOC and its accompanying phenomenon including pain, and inflammation. Finally, the
      studies provided a unique perspective on the continuum of hemostatic changes that unfolded
      during the course of SCD, and those that developed as vascular insufficiencies supervened in
      the adult.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  