
    
      This an evaluative study of three National Cancer Institute (NCI) smoking cessation
      resources: specifically, the smokefree.gov and women smokefree.gov websites, and the CIS
      counseling phone calls. The following are the identified critical questions: (1). How
      effective is each of the tobacco interventions (websites [smokefree.gov & women
      smokefree.gov], NCI's Cessation Quitline counseling services operated by the Cancer
      Information Service (CIS) (2). How do they compare with alternative intervention strategies?
      (3). Which types of interventions appear to work best together (due to additive or
      interactive effects)? (4). How do these interventions work? (5). How much are these
      interventions used, and what are their relative use rates? (6). Are there important
      differences in effectiveness or use rates as a function of gender, SES, or other important
      person factors? We believe that the research study will address all of these questions, as
      well as some less central ones.

      The primary goal of this research is to obtain experimental data on the effectiveness of the
      major eHealth and communication smoking cessation interventions (smokefree.gov, women
      smokefree.gov, and NCI's Quitline counseling services). The primary bases for comparison
      would be quit attempts and cessation success, and each intervention would be compared with a
      control condition not receiving the intervention. In addition to the targeted interventions,
      participants may also be assigned to several different comparison interventions: i.e., email
      prompts, mailings/brochures, and OTC nicotine medication. The resulting data would allow us
      to determine effect sizes for each type of intervention relative to a control condition,
      which would allow us to determine the relative effectiveness of each intervention: i.e., how
      well the interventions stack-up against one another in terms of effect sizes.

      Secondary goals of this research are to:

        1. . Determine how much the participants use the interventions;

        2. . Determine the mechanisms of benefit (perform meditational analyses);

        3. . Compare benefits for important smoker populations;

        4. . Determine whether any of the interventions produce subtractive or synergistic effects;
           and

        5. . Obtain basic health economic estimates such as cost/quitter.

      The project will also include a substudy directed toward pregnant women and women who are
      interested in participating but are unwilling to agree to utilize approved contraceptive
      methods for the duration of the study. This substudy will utilize all of the treatment
      conditions except the medication condition, since medication is not recommended for women who
      are pregnant in the US. Department of Health and Human Services treatment guideline for
      tobacco dependence
    
  