
    
      This is a randomised controlled pilot study to assess the feasibility of copper impregnated
      stockings. All patients with CEAP classification 4 in both legs and venous disease identified
      by venous duplex will be recruited from the vascular clinics within Croydon Health Services
      over a period of three months. All patients will be given a patient information sheet
      describing the study prior to consent. Patients will be giving adequate time to read the
      information. Informed consent and the agreement for photography of their legs will be
      obtained. Patients will be assessed at baseline and at 2, 4 and 8 weeks follow-up.

      Copper impregnated stockings:

      All patients will be asked to wear compression stockings (14-18mmHg). These closed-toe and
      below-the-knee stockings are made of 88% nylon, 5% elastin, and 7% spandex and come in
      various sizes. One of the pair will have copper oxide ions permanently attached to the nylon
      fibres and these stockings will contain 2-3% copper ions. The patients will wear a copper
      stocking on one leg (study leg) and a non-copper stocking on the other (control leg). Both
      the patients and the clinicians will be blinded to the copper impregnated stocking.

      Randomisation:

      All stockings are marked with an 'L' for the left or 'R' for the right foot. The manufacturer
      has randomly marked the copper stockings with an 'L' or 'R' and paired these with a
      non-copper stocking. A closed envelope will contain the unique numbers of all the pairs of
      stockings and the information on which sock contains the copper. This envelope will remain
      closed for the whole recruitment period.

      Patient data, history and physical examination:

      Demographic data such as age, ethnicity, height and weight will be collected. Past medical
      history such as concomitant (chronic) diseases and the use of medications will be obtained.
      At each visit, subjective symptoms will be obtained using the Aberdeen Varicose Veins
      Questionnaire (AVVQ). For obtaining objective signs, the CEAP classification and the Venous
      Clinical Severity Scoring (VCSS) will be performed for grading the severity of the venous
      insufficiency per leg individually, and photographs with the Eykona® 3D camera will be taken.
      All data sets will be coded and anonymised. The data will be stored in a secure room within
      the Trust. All electronic data will be stored within password protected IT system within the
      Trust, which is only accessible by the clinical and research team.

      Eykona® Wound Measurement System:

      Skin changes associated with lipodermatosclerosis such as erythema, induration,
      hyperpigmentation and white atrophy, will be measured using the Eykona® Wound Measuring
      System (Type EYK10001). This system contains a 3D portable camera with software that enables
      precise measurements of wound size and tissue condition. Photographs will be taken at each
      visit. The surface area of the skin changes will be calculated.

      Statistical analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS version 20.0 or higher. The CEAP
      classification, the Venous Clinical Severity Score and the AVVQ score at the 2, 4, and 8
      weeks assessment will be compared with the baseline scores. The length, width and surface
      area of the skin condition from the leg with the copper will be compared with the control leg
      and the measurements at the 2, 4, and 8 weeks assessment will be compared with the baseline
      measurements. Paired t-test will be used for continuous data at baseline and a multilevel
      (mixed) regression model will be used to analyse the change over time.

      Sample size calculation:

      The sample size for this study will be 15. This number is based on the prevalence of the
      disease in this hospital over three months' time. There is no existing data available to
      allow a sample size calculation. The data collection of this pilot study will enable power
      calculation for a larger multicentre study.
    
  