
    
      Background:

      Somatic or "medically unexplained" symptoms and syndromes are common and are seen by
      physicians across almost every medical specialty. In many instances, these phenomena can
      cause a great deal of pain and frustration, restrict function and reduce patients' quality of
      life. Despite their frequency and severity, medical personnel often experience a great deal
      of difficulty in coping with such complaints and patients may be shuttled from specialist to
      specialist, often with little or no symptomatic relief and at a great deal of expense to the
      medical system. Many researchers now believe that these seemingly unrelated and "unexplained"
      conditions in fact share common psycho-physiological mechanisms, such as being catalyzed as a
      result of trauma or excessive stress, being mediated by the limbic system and affecting
      inhibitory sensory pathways.

      Purpose of the study:

      Testing the efficacy and cost-efficiency of a holistic multidisciplinary treatment
      methodology for medically unexplained symptoms (MUS).

      Stages of the Study:

      The study wil lbe conducted via two arms:

        1. A reterospective study of patients attending the Functional Neurology clinic a Soroka
           UMC between the years 2014-2018 in which patient records will be obtained via the
           regional offices of Clalit Health Services and analyzed in order to learn the effects of
           mind-body therapies on health care utilization.

        2. A prospective study of new patients arriving at the "functional neurology" clinic at
           Soroka UMC. Members of the second arm will be asked if they would be willing to
           participate in the study by their neurologist. Participants who have agreed to join the
           study will fill out Self-report measures at the beginning of their treatment, at the end
           of treatment (3 months) and 6 months after the start of treatment and 12 months after
           the start of treatment.

      Expected Results

        1. A decrease in expense rates and use of medical services

        2. An increase in patient satisfaction

        3. An increase in patient-reported health and quality of life
    
  