
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There are more than 400,000 sudden cardiac deaths annually in the U.S, of which 85% or more
      are caused by ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Medications are an important modifiable risk
      factor because many have effects that can provoke lethal arrhythmias. There is increasing
      suspicion that several drugs in four widely used classes of non-cardiovascular
      medications-fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, antipsychotics, and antidepressants-
      are pro-arrhythmic and thus increase the risk of sudden cardiac death. Published
      epidemiologic studies have quantified the risk conferred by older antipsychotics and
      antidepressants as well as oral erythromycin. The current project will extend these studies
      to newer medications that are used by an estimated 20% of adults in the U.S. Studies of
      surrogate markers suggest that the pro-arrhythmic effects of these drugs vary markedly.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This retrospective cohort study has three specific aims in testing the relationship between
      certain non-cardiovascular medications-fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics,
      antipsychotics, and antidepressants- and sudden cardiac death.. Specific aim 1 tests the
      hypothesis that there is corresponding variation in risk of sudden cardiac death. In vivo
      data suggest that concurrent use of study drugs with other common medications that inhibit
      their metabolism could markedly increase drug concentrations, and thus risk of arrhythmias.
      Specific aim 2 tests the hypothesis that these pharmacokinetic interactions, defined a
      priori, increase risk of sudden cardiac death. The hypokalemia caused by the commonly used
      potassium-wasting diuretics may amplify the pro-arrhythmic effects of medications. Specific
      aim 3 tests the hypothesis that concurrent use of study drugs and these diuretics increases
      risk of sudden cardiac death. The investigators will conduct a retrospective cohort study in
      TennCare, Tennessee's expanded Medicaid program. Computerized TennCare files, linked with
      death certificates, provide the information necessary to define the cohort, classify followup
      according to medication exposure and potential confounders, and identify cases of sudden
      cardiac death using a validated computer case definition we have developed. The cohort will
      include an estimated 800,000 persons with 15,000 sudden cardiac deaths during 5,000,000
      person years of followup and thus will have excellent power for risk estimates. The study
      will provide data that clinicians need to prescribe these widely used medications in a way
      that minimizes the risk of sudden cardiac death.
    
  