
    
      Ureteral stent is routinely placed following ureteroscopic procedures to aid in urinary
      drainage post-operatively. Up to 80% of patients, however, experience stent-related symptoms
      (SRS) including lower abdominal pain, burning with urination, blood in urine and voiding
      symptoms affecting activities of their daily living. Intra- and/or post-operative therapeutic
      options are limited and most are initiated following the ureteral stent placement when the
      inflammatory process has already begun from ureteral manipulation, further limiting their
      efficacy. We, therefore, hypothesize that pre-operative intravenous administration of
      Ketorolac, with its anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties, will reduce the inflammatory
      process during ureteral manipulation and reduce SRS.

      The eligible patients undergoing ureteral stent placement will be randomized 1:1 into either
      intervention or control group. Subjects in the intervention group will receive intravenous
      injection of 1 ml of Ketorlac 30 mg/ml, whereas subjects in the control group will receive 1
      ml of 0.9% injectable normal saline, prior to the start of the procedure. A panel of plasma
      inflammatory markers will be drawn and assessed pre- and post-operatively as well as at the
      time of stent removal as an objective measures for inflammation.

      A follow-up telephone call will be made by the nursing staff on post-operative day one to
      check on patient status and to re-educate the patients to follow the protocol.

      To assess SRS, all participants will complete the AUA Symptom Score Questionnaire and the
      Analog Pain Scale prior to the procedure. On post-operative day 1 and at the time of stent
      removal (prior to the stent being taken out), participants will complete the USSQ1 and the
      AUA Symptom Score. At the time of subsequent follow up visit, participants will complete the
      USSQ2 and AUA Symptom Score.
    
  