
    
      You will take eltrombopag during two consecutive cycles of chemotherapy. During these two
      cycles you will be asked to complete the following for the research study in addition to any
      clinical exams or procedures that your regular doctor may order:

      Study Drug(s): If you take part in this research study, you will be given a study drug-dosing
      calendar for each treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 27 days during which time you
      will be taking the study drug for 11 days on days 1 through 11.

      Clinical Exams: You will have a physical exam on days 1, 11, and 21 of both cycles. You will
      be asked questions about your general health and specific questions about any problems that
      you might be having and any medications you may be taking. Your vital signs will be collected
      during this exam.

      Performance status: Your ability to perform daily tasks will be assessed on days 1 and 27 of
      both cycles.

      Blood Tests: You will have tests to check for safety performed on days 1, 7, 11, 20, and 27
      of both cycles. You will have approximately 1-2 teaspoons of blood collected.

      Concurrent Medications: Any changes to your medications will be recorded. Adverse Events: You
      be continually monitored for any changes to you health or well-being while you are on this
      study.

      You will complete all subsequent cycles of chemotherapy procedures per standard of care for
      DFCI. During the subsequent cycles, you will not take eltrombopag.

      After the final dose of the study drug: On Day 1 of cycle 3 of chemotherapy, you will
      complete the end of study/off study evaluations. The following procedures will be completed:

        -  Physical Exam, including vitals signs

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how you are able to carry on with your usual
           activities.

        -  Tumor Measurements: We will assess your tumor by blood tests and/or bone marrow aspirate
           and biopsy. If clinically indicated, you may have CT scans, bone scans or skeletal
           surveys

        -  Blood tests, routine tests to check for safety

        -  Concurrent Medications: Any changes to your medications will be recorded.

      Follow-up:

      We would also like to keep track of your medical condition for thirty days after your last
      dose of study drug. We would like to do this by having you return to have your blood counts
      checked once a week for 4 weeks and by calling you to check your condition and any changes to
      your health or well-being that may have occurred since you last took the study drug.
    
  