
    
      Impairment of the myocardial microcirculation in the setting of AMI is multifactorial in
      etiology. This may be due to vasoactive factors including endothelin-1, which is a potent
      vasoconstricting peptide and increasingly expressed in the active plaque . Oxidative stress
      and ischaemia per se may also reduce the bioavailability of nitric oxide, further
      contributing to the dysfunction of the myocardial microcirculation.

      Statins have been shown to benefit ACS patients in that they are believed to decrease
      reperfusion injury after an ischemic event, promote plaque stabilization, and reduce
      inflammation in ACS patients. In patients admitted with acute coronary syndrome (ACS),
      treatment with statins <24 hours of presentation was associated with lower incidences of
      death, stroke, reinfarction, heart failure, and pulmonary edema compared with delayed
      administration .

      40 statin naive patients admitted with STEMI will receive high dose statin Rosuvastatin 40 mg
      pre/per primary PCI and continue this treatment during the hospital stay. The high dose of
      rosuvastatin is chosen to achieve high plasma concentration as early as possible for per
      conditioning of the myocardium at risk. At discharge they will be switched to standard dose
      statin.

      Myocardial infarction will be assessed with Contrast enhanced cardiac magnetic resonance at 2
      days and at 2 months. Microvascular obstruction (MO) may be assessed by first- pass perfusion
      (FPP) and delayed hyper enhancement (DHE) MO is defined as regional hypoperfusion on
      first-pass perfusion as previously described . The investigators have recently demonstrated
      that MO as verified by CMR following MI may allow early identification of patients with a
      high risk of LV remodeling likely to benefit from pharmacological therapy .

      Blood tests for assessment of collagen turnover, neurohumoral activation and inflammation
      will be drawn daily during hospital stay.

      The Results will be compared with the findings of statin naive patients from tha KOMPIS trial
      who were not treated with high dose pre and per operative statins
    
  