
    
      Acute coronary syndrome is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. Even
      though up-to-date epidemiological data are not available, as per the institutional level
      experiences this is not differ much in the local settings. Having a free health care system,
      government of Sri Lanka has to allocate billions of funds and resources from the annual
      budget for the maintenance of health care system. Being a developing nation this is a
      considerable burden to the economy of the country. However, prioritization during resource
      allocation will prevent mal-distribution of limited resources.

      Health care system in Sri Lanka should deliver free as well as quality care to the nation.
      However, lack of updated guidelines in Sri Lanka for the management for acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS) is a drawback. American College of Cardiology (ACC) and the European Heart
      Association (EHA) have developed evidence based and most up to date guidelines to standardize
      clinical practices in the management of ACS. It is recommended to adhere to local or
      International guidelines to deliver optimal and quality care to ACS patients.

      In Sri Lanka, no audits have been conducted in the health sector in relation to patient
      management practices in the past. Even though institutional level audits have been carried
      out time to time for the purpose of allocating medicines and other diagnostic resources,
      island wide large scale audits have not been carried out. Therefore, conducting an audit on
      health recourse allocation and patient management clinical practices has become a high
      priority.

      Investigators selected ACS as the most important clinical discipline to conduct an audit
      based on the institutional level data. This audit is included as a well-designed set of
      clinical criteria derived from the Myocardial Ischemia National Audit Project (MINAP) in UK,
      SNAPSHOT ACS study in Australia and New Zealand, American College of Cardiology and European
      Health Association guidelines. These criteria have been extensively reviewed by a panel of
      cardiologists and physicians to customize it according to the local requirements.

      This project will be Coordinated by the Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine,
      University of Colombo in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Heart Association, Ceylon College
      of Physicians and will be carried out through the Quality and safety Unit of the Ministry of
      Health, Sri Lanka. Funding is sought from the Ministry of Health
    
  