
    
      The airway is primarily a conduit for air to reach the lungs. Maintaining a stable, patent
      airway is a fundamental element of safe perioperative care for all anesthesiologists. Though
      maintaining airway patency seems conceptually straightforward, a wide variety of clinical
      circumstances, patients, and tools can make the task of ensuring a stable, open airway under
      all clinical conditions extremely challenging.

      In spite of endotracheal intubation being a lifesaving skill, problems like delayed
      intubation, misplaced tracheal tube, or airway trauma are frequently encountered, and can
      cause death or hypoxic brain damage. The magnitude of problems during airway management
      constitute 17% of anaesthesia closed claims in UK, with difficult intubation being the most
      common at a rate of 5%.The American Society of Anesthesiologists' Closed Claims Project
      (ASACCP) reports that though the proportion of claims for respiratory complications decreased
      from 34% in the 1970s to 15% in the 1990s, the 'big three' (inadequate ventilation,
      oesophageal intubation, and difficult tracheal intubation) still accounted for >50% of claims
      leading to death or permanent brain damage.

      Direct laryngoscopy (DL) remains the gold standard technique for securing the airway.
      Successful DL involves the creation of a new (non-anatomic) visual axis, through maximal
      alignment of the axes of the oral and pharyngeal cavities and displacement of the tongue that
      requires manipulations of head, neck and larynx and other stressful movements. These
      manipulations of the airway have numerous adverse implications including significant
      hemodynamic disturbances, cervical instability, injury to oral and pharyngeal tissues, and
      dental damage. It is thus, a complicated technical skill with a variable learning curve and
      requires regular training, experience, and practice to acquire and maintain.

      The video laryngoscope (VL) is a recently developed device with a camera and light source on
      the tip of its blade that provides indirect glottic view. The Airtraq laryngoscope is a
      recently developed video laryngoscope. It has an anatomically shaped blade which contains two
      parallel channels, one, the guiding channel, for the insertion of the endotracheal tube (ETT)
      and the other, the optical channel, containing a series of lenses, prisms, and mirrors that
      transfer the image from the illuminated tip to a proximal viewfinder, giving a high-quality
      wide-angle view of the glottis and surrounding structures.

      As compared to DL, Airtraq VL requires the application of lesser force to the base of the
      tongue and is thus less likely to stimulate stress response and induce local tissue injury,
      produces less cervical movement, and has a faster learning curve relative to DL. It has also
      been demonstrated to be beneficial in the difficult airway scenario, when compared with the
      Macintosh laryngoscope, by reducing the number of failed intubations, the duration of
      intubation attempts and the amount of airway manipulation required, making them suitable for
      use by medical personnel who intubate infrequently.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate learning and performance of tracheal intubation by
      first year anaesthesia trainee using either Airtraq VL or Macintosh laryngoscopes.
    
  