
    
      The study will be conducted in Geha Mental Health Center. A total of 80 adolescent
      non-psychotic smokers will be recruited for this study. A smoker is defined as a cosumer of
      at least 5 cigarettes daily. A total of 80 patients will be recruited from the adolescent
      psychiatric wards or the adolescent clinics of the mental health center. The study group
      (N=40) will receive bupropion SR and the control group (N=40) will receive placebo
      medication. Age of participants will range from 13-20 years. Both genders will be included
      and all ethnic origins.

      All participants will receive a detailed explanation about the study, its aims, the bupropion
      therapy, including possible adverse effects of the drug and other possible therapeutic
      alternatives. They will receive a leaflet summarizing all relevant data and information. Then
      they and their parents will sign an informed consent to participate in the study.

      Procedure The mental health center's pharmacist will encapsulate the bupropion tablets, which
      will be supplied by the manufacturing company. The study capsules will all be kept in the
      hospital's pharmacy. Randomization will be performed using a random number table. The code
      will be held solely by the principal investigator, and will be broken in the end of the
      study's follow-up period, unless an emergency occurs. All participants will be given the
      telephone number of the principal investigator for any questions or problems arising.

      The subjects in both groups will be double-blindly randomized to receive either bupropion or
      placebo. The assignment to each group will be done randomly in order to ensure location
      concealment. For subjects receiving bupropion, the dose will be 150 mg/d for the first three
      days, increasing for 150 mg twice daily, continued for a period of eight weeks. In case of
      intolerable side effects, the dosage will be decreased to 150 mg daily.

      On recruitment, all subjects will be screened for-

        -  Medical history

        -  Vital signs

        -  Height

        -  Weight

        -  Place of birth

        -  Tobacco use history

        -  Alcohol and substance abuse

        -  Elctrocardiogram (ECG)

        -  Urine pregnancy test (for girls only)

        -  Kiddie schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia (K-SADS-PL) screening tool
           (37).

      Possible electrocardiographic side effects of bupropion that have been reported in the
      literature were tachycardia and conduction delays (widened QRS complex and/or prolonged QTc
      interval), but none of these delays progressed to a life-threatening arrhythmia, even in case
      of overdose.

      Exclusion criteria will be:

        -  Psychiatric disorders in Axis I of DSM IV (38) (for the control group)

        -  Smoking less than 6 cigarettes a day

        -  Using other tobacco products other than cigarettes

        -  Using any other smoking cessation treatment

        -  Exhaled CO level of less than 10 ppm

        -  Convulsive disorder or a history of seizures

        -  A first-degree relative with a convulsive disorder

        -  Past sensitivity to bupropion.

        -  Positive pregnancy test

        -  lactation

        -  A lack of motivation to quit smoking

        -  Alcohol and substance abuse (or current alcohol withdrawal)

        -  Mental retardation and a lack of ability to give an informed consent

        -  Concurrent use of Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAO-I).

        -  Anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa.

      All subjects will be evaluated for weight, smoking, substance use, anxiety and depressive
      symptoms at baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year. Follow-up phase will be blinded
      as well. Evaluation in these time points will include:

        -  Fagerstrom Tolerance Questionnaire modified for adolescents (FTQ( to measure nicotine
           dependence (39).

        -  Quantitive information on tobacco, alcohol and drug use (timeline followback methods)

        -  Children depression inventory (CDI) (40) to measure depression, translated and validated
           to hebrew (41).

        -  Children depression rating scale (CDRS) (42) to measure depression, translated and
           validated to hebrew (41)

        -  The Screen for Child Anxiety Related Emotional Disorders (SCARED) to measure anxiety
           (43;44)

        -  Exhaled air carbon monoxide (CO)

        -  Urine cotinine In addiction to the pharmacological therapy, both groups of the study
           will receive supportive and psychoeducational treatment in the setting of group therapy.
           Supportive psychotherapy focuses on using suggestions and supportive expressions to
           encourage the patient in his goal of quitting smoking. Psychoeducational treatment
           concentrates on educating the patients on the benefits of abandoning smoking and the use
           informative details in regards to that issue.

      Main outcome measures: (1) Smoking cessation for 3 months. (2) Decrease in the carving to
      smoke.
    
  