
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of non-myeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation, in terms of regimen-related organ toxicity and toxicity from acute
           graft-vs-host disease (GVHD), in older or medically frail patients with high-risk
           indolent hematologic malignancies.

        -  Determine overall survival, disease-free survival, and relapse risk at 1, 2, and 3 years
           post-transplantation in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the engraftment of donor hematopoiesis at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months, and 1 year
           post-transplantation in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of chronic GVHD in older and medically infirm
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of collecting peripheral blood stem cells from older
           donors (age > 60 years).

        -  Determine the need and efficacy of donor lymphocyte infusions in patients with residual
           disease after transplant.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Non-myeloablative preparative regimen:Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on
           days -7 to -3, busulfan IV over 2 hours every 8 hours on days -4 and -3, and
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 8 hours on days -4 to -1.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
           on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 6 and
           continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus orally every 12
           hours or IV continuously beginning on day -2 and continuing until day 90, followed by a
           taper until day 180. Patients also receive methotrexate IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1,
           3, 6, and 11.

        -  Donor lymphocyte infusions (DLIs): Patients with residual disease ≥ 6 months
           post-transplantation who are off immunosuppression for ≥ 30 days with no evidence of
           GVHD may receive DLIs. DLIs are administered ≥ 12 weeks apart in the presence of
           persistent disease, absence of severe (grade 3-4) GVHD, and absence of persistent GVHD
           after the first DLI.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  