
    
      The present study design is a mono-center three-year follow-up case series study to examined
      the safety and effectiveness of allograft bone blocks combined with guided bone regeneration
      (GBR). The study was in accordance to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and was
      approved by the standing ethical committee of the state of Bern, Switzerland.

      The preoperative analysis included a complete medical history, clinical examination of the
      dentition and a thorough analysis of the implant recipient using 3D cone beam computed
      tomography (3D Accuitomo 170, Morita, Kyoto, Japan).

      Surgical Procedure:

      The surgical procedures were done in two stages. In the first stage surgery, a full-thickness
      mucoperiosteal flap was raised on both the facial and palatal aspects. Ridge augmentation was
      done using a mineralized, cortico-cancellous, delipidized, lyophilized allogenic block (ALB ;
      PHOENIX allograft, TBF Mions, France). Following hydration of the ALB, the cortico-cancellous
      part of the block was shaped to fit the recipient site and fixated by two fixation screws
      (Medartis, Modus, Medartis Holding AG, Basel, Switzerland). Voids around the ALB were filled
      with autogenous bone chips (AGB) harvested locally from the recipient site. The augmented
      site was covered by a first layer of deproteinized bovine bone mineral mixed (DBBM; Bio- Oss,
      Geistlich Pharma, Wolhusen, Switzerland and a non-crosslinked collagen membrane (BG; Bio-
      Gide, Geistlich AG, Wolhusen, Switzerland) as described previously (Chappuis et al DOI
      10.1111/cid.12438). A periosteal-releasing incision was used to provide tension-free flap
      closure. The wound margins were approximated using non-resorbable poly- amide suture
      (Seralon, Serag-Wiessner GmbH, Naila, Germany) to obtain primary wound closure. All patients
      were prescribed an antibiotic regimen with 2g of amoxicillin with clavulanic acid 1 hour
      preoperatively to be continued as 1g twice daily for 3 days post-surgery. Patients were also
      prescribed analgesics and chlorhexidine digluconate (0.2%) for chemical plaque control. In
      patients with post-surgical complications the antibiotic regimen was prolonged. Sutures were
      removed around 14 days postoperatively. Removable provisionals were adapted, but patients
      were instructed to not to wear them unless unavoidable during the initial healing phase.

      The second stage surgery was performed after a minimal healing period of six months (range 6
      to 13months for me this would belong to the results). A paracrestal incision was given to
      elevate a full thickness mucoperiosteal. The fixation screws from the previous surgery were
      removed and the implant bed was prepared based on the specific requirements of the site. All
      implants placed had chemically modified, sandblasted, and acid-etched surface and had either,
      a tissue level implant (TL) or a bone level implant (BL) design (SLActive, Straumann AG,
      Basel, Switzerland). Simultaneous re-grafting was performed as required using autogenous bone
      chips, DBBM and a non-cross linked collagen membrane. A tension-free wound closure was
      obtained by non-resorbable sutures. The antibiotic and analgesic regimen and post-surgical
      care as the same as in the first-stage surgery. Sutures were removed after 14 days. Patients
      were instructed to wear the provisional with caution. After the healing period of 4-6 months
      the healing abutments were placed for the future prosthetics. The implants were restored with
      either single-unit crowns (SC), crowns with extensions (SC-E), bridges (B), bridges with
      extensions (B-E) or ball abutments (BA). All restorations were screw-retained. Patient were
      given oral hygiene instructions and directed to enroll onto a supportive periodontal therapy
      to monitor oral health.

      Clinical and radiographic follow-up examination after 3 years:

      Clinical parameters - Updates on medical conditions, smoking, oral hygiene and enrollment in
      a maintenance care program were collected from the patients. Clinical examinations were taken
      by the same examiner (VC) throughout the three-year follow-up period. The clinical parameters
      were assessed as previously described (Chappuis et al DOI 10.1111/cid.12438): peri-implant
      suppuration, modified plaque index (mPLI), modified sulcus bleeding index (mBLI), probing
      depth, DIM (distance from the implant shoulder to the mucosal margin), width of the KM,
      mobility and full mouth plaque scores.

      Radiographic analysis using 2D radiographs and 3D CBCT - The peri-implant bone loss was
      measured on periapical 2D radiographs analysing the proximal DIB values as the vertical
      distance from the implant shoulder to the first bone-to-implant contact as described earlier
      (DIB; mm) (Weber HP et al 1992). The mean DIB value per implant considered was the average of
      the mesial and distal values.

      The horizontal bone gain of the atrophic sites was assessed by with the smallest field of
      view (3D Accuitomo 170, Morita, Kyoto, Japan). The image analysis was performed by a
      high-resolution screen, using a specialised software (i-Dixel, Morita, Kyoto, Japan). The 3D
      analysis included a preoperative analysis of the proposed implant site. A standard reference
      point, 4mm crestal to the shoulder of the future implant was used for all measurements
      (Chappuis 2017). CBCT measurements were repeated prior to implant placement, using the same
      reference point and repeated again at the 2-3year follow-up appointment. The radiographic
      measurements were done by one examiner (OE).

      Assessment of biological, technical complications and patient reported outcome measures
      (PROMS) - All events of complications, intra-operative and post-operative at each surgical
      phase (graft surgery and implant surgery), prior to prosthetic treatment and post prosthetic
      rehabilitation both operator-assessed and self-reported were recorded.

      Patient reported outcome measures were assessed by the Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP)
      scores and patient satisfaction scores based on a visual analog scale (VAS) were recorded for
      each patient after the entire treatment was completed and the patients received the
      prosthetic replacements.

      Statistical Analysis:

      All data sets were first analysed descriptively and were expressed as mean values with
      standard deviation. A repeated measures design was chosen and a linear mixed model was fitted
      for each single factor to assess its impact on the final outcome and co-relations were
      evaluated. Throughout, p-values less than 0.05 were considered as statistically significant.
      p-values were not corrected for multiple testing due to the explorative nature of this study.
      The statistical analysis was performed with the software package R (Version 3.5.1, R
      Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria).
    
  