
    
      This is a prospective study. This a single centre study involving the Maria Cecilia Hospital
      (Ravenna, Italy).

      The study is expected to enroll at least 450 consecutive patients with ≥70 years, which are
      admitted for:

      GROUP A: severe aortic stenosis undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement GROUP B: severe
      aortic stenosis undergoing transcatheter valve implantation GROUP C: severe mitral
      regurgitation undergoing surgical repair GROUP D: severe mitral regurgitation undergoing
      MITRACLIP repair

      In all patients, the following functional assessments will be performed before
      surgical/percutaneous intervention:

      handgrip test (see definition below). Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire (SPMSQ, see
      definition below). Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB, see definition below).
      Multidimensional Prognostic Index (MPI, see definition below). The aim of the study is to
      assess the relationship between frailty score and prognosis

      HANDGRIP (HGT). The handgrip test measures the force of contraction of the flexor muscles of
      the fingers through the use of a dynamometer. From literature it is known as such index
      correlates with the eventual malnutrition of the subject, with its capacity of recovery and
      functional recovery post-surgery, as well as to be in relation with age. In each patient,
      three measurements will be carried out. Will be taken into consideration for the study the
      highest value. The measurement will be performed as indicated by current guidelines, with the
      patient seated, with the dominant hand and the elbow flexed 90°. All medical personnel
      involved in the study performed a specific course to learn the proper management and
      execution of screening with handgrip tes and has personal experience in its proper execution.

      SHORT PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE BATTERY (SPPB). The scale SPPB is a short battery of tests created
      to evaluate the functionality of the lower limbs. This battery is made up of 3 different
      sections designed to assess a balance with 3 tests: the maintenance of the position with the
      feet together for 10 seconds then the semi-tandem and finally tandem again for 10 seconds.
      The score of this section varies from a minimum of 0 if the patient is unable to maintain
      position with your feet together for at least 10 seconds to a maximum of 4 if he can
      accomplish all three tests. The second section of the test is intended to evaluate the
      progress of 4 linear meters and depending on the time of the performance section of the score
      ranges from 0 if unable, at one point if the performance has a longer duration of 8.7
      seconds, for a up to 4 if he can accomplish the task in less than 4.80 sec. The third section
      investigates the ability of the battery to run for 5 consecutive times, getting up from a
      chair without using the arms in this regard that must be crossed in front of chest. Also in
      this case, the score ranges from 0 incapable or if the performance has a duration greater
      than 60 seconds, to a maximum of 4 if such performance is carried out in less than 11.20
      seconds. The scores range from 0 (worst performance) to 12 (best performance).

      A score between 5 and 9 shows seniors still independent, but with reduced physical
      performance, which can therefore be regarded as fragile and high risk, deserving of special
      attention and specific interventions, acts to reduce the risk of adverse consequences. Data
      in the literature confirm that the SPPB correlates with the risk of developing disability in
      mobility, in proportion to the decrease of the SPPB score, regardless of age, sex and
      presence of certain chronic diseases. The SPPB score then emerges as a powerful predictor of
      disability and mortality in the elderly population.

      MULTIDIMENSIONAL PROGNOSTIC INDEX (MPI)

      The Multidimensional Prognostic Index (MPI) is a prognostic tool based on a standard
      Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) that predicts short- and long-term mortality in
      elderly subjects. The MPI includes 63 items distributed in 8 domains of CGA as follows:

      Activities of Daily Living (ADL): 6 items Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL): 8
      items Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire (SPMSQ): 10 items Mini Nutritional
      Assessement (MNA): 18 items Exton-Smith Scale (ESS): 5 items Cumulative Index Rating Scale -
      Comorbidity Index (CIRS-CI): 14 items Number of drugs used: 1 item Co-habitation status: 1
      item On the basis of MPI values, it is possible to calculate the short- and long-term
      mortality risk of the older subjects and to define the severity grade of mortality risk: low,
      moderate and severe. Several studies showed that the prognostic accuracy of the aggregated
      MPI was significantly greater than the prognostic accuracy of its individual components
      considered singularly. Thus the multidimensional approach can be successfully used in elderly
      patients for both clinical and administrative purposes.
    
  