
    
      Patients with Type 1 diabetes who use a smart phone will keep detailed records of their blood
      glucose readings, carbohydrate intake, activity and insulin doses and share them with us. The
      investigators have developed a smart phone app to facilitate the recording of glucose
      readings, Edmonton Automated Sugar Intelligence (EASI). This EASI app may be used on Android
      or iPhone platforms. It will link to a web site (Intelligent Diabetes Management-IDM) that
      houses the person's algorithm for their insulin adjustments ie their insulin regimen scale or
      correction factor equation, their carbohydrate ratio formula for each meal and snack, their
      appropriate adjustment for exercise so that entry of the timed glucose, the carbohydrate
      portion to be consumed and any expected activity will allow derivation of the appropriate
      insulin dose. This information will be entered into the EASI program associated web site by
      the clinical staff at the time off the visit to the diabetes program or recruitment to the
      study.

      Then, the patient simply enters the current glucose and carbohydrate intake into EASI to
      allow the app use their prescribed algorithm and arrive at a suggested insulin dose. It is
      simply using the smart phone to do what is done by mental arithmetic or on paper at present.
      Thus EASI-IDM is a simple clinical decision support system to assist health management. The
      advantage is the information is stored in real time to the IDM web site for both the person
      or their caregiver to review.

      Since weight, age, gender, renal function, phase of menstrual cycle and ambient glucose may
      have an impact on glycemic control the investigators will also record these details.

      The first substudy planned is an - Acceptability sub study survey. The team has developed the
      EASI app that links in with the IDM web site. The investigators want to study how well it is
      accepted by patients with Type 1 diabetes, whether they use it on an ongoing basis, whether
      it leads to them adjusting their insulin regimen themselves more frequently and finally does
      it improve their A1c.
    
  