
    
      In this study the effectiveness of ACT will be evaluated based on the short-term effect(s) of
      respiratory physiotherapy with Simeox on changes in lung function and thoracic expansibility
      paediatric patients with PCD.

      An interventional randomised non-inferiority crossover trial will be conducted in Motol
      University Hospital; the project was developed by the multidisciplinary team (MDT) of the
      Division of Paediatric Pulmonology of the Department of Paediatrics, 2nd Faculty of Medicine,
      Charles University in Prague and Motol University Hospital; and the Department of
      Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, Charles University in Prague and
      Motol University Hospital.

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned into 2 arms - "Simeox-first group" and
      "Pari-O-PEP first" group. Randomisation will be done using computer generated code for each
      patient. The protocol will include 3 study visits - K0, K1 and K2 planned 3 months apart.
      After 6 months (second visit - K1), each patient will be switched to the other interventional
      group (crossed over). The first session (K0) includes an initial lung function assessment
      using spirometry, nitrogen-Multiple Breath Washout test (N2-MBW), Electrical Impedance
      Tomography (EIT), 6 Minute Walk Test (6 MWT), respiratory amplitudes (RA), and a theoretical
      introduction to therapy with the Simeox device. The second (K1) and third (K2) sessions will
      be interventional, including a respiratory physiotherapy session in between each measurement,
      excluding 6 MWT, which will be measured just once per session.

      According to randomisation criteria, participants will initially undergo either
      physiotherapist-administered 20-minute ACT session using the Simeox device or 30-minute
      therapy with PARI O-PEP. In accordance with the rules for crossover study design, each
      patient will undergo therapy with both ACT devices, ideally within six-month duration of the
      study. These interventions will take place in between each measurement (spirometry, MBW, EIT,
      RA) during the second (K1) and the third (K2) session.
    
  