
    
      Muscle damage is a clinical problem caused by the adaptation process in strenuous exercise of
      soccer athletes which free radical is the main culprit of the damage. There is a significant
      increment of muscle damage after strength exercise using leg press. Physical exercise leads
      to inflammation process in endothelial cells of blood vessel which can be marked by releasing
      cytokine. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is one of cytokine pro-inflammation and this marker is used as
      an indicator for inflammation of micro-trauma in muscle during strenuous exercise.

      Normally, free radical generation will be stabilized by endogenous antioxidant secretion such
      as superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and catalase; nevertheless, body
      needs exogenous antioxidant to support endogenous antioxidant as a scavenger of free radical
      in such condition.

      Muscle damage due to the strenuous exercise should be managed to avoid the pain feeling and
      subsequently decrease athlete performances. Some previous studies used herbs such as ginger
      (Zingiber officinale), ginseng (Panax quinquefolium), and Curcuma to relieve the muscle
      damage and inflammation resulting from high-intensity exercise.The Curcuma extract treatment
      to the athlete gained lack of success; therefore, supplementation to food products might use
      to increase acceptability. Ice cream is one of the products, which has a broad segment market
      and every single person regardless of age is fond of it.

      Curcumin is an antioxidant substance contained in Curcuma and it has better antioxidant
      capacity compared to the other component in Curcuma such as demetoksicurcumin and
      bisdemetoksicurcumin.Besides, curcumin has an efficient reaction with superoxide radicals as
      well as lipid antioxidants has, and the reaction leads to superoxide catalytic degradation in
      which curcumin represents as a superoxide dismutase. This study aimed to examine the Curcuma
      extract effect which has been supplemented to own-made ice cream in muscle damage and
      inflammation of soccer athletes after having strenuous exercise.
    
  