
    
      Background: Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide and Singapore. In
      addition to the disease itself, undergoing surgery is also a stressful event for patients.
      Many of them have physical and psychosocial challenges. A variety of psychosocial
      interventions have been developed to improve patients'/survivors' health outcomes with some
      intervention using mobile technology. However, there is no any smart-phone based solution
      that have developed a comprehensive perioperative solution for this group of patients.

      Aim: This study aims to (1) develop an Innovative Care-improvement Smartphone-based
      Perioperative Solution for Women Undergoing Breast Cancer Surgery (iCareBreast); (2) examine
      the effectiveness of the iCareBreast on participants' health outcomes of self-efficacy
      (primary outcome), anxiety and depression, pain and fatigue, quality of life, and
      satisfaction with perioperative care; and (3) explore the perceptions of participants on
      strengths and weaknesses of iCareBreast.

      Research Questions:

        -  Do the participants receiving routine care plus the iCareBreast report higher level of
           self-efficacy when compared to those receiving routine care alone?

        -  Do the participants receiving routine care plus the iCareBreast report lower levels of
           anxiety and depression when compared to those receiving routine care alone?

        -  Do the participants receiving routine care plus the iCareBreast report lower levels of
           postoperative pain and fatigue when compared to those in the control group?

        -  Do the participants receiving routine care plus the iCareBreast report higher level of
           quality of life when compared to those receiving routine care alone?

        -  Do the participants receiving routine care plus the iCareBreast report higher level of
           satisfaction with perioperative care when compared to those receiving routine care
           alone?

        -  What are the perceptions of participants on strengths and weaknesses of iCareBreast?

      Hypothesis As compared to the participants in the control group, those in the intervention
      group who receive routine care plus the iCareBreast will report a

        -  higher level of self-efficacy,

        -  lower levels of anxiety and depression,

        -  lower levels of pain and fatigue,

        -  higher level of quality of life, and

        -  higher level of satisfaction with perioperative care.

      Methods: A two-group pre- and post-test randomized controlled trial will be conducted. A
      total of 112 eligible women who are diagnosed with breast cancer and are required for breast
      surgery will be recruited from the Breast Department in a public tertiary hospital in
      Singapore. Participants will be randomly allocated to either the intervention group
      (receiving routine care provided by the hospital plus iCareBreast) or the control group (only
      receiving routine care provided by the hospital). Outcomes of self-efficacy, anxiety and
      depression, pain and fatigue, quality of life, and satisfaction with perioperative care will
      be measured by relevant valid and reliable instruments at two time-points (baseline and
      post-test). Around 15 participants in the intervention group will be invited to participate
      in semi-structured interviews to explore their opinions on the iCareBreast. Quantitative data
      will be analyzed by SPSS and qualitative data will be analyzed by using content analysis.

      Significance of the study: This study will develop the iCareBreast, which will provide a
      platform for women undergoing breast cancer surgery to receive education about the disease,
      physical, psychological and social support as well as to enable interactions between health
      care workers and patients. This study will generate the preliminary effects of the
      iCareBreast to improve the aforementioned health outcomes of participants, which will be used
      to guide the change of future clinical practice to improve patient care. Mobile health holds
      promise as a low-cost communication tool for enhancing patient engagement and allowing
      healthcare providers to monitor recovery progress. This study will also inform the need for
      further studies for the implementation of similar solution for patients with other surgical
      needs.
    
  