
    
      Detailed Description

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the complete molecular response (CMR) rate of ponatinib and blinatumomab in
      combination with low-intensity chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia
      chromosome (Ph)-positive and/or BAR-ABL-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). (Cohort
      1) II. To evaluate the overall response (OR; complete response [CR] + complete response with
      hematologic improvement [CRi]) in patients with relapsed/refractory disease. (Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate other clinical efficacy endpoints (complete cytogenetic response, complete
      molecular response [CMR] [for relapsed/refractory population], event-free survival and
      overall survival) and safety of the combination regimen.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the role of ABL1 kinase domain mutations on treatment failure and relapse
      in patients with Ph+ ALL treated with hyper-CVD plus ponatinib and blinatumomab.

      II. To determine the impact of recurrent genomic alterations and ribonucleic acid (RNA)
      expression at diagnosis on relapse free survival (RFS) in patients with Ph+ ALL treated with
      hyper-CVD plus ponatinib and blinatumomab.

      III. To investigate the impact of next-generation sequencing-based minimal residual disease
      assessment on relapse-free survival in patients with Ph+ ALL.

      IV. To determine the effect on immune cell subsets in patients with Ph+ ALL treated with
      blinatumomab plus ponatinib.

      OUTLINE:

      CYCLES 1 and 3: Patients receive ponatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of cycle
      1 and on days 1-28 of subsequent cycles, cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) twice daily
      (BID) over 3 hours on days 1-3, rituximab IV over 4-6 hours on days 1 and 11, vincristine IV
      over 15 minutes on days 1 and 11, and pegfilgrastim or filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) daily
      on day 4. Patients also receive methotrexate intrathecally via spinal tap on day 2 and
      cytarabine intrathecally on day 7 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      CYCLES 2 and 4: Patients receive ponatinib PO QD on days 1-28, methotrexate IV over 24 hours
      on day 1 and intrathecally on day 8, cytarabine IV BID over 2-3 hours on days 2 and 3 and
      intrathecally on day 5, pegfilgrastim or filgrastim SC daily on day 4, and rituximab IV over
      4-6 hours on days 1 and 8 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CYCLES 5-8: Patients receive blinatumomab via central catheter continuously over weeks 1-4
      every 6 weeks. Patients also receive methotrexate intrathecally on day 2 of cycle 5 and on
      day 8 of cycle 6 and cytarabine intrathecally on day 7 of cycle 5 and on day 5 of cycle 6 in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY:

      CYCLES 1-3, 5-7, 9-11, and 13-15: After c 4 cycles of blinatumomab, if disease has not gotten
      worse, patients receive vincristine IV over 15 minutes on day 1, prednisone PO on days 1-5,
      and ponatinib PO QD on days 1-28.

      CYCLES 4, 8, and 12: Patients receive blinatumomab via central catheter continuously over
      weeks 1-4 every 6 weeks and ponatinib PO QD on days 1-28.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 15 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients unable to receive blinatumomab, you may receive maintenance
      therapy with vincristine, prednisone, and ponatinib for a total of about 24 cycles at the
      discretion of doctor.

      POST-MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive ponatinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every
      28 days for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  