
    
      IMPACT ON VETERANS HEALTH It is anticipated that this intervention will help participating
      veterans achieve optimal hypertension (HTN) control. Doing so will reduce their risks for
      heart disease and stroke, and improve their quality of life. It is hoped that the
      collaborative nature of this intervention will strengthen the Department of Veterans Affairs
      (VA)'s ties to the veteran community, and establish important "partnerships for health." If
      successful, this intervention could serve as a model for managing chronic disease both within
      and outside the VA system.

      BACKGROUND/RATIONALE Despite consensus that effective hypertension treatment reduces
      morbidity and mortality, many patients in the United States continue to have suboptimal blood
      pressure control. Even with the provider resources and motivated patients inherent in a
      randomized clinical trial, over a third of patients participating in the Antihypertensive and
      Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) were not at their goal blood
      pressure of 140/90 after five years. Similarly, within the Veterans Integrated Service
      Network (VISN) 12 we have found that as many as 30% of patients with hypertension are above
      the target BP of 140/90, despite routine physician reminders to patients who are above these
      goals. Moreover, preliminary results of an internally funded randomized trial suggest minimal
      impact of further physician-focused interventions to reduce patients' blood pressure.

      OBJECTIVES We will have two primary objectives. First, because the intervention proposed is
      novel, we believe we need to demonstrate its efficacy in a methodologically rigorous fashion.
      Specifically we plan to demonstrate that veterans participating in a peer support
      intervention will have improved blood pressure control, knowledge of blood pressure
      treatment, both generally and for themselves, and a more active stance as patients.

      Second, we will carefully examine the process by which our intervention achieves these goals,
      including examining such key structural variables as the frequency of peer support meetings,
      attendance of participants at these meetings, and use of healthcare professional support by
      the group leaders. As part of this second objective, we also seek to understand the fidelity
      with which the peer leaders are to deliver the intervention, and the satisfaction of both
      support group participants and leaders with the intervention.

      METHODS There are three primary activities in the present project.

      First, academicians from the Clement J. Zablocki VA Medical Center (VAMC) are working with
      the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) and other community groups to develop a community-academic
      partnership that follows the principles of community-based participatory research. This key
      activity is underway and will continue beyond the present period of funding. Second, the
      centerpiece of the present grant is a cluster randomized clinical trial (RCT) of the use of
      peer-led support groups to improve BP control in patients with hypertension. Fifty posts
      drawn from the VFW, American Legion, Vietnam Veterans Association, and National Association
      of Black Veterans will be randomly assigned to receive professionally delivered education
      regarding hypertension or to a peer support intervention. The third activity is an evaluation
      of the processes involved in delivering the peer support intervention that will allow for
      successful replication, or to provide insight into why the expected improvement in BP control
      did not occur.
    
  