
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Platinum-based chemotherapy is the standard of care for advanced unresectable thymoma and
      thymic carcinoma. However over 50% of these patients may fail initial therapy and therefore
      require second-line therapy. New therapeutic options are needed for patients who have disease
      progression on or after platinum-containing therapy. Results obtained from protocol 12-C-0118
      so far have shown impressive clinical activity of sunitinib in patients with recurrent thymic
      carcinoma with an objective response rate of 23% and disease control rate of 91% which is
      unprecedented for this histology. Treatment at a dose of 50 mg once daily for four weeks
      followed by 2 weeks off was poorly tolerated. Twenty five out of 41 patients needed dose
      reductions due to development of intolerable adverse events.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary objective:

      - To evaluate the objective response rate (PR+CR) for sunitinib in patients with relapsed or
      refractory thymoma or thymic carcinoma

      MAIN ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients with histologically confirmed thymoma (Group 1 only) or thymic carcinoma who
           have previously been treated with at least one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen
           with progressive disease prior to study entry

        -  Measurable disease by RECIST 1.1 criteria

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function

        -  No major surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy or biologic therapy within 28 days of
           sunitinib

      DESIGN:

        -  In the first group (Group 1), sunitinib will be administered orally using a continuous
           schedule at 50 mg per day for 4 weeks with 2 weeks off to constitute a 6-week cycle
           (Schedule 4/2) until disease progression or development of intolerable side-effects.

        -  In the second group (Group 2), sunitinib will be administered orally using a continuous
           schedule at 50 mg per day for 2 weeks with 1 week off to constitute a 3-week cycle
           (Schedule 2/1) until disease progression or development of intolerable side-effects.

        -  Toxicity will be assessed every cycle by CTCAE Version 5.0

        -  Tumor response assessments by RECIST 1.1 criteria will be performed every cycle for
           Group 1 and every other cycle for Group 2 (every 6 weeks) for patients receiving
           treatment for less than one year, and every two cycles for Group 1 and every four cycles
           for Group 2 (every 12 weeks) for patients who have been receiving treatment one year or
           longer.

        -  Exploratory studies include evaluation of serum VEGFR2, PLGF, IL-4, IL-12, HGF, and
           b-FGF (Group 1 only); and circulating tumor cells, endothelial progenitors, and mature
           apoptotic endothelial cells (both groups). In Group 2, regulatory T cells (Tregs),
           exhausted CD8 T cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and Th1/Th2 T cell
           populations will also be evaluated. Where tumor samples are available, intra-tumoral
           immune infiltrate will be assessed (both groups). Exploratory studies apply to NCI only.
    
  