
    
      As the population ages, there are an increasing number of older adults presenting for
      surgical evaluation. Frailty evaluation has been recognized as a valuable tool in the
      pre-operative assessment of older adults. Frailty is a clinical syndrome with multiple causes
      and contributors that involves poor regulation of multiple physiologic systems and is
      characterized by reduced strength, endurance, and physiologic function. Frailty is a
      predictor of poor surgical outcomes in older patients, including post-operative
      complications, increased length of stay, post-discharge institutionalization, and
      mortality.Identification of frailty in the pre-operative period can aid in risk assessment
      and decision making for the procedure, can help inform a plan for post-operative care needs,
      and may provide a target for pre-operative risk reduction interventions.

      Given the association of frailty with poor surgical outcomes and the high prevalence of
      frailty in surgical candidates, there has been much interest in interventions to mitigate
      this risk. Exercise interventions in other populations have shown success, although the
      optimal interventions are unknown. In both thoracic surgery and kidney transplantation, there
      may be a limited amount of time for intervention prior to the operation and patients often
      have other commitments, such as frequent medical appointments or dialysis sessions. Thus, a
      short duration program may be beneficial for these populations. High intensity walking is an
      approach that has shown to lead to functional gains in as short as 12 sessions. The
      therapists can also modify a high intensity walking program as needed for patients based on
      physical limitations, making it widely applicable for frail older adults of varying physical
      function levels, which is important to our older surgical populations. Surgical patients,
      which include kidney transplant and thoracic surgery patients, are particularly well suited
      to a pilot high intensity walking intervention given the high proportion of frailty and
      pre-frailty in these groups.

      In this study, we will examine a 12-week high intensity walking program for frail older
      surgical candidates.
    
  