
    
      Study participants will consist of metastatic melanoma patients harboring BRAFV600E/K
      mutation without previous frontline therapy (or > 6 months from adjuvant therapy). Toxicity
      from prior treatment must have resolved to ≤ Grade 1 and not included previous Grade 3-4
      immune-related adverse events (irAEs) that required treatment discontinuation or previous
      Grade 2 immune-related uveitis or pneumonitis.

      Phase I, Cohort 1: Twelve patients will be treated with 300mg encorafenib and 3mg/kg
      nivolumab and 1 mg/kg ipilimumab. The dose limiting toxicity (DLT) for cohort 1 will be
      evaluated between weeks 1-6.

      Phase I, Cohort 2: Upfront quadruple therapy with 450mg encorafenib, 45mg binimetinib, 3mg/kg
      nivolumab and 1mg/kg ipilimumab will be investigated with 12 participants. DLT window for
      phase I, cohort 2 will be evaluated at weeks 1-6.

      Upon establishment of RP2D schedule, only participants with advanced melanoma who are either
      treatment naïve in the metastatic setting or who have progressed on adjuvant therapy for more
      than 6 months following completion of adjuvant therapy (either BRAF-MEK or PD1 Ab) will be
      eligible for participation in high risk disease cohort expansion (Groups 1 or 2).

      Phase II will employ the RP2D schedule from Phase I and investigate the early efficacy in
      participants with high risk features who are less likely to derive benefit from standard
      treatment approaches and who may benefit from quadruple therapy despite the potential for
      increased toxicity. These will include: Group 1) symptomatic brain metastases [up to 30
      patients] and Group 2) Elevated LDH >1x upper limit of normal (ULN) with: a) liver metastases
      OR b) bulky visceral disease (sum of longest diameter (SLD) > 44mm) [combined with Group 1 up
      to 60 total patients].

      Following initiation of triple or quadruple therapy, participants will be followed for safety
      and response. Safety assessments will be a high priority with on-going Bayesian toxicity
      monitoring and efficacy assessments every 12 weeks. Based on prior targeted, immune, and
      triplet therapy studies, we anticipate up to 30-50% DLT and will consider temporary
      suspension of trial enrollment with a DLT > 75% as determined by CTCAEv5. Treatment efficacy
      will be documented using RECIST 1.1 and RANO-BM criteria, recorded every 4-12 weeks, and
      immune-RECIST (iRECIST) and immune-RANO (iRANO) criteria.
    
  