
    
      Definitive radiotherapy(RT) is mainstay in combined-modality treatment for patients with
      early-staged extranodal nasal-type NK/T-cell lymphoma(ENKTL),it can be used upfront or after
      short courses of chemotherapy. The typical dose of RT is recommended as 50-56Gy in
      conventional fractionations with 3 dimensional conformal RT or intensity-modulated radiation
      treatment(IMRT). Asparaginase-based chemotherapy regimens are being investigated, and primary
      results showed superior to previous anthracycline-based (eg. CHOP) chemotherapy. GELOX is a
      new asparaginase-based chemotherapy regimen designed and published in our institute, and the
      rate of complete remission(CR) is well improved. We hypothesis the reduced-dose radiation
      treatment(IMRT in 46Gy) is sufficient to control the disease in patients with early-staged
      ENKTL, who have got CR after GELOX chemotherapy, and to validate in this phase II study.

        1. Patients:

             -  All patients should sign a written informed consent form before enrollment, and the
                study should be approved by the Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center Ethics Board.

             -  Baseline of patients: Computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and
                pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging studies of the head and neck, and bilateral bone
                marrow aspiration or biopsy. Positron emission tomography-CT scans (optional).
                Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA blood levels, titer of EBV antibody (EA-IgA, VCA-IgA).

             -  Recheck before and after GELOX chemotherapy and IMRT: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA
                blood levels, titer of EBV antibody (EA-IgA, VCA-IgA), computed tomography (CT)
                scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging studies of the
                head and neck, positron emission tomography-CT scans (optional).

        2. Treatment Protocol:

             1. The GELOX regimen consist of the following drugs: gemcitabine：1250 mg/ m2 on days
                1,iv drip; oxaliplatin：85 mg/m2 on day 1, iv drip; pegaspargase: 2500 IU/m 2 daily
                on day 1,intramuscular. The treatment cycle is repeated every 14 days.

             2. IMRT is delivered using 6-8MeV linear accelerator using extended involved-field
                intensity-modulated radiation treatment planning. The RT dose is 46.2 grays (Gy) in
                22 fractions, and a simultaneous-boost method is used.

                  -  We assign gross tumor volume (GTV) to 46.2Gy/22F, which is delineated
                     according to the initial gross tumor volume identified with imaging and
                     physical examination, including the primary tumor and involved regional lymph
                     nodes.

                  -  The high-risk clinical target volume (CTV1) is assigned to 41.8Gy/22F, which
                     is delineated including the first batch of adjacent structures around GTV, and
                     lymph node group apt for involvement according to clinical feature of
                     individual tumors.

                  -  The low-risk clinical target volume (CTV2) is assigned to 36.3Gy/22F, which is
                     delineated including the extrapolated structures outside of CTV1 sites, and LN
                     groups adjacent to CTV1 LN groups.
    
  