
    
      In more detail, participants will be recruited through local advertisements in the university
      campus so that to be of normal weight (BMI<25) and apparently healthy. Smokers, special
      population groups, i.e. athletes, pregnant women etc., those having a chronic or acute
      disease and those on medication will be excluded from the study.

      Experimental protocol. Each volunteer will take part in 2 trials (with 7days interval between
      them) in a random order (using a random-number table). Female participants will be on the
      follicular phase of their menstrual cycle during the experiments to avoid variability in
      appetite [doi.org/10.1016/j.appet.2018.01.029.]. The week preceding each experimental day,
      participants will be instructed to abstain from any caffeine. Furthermore, the day preceding
      each experimental day participants will be instructed to abstain from alcohol source and
      physical exercise, to get enough sleep (~7 h) and to come to the lab after an overnight fast
      of 10 h. Furthermore, the days before the experiment, volunteers will be asked to consume
      similar foods and quantities, keeping more or less constant eating patterns. Participants
      will arrive at the lab in the morning 9 am after an overnight fast of 10 h. They will consume
      a breakfast snack along with one of the three experimental drinks within 5 min. The snack
      will consist of 1 slice of white bread, 5 g of butter and 10 g of white sugar, providing 142
      kcal (6.5% of energy from proteins, 62.5% from carbohydrates and 31.0% from lipids). The
      experimental drinks will be either (a) 200 mL of instant coffee providing 5 mg caffeine/kg
      body weight or (b) 200 mL of water (Control). After a 3-h period, participants will be
      offered an ad libitum lunch meal from a buffet, consisting of common Greek diet foods (pasta,
      tomato sauce, beef, salad, cheese, yogurt, fruit and juice). They will be instructed to
      consume as much food as they desire until they feel satiated, within 30 min. Researchers will
      record the exact amount of food consumed by weighting the foods that will be chosen and their
      remnants. In addition, a detailed recording of the foods participants are going to consume
      later in the evening will be performed from a registered dietician through recall
      questionnaires.

      Molecular and biochemical parameters that are going to be recorded with the utilization of
      standardized generally accepted protocols are blood pressure, body weight and other
      anthropometric parameters, blood levels of ghrelin, asprosin, leptin, pancreatic polypeptide,
      insulin and glucose, and genetic markers that are related to caffeine metabolism (CYP1A2
      rs2069514 και CYP1A2 rs762251), as well as to an obesity genetic risk score (32SNPs).

      Primary and secondary outcomes Based on genotype data, participants will be categorized as
      fast, medium and slow metabolizers of caffeine. For sample size calculation differences of
      total calories consumptions between groups will be utilized as primary outcome. More
      specifically, since a small participation of slow metabolizers are expected, these subjects
      will be grouped together with medium metabolizers. A difference of total calories consumption
      that exceeds 20% between the two groups is considered clinically significant. Taking into
      account an attrition rate of 10% between the two trials (caffeine and control) a total of
      about 70 participants are required for the study.

      Macronutrients (protein, carbohydrates and lipids) consumption, responses on visual analog
      scales for satiety and appetite, hormones concentrations will be studied as secondary
      outcomes
    
  