
    
      The aim of this project is to examine neurocognitive functioning in HIV infected men who have
      sex with men (MSMs). We have limited our study to this group in order to better study other
      shared risk factors (hepatitis coinfection, recreational drug use). Given ongoing work in an
      older cohort our aim is to study neurocognitive impairment in younger subjects (18-49 years).
      There are two parts to this study. The first is a cross sectional pilot (MSM Neurocog-1)
      looking at neurocognitive function in HIV infected and HIV uninfected MSMs. The second plan
      is for a prospective 48 week cohort study 24-48 week study (MSM Neurocog-2) following
      neurocognitive function in HIV infected subjects and a group of HIV uninfected controls over
      time.

      The shift in HIV care to that of a chronic, manageable condition has transferred focus to
      long-term morbidities and drug toxicities. One such area in which there is renewed interest
      is the prevalence and relevance of neurocognitive impairment, as well as the significance of
      compartmentalised virus in the CSF as compared to blood. Controlled, comparative data are
      lacking - many of the cross-sectional studies to date have not controlled for important
      confounders such as recreational and injecting drug use, current or prior co-infections or
      co-morbidities. Where this has happened, researchers generally use general population
      controls that may differ markedly from HIV-infected individuals in terms of lifestyle and
      demographic factors. In addition the paucity of longitudinal data means it is unclear whether
      an individual with normal neurocognitive function pre-ART will develop impairment later or if
      subjects with evidence of impairment can expect improvement or normalisation over time; these
      issues are highly important for clinical management and patient counselling. There is no
      consensus on which surrogate markers, if any, are important in terms of diagnosing,
      monitoring and/or predicting neurocognitive impairment. Studies measuring correlation between
      neurocognitive performance and neuronal markers of inflammation have been conflicting.
    
  