
    
      Despite substantial improvements in the overall health of our nation, racial and ethnic
      disparities in health and healthcare remain ubiquitous. Disparities are apparent after
      controlling for access to care, insurance, income, patient preferences, and clinical need,
      suggesting that providers and health systems are important contributors to racial disparities
      in healthcare. In its landmark report, "Unequal Treatment," the Institute of Medicine
      concluded that providers contribute to disparities through the effects of implicit bias.
      Implicit bias occurs when thoughts and feelings outside of conscious awareness and control
      affect judgment and/or behavior. It is closely related to stereotyping, but not necessarily
      associated with explicit bias (i.e., prejudice). It leads to involuntary "blind spots" in
      virtually all of us. Implicit racial bias in providers is associated with Blacks (compared to
      Whites) experiencing lower patient-centered communication, worse doctor-patient
      relationships, lower confidence in the doctor, and poorer health outcomes. Therefore, to
      address health disparities, there is an urgent need for interventions that address implicit
      bias in healthcare.

      Across society, implicit bias training is increasingly used in public service, business and
      healthcare settings to raise self-awareness and provide self-management tools for avoiding
      actions based on implicit bias. While such interventions are well-conceived and intuitively
      attractive, they have not been rigorously tested. In order to make optimal use and insure
      sustained support for such training, its effectiveness must be rigorously demonstrated. The
      overall objective is to test the hypothesis that implicit bias training for healthcare
      providers will reduce racial/ethnic disparities in patient-centered care. Before
      investigators can definitively test this hypothesis, additional groundwork must be done.

      This project will provide the preliminary evidence necessary to ultimately evaluate an
      implicit bias training intervention in a pragmatic, randomized clinical trial conducted at
      the health system level. To do so, investigators will achieve these specific aims:

      Aim 1. Identify patient preferences for constructs, and related outcomes, that reflect the
      expression of implicit bias in clinical encounters. Investigators will use qualitative
      methods to gather data on the elements associated with the patient perception of implicit
      bias (e.g. communication, respect, patient-centeredness) to ensure that our selected outcomes
      reflect the breadth of patients' concerns.

      Aim 2. Refine an existing implicit bias intervention with input from providers, health system
      stakeholders and expert consultation. Investigators will conduct a series of semi-structured
      interviews to gather insights from stakeholders regarding how to best refine the design of
      our existing implicit bias intervention to ensure that we have addressed potential
      facilitators and barriers to uptake, use, and sustainability.

      Aim 3. In a pilot trial, determine the feasibility of delivering the refined implicit bias
      reduction intervention and assessing patient centered outcomes. Investigators will conduct a
      feasibility trial using the refined intervention emerging from Aim 2. These feasibility
      outcomes will prepare investigators for a future, fully-powered randomized trial of implicit
      bias training.

      At the conclusion of this study, investigators will be prepared to test the impact of
      implicit bias training on racial/ethnic disparities in the clinical encounter, and thus move
      us toward delivery of equitable, evidence-based, patient- centered clinical care.
    
  