
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of intensified etoposide administered as a part of
           OEPA combination chemotherapy (vincristine, etoposide, prednisone, and doxorubicin
           hydrochloride) in pediatric male patients with intermediate or advanced Hodgkin's
           lymphoma (HL).

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of COPDIC combination chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide,
           vincristine, prednisone, and dacarbazine) or COPP combination chemotherapy
           (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine hydrochloride, and prednisone) in reducing
           gonadotoxicity in male or female patients.

        -  Assess quality assurance of these regimens in pediatric female patients with
           intermediate or advanced HL.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease
      stage (I or IIA vs IIB, IIE, or IIIA vs IIBE, IIIBE, or IV).

        -  Stratum 1 (stages I or IIA): Male patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15,
           etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 3-7, oral prednisone on days 1-15, and doxorubicin
           hydrochloride IV over 4 hours on days 1 and 15 (OEPA). Female patients receive
           vincristine, prednisone, and doxorubicin hydrochloride as in male patients and oral
           procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-15 (OPPA). Both regimens repeat every 4 weeks for 2
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do
           not achieve complete remission undergo involved-field radiotherapy beginning 3 weeks
           after completion of chemotherapy.

        -  Stratum 2 (stages IIB, IIE, or IIIA): Male patients receive 2 courses of OEPA as in
           stratum 1 followed by 2 courses of COPDIC comprising oral prednisone on days 1-15,
           dacarbazine IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3, and vincristine IV and cyclophosphamide IV
           over 1 hour on days 1 and 8. Female patients receive 2 courses of OPPA as in stratum 1
           followed by COPP comprising oral prednisone and 2 courses of oral procarbazine
           hydrochloride on days 1-15 and vincristine IV and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on
           days 1 and 8. Both regimens repeat every 4 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 3 weeks after completion of
           chemotherapy, all patients undergo involved-field radiotherapy.

        -  Stratum 3 (stages IIBE, IIIBE, or IV): Male patients receive 2 courses of OEPA as in
           stratum 1 followed by 4 courses of COPDIC as in stratum 2. Female patients receive 2
           courses of OPPA as in stratum 1 followed by 4 courses of COPP as in stratum 2. Beginning
           3 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, all patients undergo involved-field
           radiotherapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 648 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  