
    
      In individuals with SCI, blood pressure regulation is altered compared to the non-SCI
      population and relates to the degree of sympathetic vascular denervation. The inadequate
      release of norepinephrine with postural change is a primary component of OH and several
      reports have documented significantly reduced plasma norepinephrine levels in individuals
      with tetraplegia. Ephedrine sulfate and midodrine hydrochloride, both 1 receptor agonists,
      are recommended for the treatment of postural hypotension in this population. Although there
      are case reports documenting improved blood pressure regulation in persons with SCI treated
      with an 1 receptor agonist, this pharmacological treatment for OH has not been adequately
      studied in this population. A dose response trial will be used to determine the efficacy of
      midodrine hydrochloride (5 and 10 mg) compared to no drug at improving systemic blood
      pressure, cerebral blood flow and oxygenation and at reducing symptomatic hypotension during
      tilt-table testing in 16 individuals with SCI who manifest significant orthostatic
      hypotension (total time [minutes] spent with hypotension [ 20% fall in mean arterial pressure
      from supine laboratory observation] over a 24-hour observation.

      Subjects will receive, in an increasing dose manner and on separate days: no drug, 5 and 10
      mg of oral midodrine hydrochloride. Oral ingestion of the pill (placebo or midodrine) will be
      at 30 minutes during the 60 minute supine rest period prior to the head-up tilt maneuver.

      A progressive head-up tilt will be utilized in which the table will be adjusted to 15 , 25 ,
      35 for 5 minutes at each angle and then will be maintained at 45 for 45 minutes or until the
      subjects experiences symptoms of compromised cerebral blood flow, which include, but are not
      limited to, light headedness, blurry vision, dizziness and nausea. Throughout each test day,
      measurements of heart rate, blood pressure, middle cerebral blood flow velocity, and cerebral
      oxygenation will be obtained. In addition, blood draws will be completed to capture humoral
      factors responsible for blood pressure regulation.
    
  