
    
      Cardiovascular diseases are one of the leading causes of mortality in all populations
      nowadays. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is considered to be the first cause of all deaths in
      the world. In 2017, 31% of the worldwide deaths (17.7 million) were caused by cardiovascular
      diseases. 80% of cardiovascular diseases are related to myocardial infarction (MI). It is
      thought that deaths due to cardiovascular diseases will reach 23.6 million in 2030.

      Myocardial infarction is an irreversible heart muscle necrosis caused by prolonged ischemia.
      There are many factors that are effective in the formation of acute myocardial infarction
      (AMI). It is significant to know these factors that pose a risk to protection from this
      disease. Some of the risk factors can be changed and others include factors that are not
      possible to change. Risk factors that cannot be changed include individual features which are
      impossible to change; gender, age, family history, and presence of ACS in the history,
      biochemical or physiological features. In addition, risk factors that can be changed include
      obesity, low HDL-cholesterol level, high blood pressure, thrombogenic factors,
      hyperglycemia/diabetes mellitus, high plasma cholesterol, high plasma triglyceride level,
      stress, cholesterol-rich and high-calorie eating habits, smoking, consuming excess alcohol
      and sedentary life.

      In patients with myocardial infarction, the mortality rate was 10% in the first years and 5%
      in the following years. Nurses play a significant role in the development, maintenance and
      prevention of diseases. Individuals with cardiovascular diseases should be given appropriate
      training before being discharged from the hospital. Training plan in patient/family education
      should be planned according to individual's readiness to learn, learning needs, education
      levels and previous experiences.

      In the context of an effective training: in addition to basic information such as giving
      necessary information about the disease, cardiovascular risk factors and ways to reduce them,
      the importance of life change (drug use, healthy nourishment, smoking cessation, physical
      activity, etc.), regular policlinic control and guidance to cardiac rehabilitation program;
      information to meet the basic needs of the individual (return to work after MI, sexual life,
      housework, travel, driving, etc.) should be included. It is stated that the healing processes
      of the patients who are given discharge training have accelerated, and the number of
      recurrent applications to the hospital/policlinic has decreased and accordingly the patient
      care costs have decreased and the quality of care has increased.
    
  