
    
      A hallmark of HIV infection is a state of global immune activation that is only partially
      restored under highly active antiretroviral therapy. Apart from immune deficiency and
      impaired immune restoration, this chronic immune activation may result via various mechanisms
      in non-AIDS linked morbidities such as atherosclerosis. Coronary artery disease (CAD),
      especially myocardial infarction (MI), is the leading cause of death in Europe [Eurostat
      2013]. Cardiovascular deaths are responsible for 8% of deaths among HIV-infected patients in
      France and for 15% of deaths among HIV-infected patients in US [Lewden C JAIDS 08, Palella FJ
      JAIDS 06]. Multiple cohort studies have shown that HIV-infected patients are at a higher risk
      of myocardial infarction than the general population [Triant VA J Clin Endocrinol 07,
      Freiberg MS JAMA Intern Med 13] and there is some evidence that HIV-infected patients have a
      38% greater risk of mortality from MI than controls [Pearce D AM J Cardiol 12].

      Several tools for cardiovascular risk stratification are available but current risk scores
      seem to underestimate this risk in HIV-infected patients. Indeed, a significant proportion of
      cardiovascular events occur in subjects with none or few risk factors. A European study
      comparing first episode of MI among HIV-infected patients with uninfected controls showed
      that 40% had none or only one traditional cardiovascular risk factor [Boccara F Eur Heart J
      11]. Another study in general population demonstrates that almost 50% of patients with a MI
      had no previous history of coronary symptoms [Tunstall-Pedoe H Circulation 96].

      The true prevalence of CAD in asymptomatic HIV-infected patients is unknown. Older studies
      performed in tissue samples from deceased patients demonstrated 3-times greater odds of
      having obstructive CAD in HIV-infected patients compared with non-infected controls after
      controlling for age and sex [Micheletti RG Cardiovasc Pathol 09]. A recent meta-analysis
      shows that the prevalence of coronary stenosis and calcified coronary plaques is similar in
      comparison with non-HIV age and sex-matched controls but HIV-infected patients have a 3-fold
      higher prevalence of non-calcified coronary plaques [D'Ascenzo Atherosclerosis 15].

      CAD severity detected by coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) is associated with
      cardiac death or MI and all-cause mortality [Habib F Int J Cardiol 12]. 64 slice or greater
      CCTA is reported to have a sensitivity of 93 to 97% and specificity of 80 to 90% compared to
      standard coronary angiography [Fihn SD J Am Coll Cardiol 12]. There is a high correlation
      between CCTA and invasive coronary angiography in the determination of CAD extent and
      severity [Miller JM N Engl J Med 08].

      Whether routine CCTA screening in high-risk populations can effect changes in treatment (such
      as pre-emptive coronary revascularization or more aggressive medical therapy) remains
      unproven. The 2013 AHA guidelines about stable ischemic heart disease states that either
      stress test or anatomic imaging in higher-risk individuals may be appropriate [J Am Coll
      Cardiol 14].

      Few studies using CCTA have been performed in HIV-infected patients and none of these have
      been done in intermediate-high risk populations. Most of theses studies have shown an
      increased prevalence of non-calcified plaques in HIV-infected men (59% vs. 34%) compared with
      controls non infected with similar CVRF [Lo J AIDS 10, Post W Ann Intern Med 14]. There is
      some inconsistent data regarding clinical variables associated with coronary stenosis.
      Meanwhile CD4 nadir, use or ART for more than 10 years and detectable viral load were
      independently associated with coronary stenosis > 50% in the MACS cohort study [Post W Ann
      Intern Med 14], another study among African-Americans with HIV only cardiovascular risk
      factors and cocaine use were associated with coronary stenosis [Lai S Clin Infec Dis 08]
      Although the epidemiology and pathogenesis of HIV associated cardiovascular disease are
      complex and controversial we know that the risk of cardiovascular events is higher in
      untreated than treated HIV infection, probably because inflammation is increased in untreated
      infection. Recent data have raised interest in the role of Monocytes/macrophages in
      HIV-associated cardiovascular disease. Increased levels of monocytes activation markers such
      as sCD14 and sCD163 are associated with increased all-cause mortality and HIV progression, as
      well as more rapid progression of carotid atherosclerosis, aortic inflammation and
      non-calcified coronary plaque [Kelesidis JID 12, Subramanian S, JAMA 12, Burdo JID 11]. There
      is some evidence that monocyte profile in untreated HIV infection mirrors those with acute
      coronary syndrome [Funderberg N Blood 12] and circulating monocytes CD16+ were associated
      with coronary artery calcium progression in the SUN cohort [Baker AIDS 14]. Data from the
      MACS cohort showed that elevated levels of monocyte activation markers (sCD163, sCD14 and
      CCL2) in HIV-infected men were associated with CAC and coronary artery stenosis [Mc Kibben RA
      J Infec Dis 15]. None of these studies have been performed in cardiovascular high-risk
      virologically suppressed patients.

      HIV infection causes dramatic damage to the gastrointestinal (GI) tract that includes
      substantial disruption of gut microbiota composition with presence of microbes at higher
      pathogenic potential compared to less agressive indigenous organisms, and massive loss of
      gut-residing CD4+ T-cells (Brenchley NAT MED 2006, Gori J Clin Microbiol 2007, Douek Annu Rev
      Med 2009). Thus, a substantial breach of the anatomo-functional GI barrier occurs, with
      progressive failure of mucosal immunity and leakage into the systemic circulation of
      bacterial by-products, such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and bacterial DNA fragments which
      contribute to immune activation even in patients with good virologic control (Brenchley
      Nature Med 2006, Jiang JID 2009, Ferri JID 2010, Estes PLoS Pathog 2010). Microbial
      translocation is defined as the transfer of gut derived microbes and/or microbial products to
      systemic circulation without overt bacteremia. Different markers may be used in order to
      evaluate this phenomenon: 16S DNA, LPS or its soluble receptor LBP (LPS Binding Protein),
      sCD14 and I-FAB. These markers are not redundant because they describe different aspects of
      microbial translocation. For instance 16S DNA measures global presence of microbes in plasma,
      while LPS increase is mainly driven by gram negative bacteria.

      Persistent immune activation has been implicated in risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV
      infection and should receive as much attention as traditional CVD risk factors and ART
      (Currier AIDS 2005, Friis-Moller NEJM 2003, Subramanian JAMA 2012, Shaked Arterioscler Thromb
      Vasc Biol 2014, Kelesidis JID 2012). There are some reports associating LPS with subsequent
      cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients (Pedersen 2013 Kelesidis JID 2012). Increased
      levels of CD14s that persist in some treated HIV have been associated to an increased
      all-cause mortality and HIV progression, as well as more rapid progression of carotid
      atherosclerosis (Kelesidis T at al CROI 2012 Seattle). sCD163, a marker of monocyte and
      macrophage activation, has been significantly correlated with aortic inflammation
      (Subramanian S, JAMA 2012). Associations of one or more markers of microbial translocation
      with characteristics of coronary injuries (stenosis, volume, mass and type of coronary
      plaques) have not yet been studied.
    
  