
    
      The demographic data will be collected from all participants including patient's age , BMI ,
      gestational age, personal,present and past obstetric history, with special emphasis on:
      history of impaired sleep due to insomnia or sleep deprivation due to working on night
      shifts, history of insomnia during first 20 weeks of pregnancy.Number of night sleep hours
      and total number of sleep hours during the day will be recorded for each participant. The
      Insomnia severity index(ISI) a brief self report questionnaire used for assessing the degree
      of current insomnia will be administered to all participants at the time of their routine
      antenatal care visits to detect insomnia and its severity if present .It will be applied both
      in English and in its Arabic translated version. The ISI comprises seven items assessing the
      type of insomnia problem, satisfaction with the current sleep pattern, affection of the
      quality of life by the sleep problem, the degree of distress related to insomnia and its
      affect on daily functioning .Each item is scored on a scale of 0-4 and the total ISI score
      ranges from 0-28, with higher scores indicating more severe insomnia. A written informed
      consent will be obtained from each participant before joining the study. The participants
      will be followed up throughout their 3rd trimester till the time of their delivery. Any
      drop-out cases will be reported. The pregnant women who didn't suffer insomnia in any of the
      assessments, nor were sleep deprived due to working on night shifts will comprise the the non
      impaired sleep group and those suffering clinical insomnia as detected by the insomnia
      severity index (total score > or equal to 15) in any or all of the assessments will comprise
      the insomnia group. The 3rd group (sleep deprived group) will be comprised of participants
      who are only sleep deprived due to working on night shifts and not due to insomnia. Those
      getting less than 7hours of sleep/day will be considered sleep deprived.

      The patients will be assessed during their routine visits with transabdominal ultrasound and
      Doppler studies for evaluation of fetal growth ,fetal well being ,placenta and exclusion of
      congenital anomalies, abnormal fetal position or presentation .The gestational age at
      delivery,mode of delivery,presence of prolonged or painful labour and fetal birth weight will
      all be recorded for comparison.
    
  