
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop after exposure
      to a traumatic event. PTSD symptoms may include emotional numbness, loss of interest in
      activities that were once enjoyable, irritability, and sleep problems. Medication therapy,
      behavioral therapy, and a combination of both therapies are among the available treatment
      options for people with PTSD. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), a type of talking therapy
      that has been shown to be effective in treating PTSD, teaches patients how to alter their
      thinking to, in turn, improve how they feel. A selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)
      is a type of medication that has also been effective in treating PTSD. Information about the
      comparative physiological effects of each of these treatments on people with PTSD is needed.
      This study will evaluate which parts of the brain are affected by CBT treatment versus SSRI
      treatment in people with PTSD.

      Participants with and without PTSD will be enrolled in this 12-week, open label study.
      Following a screening visit to determine eligibility, participants with PTSD will be offered
      a choice of either CBT or SSRI treatment. Those participants who choose CBT will attend 16
      therapy sessions. The first phase of therapy will focus on the development of emotional and
      interpersonal regulation skills. The second phase will use a modified form of prolonged
      exposure therapy, which has been effective in reducing symptoms of PTSD. Participants who
      elect to receive medication will take sertraline, an SSRI that has been safe and effective in
      treating PTSD. These participants will attend 12 treatment sessions. Pre- and post-treatment
      fear response will be assessed in all participants using fMRI scans to measure brain
      responses and using saliva samples to test cortisol levels. All participants will also
      self-administer saliva samples at various points during the 3 days prior to fMRI scanning.
      Other outcomes will be assessed throughout the study using questionnaires.

      For information on a related study, please follow this link:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00648375
    
  