
    
      Heart disease is the number one cause of death in the United States and disproportionately
      affects older adults, underscoring the need to examine determinants of survivorship.
      Recognizing this gap, current guidelines lay emphasis to assess frailty, a key construct
      prevalent in elderly and known to impact their prognosis.Older persons are commonly frail,
      manifest hyperglycemia and their health span is truncated by illnesses during which
      physiological declines together with accumulation of additional deficits results in
      multimorbidity and functional dependence. High incidence of functional decline and stress
      hyperglycemia in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) makes pharmacologic
      manipulation, an attractive strategy to improve frailty and reduce adverse cardiovascular
      outcomes. Metformin exerts its effect on health span as a calorie restriction-mimetic through
      inhibition of mitochondrial complex 1 and activation of activated protein kinase (AMP).This
      drug is safe and has been shown to prolong life in mammals. Metformin by reducing effects of
      cellular senescence and improving glycemic control may improve the functioning of older
      adults.

      In CAD, cellular senescence and inflammation affect organ dysfunction through interference
      with tissue homeostasis and regeneration. The deleterious effect of senescence includes
      pro-inflammatory senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Normal biological function
      through alteration in cellular homeostasis and restoration of glycemic control may be
      achieved by metformin. The phenotypic manifestations of these changes are incompletely
      characterized as it is yet unknown whether cell-intrinsic regenerative mechanisms can be
      translated into clinical improvement in physical performance and whether it's chronic
      administration is safe in older adults. These major gaps in knowledge hinder utilization of
      metformin as an agent to promote cellular regeneration and to reduce the impact of cellular
      senescence.

      Targeting frail individuals with high levels of inflammation and SASP factors would
      necessitate identification of predictors of improvement with metformin in tissue inflammation
      and function. A clinomics approach implementing simultaneous assessment of clinical impact
      coupled with serological profiling would provide enhanced understanding of the local and
      systemic impact mediated by metformin. Through correlation of molecular profiles with
      phenotypic expression changes, as proposed herein, investigators will enhance understanding
      of the regenerative impact of metformin and the basis for clinical improvement in the setting
      of senescence.
    
  