
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare, progressive, highly debilitating disease
      characterized by vascular obstruction and the variable presence of vasoconstriction, leading
      to increased pulmonary vascular resistance and right-sided heart failure. If left untreated,
      PAH ultimately leads to right ventricular failure and death; adult subjects have a median
      survival of 2.8 years without treatment. Epidemiological estimates vary but prevalence in
      Europe is thought to be of the order of 15 cases per million. Large scale epidemiology
      studies of PAH in children have not been conducted and there is no or limited outcome data in
      pediatric PAH patients. A register in France (1995-1996) estimates the prevalence in children
      is as low as 3.7 cases per million. In a national, comprehensive country wide survey of the
      epidemiology of idiopathic PAH (IPAH) management and survival in the United Kingdom (UK) the
      incidence was 0.48 cases per million children per year and the prevalence was 2.1 cases per
      million children.

      Ambrisentan (VOLIBRIS™ tablets) is an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) marketed in the
      European Union (EU) and some other countries by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and in the United
      States as LETAIRIS® by Gilead Sciences Inc. Ambrisentan is indicated for the treatment of
      adult patients with PAH to improve exercise capacity, decrease the symptoms of PAH, and delay
      clinical worsening.

      The primary purpose of this paediatric study is to provide clinically relevant information on
      the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of ambrisentan in children with the most common causes
      of PAH in this age group. The design of the study is also intended to provide information to
      guide dose selection and supportive efficacy data in this age group. Despite the fact that
      none of the currently available adult treatments are licensed for use in children <12 yrs,
      (with the exception of bosentan which was recently approved for use in paediatric population
      from 2 years of age) they are widely used off label. This study will provide useful
      prescribing information to the medical community for treating this orphan disease in children
      in this environment of rapidly changing medical practice.

      This study is part of a Paediatric Investigational Plan (PIP; EMEA-000434-PIP01-08) agreed
      with the European Medicines Agency's Paediatric Committee (PDCO).
    
  