
    
      Investigators will conduct a 2-year RCT, single-masked (participants), pilot feasibility and
      acceptability study, with repeated measures to compare SRCCT to usual care on cognition and
      QOL in MA, ICU survivors who experienced at least one episode of delirium in an ICU and have
      mild to moderate cognitive impairment. The SRCCT will include 12 weeks of simultaneous
      recumbent bicycling and cognitive training delivered at the same time in a rehabilitation
      center followed by a 6-month maintenance phase when no intervention will be delivered.
      Cognitive training will be administered via the POSIT Science (TM) Brain HQ computer-based
      program. At 12, 24, and 36 weeks post-baseline, cognition will be measured using Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and PROMIS Cognitive Function Abilities SF8a (PRO Cog), and QOL
      will be assessed using PROMIS Global-10 Health Short Form (PGH-10).

      Setting and Study Population: The study will take place in two large, urban health care
      systems in Kansas City, Missouri: St. Luke's Hospital (SLH) and Truman Medical Center (TMC).
      St. Luke's Hospital is located in downtown Kansas City with 600 staff physicians practicing
      in 60 specialty areas. This centrally located hospital has 77 ICU beds. Truman Medical Center
      is the safety net hospital for the Kansas City area and has 41 ICU beds. The rehabilitation
      centers employ healthcare staff who work with outpatients who are deconditioned and
      recovering from hospitalization. Data provided by SLH and TMC indicate an adequate pool for
      study recruitment. In 2018, 87 MA patients were admitted to TMC ICUs; 1366 were admitted to
      SLH ICUs. Combined ICU admissions age 45-64 were 1453 and 12% (174) experienced delirium
      (using CAM-ICU). Given 79% (138) of patients who have ICU delirium experience cognitive
      impairment and recruitment rate of 75%, there are 103 ICU survivors possible and therefore
      the recruitment goal of 50 participants for this study is achievable. Fifty patients meeting
      inclusion criteria will be recruited and enrolled.The final patient sample will comprise 50
      MA ICU survivors who have had at least one episode of delirium in the ICU and have mild to
      moderate cognitive impairment (using MoCA). Registered Nurses (RN) from SLH and TM CICUs will
      identify and HIPAA-consent patients who meet study inclusion and exclusion criteria. Once
      consented, the RN will notify the study Research Assistant (RA). After discharge from the ICU
      to a hospital room, the RA will meet with the patient to explain the study and obtain
      consent. Once consented, the RA will contact the PI's who will determine random assignment to
      either treatment (SRCCT) or usual care. Block randomization will be created using a
      computer-generated list of random numbers blocked into balanced groups of four. Before
      recruitment begins, the RAs will practice the consent process in simulated situations with
      PIs. Rapport will be maintained by pairing RAs and participants for the duration of the
      intervention thereby enhancing retention. Investigators anticipate low attrition but
      recognize participants may withdraw 1) on the advice of their healthcare provider or for
      other health reasons, 2) due to changes in life circumstances, or 3) loss of interest in the
      study. In such cases, the RAs will document the event and notify the PIs who will track all
      withdrawals. Patients who are randomized to the SRCCT intervention treatment group will be
      screened and consented after transition from ICU into their hospital room. The SRCCT will
      begin approximately two weeks after discharge to home. The intervention was developed by Dr.
      Lasiter (Co-PI and Critical Care nurse), Dr. Chrisman (Co-PI and physical activity
      interventionist), and Dr. Russell (Co-I and feasibility/acceptability/RCT expert) and will be
      administered by Drs. Lasiter and Chrisman, and two trained RAs. A rehabilitation center RN
      will monitor the participant's condition while engaged in the SRCCT or usual care. Dr.
      Lasiter and Dr. Chrisman will oversee the intervention protocol. Research assistants who are
      baccalaureate and master's-prepared RNs experienced in RCT studies will undergo training by
      Drs. Lasiter, Chrisman, and Russell, including the following components: 1) project rationale
      and overview; 2) detailed information on the SRCCT intervention and usual care; 3) scripts
      for use when consenting and collecting data; 4) how to use Research Electronic Data Capture
      (REDCap) database (redcap.umkc.edu); 5) detailed training on administering study instruments
      (MoCA requires training before permission is granted to use the instrument), and 6) using a
      tablet. Simulation and role-play will be used until the RAs are consistently applying the
      protocol as judged by investigators. To ensure the highest level of RA protocol knowledge and
      skills, the training sessions will also include role-playing of disruptive situations for the
      intervention. To monitor RA intervention fidelity, a fidelity protocol checklist will be used
      during all participant encounters to document key elements of the protocol, including number
      of intervention sessions, session duration, length of time between sessions, and intervention
      steps. Each element will be rated as completed, partially completed, not completed, or N/A.
      Field notes will be kept for every encounter. Participants randomized into the usual care arm
      will receive scheduled follow-up office appointments with their provider post-discharge at
      which time a member of the study team will administer the scheduled study measures at
      specific time points. The usual care group will not receive SRCCT.

      Data analyses: Drs. Lasiter, Chrisman and Staggs (biostatistician) will conduct analyses.
      Feasibility will be tracked using checklists for 1) educating nursing staff about inclusion
      criteria and HIPAA consent, 2) educating RAs about interpersonal communication, recruitment,
      consent, intervention procedures and fidelity and, 3) guiding the intervention to insure
      fidelity between sites and study staff/investigators. Acceptability will be evaluated by
      assessing four domains: participant satisfaction, participant preferences, participant
      burden, and suggestions for improvement. Limitations: One limitation is that the study will
      not include exercise-only or cognitive-only training groups. Literature supports that each is
      effective independently and, rather than isolate their effects, investigators will examine
      combined effects which has the potential to be synergistic in efficacy. Potential difficulty
      may be recruitment; if recruitment difficulty occurs, investigators will consult with the
      study team and study site contacts to potentially widen the scope of recruiting participants,
      add a third study site, or hire an RA who closely matches the ages of the study sample.
      Another potential difficulty is low retention, and/or patient mortality. To minimize
      attrition, an honoraria will be provided for each data collection time point. Although
      mortality in MA ICU survivors is higher than in the general MA population, investigators do
      not expect mortality to have a major effect on retention in this 36-week study.

      Data Analyses Plan: Descriptive statistics (e.g., standardized mean difference) will be used
      to compare the intervention and control groups on selected patient characteristics and adjust
      for meaningful imbalances on any variables by including them as covariates in statistical
      modeling. In the focal analysis investigators will assess the effect of the SRCCT
      intervention on each of the three Aim 1 outcome measures at T3 by fitting three ANCOVA models
      with the T3 measurement as the dependent variable, the baseline measurement (T2) as a
      covariate, and group (intervention vs. control) as an explanatory variable. In secondary
      analyses the intervention effect at T4 and T5 will be assessed analogously. If the usual
      linear modeling assumption of Normal residuals is not met, investigators will either
      transform the dependent variable, fit an appropriate generalized linear model, or obtain
      confidence limits and p-values by non-parametric bootstrapping. Power and precision of
      estimation for the ANCOVA model described above were assessed using a simulation study. For
      each of 1,000 simulated data sets, investigators randomly generated Normal T2 scores and then
      used these to generate Normal T3 scores, assuming a strong intervention effect of 0.5 SDs and
      a correlation of 0.7 between T2 and T3 scores within each arm (implying roughly 50% of
      variability in T3 scores can be explained by T2 scores). In keeping with the exploratory
      nature of this aim, power was estimated to detect a non-zero intervention effect with a
      one-sided test at α = 0.10. The average length of the 90% confidence interval for the
      intervention effect across the simulated data sets was computed. Estimated power was 86%, and
      confidence intervals averaged 0.68 SDs in length (equivalent to an average margin of error of
      0.34 SDs). Actual power will depend on the true intervention effect size and true correlation
      between T2 and T3 scores, both of which are unknown; however, in this preliminary effort to
      demonstrate efficacy the focus will be on estimating the intervention effect size, not making
      a yes/no decision in a null hypothesis test based on an arbitrary α cutoff. Analyses will be
      run using an intent-to-treat approach, with missing data addressed either by multiple
      imputation or nonresponse weighting.
    
  