
    
      Introduction:

      Musculoskeletal injuries are a major cost to the healthcare system. In 2004, 30% of the North
      American population had some kind of musculoskeletal disorder that required medical
      treatment; between 2002 and 2004, the estimated cost of treating these changes was $ 510
      billion. Shoulder diseases represent the third most common cause of these changes, behind
      only spinal and knee disorders.

      An evaluation of the primary health care system in Cambridge, United Kingdom, showed that the
      average frequency of shoulder pain was 9.5 per 1,000 individuals. Of these, 86% had rotator
      cuff tendinopathy. North American data estimate that approximately 4.5 million patients
      annually seek medical attention due to shoulder pain; of these, two million have some
      symptoms related to the rotator cuff. About 250,000 rotator cuff repair surgeries are
      performed annually in the United States of America (US), and with the continued increase in
      life expectancy and aging, there is a tendency to increase this number.

      The rotator cuff is composed of the tendons of the subscapularis, supraspinatus,
      infraspinatus and teres minor muscles. The long portion of the biceps tendon also contributes
      to cuff function, which is to stabilize the humeral head in the glenoid cavity, preventing
      superior migration of the humeral head.

      The possible lesions range from tendon degeneration (tendinosis/tendinopathy), through
      partial lesions (articular, interstitial or bursal), to complete lesions. Diagnosis is made
      by associating history and physical examination along with imaging methods, and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) is considered the method of choice.

      Currently, the indication for surgical treatment is based on the persistence of symptoms
      and/or the degree of muscle weakness and/or size of the lesion, after a time of conservative
      treatment. In general, when opting for surgery, imaging can assist in the planning of
      surgical treatment, since it allows measuring the extent of the lesion (partial or total) and
      discriminating which tendons are involved (supraspinatus, infraspinatus, etc.).

      Treatment of rotator cuff diseases depends on the type of injury, the patient's degree of
      activity, age, and the presence of symptoms. In general, tendon degeneration and partial
      lesions are treated non-surgically, with physiotherapy, infiltrations and analgesic
      medications. Complete and incomplete lesions that did not respond well to conservative
      treatment, however, should be treated surgically. Among the surgical options, the open method
      is still considered the gold standard, with good or excellent results in over 90% of cases.
      With the advent of arthroscopy and the evolution of arthroscopic instruments and implants in
      the last decade, the arthroscopic repair technique has gained space and is widely used in the
      investigator's country. Several studies abroad did not demonstrate superiority of one
      technique over another in terms of clinical outcomes. As the cost of arthroscopic surgery is
      higher, due to the equipment needed to perform it, it is important to establish which option
      has the best cost-effectiveness.

      Some studies abroad even suggest the superiority of the open method over the arthroscopic
      method. However, there are no studies comparing cost-effectiveness between open and
      arthroscopic methods in Brazil. Therefore, the present study aims to compare the open and
      arthroscopic methods for rotator cuff repair and determine which presents the best
      cost-effectiveness ratio.

      Hypothesis:

      The hypothesis of this study is that the open method of rotator cuff repair will be more
      cost-effective compared to the arthroscopic method.

      Justification:

      In a systematic literature search, it was observed that there are no studies in the Brazilian
      literature comparing the cost-effectiveness of open and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair
      methods. Data from the international literature suggest that the open repair method is more
      cost-effective than the arthroscopic method (same clinical outcome and lower cost).

      Thus, despite the high incidence of rotator cuff injury, there is insufficient evidence from
      the Brazilian experience to determine the best method for treating these injuries. So, this
      project proposes to conduct a study to answer the clinical question of which method, open or
      arthroscopic, has the best cost-effectiveness in the surgical treatment of rotator cuff
      injury. According to the levels of scientific evidence, the most appropriate study design to
      answer this clinical question is a randomized clinical trial.

      Study Goal:

      The present study aims to compare the open and arthroscopic methods for rotator cuff repair
      and determine which presents the best cost-effectiveness ratio.
    
  