
    
      The modern hospital environment is generally perceived to provide a safe and healing
      environment for people inflicted with a variety of illnesses, be it for short term visits and
      minor health problems or more serious conditions requiring long term treatment and care.
      However, the experience of illness and hospitalization nonetheless exerts a great deal of
      psychological distress, one of the most distressful events people might actually experience
      in their life time [1].

      From the outset, illness itself is a major stressor on one's life. However, surgery, with its
      accompanying loss of control, fear of being invaded, and expectation of post operative pain
      adds appreciably to that stress and anxiety. Current psycho-physiological research has
      provided evidence on the alarming possibility of the aversive affects of hospitalization
      stress on the patients' already deteriorated physical health and marked interference with
      their recovery [1].

      Despite the best intentions of most hospital staffs, emotional distance and depersonalization
      of the patients might be their natural reaction in dealing with the harsh reality of the
      patients' ill fate and enormous demands of their responsibilities without being burned out or
      losing their focus of attention on treatment tasks. As an additional stressor, which may
      partly be related to the hospital staff, and partly to the person's illness and expected
      surgery is Loneliness.

      Loneliness is a painful experience that is, commonly, not embraced and which has consequences
      that are detrimental to one's emotional, physical and spiritual well being [2,3]. Lonely
      individuals tend to exhibit negative intrapersonal traits like pessimism [2,4]. Loneliness
      was found to be negatively correlated with happiness [5] and life satisfaction [6]. It has
      been linked to such maladies as depression, hostility, alcoholism, poor self-concept, and
      psychosomatic illnesses [3].

      Study design The present study will explore the qualitative aspects of loneliness [not its
      intensity] in two patient populations: (1) patients facing surgery, and (2) patients who have
      already undergone surgery. In addition, family members [i.e. those waiting outside of the
      operating room] will be given a questionnaire, and these three groups will be compared to the
      general population.

      The loneliness questionnaire is a 60 item yes/no questionnaire that will examine the quality
      of the loneliness that the participant may experience (enclosed with the proposal).
      Additionally, there will be demographic questions, and information will be sought about the
      illness of the patient, the number of hospitalization days, and previous hospitalizations or
      surgeries.
    
  