
    
      Microsurgical resection for eloquent arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) remains challenging.
      Currently, there are only two grading systems concerning pretreatment assessment of brain
      AVMs: the Spetzler-Martin grading system proposed by Spetzler and Martin in 1986 and the
      supplementary grading system proposed by Lawton in 2010. Controversies exist regarding the
      treatment timing and treatment modalities for eloquent AVMs. Till now, there is no clinical
      trial concerning the efficacy of multimodal magnetic resonance imaging techniques in
      assessing the surgical risk for eloquent AVMs. The investigators assume that multimodal
      imaging-based grading system is superior to the classic Spetzler-Martin grading system and
      the supplementary grading system in predicting the surgical risk for eloquent AVMs.

      This study consists of two parts: a retrospective analysis and a prospective study. Firstly,
      the investigators will retrospectively review the 250 AVM patients that were surgically
      treated at Beijing Tiantan Hospital between June 2012 and June 2015. All data of these
      patients were prospectively maintained in our AVM database. All these patients had
      preoperative functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. The investigators will
      collect the patient demographic data, AVM features, the least distances from the AVMs to the
      activated cortex as well as to the fiber tracts. The investigators will also collect the
      patient preoperative functional status (modified Rankin scale score, mRS) and the functional
      status (mRS) six months after surgery. The changes between the two functional status in mRS
      will be classified into two groups: those with worsened mRS (mRS score six months after
      surgery - presurgical mRS score >0) and those with unchanged or improved mRS (mRS score six
      months after surgery - presurgical mRS score ≤0). The new grading system will be proposed
      based on the multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The investigators will compare the
      predictive accuracy of the three grading systems (the Spetzler-Martin grading system, the
      supplementary system and our new grading system) in assessing functional status (worsened
      mRS). Then in the prospective study, the investigators will enroll 400 surgically treated AVM
      patients from five neurosurgical centers. All patients will meet the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. The preoperative preparation, the surgical procedures, the follow-up period, the
      primary outcomes and statistical analyses will be the same as those in the retrospective
      study part. Multimodal imaging-based system will be verified in this prospective phase. If
      the results demonstrate that the multimodal MRI-based grading system is superior to the
      Spetzler-Martin grading system and the supplementary system in predicting the functional
      status six months after AVM surgery, the investigators will propose the new AVM grading
      system in the public.
    
  