
    
      Mandibular advancement oral appliances (OAM) are an effective treatment for obstructive sleep
      apnea (OSA). However, prolonged OAM treatment leads to significant changes in occlusion for
      the majority of patients. As such it is not uncommon to find changes in occlusion and the
      resulting decrease in quality of life in long-term users of oral appliances to be cited as a
      reason for discontinuing OAM treatment. Understanding the determinants of occlusal changes
      and clinical strategies to minimize or prevent them are essential to the practice of Dental
      Sleep Medicine, where treatment success is predicated on high levels of adherence.

      Morning Repositioners or alternative oral appliances/splints that counteract the muscle
      splinting of the mandible in a forward postured position have been advocated by some
      practitioners as a means of minimizing the occlusal changes associated with OAM treatment.
      However, this has not been studied in a prospective clinical trial.

      The proposed study is a single-blinded prospective randomized controlled trial at three
      clinical centers, with the specific aim of assessing the effectiveness of mandibular
      repositioning splint use on minimizing the occlusal changes associated with OAM treatment.
      Secondary aims include also determining the effects of periodontal disease, treatment
      adherence, and magnitude of mandibular advancement on occlusal changes associated with OAM
      treatment.

      90 OSA patients will receive OAM treatment following standard practices. A titration period
      of two months will be used to adjust the position of mandibular advancement for each patient,
      which will involve clinical follow-up visits at a minimum of 1 week, 1 month and 2 months
      after initiation of OAM treatment. Each participant will be randomly assigned to either the
      treatment or control group. The treatment group will receive a mandibular repositioning
      splint to wear for a minimum of 1 hour in the mornings following removal of OAM. A positive
      control group will receive no additional splint, and but will be managed using standard
      practices, including jaw stretching exercises as needed. A second negative control group
      consisting of 15 healthy adults not undergoing any oral appliance treatment will also be
      included.

      Prior to receiving treatment, participants will undergo a baseline assessment where
      demographic, anthropometric, and specific periodontal health data will be collected. All
      measurements will be repeated at a minimum of 18 and 36 months after appliance insertion,
      with routine follow-up appointments and adherence data collected every six months.

      To directly address the primary aim of this study, occlusal variables will be measured by a
      combination of methods including analysis of digitized dental models, cephalometric analysis
      and intra-oral radiography bone level measurements. Secondary outcome variables to assess the
      effectiveness of morning mandibular repositioning splint therapy will include average OAM
      adherence (hours/night), quality of life (Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire, FOSQ),
      and change in mandibular incisor root length and attachment loss. Adherence will be measured
      by compliance monitors embedded in the oral appliance and mandibular repositioning splints.
    
  