
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) of patients with triple-negative (TNBC)
      or low estrogen receptor (ER)-positive and/or HER2 borderline breast cancer who have >= 1 cm
      residual invasive breast cancer and/or positive lymph nodes (ypN1mi, ypN1, ypN2, ypN3) after
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy randomized to receive 1 year of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) adjuvant
      therapy compared to no MK-3475 (pembrolizumab), in both the entire study population and also
      in the PD-L1 positive subset.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effects of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) on overall survival (OS) and distant
      recurrence-free survival (DRFS) between the two randomized arms for the PD-L1 positive
      patients and then all patients.

      II. To assess the toxicity and tolerability of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in this patient
      population with or without radiation therapy.

      BEHAVIORAL AND HEALTH OUTCOMES (BAHO) STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the association between biomarkers of inflammation and quality of life and
      patient reported outcomes between the two groups during and at the end of therapy.

      II. To examine the long-term and late effects of treatment on patient-reported outcomes.

      ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVE:

      I. To collect tissue and whole blood for processing and banking in anticipation of future
      correlative studies in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (OBSERVATION): Patients receive no treatment but are monitored at standard clinical
      intervals during first year after randomization. Patients are examined every 12 weeks for 1
      year, and every 6 months for 4 years, then annually for 5 years.

      ARM II (PEMBROLIZUMAB): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      days 1 and 22. Cycles repeat every 42 days for 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      All patients may undergo radiation therapy within 12 weeks of last breast cancer operation or
      after treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years,
      then annually thereafter until 10 years from treatment randomization.
    
  