
    
      In HIV-1 infected patients, HAART suppresses viral replication, reflected by a reduced viral
      load, and a recovery in the frequency of CD4+ T-cells. The latter is associated with a
      reduced risk for developing opportunistic infectious diseases, and death. T-cell recovery,
      however, is highly variable within individuals, suggesting that virological eradication is
      but one factor of it.

      A phenomenon known as Immune Discordance has been well known. It reflects a subpopulation -as
      high as 30% of patients- in whom there is an adequate suppression of viral replication, but
      CD4+ cell levels rise modestly (below safety levels). In this setting, patients remain
      susceptible to develop opportunistic infections, have disease progression, and die. Various
      mechanisms have been proposed, but one common factor is enhanced CD4+-cell activation,
      leading to cell dysfunction and apoptosis.

      It is known that an inflammatory response is able to activate the anti-inflammatory
      cholinergic pathway, in which acetylcholine (ACh) is released and in turn activates nicotinic
      receptors in macrophages. The result is a diminished synthesis of inflammatory cytokines such
      as TNF-α, and IL-1. We have recently shown in an ex-vivo, proof-of-concept study carried in
      HIV-infected subjects in early phases of the infection (not requiring specific treatment)
      that Pyridostigmine diminishes CD4+-cell activation and an increase in the subpopulation of
      regulatory T-cells (T-reg).

      Pyridostigmine, an ACh-esterase inhibitor, has been shown to be safe in other populations,
      including healthy Gulf War military personnel, and patients with Myasthenia Gravis. Its
      hypothetical effect is by reducing the degrading rate of the naturally occurring ACh
      (released by the vagus nerve) by the enzyme ACh-esterase. This in turn enhances its coupling
      to nicotinic receptors in macrophages that, according to our previous study (unpublished
      data), improves the T-cell milieu, diminishes T-cell activation (a well known trigger for
      apoptosis), and enhances T-reg proliferation.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the addition of Pyridostigmine to Highly
      Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) increases the number of CD4+ T-cells in discordant
      patients in which viral load diminishes, but T-cell levels remain low after the initiation of
      treatment.
    
  