
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the effects of a motivational and problem-solving smoking cessation (MAPS)
           and a motivational and problem solving approach on at-risk alcohol use and smoking
           cessation (MAPS+) among Puerto Rican at-risk drinkers/smokers who call the Puerto Rico
           Quitline (PRQ).

        -  To assess effects of MAPS and MAPS+ on treatment mechanisms and the role of those
           mechanisms in mediating these effects on at-risk drinking and smoking cessation.

        -  To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of MAPS and MAPS+ in the reduction of at-risk
           drinking and smoking cessation.

      OUTLINE: Minimization randomization is applied using the following variables: age, gender,
      cigarettes/day, number of drinks/day, and depression (score on the Center of Epidemiologic
      Studies Depression Scale). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (MAPS): Patients receive culturally sensitive self-help materials tailored for
           alcohol and tobacco users and 7 telephone counseling calls. The MAPS approach includes
           motivational interviewing and cognitive behavioral/problem-solving that focus on smoking
           cessation.

        -  Arm II (MAPS+): Patients receive culturally sensitive self-help materials tailored for
           alcohol and tobacco users and 7 telephone counseling calls. The MAPS+ approach includes
           motivational interviewing and cognitive behavioral/problems solving that focus on
           smoking cessation and the reduction of at-risk alcohol use.

      In both arms, patients receive counseling calls over 15-30 minutes the week before quit date
      (QD), on QD, 3-5 days after QD, 7-10 days after QD, 15-30 days after QD, 45-60 days after QD,
      and on day 90 after QD. Patients complete questionnaires for alcohol- and smoking-related
      measures, self efficacy, stress/negative affects/depression, social support, and physical
      activity at baseline and weeks 12, 26 and 52 after QD.
    
  