
    
      Backgroud: Helicobacter pylori infection has been shown to be associated with the development
      of gastric cancer and peptic ulcer diseases. Eradication of H. pylori infection reduces the
      risk of gastric cancer and the recurrence rate of peptic ulcer disease. However, the adverse
      effects, such as diarrhea and abdominal pain occurred in about 20-30% of patient during
      eradication therapies for H. pylori. Dysbiosis of the gut microbiota might contribute to the
      adverse effects.

      Aims: Therefore, the investigators aimed to assess the efficacy of probiotic supplementation
      during the eradication therapy with 14-day sequential therapy in the reduction of adverse
      effects and the restoration of the dysbiosis.

      Methods:

      This will be a double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center randomized trial. 200 patients
      with H. pylori infection naïve to eradication therapy will be enrolled.

      Before First Line Treatment: Any two positive of CLO test, histology, serology and culture or
      a positive UBT will be considered as H. pylori infected.

      After First Line Treatment: C13-UBT will be used to assess the existence of H. pylori 6-8
      weeks after 14-day sequential therapy

      Long term reinfection: C13-UBT will be used to assess the recurrence of H. pylori 1 year
      after14-day sequential therapy

      Interventions: First line therapy: eligible patients will be randomized into one of the two
      groups.

      Group (A): probiotic plus 14-day sequential therapy D1-D56: probiotics 1 pack bid for 56 days
      D1-D7: (esomeprazole + amoxicillin bid) for 7 days D8-D14: (esomeprazole + clarithromycin +
      metronidazole bid) for another 7 days

      Group (B): placebo plus 14-day sequential therapy D1-D56: placebo 1 pack bid for 56 days
      D1-D7: (esomeprazole + amoxicillin bid) for 7 days D8-D14: (esomeprazole + clarithromycin +
      metronidazole bid) for another 7 days

      Follow-up

        1. The stool samples will be collected before, and 2 and 8 weeks and 1 year after
           eradication therapy to analyze the changes in the antibiotic resistance and microbiota
           of gut flora

        2. The body weight, waist and hip circumference and serum lipid profile, sugar, and HBA1C
           levels will be collected before , and 2 and 8 weeks and 1 year after eradication therapy

        3. Determination of antibiotic resistance of H. pylori: Agar dilution test will be used to
           determine the minimum inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics. Mutations in 23S rRNA
           will also be determined by PCR followed by direct sequencing

      Outcome Measurement:

      Primary End Point: Incidence of adverse effects in the first line therapy in the two
      treatment groups

      Secondary End Point:

        1. Eradication rates in the first line treatment in the two treatment groups

        2. Changes of gut microbiota in the two treatment groups

        3. Antibiotic resistance of gut flora after first line treatments in the two treatment
           groups

        4. Re-infection rate one year after eradication therapy
    
  