
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Because of its ongoing access to the majority of the U.S. population, the primary care
      setting has great potential for preventing and managing cardiorespiratory illness. However,
      due to their broad focus and competing demands, primary care practices often fail to
      translate evidence-based guidelines into practice. Based on more than 10 years of
      practice-based observational and intervention research, the investigators have developed a
      multimethod assessment process (MAP) for understanding the unique barriers, opportunities and
      complexity of diverse primary care practice settings. MAP has been used to inform a
      practice-individualized intervention that resulted in sustained increases of evidence-based
      guidelines for clinical preventive service delivery. They integrated a participatory quality
      improvement (PQI) process that involves patients, office staff, and physicians with MAP
      (MAP/PQI) to enhance and promote ongoing practice-specific quality improvement.

      The study is in response to a Request for Applications on "Trials Assessing Innovative
      Strategies to Improve Clinical Practice Through Guidelines in Heart, Lung and Blood
      Diseases".

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will evaluate whether the innovative MAP/PQI intervention increases adherence to
      multiple cardiorespiratory guidelines in primary care practice. A group randomized clinical
      trial of 60 primary care practices representing diverse patient populations and payment
      systems will be conducted. After a 2-year follow-up, the control group will cross-over to a
      refined delayed intervention. MAP at each practice will identify features that foster and/or
      impede adherence to screening and treatment guidelines for multiple cardiorespiratory
      diseases among the competing demands of practices. PQI will then engage clinicians, staff,
      and patients in implementing tailored improvements that target the whole practice and
      simultaneously focus on changes that affect multiple guidelines. Rates of adherence to
      multiple guidelines will be compared for intervention and control practices. A comparative
      case study process analysis will identify features associated with success. The major outcome
      is adherence to a select group of guidelines addressing: hypertension (chronic disease,)
      asthma (cyclic disease), diabetes (chronic with multiple co-morbidities), smoking (simple
      screening) and cholesterol (complicated). The conceptual framework is well developed by the
      authors with significant prior work in this area. These insights will be incorporated into a
      refined intervention for the control group (delayed intervention), and evaluated in a
      pre/post design. Tailoring MAP/PQI to unique practice characteristics is likely to result in
      sustained increases in adherence to cardiorespiratory guidelines. The intervention will be
      translatable into ongoing implementations of evidence-based guidelines in the primary care
      setting where the majority of Americans receive their medical care.
    
  