
    
      Patients will be divided into 2 groups. Group C (n = 30): Control group. Group M (n = 30):
      Music group. Preoperative 1 hour and during the operation of Classical Turkish Music
      (Acemaşiran makam) will listen to the group. After the patient is taken to the resting room,
      blood will be prepared for the operation (for malondialdehyde and glutathione peroxidase).
      Then STAI 1-2 anxiety form will be filled in under the supervision of the nurse. In Group M
      patients, blood will be taken to the patient resting room (for malondialdehyde, glutathione
      peroxidase). You will then play music with the MP3 headset for 1 hour. Then STAI 1-2 anxiety
      form will be filled in under the supervision of the nurse.Operation room will be taken.
      Remifentanil 0.5 mcg / kg and propofol 2 mg / kg will be administered for induction after all
      patients included in the study (Group C and Group M). Patients will be given BIS. Anesthetize
      BIS between 40-50. Hemodynamics follow-up (Systolic blood pressure, Diastolic blood pressure,
      Heart rate, Oxygen saturation) during the operation and the need for additional analgesia and
      anesthesia during the operation will be recorded. At the end of the operation, blood will be
      taken to compare the values of Oxidative Stress Parameters in the blood and follicle fluids.
      In the rest rooms, hemodynamics and pain follow-ups will be recorded at 1,5,15, 30, and 60
      minutes. NRS (Numeric Rating Scale) will be used for pain monitoring. Analgesic needs of
      patients with pain will be met. Non-steroid anti-inflammatory (Naproxen Na) drug will be used
      for postoperative analgesia. At the end of the study, analgesia / anesthetic consumption,
      preoperative and postoperative blood oxidative stress parameters Glutathione peroxidase and
      Malondialdehyde will be compared in patients receiving music therapy and in patients without
      music therapy (control group). After the blood is drawn to both groups in the postoperative
      period, the STAI 1-2 questionnaire will be filled in under the supervision of the nurse and
      preoperative and postoperative comparisons will be made. The results will be correlated with
      the results.

      Bispectral Index (BIS) monitoring is a new advanced electroencephalogram (EEG) based method
      for monitoring anesthetic depth (4). The monitor uses BIS analysis to obtain an index of
      anesthesia depth (5). BIS is a dimensionless number scaled from 100 to 0, and decreasing
      values show more sedation and hypnosis. A BIS value of 100 represents normal cortical
      electrical activity (an awake EEG), and a value of zero indicates a cortical electrical
      silence (cortical suppression).
    
  