
    
      Depression is frequently observed in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and
      represents a significant risk factor for major cardiovascular events. Depression in patients
      with existing CHD confers a relative risk between 1.5 and 2.5 for cardiac morbidity and
      mortality. In previous cross-sectional and prospective studies, the prevalence of major
      depression in patients with CHD ranged from 10% to 47%, and slightly higher rates were
      reported (28%) in patients requiring coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). In CABG
      patients, symptoms of depression may increase mortality after bypass surgery and were
      associated with atherosclerotic progression.

      In 2008, the American Heart Association recommended routine screening for depression in
      patients with CHD in various settings, including the hospital, physician's office, clinic,
      and cardiac rehabilitation center. In recent years, growing evidence also suggests the
      existence of a bidirectional relationship between depressed mood and inflammation. Dantzer
      and associates reported that inflammation can lead to the development of symptoms of
      depression in vulnerable individuals. Consistent with these findings, high-sensitivity
      C-reactive protein (hsCRP), currently as one available clinical biomarker of inflammation,
      was reported associated with increased long-term mortality and extended hospital length of
      stay in patients undergoing nonemergency CABG-only surgery. And our previous study showed
      that elevated serum hsCRP is an independent predictor for depression in CABG patients not
      only preoperatively but also up to 6 months after surgery.

      This study will enroll patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery in Fuwai Hospital.
      At study entry, participants will be interviewed during their index hospitalization, to
      collect information about depressive symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and medical
      care. Demographic characteristics, medical history, clinical features, diagnostic tests,
      medications, procedures, and in-hospital outcomes of patients will be abstracted from medical
      records by well trained professional abstractors. At 1 month and 6 month after discharge,
      participants will return to the clinic for follow up visits, a face-to-face interview will be
      conducted to get information about clinical events, depressive symptoms, functioning, quality
      of life, and medical care during the recovery period. Practical guidelines will be
      established based on the findings to improve patients' outcomes in future finally.
    
  