
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded endpoint (PROBE) design clinical
      trial, in multiple stroke centers of China. The total sample size will be 98. Patients being
      treated with standard alteplase bridging and mechanical thrombectomy will be randomly
      assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive oral fingolimod or standard care. The primary outcome will
      be the salvaged ischemic tissue from baseline to day 7. AIS patients with proximal cerebral
      arterial occlusions will have CT perfusion (CTP) before treatment, and multimodal MRI
      including diffusion and MR perfusion (MRP) at 24 hours and 7 days after receiving treatment.
      Clinical outcomes will be assessed using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score
      (NIHSS) at baseline, day 1 and day 7 and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 90 days.
      Circulating lymphocyte counts will be monitored with FACS at baseline, day 1 and day 7 to
      confirm the biological activity of fingolimod.

      Patients aged between 18 and 85 with anterior circulation AIS who are eligible for alteplase
      and mechanical thrombectomy commenced within 6 hours of stroke onset will be enrolled if they
      present with an infarct core volume between 15-100 mL with at least 20% mismatch (as
      evaluated by CTP) and intracranial occlusion in proximal cerebral arteries. Exclusion
      criteria are (1) standard contraindications to alteplase or mechanical thrombectomy; (2)
      evidence of other diseases of the CNS; (3) pre-existing neurologic disability (a score
      greater than 2 on the mRS); (4) swallowing difficulties that would prevent administration of
      oral fingolimod; (5) patients with any history of bradyarrhythmia, atrioventricular block or
      current use of beta-blockers or verapamil; (6) concomitant use of antineoplastic,
      immunosuppressive or immune modulating therapies; (7) macular edema.

      As standard care, all patients will receive standard dose intravenous alteplase (0.9 mg per
      kilogram, the first 10% administered as an initial bolus and the remainder over a 1-hour
      period, with a maximum dose of 90 mg) and mechanical thrombectomy delivered at the site of
      intracranial vessel occlusion. Patients randomized to fingolimod will also receive oral
      fingolimod (Gilenya, Novartis) at a dosage of 0.5 mg once daily, for three consecutive days,
      with the first dose being given at the time in which patients are enrolled which is about one
      hour prior to mechanical thrombectomy.

      The kinetics of lymphocyte subset alteration will be monitored in whole-blood samples from
      all fingolimod- treated patients at the baseline, which will precede the first dose, day 1
      and day 7. Mononuclear cells will be isolated from the whole-blood specimens and stained with
      antibodies to CD4-FITC, CD8-PE, CD19-PerCP, CD56-PE (BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes, NJ,
      USA). Data will be acquired using a FACS Caliber (Becton Dickinson Immunocytometry Systems,
      San Jose, CA, USA) and analyzed with Flow Jo software (Tree Star, Ashland, OR, USA).

      The primary outcome is salvaged ischemic tissue((baseline ischemic lesion - 7d infarction
      lesion)/ baseline ischemic lesion) from baseline to day 7. Secondary outcomes are the growth
      in infarct volume between 24 hour DWI and day 7 FLAIR imaging, the penumbral salvage volume
      (baseline hypoperfusion volume - 24-hours infarct volume) between the baseline and day 1, the
      frequency of parenchymal hemorrhage (PH) at day 1 and the extent of clinical improvement at
      day 1 as measured by the change on the NIHSS score from baseline to day 1, the extent of
      clinical improvement from day 1 to day 7. The tertiary outcomes are the probability of
      excellent recovery at day 90 (mRS 0-1), independent recovery (mRS 0-2) and ordinal analysis
      of the modified Rankin scale.
    
  