
    
      Up to 20% of HIV patients receive prescriptions for chronic opioid therapy (COT) to treat
      chronic pain. This project will develop a novel collaborative treatment, based on the primary
      care behavioral consultation model and behavior therapy techniques including motivational
      interviewing and functional assessment, in which a patient, a Behavioral Health Consultant
      and a HIV primary care provider share a unified plan targeting misuse of prescribed opioid
      analgesics in older HIV+ adults. This would be the first theoretically-driven,
      empirically-tested intervention that specifically attends to the difficult issues around
      chronic pain and opioid prescription in HIV clinical practice.

      This project will develop a collaborative, brief, behavioral consultation intervention
      targeting misuse of prescribed opioids in older HIV+ adults. The intervention, CHOACOT
      (Consultation for HIV+ Older Adults on Chronic Opioid Therapy), will consist of:

        1. three meetings between the Behavioral Health Specialist (BHS) and the patient

        2. two brief consultations between the BHC and the HIV-PCP

        3. a joint meeting of the patient, BHC, and HIV-PCP.

      To achieve our aims, we will develop CHOACOT beginning with an iterative open trial (n=10).
      Next, we will conduct a pilot randomized clinical trial (n=30) of CHOACOT versus enhanced
      Treatment-As-Usual. Opioid misuse will be the primary outcome variable. Quality of the
      patient-provider relationship, pain, problematic use of other substances, antiretroviral
      adherence, and psychosocial functioning will be secondary outcomes. The specific aims are:

      Aim 1. Develop and refine CHOACOT so that it meets standards of feasibility and acceptability
      for HIV PCPs, BHCs, and participants;

      1a. To develop and field test a CHOACOT BHC manual;

      1b. To develop a reliable measure of BHC manual adherence;

      1c. To develop and field-test BHC training and supervision procedures. Aim 2. Refine research
      procedures (e.g., consent and randomization processes, assessment procedures), and establish
      their feasibility and acceptability to participants while confirming recruitment goal
      targets.

      Misuse of prescribed opioids is the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes are problematic use
      of substances with a high potential for lethality when used with COT (benzodiazepines,
      cocaine, alcohol, heroin), ARV adherence, viral load, pain, psychosocial functioning,
      patient-provider alliance, and treatment satisfaction and acceptability.

      This line of work could lead to the incorporation into HIV care of a theoretically-driven and
      empirically-tested brief intervention for older HIV patients who are prescribed opioids for
      chronic pain and for whom there is concern about opioid misuse.
    
  