
    
      High-intensity statin therapy have shown improved clinical outcomes compared to placebo or
      moderate-intensity statin therapy. Based on these results, 2013 American College of
      Cardiology/American Heart Association(ACC/AHA) guideline on treatment of blood cholesterol to
      reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk in adults recommended high-intensity statin
      therapy to patient with coronary artery disease for secondary prevention. However,
      high-intensity statin therapy was known to increase risk of diabetes mellitus and
      complication such as hepatotoxicity and myalgia. An alternative to high-intensity statin
      therapy is reducing the dose of statin and using drug that can improve blood cholesterol
      level by a different mechanism than statin. Ezetimibe acts on Niemann-Pick C1-like protein
      then inhibits cholesterol absorption in the intestine, which can reduce low-density
      lipoprotein(LDL) cholesterol more effectively when administered with statin. In IMPROVE-IT
      study, simvastatin plus ezetimibe decreased ischemic events more than simvastatin alone in
      patients with acute coronary syndrome. Although this study could confirm the additional
      effect of ezetimibe by using the same amount of simvastatin in both groups, it could not
      compare the effect of statin plus ezetimibe and high dose statin monotherapy. Moreover, there
      were few data on the efficacy of ezetimibe added to rosuvastatin which is one of the
      effective statin recommended by various guidelines. One study reported that rosuvastatin 2.5
      mg plus ezetimibe 10 mg was superior to rosuvastatin 5 mg monotherapy in reducing LDL
      cholesterol. Another study reported that adding rosuvastatin 5 mg to ezetimibe 10 mg was more
      effective than rosuvastatin 5 mg alone in reducing coronary atherosclerotic lesions as
      measured by intravascular ultrasound. However, the previous studies did not compare the
      efficacy of combination therapy of usual dose rosuvastatin and ezetimibe to high-dose statin
      monotherapy. Therefore, investigators aimed to compare the effect of rosuvastatin 10 mg plus
      ezetimibe 10 mg to rosuvastatin 20 mg alone on the reduction of coronary atherosclerosis in
      patient with coronary artery disease. If this study shows that the combination of usual dose
      rosuvastatin and ezetimibe is not inferior to high dose rosuvastatin monotherapy in
      anti-atherosclerotic effect and safety, it would provide a basis for effective and safe
      cholesterol treatment.
    
  