
    
      Introduction: Pain management is one of the greatest challenges in the critical care of burn
      patients and is frequently associated with high levels of anxiety and depression. Several
      studies and meta-analyses confirm the effectiveness of music interventions and music therapy
      in changing the experience of pain in hospitalized patients, but further clinical trials are
      needed investigating specific music therapy interventions in addressing pain in burn
      patients.

      Objectives: To investigate the effect of MAR (Music-Assisted Relaxation) on the perception of
      pain in burn patients at the AICU (Adult Intensive Care Unit) of the Fundación Santa Fe de
      Bogotá (FSFB). MAR is a music therapy technique that includes listening to live music,
      combined with deep diaphragmatic breathing and / or guided relaxation and the use of imagery.
      The music applied will be based on the principles of entrainment: first, the music is
      synchronized with the vital signs of the patients (e.g. respiratory rate) and then musical
      elements (e.g. tempo) are modulated to encourage the transition to a state of deep
      relaxation.

      Methodology: This is a randomized controlled clinical trial with an intervention group and a
      parallel control group. The intervention group will receive a minimum of three music therapy
      sessions per week up to a maximum of two weeks (6 sessions). The control group will receive
      treatment as usual. The main outcome measure is the intensity of perceived pain and will be
      measured with a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) before and after each session. Secondary measures
      are: levels of anxiety and depression (HADS - Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale); vital
      signs (heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation); the use of analgesic medications
      (complementary or rescue doses); and the quality of hospitalization perceived by the
      patients. Additionally, in some patients EEG (Electroencephalogram), ECG
      (Electrocardiography) and EMG (Electromyography) measurements will be taken, as long as the
      medical condition allows it. The data collection will be carried out by blinded research
      assistants.

      Analysis: Data analysis will be carried out by a statistician from the FSFB and in
      collaboration with the Department of Biomedical Engineering of the Universidad de los Andes.
      Taking a p value of less than 5% (0.05) as clinical significance, a univariate analysis will
      be performed initially. Subsequently, a multivariate analysis will be performed using
      logistic regression to establish the contribution of each of the variables studied.

      Expected results: Successful pain management is one of the most important factors in the
      clinical outcome of burn patients. This is the first study in Colombia that seeks to
      determine the effectiveness of music therapy on pain management with this population. This
      study will help to broaden and deepen the scientific knowledge of music therapy in the area
      of critical care and will promote the acquisition of new knowledge and interdisciplinary
      research among the institutions involved.
    
  