
    
      A recent Cochrane intervention review revealed evidence for the effectiveness of using speech
      and language therapy (SLT) for people with aphasia following stroke in terms of functional
      communication, receptive and expressive language. The authors highlight positive effects of
      higher training frequency on functional outcome. Also other authors emphasizes the importance
      of training frequency. In the meta-analysis with 968 patients the authors found that only
      intervention studies with more than five hours training per week lead to positive effects on
      speech and language function. They highlighted that it might be better to train short but
      with a high frequency than long with a low frequency. While some researchers emphasizes the
      benefit of early intervention, several studies found that also chronic stroke patients can
      benefit from intensive SLT. One possible approach to increase training frequency and duration
      is to complement therapist delivered usual care SLT (ucSLT) with telerehabilitation SLT
      (teleSLT) delivered in the patient's home.

      Aphasia is frequently accompanied by deficits of working memory (WM), speed of processing
      (SP) and executive functions (EF). Recent studies suggest that these cognitive abilities can
      play a role in sentence comprehension and production by individuals with aphasia and that WM,
      SP and EF can be enhanced with intensive practice. The authors suggest that SLT therapy
      should be accompanied with cognitive training (CT). It remains however unclear what
      percentage of the training time should be devoted to SLT and to cognitive training
      respectively. For the current study the investigators will use two combinations of teleSLT
      and telerehabilitation cognitive training (teleCT), where one combination will have a higher
      percentage of time devoted to teleSLT and the other a higher percentage devoted to teleCT.
      The latter will serve as the control group to examine the effect of teleSLT.
    
  