
    
      Chronic pain is a significant problem for people receiving opioid agonist therapy (OAT) for
      opioid dependence - i.e., buprenorphine/ naloxone (BUP) and methadone maintenance treatment
      (MMT). At least half of patients receiving BUP and MMT report chronic pain. In this
      population, chronic pain is associated with pain-related disability, psychiatric problems,
      physical problems, and increased likelihood of misuse of opioids or other illicit drugs,
      often leading providers to terminate treatment. Several issues complicate pharmacologic pain
      treatment in OAT patients, including opioid-induced hyperalgesia, increased tolerance of
      opioids, illicit drug use, use of benzodiazepines and alcohol, and patients' own fears about
      medications and addiction. Further, providers may have insufficient education regarding pain
      management in OAT patients, and have difficulty resolving the seeming inconsistencies between
      a pain management approach and an addiction management approach. There are few studies of
      non-pharmacologic treatment approaches to pain in OAT patients. Cognitive-behavioral therapy
      may be efficacious for treating pain across a range of chronic pain conditions, but studies
      of CBT for pain relief amongst substance abusers are rare.

      Hatha yoga may be a beneficial adjunctive approach to treating chronic pain, decreasing
      pain-related disability, and preventing opioid misuse during OAT. Hatha yoga involves breath
      control (pranayama), physical postures (asanas), and meditation (dhyana). Yoga includes
      benefits of relaxation training, physical activity, and mindfulness training in a single
      unified practice. Further, yoga is a non-pharmacologic approach to pain, and therefore avoids
      many of the problems surrounding pharmacologic treatment of chronic pain in people receiving
      OAT. Yoga is a promising approach for treatment of chronic pain in people enrolled in OAT
      because: 1) yoga has evidence supporting its ability to reduce pain-related disability and
      pain severity in other populations; 2) there are plausible cognitive/affective and behavioral
      mechanisms by which yoga may reduce chronic pain, decrease pain-related disability, and
      reduce opioid misuse; 3) yoga is increasingly popular and available; 4) yoga can be a
      complement to other types of pain and substance use treatment; 5) yoga students may like the
      focus on improving overall health and well-being rather than on "fixing" a problem.

      Thus, the investigators propose to conduct treatment development research that would prepare
      us to study whether yoga (vs. a health education control group) might be an efficacious
      adjunctive treatment for pain in people enrolled in OAT for opioid use disorders.

      The specific aims are:

      To conduct a pilot randomized clinical trial (n = 40) of hatha yoga vs. a health education
      group (attention control) for persons with chronic pain who are taking methadone maintenance
      therapy (MMT) or bupreonorphine (BUP) for opioid use disorder maintenance treatment.
      Participants will be enrolled in the active intervention for 3 months, and then be followed
      for 6 months afterwards. Investigators' aims are:

        1. To assess feasibility and acceptability of both the yoga class and the health education
           control group. Investigators will assess credibility of the assigned intervention and
           expectancy for improvement for both groups at baseline, program satisfaction following
           program participation, participant adherence (class attendance rate and amount of home
           practice corresponding to assigned study arm), and instructor fidelity to the manuals.
           Investigators will conduct structured interviews following program participation to
           understand specific aspects of both programs considered attractive, useful, or not
           useful; we will solicit suggestions for improvements as well.

        2. To assess safety, investigators will track all adverse events in a structured fashion.
           Investigators do not expect to see any serious adverse events definitely or probably
           related to study participation.

        3. To assess feasibility of research procedures, investigators have benchmarks for
           recruitment rate, retention for study assessments, and reliability of instructor
           fidelity measures.

      Investigators will use information collected from participant interviews as well as feedback
      from yoga and health education instructors and experts in addiction, chronic pain, and yoga
      to make modifications to interventions or research procedures intended to improve
      acceptability, feasibility, and safety whenever possible. This project will provide
      investigators with materials, experience, and pilot data needed for the next stage of this
      line of research, namely, a fully powered randomized clinical trial. Hatha yoga has a
      potential to decrease pain-related disability, pain severity, and opioid misuse in this
      population of people with difficult-to-treat chronic pain.
    
  