
    
      Monitoring depth of anaesthesia using spectral entropy (SE) and quality of neuromuscular
      block are routine in modern anaesthesia, whereas monitoring of analgesia still requires
      further studies. Recently, the Surgical Pleth Index (SPI) was added as a surrogate variable
      showing the nociception-antinociception balance into abovementioned parametres constituting a
      novel approach in monitoring patients intraoperatively, known as adequacy of anaesthesia
      (AoA) or tailor-made anaesthesia. This study aims at evaluating utility of SPI-directed
      analgesia in patients undergoing general anaesthesia (GA) where analgesia intraoperatively
      will be achieved either with regional preemptive wound infiltration using 0,2 % ropivacaine
      with fentanyl or 0,2 % bupivacaine with fentanyl or intravenous analgesia using continuous
      infusion of metamizole with tramadol for lumbar discectomy. Intraoperatively, SPI value will
      be recorded with sampling frequency of 1 minute. When SPI value reaches a level higher than
      15 SPI points above basic level, a rescue dose of 1mg/kg body weight of fentanyl will be
      administered intravenously every 5 minutes until SPI value decreases to basic level
      calculated previously before operation started.

      Additionally, the investigators will compare Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) with Surgical Pleth
      Index (SPI) values for monitoring the efficacy of analgesia postoperatively. After emergence
      from GA patients will be questioned in terms of their pain intensity in a scale 0-10. In the
      case of pain perception above 3, a bolus of 2mg of morphine will be administered
      intravenously every 10 minutes until pain perception will be lower than 4. SPI values will be
      recorded every 1 minute and analysed for aute pain (NRS 7-10), average (4-6) and mild pain
      perception intervals to assess if there exists a correlation between NRS and SPI.

      In addition, some patients develop Failed Back Surgery Syndrome (FBSS) following lumbar
      surgeries so the investigators will aim to analyze if SPI-directed analgesia intra- and
      post-operatively reduces rate of FBSS. After 5 months after operation patient will be
      surveyed using melzack protocol to assess the rate of FBSS as well as symptoms of chronic
      pain.
    
  