
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare neoadjuvant fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide vs docetaxel and
           epirubicin followed by radiotherapy and surgery in women with locally advanced,
           inflammatory, or large operable breast cancer.

        -  Assess overall differences between the two arms.

        -  Assess interaction between p53 status and outcomes in each arm.

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the distant metastasis-free survival and survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the clinical and pathological responses to these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      Translational

        -  Determine the p53 status in order to study the treatment effect in each of the p53
           subgroups and test the interaction between treatment and p53 status.

        -  Assess the level of agreement between p53 assessment by IHC method and functional test
           in yeast.

        -  Evaluate the prognostic and predictive value of "high risk" p53 mutations.

        -  Perform a survival analysis according to gene clusters defined with the use of
           microarrays.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to stage
      of disease (large T2-3 vs locally advanced or inflammatory), p53 status (negative vs positive
      vs unknown), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 chemotherapy
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (non-taxane arm): Patients receive 1 of 3 chemotherapy regimens comprising
           fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FEC) (according to participating
           institution).

             -  FEC 100: Patients receive fluorouracil IV over 15 minutes, epirubicin IV over 1
                hour, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
                for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Canadian FEC: Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide on days 1-14 and epirubicin IV
                and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8. If oral medications are not tolerated,
                patients may switch to cyclophosphamide IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every
                4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Tailored FEC: Patients receive fluorouracil IV over 15 minutes, epirubicin IV over
                1 hour, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Patients also receive
                filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously on days 2-15 or until blood counts recover.
                Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (taxane arm): Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 22, and 43
           followed by epirubicin IV over 15 minutes and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 64, 85,
           and 106 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Following chemotherapy, patients may undergo loco-regional therapy comprising radiotherapy
      with or without breast conservation surgery or mastectomy. Patients with estrogen- and/or
      progesterone-receptor-positive disease also receive tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor for 5
      years.

      Two tumor samples (incisional or tricut biopsies) are taken before chemotherapy. Samples are
      analyzed by IHC, a functional test in yeast, and microarray analysis.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1.5 years, and then every
      6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,850 patients will be accrued for this study within 5.5 years.
    
  