
    
      Enroll 60 eyes with posttrabeculectomy glaucoma (30 eyes with posttrabeculectomy residual
      primary angle-closure glaucoma. 30 eyes with posttrabeculectomy residual primary open angle
      glaucoma). Inclusive at 9 AM at eligibility visit and previously undergone trabeculectomy at
      least 30 days before screening visit. Qualified patients had a mean intraocular pressure
      (IOP) between 21 and 35mm Hg. All patients had documented residual PACG/POAG after
      trabeculectomy, with inadequate IOP control in at least one eye.The right eye was selected if
      both eyes showed about the same IOP. The previous IOP-lowering drugs were washed out before
      using tafluprost. Because all of the eyes had critical IOP levels, the design of this study
      was open-label, with emphasis on IOP change. Both patients in PACG and POAG groups will dose
      1 time daily in each eye for 6 months. Each eye will be preformed tafluprost 0.0015% at 9
      PM.The investigator monitored compliance via review of bottles at each follow-up visit, and
      at the last visit the old bottles will be returned and the investigator will keep them for
      storage. Efficacy and safety evaluations will be conducted at months 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6
      after the start of tafluprost treatment.The IOP will be measured at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6
      month visit. All IOP measurements are to be performed at about the same time of day (at 9 AM
      at each visit). IOP was measured by Goldmann tonometer. The IOP value was the mean of 3
      consecutive measurements.A visual field examination with automated perimetry(Octopus 101)
      using a threshold program was performed at the screening visit. If the visual field
      examination has been carried out within 12 weeks before the screening visit, no additional
      visual filed examination is required at the screening visit. A visual field examination and
      RNFL(retina nerve fiber layer) examination are to be performed at screening and the last
      visit respectively by the same technician with the same protocol. Topical examination by slit
      lamp is to be performed to evaluate the anterior segment. Ophthalmoscope examinations will be
      performed at screening and the last visit to examine the vitreous body, retina, and optic
      nervehead.The efficacy of tafluprost therapy is to be evaluated by comparing the baseline IOP
      and the IOP at various intervals after the start of treatment, by ANOVA test. The comparison
      of two groups was estimated by t test. The difference of the time point IOP between the 2
      groups was analyzed by X2 test.
    
  