
    
      "Custom-guided" tissue healing with o provisional restoration is the most predictable way to
      achieve natural anatomically shaped tissue and optimal esthetics. Several authors describe
      the use of an anatomically contoured provisional restoration to start to guide the soft
      tissue healing in an ideal, natural morphology that replicates the tooth form. Being that,
      after shaping the tissue to ideal anatomic form and health the exact duplication of the soft
      tissue contour should be obtained so that laboratory can duplicate it in the final
      restoration. Nowadays gold-standard, describes the use of a customized impression coping that
      replicates the provisional soft tissue contour by the use of and analog-silicone index upon
      which a gypsum cast is created.

      The use of computer-aided design/computer-assisted manufacture (CAD/CAM) technologies to
      manufacture prosthetic frameworks on dental implants is noticeably increasing. This method
      requires the use of an STL file which can be acquired intra-orally or extraorally using a
      stone cast poured from a conventional implant impression using a customized implant
      impression coping.

      Several studies have already described the accuracy of STL data and that evaluating STL
      models can be done by best fit algorithms in appropriate softwares.

      In this pilot study, the investigators aim to evaluate soft tissue profile changes in single
      unit implants in the aesthetic area using a customized impression coping with conventional
      methods and the intraoral impression with an intraoral scanner (Trios, 3Shape). Additionally
      position discrepancies of adjacent teeth between the two techniques will be assessed.

      This pilot study will include 6 patients with single unit implant which will be recruited
      according inclusion criteria and submitted to the two different impression techniques.
      Conventional stone cast will be scanned with a laboratory scanner D2000 (3Shape) with a
      described deviation of 5μm. Two STL files will be obtained per patient and by established
      methods with a reverse engineering software (Geomagic Control X, 3D Systems) discrepancies
      between them assessed.

      Differences in axis (x, y, z) and overall distances will be assessed in the soft tissues (18
      points) and in adjacent teeth (26 points) according established methods, per patient.
      Additionally, 3D colored maps will be produced to ascertain volumetric changes between
      techniques. T-test and Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used and the level of statistical
      significance set at P<0.05. Sample size determination will be performed based on obtained
      results.
    
  