
    
      The TITAN trial is a prospective, randomized, multi center, controlled, open-label, blinded
      clinical trial. This academic trial designed to answer the question: "What is the best
      endovascular management of the extra cranial carotid artery lesion in tandem occlusion with
      LVO" Patients will be recruited at 13 comprehensive stroke centers in France, all of which
      regular conduct mechanical thrombectomy and carotid stenting.

      This study will enroll adults patients admitted with cerebral infarction of the anterior
      circulation, proven by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) angiography,
      associated with tandem lesion, within 8 hours of symptoms onset, with a neurological deficit
      NIHSS > 5, and eligible to thrombectomy according to the recommendations of the French
      societies of neurovascular disease and neuroradiology (SFNR and SFNV).

      Tandem occlusion of the anterior circulation will be proven on digital subtraction
      angiography, defined as a proximal intracranial occlusion and an extracranial severe internal
      carotid artery (ICA) lesion (complete occlusion or stenosis ≥90% North American Symptomatic
      Carotid Endarterectomy Trial).

      Informed Consent according to the French laws will be sought from the patient if their level
      of consciousness is sufficient or from a relative. This study will operate using an emergency
      inclusion protocol due to the nature of the condition.

      After emergency inclusion procedure according to French regulations, eligible patients will
      be randomized in two balanced parallel groups to receive either combined treatment
      intracranial thrombectomy with carotid stenting or intracranial thrombectomy alone.

      Treatment and Intervention Intravenous thrombolysis will be administered if possible.
      Standard MT will be performed with a balloon Guide Catheter (BGC). MT technique (contact
      aspiration, stent retriever, or solumbra) will be left at the discretion of the operators.

      Concerning the cervical disease, emergent carotid stenting will be performed if the patient
      is randomized in the intervention arm. The order to treat (head first or neck first), and the
      choice of a previous angioplasty of the extracranial carotid artery lesion will be left to
      the interventionist discretion. An intravenous bolus of 250mg of Aspirin will be given at the
      end of the procedure in case of absence of complication. (Aspirin 250mg IV up to Imaging
      24H).A second antiplatelet agent is used if a thrombus is formed : IV or nasogastric tube
      (choice by operator)

      Primary objective :

      To demonstrate the superiority of intracranial thrombectomy and extracranial carotid stenting
      compared to intracranial thrombectomy alone on the complete reperfusion (mTICI 3 at the end
      of the endovascular procedure) rate and on the rate of NIHSS ≥ 4 points improvement at 24
      hours in AIS patients with a tandem occlusion of the anterior circulation.

      Secondary objectives :

        1. To assess the feasibility and the efficacy of the combined approach associating
           intracranial thrombectomy and extracranial carotid stenting compared to intracranial
           thrombectomy alone using a composite criterion (mTICI3 at the end of the endovascular
           procedure or NIHSS improvement ≥ 4 points at 24h).

        2. To compare the safety of intracranial thrombectomy and extracranial carotid stenting
           compared to intracranial thrombectomy alone.

        3. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of the combined approach compared to
           intracranial thrombectomy alone.

      The Data and Safety Monitored Board (DSMB) will provide subject safety oversight and make
      recommendations to the Sponsor regarding continuing enrollment, modifying, or stopping the
      study early based upon a review of safety data and more specifically the comparative rates of
      symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage and, neurological worsening (NIHSS4 points increase), at
      D1, and mortality rates. They will take into account in their decision making and
      recommendations the rates of procedure-related and device-related events in the treatment
      group.

      DSMB meetings will be organized by call conference by the sponsor before the start of the
      study and every year until the end of the study. The members will also receive the results of
      interim analyses. Additional extraordinary meetings will be set if necessary.

      It will be constituted with two independent clinicians and one expert in methodology.

      Sample Size Estimates Prior data indicate that a reperfusion rate of 30% mTICI 3 was observed
      with mechanical thrombectomy in patients with tandem lesions. Assuming acute carotid stenting
      will bring a 15% gain, a sample size of 162 patients per group will allow to evidence such
      gain with a 80% power at a 5% type I error (PS v3.0). Allowing 5% loss to follow up leads to
      include 216 patients per group, i.e. 432 patients in total
    
  