
    
      Study Rationale:

      This study is designed to compare the ability of the Glycotest HCC Panel with that of AFP to
      differentiate between patients with early-stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) against a
      background of cirrhosis from cirrhotic patients without HCC (at risk).

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine whether the Glycotest HCC Panel
      outperforms AFP in terms of area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC)
      for the differentiation of patients with early-stage HCC from those without HCC in the
      at-risk population.

      Secondary Objective:

      The secondary objective of this study is to determine whether the Glycotest HCC Panel
      outperforms AFP in terms of clinical sensitivity (as estimated using the 90% specificity
      estimate as the decision threshold) for the detection of patients with early-stage HCC.

      Study Design:

      This is a phase 2, multicenter, laboratory-blinded, case-control study of the Glycotest HCC
      Panel vs AFP for the discrimination of patients with early-stage HCC from those at risk. Case
      and control samples will be obtained from multiple institutions using prospective collection.
      The study will consist of a screening/baseline visit for all patients; controls initially
      assessed by abdominal US will also undergo a 6-month follow-up visit to confirm absence of
      HCC at enrollment. Assays will be performed by Glycotest with analysts blinded to clinical
      data.

      Population:

      The study population will comprise male and female adult patients with early-stage HCC
      against a background of cirrhosis (cases) as well as at-risk cirrhotic patients (controls).
      Enrollment of the aggregate of HCC cases with single lesions ≥ 3 cm and with multiple lesions
      will be capped at 50% of total cases. Enrollment of Chronic Hepatitis C cases and controls
      with sustained virologic response (SVR) to therapy will be matched. Cases and controls will
      be matched based on age, sex and etiology.

      Number of Subjects:

      Maximum of 388 cases and 378 controls;

        -  150 cases and 140 controls (training set)

        -  Maximum of 238 cases and 238 controls (validation set)

      Study Duration:

      30 months ( approximately 24 months accrual + 6 month follow up)

      Study Phases Patients potentially eligible for the study population will undergo informed
      consent prior to screening/baseline visits.

      Screening Once consented, a subject's demographics, medical record, laboratory data, and
      imaging will be reviewed. Patients are considered eligible for enrollment once they meet all
      study enrollment criteria.

      Enrollment Screening data will be re-reviewed if necessary and recorded. Serum from blood
      samples (5 mL) will be obtained for measurement of Glycotest HCC Panel score (which includes
      AFP).

      Follow up Medical record review/imaging at 6 months from enrollment for control patients
      originally assessed using abdominal US.
    
  