
    
      In cancer patients, the increased incidence of oro-pharyngeal candidiasis results both from
      the debilitating effects of the cancer itself and from the immuno-suppressive treatment for
      the cancer. Administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics for the management of bacterial
      infections in these patients may further predispose them to oro-pharyngeal candidiasis .
      Systemic fungal infections are often hard to diagnose, which contributes to their high
      attributable mortality. In addition, there are far fewer classes of antifungal agent than
      antibacterial drugs, limiting therapeutic options. The azole antifungals are commonly used to
      treat fungal infections, as they are conveniently administered and have few side effects .
      the number of drug-resistant Candida strains has also increased dramatically owing to the
      increased use of antifungal agents. The major mechanism responsible for high-level azole
      resistance in clinical Candida isolates is overexpression of plasma membrane efflux pumps .
      There are two main families of efflux proteins, the ATP-binding cassette pumps and the major
      facilitator superfamily transporters . Azole resistance calls for the use of alternative
      antifungal drugs like echinocandins, voriconazole, posaconazole, ravuconazole and
      Amphotericin B. But constraints like high costs or adverse effects associated with these
      agents often limit their usage. Some recent pioneering studies have reported the modulating
      effect of verapamil, oestradiol, progesterone and ibuprofen on resistance of Candida
      isolates. While fluconazole MIC decreased in most strains after exposure to these modulators,
      this effect was particularly remarkable for Ibuprofen. The molecular basis of this reversal
      of resistance has also been demonstrated recently. Thus, drugs capable of reversing
      fluconazole resistance might offer novel breakthroughs in the treatment of resistant Candida
      infections. As investigators have previously observed a high prevalence of fluconazole
      resistance among Candida isolates recovered in our centre. consequently ,implementing the
      concept of combination therapy using an efflux pump inhibitor seems an adequate strategy for
      overcoming resistance. in this study investigators were interested in exploring if the
      resistant phenotype could be reversed in a proportion of these isolates by the use of
      Ibuprofen .Expression levels of the target genes associated with antifungal resistance of
      C.albicans (CDR1, CDR2 and MDR1) were assessed by quantitative real-time The relative
      quantities of the target genes were normalized against ACT1 housekeeping gene expression and
      analysed using the comparative DDCt method, taking the amplification efficiency into
      consideration .
    
  