
    
      The subject should be diagnosed as solid cancer on histopathology or cytology and should be
      more than 19 years old. Patients with progressed, metastatic, or recurrent disease despite
      standard therapies for solid tumors were included. The disease had to be measurable according
      to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. The Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status should be less than 2 and the predicted survival
      time should be more than 12 weeks. Those who were not able to take the oral medication or who
      had an operation that could lead to abnormal bile acid secretion were excluded. Patients with
      a history of adverse reactions and allergic reactions to paclitaxel or paclitaxel-like
      substances (e.g., taxol) were also excluded. Patients who are taking P-glycoprotein inducers
      or inhibitors or drugs which is known to exist drug-drug interaction with paclitaxel (e.g.,
      cyclosporine A, ketoconazole, rifampicin, clarithromycin) were excluded. Patients with a
      neutrophil count less than 1,500 cell/mm3, platelet count less than 100,000 cells/mm3, and
      with infectious diseases at the beginning of the study were excluded.

      Subjects eligible for the inclusion/exclusion criteria were orally administered Liporaxel
      solution 300 mg containing a microdose amount of 18F-Liporaxel on Visit 1. At 0, 2, 4, 8, 10
      h post-dose, whole body PET/CT imaging (head-to-thigh) were obtained. Visit 2, 3, and 4 were
      taken 1, 2, and 3 weeks after Visit 1, respectively. For each visit, the adverse events,
      vital sign, physical examination, and clinical laboratory test results were evaluated and
      then therapeutic dose of Liporaxel was administered. Five weeks after Visit 1, the subject
      self-administered Liporaxel and adverse events and comedication were followed up by phone. At
      Visit 6, eight weeks after Visit 1, RECIST measurements were made with contrast-enhanced CT
      with safety evaluation. Tumor response was assessed to determine whether the study could be
      completed. If the tumor response was progression, the study was to be terminated. If stable
      disease, subject started a new cycle starting from Visit 6, and decided to evaluate tumor
      response with CT scan every eight week based on Visit 6. If the subject did not adequately
      recover from the hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities of Liporaxel during the entire
      study, the doses could be delated for up to two weeks at the discretion of the investigator.
      Exclusion was made in cases exceeding two weeks.
    
  