
    
      Open heart surgeries are one of the major and complicated surgeries performed frequently in
      the world due to the prolongation of life expectancy and developments in medicine. Mortality
      rates are decreasing day by day, although more and more additional diseases are present and
      older patients are taken in open heart surgery. The aim of these surgeries is to reduce the
      risk of death by correcting existing cardiac pathologies and increasing the quality of life
      of patients. For this reason, some studies have developed cardiac risk scoring methods in
      preoperative evaluation in order to predict mortality before surgery, and created a risky
      group such as advanced age, female gender, decreased left ventricular functions, those who
      use postoperative intraaortic balloon pumps, and those who receive inotrope support.

      Some biological inflammation markers have been determinant in determining cardiovascular
      risk. High neutrophil count was associated with increased mortality, while low lymphocyte
      count was a strong constant predictor of mortality. Cardiovascular bypass itself is related
      to neutrophil activation, highlighting the effects of its high preoperative levels. Increased
      neutrophil counts are related to blood viscosity and hypercoagulability. Also, decreased
      lymphocyte count indicates increased physiological stress.

      The importance of serum uric acid levels has been stated in many epidemiological studies as a
      risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Increased serum uric acid (UA) levels are associated
      with obesity, dyslipidemia, and hypertension, which is associated with a risk of
      cardiovascular disease. In another study, it was shown that the risk of cardiovascular
      mortality and increased serum UA levels were independently and significantly related.

      The aim of this study was to examine the short-term (first 30 days) and long-term (1 year)
      mortality of patients who underwent elective coronary bypass surgery between 2008 and 2020 at
      the Karadeniz Technical University Faculty of Medicine, based on preoperative neutrophil /
      lymphocyte ratios and uric acid values. effects will be investigated
    
  