
    
      Chronic pain (CP) affects 1 in 3 US adults and costs up to $635 billion annually in medical
      costs and lost work productivity. The impact of CP is worse in people with both CP and
      comorbid chronic diseases such as arthritis, diabetes, and heart disease. Use of opioid
      medications for CP has risen in the US, and opioid overdose deaths have quadrupled, yet with
      no overall change in pain. Although one-third of US adults have CP, there is a lack of
      affordable, non-pharmacological, evidence-based, community-delivered interventions for people
      with CP. Thus, there is a vital need to rigorously test more interventions that can be
      brought to scale and widely disseminated in the US.

      One program, the Chronic Pain Self-Management Program (CPSMP), provides short-term
      improvements in pain but its long-term effects have not been evaluated. This study will
      examine the long-term effects of CPSMP in the medically underserved state of West Virginia
      (WV). With one of the worst health profiles in the US, WV has the highest rates of arthritis,
      diabetes, heart disease, and drug overdose deaths, and therefore has a compelling need for
      the CPSMP. The objectives of this community-engaged, randomized, wait-list controlled study
      are to: 1) determine the short- (26 weeks) and long-term (52 weeks) effectiveness of the
      6-week CPSMP in adults with CP in WV; 2) evaluate the Reach (number of participants,
      completers), Effectiveness (outcomes), Adoption (number of sites, leaders, trainings),
      Implementation (fidelity), and Maintenance (satisfaction, continuation) of CPSMP using the
      RE-AIM Framework; and 3) disseminate the results to key stakeholders including evidence-based
      organizations, public health practitioners/researchers, and healthcare providers.

      The study will enroll 240 participants in 24 workshops at 12 community-based sites in 2
      counties in WV, Greenbrier (rural) and Wood (urban). Participants will attend free, 2.5-hour
      weekly sessions for 6 weeks. Two trained leaders will facilitate group discussions on
      managing pain, emotions, depression, fatigue, and sleep; proper exercise, nutrition, and
      medication use; weight management; strategies for effective communication with healthcare
      professionals; evaluating treatments; and pacing/planning. Self-reported, performance-based,
      and physiological data will be collected at baseline and 26, and 52 weeks after the start of
      the intervention. The primary outcomes are pain (severity, quality, interference, medication
      use), mental health (mood, anxiety, catastrophizing), function (self-efficacy, coping,
      health-related quality of life, sleep, fatigue, communication, physical activity), healthcare
      utilization, missed work days, and gait speed.
    
  