
    
      This randomized, controlled, open-label clinical trial will be conducted at approximately 5
      surgical and pediatric intensive care units in the US, over a period of 19 months, with 3
      months for trial set-up, 12 months of simultaneous subject enrollment and 30 days of
      treatment/follow-up period, and 3 months for study close-out.

      The study population will consist of at least 60 male and female pediatric subjects between 0
      days and 12 years of age, undergoing cardiac, abdominal, orthopedic or transplant surgery
      with an approximately equal number of subjects (n=10 to 25) in three of the four age groups:
      (29 days to 23 months), (2 to 5 years 11 months) and (6 years to 12 years) cohorts. Regarding
      the youngest age group of 0 to 28 days, the minimum number of patients to be enrolled in the
      study will not be predefined as very a small number of elective surgical procedures is
      expected in this population.

      Safety concerns and eventual safety signals, as well as recruitment rate, will be monitored
      annually (starting from the enrollment of the 60th subject) by an independent Safety
      Monitoring Board (SMB), which will be appointed prior to study initiation and submitted to
      the FDA. The responsibilities of the SMB will be defined in ad hoc document, in which the
      threshold for acceptable safety will also be set. During the conduct of the study on the
      first 60 patients, if there is any safety signal linked to the primary safety endpoint (i.e.
      pulmonary fluid overload) or imbalance in the incidence of AEs between the treatment and
      control groups or based on relevant literature, as judged by the SMB, the enrolment will be
      increased to 100 patients using the same age stratification approach defined above (n=20 to
      30 in each age group).

      Potential subjects will be pre-screened and informed consent/assent will be obtained from the
      subject and/or subject's parents or guardians prior to surgery. Post-surgery, the subject
      will be admitted to the Surgical, Neonatal, or Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (SICU/NICU/PICU)
      for post-operative recovery and care management. Subjects who show signs of hypovolemia as
      judged by the Principal Investigator (PI) will be screened to determine their eligibility to
      participate in this trial. Subjects will then be randomized to receive treatment with
      Kedbumin 25% or the comparator, normal saline (sodium chloride 0.9%).

      There is no specific post-treatment regimen for this protocol, as all subjects will receive
      the standard post-operative care based on their clinical status and response to treatment at
      the discretion of the Investigator.

      Vital signs and fluid management/replacement therapy recorded in the medical chart and
      results of standard complete blood count (CBC), biochemistry, and hematology and coagulation
      lab panels will be reviewed and recorded by research staff at specified time points,
      according to the hospital standard of care. Additionally, research staff will review and
      record daily lactate, urine albumin, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, and non-invasive
      measurements at the following time points: Baseline, 6hr, 12hr, 24hr, 36hr, 48hr, and 72hr
      post-onset of hypovolemia), until hemodynamic stability is achieved. Hemodynamic stability
      will be evaluated based on site-specific age-defined reference ranges for heart rate, blood
      pressure, urine output, and cardiac index in children.

      The volume, rate and frequency of the Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP, either Kedbumin
      25% or normal saline) administered will be recorded in addition to the type, timing, and
      amount of all other fluids administered. The time to hemodynamic stability, duration of
      stability once attained, and any relapse requiring additional treatment or use of secondary
      resuscitation strategies will be recorded.

      Subjects who demonstrate hemodynamic stability within 3 days after treatment initiation and
      then relapse into hemodynamic instability as a result of surgical complications or infection
      will exit from the study, but the data be considered for the safety analysis. These subjects
      should continue treatment according the clinical practice standard since the study is not
      intended to evaluate the efficacy of Kedbumin 25%.
    
  