
    
      At the Christine M. Kleinert Institute in Louisville, Kentucky, we are recruiting patients
      for a research protocol that is underway for Composite Tissue Allotransplantation of the
      Hand. This study is not for all upper extremity injuries, but it is a possibility for some.

      The Hand Surgeons at Kleinert, Kutz and Associates and the Christine M. Kleinert Institute
      performed the first hand transplant in the United States. This patient is doing very well,
      and is now almost 15 years post transplant. We have also transplanted seven other recipients,
      including a bilateral recipient. For more information visit www.handtransplant.com.

      While hand transplantation is a viable option for select upper extremity amputees, there are
      significant risks that must be understood before a patient can decide whether hand
      transplantation is the right option for him or her. The major risk is the systemic
      immunosuppression that all current hand transplant recipients must take.

      As part of this clinical trial of hand transplanation we are also offering a sub-study sub
      study to determine if cells isolated from fat tissue can be used to control the immune
      response against the graft. This population of cells that will be isolated from fat tissue is
      called the stromal vascular fraction (SVF) and has been used on an experimental basis in
      patients who have problems with blood vessels in their legs, with patients who have received
      a bone marrow transplant, and with patients who have Chron's disease. These trials have also
      been experimental. To date, there have been no cases where the SVF cells isolated from and
      used in the same patient have been associated with harmful side effects.

      In this optional sub-study SVF isolated from the patient's own fat tissue would be injected
      into the graft at the time of transplant, or at the time of a rejection episode. We hope that
      these cells will help the hand and the nerves heal, and help control your immune systems
      response against the donor hand. However, this is an experimental study and we don't know if
      this will work or not. After your transplant and the injection of the SVF cells you will be
      followed and treated the same as any other hand transplant recipient in this clinical trial.

      This sub-study is optional. Subjects can choose to not participate in this sub-study and
      still be able to participate in the hand transplant clinical trial.
    
  