
    
      The CALM Study is a prospective study to determine the effects of adjuvant chemotherapy on
      cardiolipin profiles in relationship to cardiac and skeletal muscle function in breast cancer
      patients before and after 1 cycle of anthracycline therapy. Patients will undergo blood
      sampling and imaging of the heart and skeletal muscle at two Clinical Visits. The two visits,
      Baseline and study completion (Post-1 cycle anthracycline) will occur approximately ~4 weeks
      apart.

      The driving hypothesis is that anthracycline reduces linoleic acid-rich cardiolipin with
      associated decline of cardiac and skeletal muscle measures. By coupling cardiac and skeletal
      muscle changes with cardiolipin markers reflective of dietary linoleic acid, this work will
      advance inexpensive and highly accessible therapies to preserve functional capacity and
      diminish adverse outcomes in cancer patients. Breast cancer patients (stages I-III) receiving
      anthracycline will be prospectively evaluated to achieve the following aims:

      Aim 1: Measure the baseline relationships between cardiolipin status and magnetic
      resonance-based measures of cardiac and skeletal muscle physiology in breast cancer patients.
      Hypothesis 1a: Higher cardiolipin is related to better cardiac structure and function.
      Hypothesis 1b: Higher cardiolipin is associated with higher skeletal muscle mass and
      mitochondrial capacity in women with breast cancer prior to starting anthracycline therapy.
      Hypothesis 1c: Dietary linoleic acid modifies the relationships between cardiolipin and
      cardiac or skeletal muscle measures.

      Aim 2: Assess chemotherapy-induced changes in cardiolipin composition, cardiac and skeletal
      muscle physiology. Hypothesis 2a: Change in skeletal muscle function and cardiac function
      together better predict worse functional capacity after completion of a course of
      anthracycline therapy for breast cancer compared to change of either skeletal or cardiac
      function alone. Hypothesis 2b: Cardiolipin levels decrease significantly from baseline in
      women who have completed one cycle of anthracycline therapy for breast cancer. Hypothesis 2c:
      Dietary linoleic acid modifies the effects of anthracycline on cardiolipin and cardiac or
      skeletal muscle physiology.
    
  