
    
      -  Since we are looking for the highest dose of donor dendritic cells that can be
           administered safely with DLI patients after allogeneic stem cell transplant, not
           everyone who participates in this study will be receiving the same number of dendritic
           cells.

        -  The study procedure can be divided into 3 phases: 1) Pre-infusion evaluation, 2) Cell
           collections and infusions, 3) Follow-up after infusions.

        -  Pre-infusion evaluation: Routine blood tests will be performed on both the participant
           and donor. The participant will undergo a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy if this has
           not been recently performed. During this time, additional standard blood tests and/or
           radiology tests may be done to fully determine the extent of the cancer.

        -  Cell Collections: About 2-3 weeks before the infusion date, the donor will undergo one
           or two white blood cell collection procedures called leukopheresis. The cells collected
           from the first leukopheresis will be sent to the laboratory where a portion will be used
           to cultivate dendritic cells, and the remaining lymphocytes will be set aside for the
           DLI. If the number of cells collected at the first leukopheresis is insufficient, the
           donor will undergo a second leukopheresis procedure 7-10 days later.

        -  Infusions: We plan to administer the dendritic cells and donor lymphocytes separately in
           the outpatient clinic. The dendritic cells will be given first, followed by the DLI one
           to two days later.

        -  Follow-up after infusions: After completion of both the donor DC and DLI, participants
           will be followed closely for the development of side effects and response. They will be
           evaluated at least once a week, and routine blood tests and physical examination to
           assess for graft vs. host disease (GvHD) or other side effects will be performed.
           Additional blood tests will be done after 3, 6, and 10 weeks. At 10 weeks after the
           lymphocyte infusion, bone marrow aspirate and biopsy will be performed to assess the
           disease as well as the percentage of bone marrow cells that are derived from the donor.
           Additional restaging studies will also be performed at 10 weeks.
    
  