
    
      This will be a randomized control trial comparing peripheral IJ to standard care of difficult
      access patients.

        1. Patients will be identified by nurses as having difficult IV access. This can be
           determined based on past history or immediate experience. In other words, while a nurse
           is caring for a patient, s/he might notice that the patient looks to have difficult
           veins for an IV and may ask the patient 'Are you a hard stick?'. On the other hand, the
           nurse may fail at a number of attempts at placing an IV. In both of the cases, the
           patients can be determined to have difficult access and the nurse will have the option
           to contact the research assistant or continue with current attempts.

        2. Nurse will contact research assistant.

        3. Research assistant (RA) will determine if the patient is being cared for by an MD with
           appropriate experience for placing the peripheral IJ (attending, second or third year ED
           resident).

        4. RA will consent patient, discussing possible continuation of IV or IJ catheter
           insertion. If patient agrees, he/she will be enrolled in the study.

        5. Patient will be randomized.

        6. Time clock will be started by RA when nurse or study member (attending physician, second
           or third year resident) start the procedure (IV or IJ).

        7. RA will monitor procedure progress and stop time clock when access has been confirmed by
           study member or by nurse.

        8. RA will survey patient regarding pain during procedure and satisfaction.

        9. Patient chart will be queried at the completion of ED visit or hospitalization for
           complications. Chart will be queried again at two weeks to evaluate for any return visit
           complication.

      Catheters will be placed by attending physicians and residents (2nd and 3rd years) with
      experience placing ultrasound guided internal jugular central venous catheters. Because the
      procedure is identical to the first step of placing an IJ Central Venous Catheter, there is
      no special training needed for the procedure itself. A video will be created and viewed by
      all placing the catheters to show the specifics so that there is standardization between
      individuals.

      Attempts to place the peripheral IJ will be limited to two. If not successful after two
      attempts, the patient will return to 'standard care' and the treatment team will decide on
      further directions such as ultrasound guided peripheral IV or central venous line.
    
  