
    
      Purpose: This is a randomized, controlled, prospective split-scar study which employs
      computer-assisted image processing to establish whether simple interrupted or running sutures
      cause the greatest degree of erythema in the surgical scars resulting from Moh's micrographic
      surgery (MMS), and to better understand the evolution (including progression and subsequent
      regression) of erythema over time in these scars.

      Hypothesis: Based on the literature review and the clinical experience of the investigators,
      it is hypothesized that the quantified difference in persisting erythema that is caused by
      each suturing technique will be minimal and not statistically significant.

      Justification: The cosmetic appearance of scars is an important concern for patients
      undergoing Moh's micrographic surgery (MMS), a specialized therapeutic procedure that is used
      for high risk skin cancers on the face. Many factors influence the aesthetics of a surgical
      scar; suturing technique is among the most significant. Simple interrupted stitches and
      running (continuous) stitches are the two most frequently used suturing techniques. Anecdotal
      opinions favor one technique over the other. Some authors consider simple interrupted
      stitches to be more time consuming but allows more precise wound approximation. Other
      surgeons feel running stitches decrease suture marks. A recent literature search looking at
      the influence of suturing technique on the cosmetic outcome of scars could not draw any
      conclusion as to which stitching method should be recommended for facial repair because of
      the lack of comparative studies. The need for prospective randomized trials in this field is
      required. Multiple scales have been reported in the literature which can be utilized for
      cosmetic assessment of healing surgical scars. Persistent scar erythema/dilated peri-scar
      telangiectasias are a relatively common finding associated with facial surgery and are
      included as a component in only one of the aforementioned scar evaluation scales.
      Furthermore, it is only the presence of erythema that is gauged by the scale, and not its
      intensity or area as these parameters would be challenging to objectively assess. To address
      this issue, the investigators have developed a software that is capable of quantifying the
      intensity and area involving erythema in scars. As such, this study has been designed to
      determine whether simple interrupted or running sutures would cause the greatest degree of
      erythema and to what extent (both in terms of intensity and area) in the resulting facial MMS
      scars.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine whether simple interrupted or running sutures cause the greatest degree of
           persistent erythema in the scars resulting from MMS facial defect repair.

        2. To determine the percentage difference in the degree of persisting erythema (including
           intensity and area) caused by each suturing technique.

        3. To quantitatively assess the evolution of erythema over time in simple interrupted and
           running sutures to better characterize its patterns of progression and subsequent
           regression.

      Research Design: Prospective randomized controlled split-scar study.

      Research Methods: Subjects will be recruited at the Dermatologic Surgery Centre at the VGH
      Skin Care Centre. They will be offered the option to participate in this study prior to
      beginning their MMS procedure. All patients/accompanying family members will have adequate
      time to read the protocol and consent document prior to entering the surgical area. All
      surgeries will be performed by an experienced dermatologic surgeon and/or an MMS Fellow. The
      same procedure will be followed for each patient. After ensuring that the length of the scar
      will be >4cm, patients will be randomized (using computer generated sealed envelope method)
      to epidermal suturing technique. Depending on randomization, either the superior/medial or
      inferior/lateral half of the scar will be sutured with running stitches, whereas the other
      half will be closed with interrupted stitches. All other aspects of the procedures, including
      post-operative wound care and follow-up, will be similar as those for patients who are not in
      the study. The subjects will be seen again for follow up at 1 week, 8 weeks, and 6 months
      following their procedure, which are regularly scheduled for all patients who undergo MMS as
      part of their ongoing oncologic evaluation and wound care. No additional follow up
      appointments will be scheduled specifically for the purpose of this study. During each follow
      up appointment, close-up photographs of the scars will be taken using preset aperture (14),
      shutter speed (1/60 seconds), and flash settings (+1/3 exposure compensation) on a Canon EOS
      Digital Rebel XT, CanonMR-14EX ring flash, and Canon EFS 60mmf/2.8 macro lens. All
      photographs will be taken in the same follow-up room under closely matched lighting
      parameters and camera angles. Following their final reassessment at 6 months, all interval
      photos will be processed using the customized software to quantify intensity and area of
      erythema for each visit.

      Statistical analysis: Power calculations have been performed. To detect a difference of 10%
      in the degree of erythema between the two study arms, with a power of 80%, 100 patients will
      be recruited. The two study arms are paired since each patient's scar is split into two
      parts. Subsequently, comparative paired t-tests will be performed on the software-generated
      values of erythema intensity and area for simple interrupted and running sutures from each
      interval MMS scar photograph.
    
  