
    
      Post-thoracotomy pain syndrome is an unwanted complication of thoracic surgery. Poorly
      controlled pain may precipitate increased morbidity in the immediate and early postoperative
      periods due to its adverse effects on respiratory mechanics and mobilisation, which may
      result in further morbidity such as postoperative pulmonary complications and thrombosis.
      Poor perioperative management of this pain may also result in the development of chronic
      pain. Enhanced recovery, particularly functional recovery has become an important goal in the
      perioperative management of our patients. A key principle of this pathway is multimodal
      opioid-sparing analgesia to facilitate improved recovery and patient outcomes. Regional
      anaesthesia forms the cornerstone of this multimodal analgesia regimen.

      Traditionally, thoracic epidural and thoracic paravertebral blockade have been the main forms
      of regional anaesthesia utilised in thoracic surgical patients undergoing lung resection.
      With the increasing use of minimally invasive thoracic surgery and with a cohort of patients
      who may not always be suitable for central neuraxial blockade, alternatives are needed. More
      recently, there has been an emerging use of interfascial plane blocks in this patient group.
      The interest in these techniques is derived from case reports, case series, cadaveric
      studies, and small clinical trials, which have demonstrated clinical efficacy in a variety of
      elective and emergency thoracic surgical procedures and also in chronic thoracic pain
      syndromes.

      The deep serratus anterior plane (deep SAP) block is a relatively new interfascial plane
      regional anaesthesia technique, which has been postulated to provide analgesia of the entire
      hemithorax. The mechanism of its analgesic effects are believed to occur via blockade of the
      lateral cutaneous branches of the thoracic intercostal nerves (T2-T12), which produces
      analgesia of the anterolateral chest wall. A recent anatomical study by Mayes et al.
      demonstrated consistent blockade of the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves.
      Clinical studies, although small, have shown dermatomal spread in the T2 - T9 distribution of
      the anterolateral chest wall. Therefore, this block presents a potential alternative to
      central neuraxial blockade.

      However, whether SAP blockade can produce non-inferior analgesia compared with either
      thoracic epidural or thoracic paravertebral, both in terms of somatic +/- autonomic blockade,
      and the reliability of dermatomal spread, has been questioned by some.

      The aim of this randomised controlled trial is to demonstrate non-inferiority of
      ultrasound-guided continuous deep serratus anterior plane blockade compared with
      surgically-placed continuous paravertebral blockade, for perioperative analgesia, in the
      patients undergoing minimally-invasive videoscopic thoracic surgery.
    
  