
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the increase in clinical/radiographic complete response rate in patients with
           previously untreated metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated
           with induction therapy comprising cetuximab, carboplatin, and paclitaxel.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pattern of tumor recurrence in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the duration of response, time to progression, and survival of patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate effects of this regimen with biomarkers of response and predictors of
           long-term outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label study.

      Patients receive induction therapy comprising cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours, paclitaxel IV over
      1 hour, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats weekly for up to 6 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 2-3 weeks later,
      patients undergo radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. Patients with T0, 1, 2 disease undergo
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients with T3, 4 disease or unresectable nodal
      disease undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks and receive concurrent cisplatin IV
      over 1-2 hours on days 1 and 22. Some patients may undergo primary surgical resection before
      or instead of radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 6, 12, and 24 months after completion of
      radiotherapy or surgery.

      After study completion, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for
      1 year, and every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  