
    
      Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Non- small cell lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer
      mortality in the United States [Jermal, 2007]. Surgery can be curative for patients with
      stages I and II disease and chemoradiation for curative intent can be administered to
      selected patients with stage III disease in the setting of adequate performance status,
      minimal comorbid disease and absence of weight loss. Adjuvant therapy improves survival, but
      the relapse rate is high and may approach 80% for subsets of patients with presumed "curable
      disease". Consequently, 85% of patients diagnosed with NSCLC will ultimately die of
      uncontrolled systemic disease. Systemic chemotherapy for treatment of metastatic disease,
      offers palliative benefit, improves survival, has substantial side effects, but is not
      curative. Improved systemic therapy with a greater therapeutic index due to greater efficacy
      or fewer side effects is sorely needed. Bevacizumab and/or erlotinib demonstrate these
      features.

      Therapeutic Drugs (Erlotinib and Bevacizumab) The therapeutic trial, which this molecular
      imaging and serum biomarker trial will compliment, will study the combination of erlotinib
      and bevacizumab as first-line treatment for patients with non-squamous non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC). This will be the first ever study where conventional chemotherapy will not be
      used as first-line treatment in NSCLC. Both erlotinib, as a single agent after chemotherapy
      progression [Shepherd 2005], and bevacizumab, in combination with chemotherapy [Sandler
      2006], have been approved for the treatment of metastatic NSCLC. This is a multi-center trial
      via Huntsman Cancer Institute - Intermountain Cancer Care Program, phase II, single stage, of
      erlotinib (150 mg/day) and bevacizumab (15 mg/kg IV every 21 days) for patients with
      non-squamous, NSCLC without brain metastases or significant hemoptysis who have not received
      conventional chemotherapy as treatment for systemic or relapsed disease. Study treatment will
      be continued until symptomatic or objective progression. Patients progressing on or after
      this combination will subsequently receive conventional chemotherapy with bevacizumab at the
      discretion of the patient and treating physician. The study will be followed by the Data and
      Safety Monitoring Committee of the HCI and will enroll 40 patients. An interim safety
      analysis is scheduled after 20 patients have been accrued.

      For purposes of defining response the following criteria are used for all target lesions:
      complete response-the disappearance of all target lesions; partial response-at least a 30%
      decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the
      baseline sum longest diameter; progressive disease-at least a 20% increase in the sum of the
      longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter
      recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; stable
      disease-neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase
      to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter
      since the treatment started.

      The primary exploratory objectives of the study are:

        -  Provide a reliable and validated cadre of PET imaging derived biomarkers and serum
           derived biomarkers that yield a better understanding of: 1) early clinical benefit from
           Avastin and Tarceva therapy, 2) efficacy during Avastin and Tarceva therapy, and 3)
           prognosis or other long term outcomes.

        -  Reveal a more detailed understanding of: (1) the in vivo biologic mechanisms of Avastin
           and Tarceva in lung cancer and (2) information on why particular functional imaging
           assays and genomic biomarker profiles are seen in treated patients.

        -  Reveal a more detailed understanding of how the combination of molecular imaging derived
           biomarkers in combination with gene expression profiles/biomarkers will be potentially
           useful to physicians for decision making and for explanation of efficacy or outcomes for
           patients with cancer.

        -  Predict which patients may benefit from combined Avastin and Tarceva therapy.

        -  Determine early in the course of treatment whether Avastin and Tarceva will be
           efficacious and whether the imaging derived biomarkers in combination with blood derived
           biomarkers can be used in the future in patients with other types of malignancies to
           predict early response and efficacy.
    
  