
    
      Early screening and treatment of malnutrition is vital. The prevalence of malnutrition at
      hospital admission has only slightly decreased over the last few years. (Halfens, 2007) This
      indicates that screening and intervention early in the course of developing disease, e.g. at
      the outpatient clinic, can prevent severe malnutrition and decrease the amount and complexity
      of care. (Jonkers-Schuitema et al., 2011; Leistra et al., 2009). Screening for malnutrition
      and nutrition interventions at the outpatient clinic however, is no daily practice. Leistra
      et al. (2009) showed that only 17% of the severely undernourished patients and 4% of the
      moderately undernourished patients received some form of dietetic treatment at the outpatient
      clinic. Early nursing nutrition interventions have not been studies well before.

      Aim: To investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of screening and an early nursing
      intervention on malnutrition in outpatients in need for surgery.

      Design: Multicentre cluster randomized controlled trial design in surgical outpatient clinics
      in two hospitals (one academic and one non-academic). The intervention is randomly assigned
      to half of the outpatient clinics, and patients clustered with these nurses, working at the
      outpatient clinics. The remaining nurses and their patients will serve as a control group.
      Nursing teams with nurses working in multiple teams will be excluded. Nurses will be trained
      in the use of the MUST-Screening and nutrition care plans. Study population: Patients
      visiting the outpatient clinic, planned for operation, of one academic and one non-academic
      hospital (n=150).

      Description of the intervention: The early nursing nutrition intervention will include
      malnutrition screening (during outpatient clinic visit) with the MUST. If patients in the
      intervention group are being ´at risk for malnutrition´ or being ´malnourished´, a
      standardised nutrition care plan (including nutritional drinks and energy and protein rich
      meals, tailored to individual patient requirements) will be discussed with the patient by
      nurses. Control patients will receive usual care (no nutrition care plan). The intervention
      period will be 6 months.

      Outcome: Primary: Up to 6 months, BMI will be measured at three point in time: 1) at the
      outpatient clinic, 2) at hospitalisation, and 3) at discharge. Also, intake of nutrients will
      be measured for 2 days after the outpatient clinic visit. Average time frame for each patient
      is 5 weeks, for both intervention and control group.

      Secondary: Up to 6 months, Length of Stay (LOS) and health-related quality of life (EQ-5D)
      will be measured at discharge, and CQ satisfaction with nutritional care & care in general
      will be measured at the outpatient clinic and at hospitalisation. Average time frame for each
      patient is 5 weeks, for both intervention and control group.

      To evaluate costs of the intervention, nurses time investment with patients at risk will be
      observed in 30 patients per group and combined with average costs to arrive at a preliminary
      cost of usual care and the early nutrition intervention. To evaluate the process, nurses will
      be interviewed (n=6) to collect data on the manner in which the intervention changes the
      nursing care.

      Statistical analysis: Data will be analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. Results are
      clustered at ward level. In this study with the same subjects at baseline and follow-up, we
      will therefore use a linear mixed model for repeated measurements, with ''nurse'' as random
      effect, BMI as main outcome, and group, time and the group x time interaction as fixed
      effects.
    
  