
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is characterized by intrusive memories in the form of
      unwanted images, nightmares, and flashbacks as the result of being exposed to a traumatic
      event . Current research efforts have begun to explore the underlying neurochemical changes
      associated with PTSD. Recently, these efforts have focused on the prevention of PTSD in
      persons exposed to trauma. For example, preliminary evidence suggests that interference with
      consolidation of trauma-related memories using the beta-antagonist, propranolol, may prevent
      PTSD in humans with recent traumas. However, given that as much as 90% of the US population
      is exposed to at least one traumatic event during their lifetimes, the utility of this
      treatment is limited by the logistical problems of treating everyone at risk. To date, there
      have been very few systematic studies on humans that focus on changing the underlying
      traumatic memory once PTSD has been established.

      The trauma experience is initially stored in short-term memory, then consolidated into
      long-term memory. However, the long-term stability conferred by the consolidation process
      undergoes a period of labiality as follows. Each time a consolidated memory is activated, the
      memory trace becomes newly labile and must be consolidated again to remain in long-term
      memory5. This process is called reconsolidation. Reconsolidation therefore offers a biologic
      window during which long-term memories can be disrupted. Preclinical studies have begun to
      unravel the biological changes that underlie these processes. Both pharmacological agents,
      including glucocorticoids, and protein synthesis inhibitors can interfere with memory
      consolidation and reconsolidation. In preclinical studies, the global protein synthesis
      inhibitor anisomycin can block reconsolidation, leading to a reduction in strength of
      traumatic memories. Unfortunately, the toxicity of anisomycin is prohibitive for therapeutic
      use. Thus, rather than using a global protein synthesis inhibitor, a more effective and
      selective means of reducing consolidation of an established traumatic memory is to target
      only a subset of protein translation important for synaptic plasticity. The protein kinase
      mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) is just such a regulator of a subset of protein
      synthesis critical for synaptic plasticity.
    
  