
    
      Purpose: To investigate the use of intra-operative dexmedetomidine infusions to reduce the
      inflammatory and stress response of cytoreductive treatment and hyperthermic intra-peritoneal
      chemotherapy (HIPEC).

      Hypothesis: HIPEC surgery patients who receive an intra-operative infusion of dexmedetomidine
      in addition to the current standard of care, consisting of parenteral and enteral opioids and
      thoracic epidural will have a reduction in their inflammatory markers intra-operatively, in
      PACU, POD1 and POD5 and a reduction in oral morphine equivalent opioid consumption in PACU
      and POD1, in comparison to those who receive a placebo infusion.

      Justification: Surgical tumor excision is a cornerstone of primary cancer treatment, but is
      also recognized as one of the greatest risk factors for metastatic spread. The perioperative
      period, characterized by the surgical stress response and pharmacologic-induced angiogenesis
      and immunomodulation, results in a physiologic environment that supports tumor spread and
      distant reimplantation. There is potential for anesthesiologists to modulate the unwanted
      consequences of the stress response on the immune system and minimize residual disease by
      altering their anesthetic plan.

      Dexmedtomidine is a commonly used sedative that can be used as part of an anesthetic during
      surgery. In vitro and animal studies have shown that dexmedtomidine decreases the
      inflammatory response but no research has been conducted with cancer-related conditions.

      Objective: To determine if dexmedtomidine, when used intraoperatively, can decrease the
      levels of inflammation in patients a Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy (HIPEC)
      procedure as part of their cancer treatment.

      Primary Objective:

      Reduction in inflammatory markers: CRP, ESR, NLR, PLR, plasma viscosity, lactate.

      Secondary Objectives Reduction in Cancer markers: CEA (carcinoembyronic antigen] and CA19-9
      Reduction in opioid use Reduction in volatile usage (average sevoflurane end-tidal level)

      Research Design: In this pilot study, 20 patients undergoing a HIPEC procedure as part of
      their cancer treatment will be randomized into 2 groups. One group (controls) will receive
      the current anesthetic standard of care. The second group (experimental) will also receive
      the current anesthetic standard of care with the addition of an infusion of dexmedtomidine
      during the surgical procedure. Biomarkers of inflammation (Lactate, CRP, ESR, plasma
      viscosity, NLR, PLR, and procalcitonin) and cancer markers (CEA and CA19-9) will be measured
      at 5 time points: pre-operatively, intra-opertatively prior to chemotherapy, post-operatively
      in the post-anaesthetic care unit, post-operative day 1, and post-operative day 5.
      Quantitative analysis of the inflammatory markers will be used to compare the two groups.

      Statistical Analysis: Data will be summarized and t-tests will be used to compare the data
      from the 2 groups.
    
  