
    
      This part of the study will be performed in 30 non-diabetic non-obese patients. In this study
      patients will receive single-dose oral placebo and rosiglitazone once daily to be taken in
      the morning. During the first 8 weeks the patients will be dosed with 4 mg rosiglitazone.
      Then the concentration of the serum transaminases will be checked and if these are within an
      acceptable range, the doses will be doubled for the remainder of the study. If the changes in
      serum transaminases are considered clinically significant the patient will be withdrawn from
      the study and if the transaminases have increased but not to clinically significant level
      then the treatment of patient may be continued on the 4 mg daily dose.

      The insulin sensitivity will be measured by using a euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp
      technique, which is validated technique.

      Screening of eligible patients: fasting glucose ≤ 7,0 mmol/L and BMI ≤ 30.

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  A diagnosis of diabetes mellitus for which the patient uses insulin;

        -  Significant co-morbidities which, according to the treating nephrologists, makes it
           unlikely that the patient will be able to complete the foreseen study period;

        -  Significant cardiovascular co-morbidities which are likely to interfere with the
           objectives of the study (morbid obesity, family history of dyslipidemia, etc.); at the
           discretion of the treating nephrologists or the principal investigator;

        -  Allergy for PPAR's;

        -  Cardiac disease with marked limitation of functional capacity (New York Heart
           Association III or IV clinical status);

        -  Use of immunosuppressant agents;

        -  History of renal transplant;

        -  Hepatic insufficiency (defined as transaminase concentrations above > 2.5 times the
           upper limit of normal for the laboratories);

        -  A history of alcohol abuse or excessive alcohol use defined as more than 21 consumptions
           per week;

        -  For female patients: pregnancy, the intention to become pregnant within the study
           period, or lactating patients Eligible patients will receive insulin (Actrapid; Novo
           Nordisk A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark) at an infusion rate of 40 mU (288 pmol)/kg/m2 body
           surface area per minute. Euglycemia (target blood concentration of 5 mM) will be
           maintained by adjusting the rate of 20% glucose infusion according to whole blood
           glucose concentration measured from arterialized venous blood; the patient keeps his or
           her right arm in a box containing heated air (60°C). Insulin and glucose will be infused
           in the left arm. In healthy subjects, hepatic glucose production is completely
           suppressed when the serum insulin level is >60 mU/L. Here the expected insulin level in
           serum is 80 mU/L. Blood samples will be drawn at 5 min intervals for the determination
           of blood glucose, and at 10 min intervals during the period of 90 -120 min for the
           determination of serum insulin and free fatty acids. The insulin-sensitivity index (ISI)
           will be calculated by dividing the average glucose-infusion rate by the mean
           steady-state serum insulin levels during a period of 90 -120 min. In addition to
           glucose-infusion rate and insulin sensitivity index, the influence of the clamp on
           levels of FFA will also be assed.

      At baseline and during the follow-up of the study inflammatory parameters (hsCRP) and lipids
      will be measured. At baseline and at the end a bone densitometry (DEXA) will be performed.
    
  