
    
      Aims of this study:

        1. Get preliminary data for future larger, randomized- controlled trials.

        2. See whether acupuncture is better than no-acupuncture treatments (where participations
           are following standard care for this condition), or at least have probable better
           outcomes than no acupuncture treatment (there may not be significance in statistics,
           given the small sample in current proposed trial);

        3. See if acupuncture group 1a (with focus on the points in pudendal nerve distribution
           near the pain area) has better results(at least, a trend) than acupuncture group 1b
           (traditional acupuncture focus on meridian or distal points).

      The basic design and interventions:

        1. Diagnosis: Vulvodynia/Vulval pain by gynecologist or pain specialist/doctor, who will
           adopt International diagnose criteria.

        2. Patient sample (estimated): 17 in each acupuncture group (34 total), and 17 patients in
           the no-acupuncture group or standard care waiting list . Total 51 patients;

        3. Groups:

           Group 1a (17 cases): acupuncture, using the local points in pudendal nerve distribution
           area (tender points, and up to two other set of acupuncture points); Group 1b (17
           cases): traditional acupuncture, using common meridian or distal points; Group 2 (17
           cases): standard care, waiting list. This group will receive no acupuncture treatment.

        4. Randomized method: If the patient feels comfortable with acupuncture, they will be
           randomly assigned to either Group 1a or Group1b using randomization numbers generated by
           computer; if the patients still are under the treatments of routine conventional
           treatments, such as using pain medications, local injections, and physical therapies, or
           other non-surgical procedure, they will serve as participants in the standard care
           group, the waiting list.

        5. Blind Method: Patients will be blind as to the purpose of the study as well as to the
           groups that they are assigned too. Each participant in either group 1a or 1b will
           receive actual, real acupuncture treatment but, depending on their group assignment, the
           strategy and points used will vary.

        6. Treatments:

           Group 1a: acupuncture: needling focus on Hui yang, pudendal nerve points and local
           point(s) near the pain location with needling manipulation (such as twisting 200/min for
           2-5 minutes at pudendal nerve points); Group 1b: acupuncture: using meridian points,
           focus on Xue Hai (SP9), San Yin Jiao (SP6), Zu San Li (ST36); Both groups also use: Shen
           Ting (GV24), Tou Wei (ST 8), Yin Tang (EX2) for helping to release stress and create
           calm.

           Both group 1(a/b) and group 2 patients are all allowed to use pain medications (in which
           the medications' name and how many pills used during 6 weeks' observation period will be
           carefully document); the standard care group actually is a waiting list, without
           acupuncture intervention. Follow up: 6 weeks.

           Acupuncture time and frequency: 45 min per session, once or twice per week, for 6-12
           sessions (in 6 weeks).

        7. Main observation:

      (1) Objective pain score(tested using cotton swab); (2) Patient self reported pain score
      (subjective, before Cotton swab test); Others: Pain duration and pain score during
      intercourse.

      8. Statistics: student t-test.

      Sample calculation: The expected difference (ECSD) between two means is 3, and the common
      within group standard deviation is 3. Giving an 80 chance that an 0.05 level test of
      significance will find a statistically significant difference between two sample means are
      compared, the sample size is approximately 17 per group.

      Comparisons:

        1. At the end point (end of 6 weeks), make comparisons between acupuncture (1a+1b) group
           and group 2, acupuncture 1a and group 2, acupuncture 1b and group 2; between acupuncture
           1a and acupuncture 1b; respectively.

        2. At the end point (end of 6 weeks), make comparisons in each group self (before and
           after).
    
  