
    
      The Head Start Family and Child Experiences Survey 2019, or FACES 2019, is the seventh in a
      series of national studies of Head Start, with earlier studies conducted in 1997, 2000, 2003,
      2006, 2009, and 2014. (FACES 2014 is entered as NCT03705377). It includes nationally
      representative samples of Head Start programs and centers, classrooms, children and their
      families. Data from surveys of Head Start program and center directors, classroom teachers,
      and parents provide descriptive information about program policies and practices, classroom
      activities, and the background and experiences of Head Start staff and families. Classroom
      observations are used to assess the quality of Head Start classrooms. Children in the study
      participate in a direct assessment that provides a rich picture of their school readiness
      skills at different time points.

      FACES 2019 extends a previously conducted data collection to a new sample of Head Start
      programs, families, and children. As with FACES 2014-2018, FACES 2019 features a "Core Plus"
      study design; Core studies will capture key indicators; a potential Plus study affords the
      flexibility to address new policy and programmatic issues. As with previous rounds, FACES
      2019 will collect information from a national probability sample of Head Start programs to
      learn what progress Head Start has made toward meeting program performance goals.

      The goals of FACES 2019 are to describe: (1) the quality and characteristics of Head Start
      classrooms, programs, and staff for specific program years; (2) the changes or trends in the
      quality and characteristics of classrooms, programs, and staff over time; and (3) the factors
      or characteristics that predict differences in classroom quality. The study also will focus
      on describing (4) the school readiness skills and family characteristics of children who
      participate in Head Start during specific program years, (5) the changes or trends in
      children's outcomes and family characteristics over time, and (6) the factors or
      characteristics at multiple levels that predict differences in children's outcomes. FACES
      2019 provides the mechanism for collecting data on nationally representative samples of
      programs, children, and families served in Regions I through X in order to provide the Office
      of Head Start, other federal government agencies, local programs, and the public with valid
      and reliable national information.
    
  