
    
      Cataract surgery ist the most often performed surgery worldwide and with increasing number of
      patients undergoing surgery, patients' expectations concerning postoperative optical outcomes
      are growing. In order to achieve an optimal outcome after cataract surgery an adequate
      intraocular lens (IOL) centration is essential, especially when premium IOLs like aspheric,
      toric or multifocal IOls are being implanted. This fact has to be kept in mind especially in
      patients with pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PXF) or with history of blunt ocular trauma, where
      decentration and subluxation of the IOL is more likely due to a higher incidence of zonular
      weakness and zonular dialysis.

      Additionally, pseudophacodonesis - dangling of the IOL with eye movement - can occur.
      Decentration, tilt and dangling of the IOL may decrease visual acuity and contrast
      sensitivity and induce glare and subjective perception of image flickering. Because of the
      large amount of pseudophakic patients worldwide, decentered and dislocated IOLs may cause a
      relatively large public health care burden.

      Additionally, IOL implantation in eyes with zonular pathology may be technically challenging.
      Several devices to improve IOL stability in demanding eyes have been developed and may be
      used in cases lacking sufficient zonular support, such as different capsular tension rings.
      Another option would be to use special surgical techniques like scleral fixation of the IOL.

      In pseudophakic eyes, IOL tilt and decentration may be measured as an indicator for zonular
      stability. Several techniques have been used to measure IOL decentration and tilt, such as
      slitlamp examination, retroillumination photography, Scheimpflug imaging and the analysis of
      purkinje reflexes. Slitlamp examination is a subjective method that allows approximate
      decentration measurements, but no quantitative tilt measurements. For this measurement the
      pupil has to be dilated. Scheimpflug imaging also needs a sufficiently dilated pupil to make
      the optic edge and the posterior surface of the IOL visible. A recently developed purkinje
      meter was shown to be highly reproducible to assess IOL tilt and decentration. A new version
      of this purkinje meter can additionally acquire videos of eye movements. Analysis of these
      dynamic images can detect dangling or "wobbling" of the lens capsule and the IOL.

      Patients within this study will be examined on two occasions. Only one additional visit will
      be necessary as the first examination will take place on the day of the routine pre-operative
      visit and all measurements will be non invasive. The results will lead to a better
      understanding of the long-term outcome after implanting IOLs in eyes with pseudoexfoliation
      syndrome or a ocular trauma.
    
  