
    
      Introduction:

      Nutritional support of the intensive care (ICU) patients is recommended as a standard of
      care. It is also strongly recommended to start enteral feeding as soon as possible whenever
      the gastrointestinal tract is functioning (1). However, studies have repeatedly shown that
      with enteral support alone, insufficient energy and protein intakes often occur (2). The
      resulting energy and protein deficit is associated with an increased complication rate in ICU
      patients (3-5). Recently we proposed to decrease this deficit by promoting a combined
      nutrition support by enteral nutrition (EN) and supplemental parenteral nutrition (SPN)
      whenever EN is insufficient (6).

      Contrary to former beliefs, recent meta-analyses show that parenteral nutrition (PN) does not
      carry excess mortality (7, 8). These reports convey a concept that is a major break-through
      in current routine of nutritional support in ICU patients by promoting a much wider use of
      PN. SPN could be the optimal modality to provide the calculated energy targets if this cannot
      be reached by EN alone. To improve ICU patient's outcome and minimise complications, we
      propose to implement feeding protocols which combine both EN and PN, when EN is insufficient
      to cover more than 60% of caloric needs at day 4 to reach 100% of the energy targets by
      adding PN from day 4 (6).

      Hypothesis:

      The administration of SPN, in ICU patients receiving < 60% of targeted energy needs by EN
      alone, has a positive impact on their clinical outcome by optimising their nutritional
      support (reduced infectious complications rate, mechanical ventilation days, duration of ICU
      and hospital length of stay and rehabilitation).

      Objective:

      The aim of the present study is to investigate if the delivery of optimal nutrition support
      (100 % of predicted energy targets) in ICU patients achieved with the combined administration
      of SPN and EN optimizes their clinical outcome.
    
  