
    
      Objective:

      It is our hypothesis that the ergonomics of the surgeon and his/her assistant will be
      improved with the aid of the AutoLap than without the aid of a robotic camera holder.
      Maintaining the same posture for a long period of time can lead to discomfort and fatigue of
      the surgeon and his/her assistant. Also, the space at the OR table is limited. Therefore,
      their body postures are sometimes awkward, unnatural and out of neutral position. With the
      aid of a robotic camera holder, we expect to minify this problem and improve ergonomics
      during laparoscopic operations.

      The Autolap system is CE mark approved and is used frequently during laparoscopic operations.
      No patient characteristics and data will be recorded. The ethics committee MEC-U in
      Nieuwegein assessed this study and concluded that it does not fall under the scope of the
      WMO. Therefore this is non-WMO research.

      The system shall be used in accordance with its cleared indication according to the clinical
      plan by clinical staff that has appropriate qualifications and training.

      Predefined steps of the procedures:

      The defined steps for a hiatal hernia repair / fundoplication are as follows:

        -  Opening of pars flaccida

        -  Deperitonialisation of the crura

        -  Resection of the hernia sac

        -  Suturing of the crura

        -  Dissection of the vasa brevia (if applicable)

        -  Creation of the fundoplication

      The defined steps for a right hemicolectomy are as follows:

        -  Mobilisation of the coecum

        -  Dissection Toldt's line (lateral mobilization)

        -  Making the Subcolic tunnel

        -  Dissection of the ileo-colic artery

        -  Dissection of gastrocolic ligament

        -  Mobilization of the transverse colon

        -  Making the anastomosis (if performed laparoscopically)

      The defined steps for a sigmoid resection are as follows:

        -  Dissection Toldt's line (lateral mobilization)

        -  Exposing the ureter

        -  Colon descendens mobilisation

        -  Mobilisation of flexura lienalis

        -  Dissecting the mesocolon

        -  Making the anastomosis (if performed laparoscopically)

      The defined steps for a rectopexy are as follows:

        -  Incision of peritoneum over the promotorium

        -  Posterior resection behind the rectum

        -  Dissection towards pelvic floor

        -  Anterior resection of peritoneum

        -  Fixation of the mesh

        -  Removal of excess mesh

        -  Closing the peritoneum

      The defined steps for a splenectomy are as follows:

        -  Opening of lesser peritoneal sac

        -  Division of gastrosplenic ligament

        -  Division of splenocolic ligament

        -  Division of pancreaticosplenic ligament

        -  Division of the hilum (vein and artery)

        -  Posterior and lateral dissection

      The defined steps for a low anterior resection are as follows:

        -  Mobilisation of the sigmoid

        -  Dissection of the inferior mesenteric vena and arteria

        -  Dissection of the posterior wall of the mesorectum

        -  Lateral dissection of the sigmoid / rectum (freeing left colonic gutter)

        -  Dissection of the anterior wall of the rectum

        -  Dissection of Waldeyer's fascia

        -  Division of the distal rectum

      Position and angles of the posture will be measured with MATLAB software. The posture of the
      surgeon and assistant will be photographed during the operation in two directions; from the
      side and from behind. These photographs will be used to calculate the RULA score. The RULA
      score is only measured during laparoscopic parts of the operation; if a part of the operation
      is performed open (not laparoscopically) RULA score will NOT be measured during the open
      part. No patient data or measurements will be acquired during this study. The positioning of
      the surgeon and operating assistant, operating table and OR monitors will be standardized for
      each type of procedure. Also, the placement of the monitors will be taken into account in
      such a way that a good ergonomic posture of the surgeon and assistant is ensured.
    
  