
    
      Quality assurance plan:

        -  To perform regular monitoring according to the International Conference on Harmonisation
           (ICH) and Good Clinical Practice (GCP): The data will be evaluated according to the
           protocol and source documents.

        -  To give training to the centres involved in the study.

        -  To check the electronic Case Report Form (eCRF)

      Data checks to compare data entered into the registry:

      The eCRF has been designed to capture all data required in the protocol. A unique eCRF will
      be completed for subject, taking into account the protection law in each country of the
      study.Subjects will be identified by a unique subject number (with key held by the relevant
      partner), so none id card number will not be recorded on the eCRF or the database. The
      monitor will guarantee that the eCRF is fully and correctly fill up according to the source
      documents. The researcher will assure that all data recorded in the eCRF coincide with the
      information recorded in the source documents.

      Plan for missing data to address situations where variables are reported as missing:

      The investigators will check the missing data in each eCRF and source documents.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using STATA®. Descriptive statistics will be reported and histograms
      will assess the distribution of frailty scores in each scale. Each analysis will be
      categorised according to frail, prefrail or robust patients.The prevalence of frailty will be
      calculated for each scale based on the score thresholds and relationships between frailty and
      age and other variables will be evaluated. Agreement among scales will be examined using the
      Cohen kappa statistic. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves will be constructed to
      compare the area under the ROC curve (AUC) for each scale for available outcomes.

      Sample Size: A minimum of 50 patients will be studied in each clinical setting, providing a
      database of 900 patients.
    
  