
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Develop and test an innovative intervention (tailored "take-home" video tapes with
           accompanying low literacy tailored written materials) to help participants improve their
           eating habits, particularly decreasing fat and increasing fiber, fruit, and vegetable
           intake.

        -  Determine the feasibility and acceptability of the above approach with work sites using
           process measures.

        -  Conduct a randomized controlled trial to test the effectiveness of this approach in
           achieving dietary change relevant to cancer prevention, as compared to written tailored
           materials only or usual care materials.

        -  Compare the differential costs of the above educational approaches.

        -  Study cognitive/behavioral (psychosocial) factors associated with decreasing fat and
           increasing fruit and vegetable consumption.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, controlled study.

      Nutrition education materials will be mailed out in 3 different sets and will vary depending
      on which of three experimental conditions the company is assigned. The groups are:
      Non-Tailored Written (NT), Tailored Written (TW) , or Tailored Written and Video (TV).

        -  Group 1 (non-tailored written): Employee receives three sets of written information on
           nutrition and other health topics by mail. Upon completion of th study, participants in
           this group will receive a packet of written nutrition materials similar to what the
           other study groups received.

        -  Group 2 (tailored written): Employee receives three sets of tailored written nutrition
           materials in the mail. These written materials will be designed especially for each
           employee. They will be based on their answers to the first telephone survey, and from
           two later brief sets of questions.

        -  Group 3 (tailored written and video): Employee receives three sets of written nutrition
           materials and three videos or DVDs in the mail. The written materials and the video/DVD
           will be designed especially for each employee. They will be based on their answers to
           the first telephone survey and from two later brief sets of questions.

      All participants receive booster intervention materials by mail at 2 and 4 months after
      baseline, following the same procedures as before. Participants receive follow-up telephone
      calls at 4 and 8 months after baseline.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,520 participants will be accrued for this study.
    
  