
    
      Dry eye disease is one of the most common pathologies of the ocular surface which is
      characterized by tear film instability due to insufficient tear production or increased
      evaporation. Its prevalence varies between 5 to 50% in adults and may increase up to 75% in
      individuals aged above 40 years. This disease affects women twice as often as men. Dry eye
      poses burden on patients, due to associated symptoms that may widely range from persistent
      pain, itching, burning, stinging or scratchy and foreign body sensation, and light
      sensitivity to blurred vision, corneal epithelial defects, and ulcerations in the chronic
      state. In particular, in moderate-to-severe cases, pain, limitations in the daily living
      activities, and reduced quality of life are associated with depression, mood and sleep
      disorders. There are many factors proposed to play a role in the etiology of the disease:
      lifestyle habits, low humidity and artificial indoor heating and air conditioning systems,
      environmental factors such as air pollution containing chemical, physical, and biological
      pollutants, visual tasks requiring long-term mental focus, prolonged exposure to computer or
      smart phones, and occupational and personal habits that decrease the eyeblink frequency and
      increase the ocular evaporation.

      The operating rooms are specially designed for multi-modality use and contain a number of
      environmental pollutants for the ocular surface associated with the physical environment and
      occupational and personal habits of healthcare providers. Surgery itself being a critical
      task demanding long-term mental focus, air conditioning, constant humidity, constant room
      temperature, intense lighting, irritant chemicals, surgical smoke, anesthetic gases, and
      biological aerosols are predisposing factors for ocular irritation in operating room staff. A
      few studies demonstrated that the risk of dry eye disease is higher in operating room staff,
      intensive care nursing and laboratory technicians. Castellanos-González et al. reported that
      their presence in the operating room predisposed surgical residents to have dry eye syndrome
      due to environmental conditions.

      To the best of our knowledge, there is no study investigating the effectiveness of proper
      eyelid hygiene in dry eye disease among operating room staff., occupational activities with a
      high level of visual burden, and working environment. Dry eye disease is a chronic and
      progressive condition. Treatment provides symptomatic relief; however, cure is seen in only a
      small fraction of patients. The 2017 Tear Film and Ocular Surface Society (TFOS) revisited
      the management and treatment of dry eye disease in a two-step model. Accordingly, in the
      first step, non-pharmacological methods such as education about the disease and its
      management, modification of local environment, dietary changes, increasing fluid intake,
      enhanced blinking behavior, and proper eyelid hygiene are recommended. Based on these
      recommendations, eyelid hygiene regimen consisting of warm compress, lid massage, and eye
      cleaning is a supportive and rehabilitative approach. Also, studies have revealed that have
      also demonstrated the favorable effects of daily eyelid hygiene consisting of warm compress,
      lid massage, and cleaning on eye fatigue, dry eye symptoms, and visual acuity and recommended
      this regimen as a preventive medicine and health promotion. Warm compress and mechanical lid
      massage induce the meibomian secretion (i.e., the tear film lipid layer is mostly (90%)
      derived from the meibomian oil secreted by the meibomian glands), while eye cleaning provides
      protein/lipid deposits around the eyelashes and eyelids and eliminates microbial agents such
      as Staphylococci and Demodex spp.

      Previous studies have confirmed the increased the secretion of meibomian lipids that are
      pathologically altered with warm compress, the outcomes may vary depending on the duration of
      application, degree of heat, and patient compliance. It have shown that the mean temperature
      ranges between 37.7±0.3 and 41.6±1.0°C and the ideal temperature is 40 to 45°C for warm
      compress. Once the meibomian secretions are liquefied with warm compress, the main goal of
      lid massage is to reduce the clogging of the meibomian gland and to maintain sufficient
      drainage of the tears. Following eyelid warming for minimum four min once or twice daily,
      medium-to-intense eyelid massage has been shown to induce expression of the meibomian gland
      secretions. With similar effects to mechanical finger massage, intense pulsed light to the
      eyelid, high-frequency electrotherapy, meibomian gland compressors, and eye massagers with
      heat-vibration have been also utilized in studies. Previous studies have confirmed that eye
      clean is an effective approach to prevent meibomian gland dysfunction (MGD) and Demodex
      mites. The most common used eye clean regimens include warm water in a washcloth, soaked
      cloths, cotton pads, or cotton tipped applicators, and gentle rubbing with baby shampoo,
      alone or combined.

      In the present study, we, for the first time, aimed to evaluate the impact of eyelid hygiene
      on tear film stability, ocular symptoms, and vision-related quality of life among operating
      room staff with Stage ≥I dry eye disease.
    
  