
    
      Large studies have proved that TIVAPS was effective for long term venous access with minimal
      risk of complication. For TIVAPS, clinicians have approach the vena cava through the
      subclavian, internal jugular vein, or cephalic vein regularly with various technique. The
      most minimal complication risk was obtained in the access through cephalic vein.In the
      conventional method of cephalic central venous access approach, the incision was done at
      clavicular regio, with the high risk of catheter being kinking. To improve the feasibility of
      the techique, here, the author introduced the modified technique for cephalic vein approach.

      Step 1 Preparation The patient was positioned supine with the head tilted to the left. In our
      procedure, the head was tilted to the left in order to expose the deltopetoral groove. The
      procedure was done in aseptic condition with iodine tincture and sterile draping. It was
      carried out under local anesthesia in an operating room. A two-gram of cephazolin was
      inserted intravenously following the guideline standard in the local hospital.

      Step 2 Landmarks There were two landmark incision in this procedure, in which the first one
      is in deltopectoral groove for catheter insertion and the second is in anteromedial of
      thorax. The deltopectoral groove is located between the insertio of pectoralis major and
      deltoid muscle. The cephalic vein passes through the clavipectoral (deltopectoral) triangle
      to join the axillary vein. Lidocaine without adrenaline was used as a local anesthetic in
      both incision. The procedure was done without any radiology guidance.

      Step 3 Vein identification The first incision was made for the insertion of venous catheter.
      As long as 2 to 3 cm incision was made in the deltopectoral groove. An incision of 3 mm in
      length was made on the surface of the vein. The incision was then deepened to the fascia
      overlying the deltoid and pectoralis muscle. Subcutaneous tissue was positioned by blunt
      dissection to uncover the cephalic vein. The cephalic vein was identified in the adipose
      tissue along the deltopectoral groove. Surgical cauterization was used to control bleeding.
      The proximal and distal end of the vein was secured by tying and a hemostat was applied for
      traction. A transverse venotomy was made at the center of these 2 sutures.

      Step 4 Venous catheter insertion A peel-away sheath was inserted to facilitate the catheter
      insertion into the venous system. The catheter was inserted into the cephalic vein for
      approximately 25 centimeters.

      Step 5 Port pocket incision The 3-4 cm for second incision was carried out for port pocket,
      with the position on anteromedial of thorax for chemoport implantation. Trocar was tunneled
      subcutaenously and advanced to the first incision. Catheter was trimmed and ready to be
      connected to the reservoir.

      Step 6 Port implantation The port was inserted to the port pocket and anchored to two sites
      of underlying muscle in chest was using permanent monofilament suture. The implanted port was
      flushed with 10 ml of normal saline and 5 ml of 50 IU/ml heparin.

      Step 7 Ensuring position For ensuring the catheter position, plain chest radiograph
      (posteroanterior view) was done.
    
  