
    
      Background:

        -  Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of the gastrointestinal tract and pancreas are a rare and
           heterogeneous, but clinically important, group of neoplasms with unique tumor biology,
           natural history, and clinical management issues.

        -  While the treatment of localized NETs is surgical resection, a variety of therapeutic
           options are available for patients with advanced NETs. These include medical control of
           excess hormone levels and associated symptoms, cytoreductive surgery for patients with
           advanced disease, radioembolization, chemoembolization, systemic chemotherapy,
           interferon, longacting somatostatin analogs, receptor-targeted radionuclide therapy, and
           or liver transplantation.

        -  Somatostatin receptors (SSTR) have been shown to be overexpressed in a number of human
           tumors, including neuroblastoma, prostate cancer, pheochromocytomas, paragangliomas, and
           NETs, among many others.

        -  Lu-177-DOTATATE (Lutathera) is a SSTR-agonist agent which emits ionizing radiation that
           causes DNA damage to its target cells through both direct and indirect mechanisms. In
           addition, ionizing radiation has also been shown to induce cell death through what is
           known as the bystander effect, a phenomenon where cellular signaling from irradiated
           cells towards non-irradiated cells induces cellular damage and eventually death in
           nearby surrounding cells.

        -  Olaparib is a PARP inhibitor indicated as monotherapy in patients with deleterious or
           suspected deleterious germline BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer who have been
           treated with three or more prior lines of chemotherapy. Olaparib has an established
           safety

      profile and it is under investigation in several different cancers.

      - The rationale behind using combination therapies in cancer stems from the potential of
      synergistic mechanisms of action of the involved agents. Olaparib is a PARP-inhibitor which
      blocks the repair of single-stranded DNA breaks and is especially effective when combined
      with other agents which induces DNA damage.

      Objectives:

        -  Phase 1:

             -  Characterize the safety profile and tolerability of the olaparib + Lu-177-DOTATATE
                combination

             -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) dose of the combination using the 3+3
                dose escalation design

        -  Phase 2:

             -  Measure the Best Overall Response Rate (BOR) by RECIST 1.1 at the MTD dose at
                completion of 4 cycles of treatment

      Eligibility:

        -  Clinical diagnosis of GEP-NET disease, histologically confirmed to be consistent with
           neuroendocrine tumor

        -  Inoperable disease (metastatic, non-candidate for surgery with curative intent, locally
           advanced into vessels or other critical structures, etc.)

        -  Age >=18 years

        -  Must have presence of SSTR+ disease as documented by positive Ga-68-DOTATATE PET scan
           within 12 weeks prior to anticipated treatment

        -  ECOG Performance Status <= 1

      Design:

        -  Open-label, single-arm, single-center, phase 1/2 study evaluating the safety and
           efficacy of the Lu-177-DOTATATE + olaparib combination in patients with inoperable
           GEP-NET

        -  For phase 1, a standard 3+3 design will be used to determine MTD. It is estimated that
           approximately 15 to 24 patients will be required. Phase 2 will involve the use of a
           Simon optimal two-stage design to determine sample size and interim stopping rule

        -  Assuming a combination of inevaluable patients or loss-to-follow-up of 10%, up to 24
           patients will be accrued to phase 1 and 15 patients to phase 2 including the 6 phase 1
           patients at MTD, with a total accrual ceiling of 37 patients to allow for a small number
           of inevaluable patients
    
  