
    
      Fifty patients will be enrolled in a double-blinded, placebo-controlled single-dose crossover
      trial comparing intranasal oxytocin to intranasal saline. At the time of enrollment, patients
      will complete a series of standardized questionnaires detailing information about their
      IC-related symptoms at baseline as well as comorbid conditions, coping mechanisms
      (specifically catastrophizing), and baseline ratings of overall pain, depression, anxiety,
      and global functioning. Once this information is obtained, the patient will receive a
      one-time dose of intranasal oxytocin or an equivalent volume of intranasal saline. The
      patients will be monitored for one hour by a physician investigator for toxicities and
      efficacy and then contacted for follow-up information at 2, 4, 6, and 24 hours. At each of
      these time points, the patient will be asked to report a verbal pain report, a verbal anxiety
      report, the number of voids since last contact with an investigator, and the use of any
      additional medications for pain control or anxiety. In addition, a global response assessment
      (GRA) score will be obtained at 6 and 24 hours. The patient will be asked to return within a
      one week period at which time he/she will receive the alternative intranasal agent. Following
      the second dose, the patient will be monitored for one hour and contact made at 2, 4, 6, and
      24 hours as previously described.

      The primary outcome measure will be the GRA score, which will be analyzed using a Chi-square
      analysis followed by Fischer's exact test. Secondary outcome measures will be analyzed via
      ANOVA.

      If this study indicates that intranasal oxytocin is efficacious for pain control, this could
      provide for an alternative to current ineffective or invasive treatments for IC-related pain.
      It is also possible it could eventually be utilized for other forms of chronic pain as well.
    
  