
    
      This research study will compare 3 strategies for the delivery of an intervention to increase
      moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) in community dwelling adults with Down
      Syndrome; remotely delivered group MVPA sessions at low (1 session/wk.,RL), high frequency (3
      sessions/wk., RH), or usual care control (UC). Adults (age ≥ 18 yrs.) with Down Syndrome will
      be randomized (2:2:1) to one of the 3 intervention arms for an 12-mo. trial. Cohorts of ~20
      adults with Down Syndrome will be recruited and computer randomized. Participants will be
      stratified by sex and sequentially randomized by the study statistician. Participants in all
      arms will be provided with an iPad for intervention delivery, Fitbit for self-monitoring MPA,
      and will be asked to complete 150 min of MPA/wk. Participants in the RL and RH arms will be
      asked to complete 40 minutes MVPA sessions delivered via Zoom software on an iPad, RL will be
      provided 1 session/wk, and RH will be provided 3 sessions/wk. Participants in both the RL and
      RH groups will also receive one 20-min remotely delivered individual support/education
      session/wk. with a heath coach to discuss progress and provide support. The UC intervention
      will follow the traditional approach to promote increased MVPA. Participants will receive an
      iPad tablet loaded with information regarding increasing MVPA and will also receive
      resistance bands and a Fitbit for self-monitoring MVPA. Monthly 20-min. education/support
      sessions, identical to the education/support sessions provided in the RL and RH arms, will be
      delivered to participants and their caregivers remotely on the iPad using FaceTime. All
      outcomes will be collected by trained research assistants who are blinded to the study
      condition. The primary outcome, daily MVPA (min) in the RL, RH, and UC arms will be assessed
      at baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 mos. using an accelerometer. All secondary outcomes will be
      assessed at baselines, 6, and 12 months. Secondary outcomes are to assess the impact of MVPA
      across the RL, RH, and UC arms on cardiovascular fitness, quality of life, cognitive function
      and brain parameters related to Alzheimer's Disease (whole and regional brain volume,
      functional connectivity, cerebral blood flow). Additionally the researchers will determine
      the feasibility (retention, session attendance, use of recorded sessions (RH/RL only) and
      safety of RL, RH, and UC arms.
    
  