
    
      OSI-774 (also known as Erlotinib or Tarceva) is a drug that helps to block the activity of an
      enzyme that is believed to play an important role in cell growth. It is hoped that blocking
      this enzyme will slow tumor growth. Docetaxel (Taxotere) is a commonly used chemotherapy
      drug. Docetaxel is designed to target and destroy cancer cells.

      Before beginning treatment, you will have a complete physical exam. You will also have
      routine blood (about 4 teaspoons) and urine tests, a chest x-ray or CT scan, and an
      electrocardiogram (ECG - test to measure the electrical activity of the heart). You will have
      a dental exam performed by a dentist. Women who are able to have children must have a
      negative pregnancy test (blood or urine). You will also have either a CT scan or a MRI to
      measure your disease. You may have a bone scan and/or CT scans of your abdomen and chest if
      your doctor thinks it is necessary for your care.

      You will have a swallowing evaluation. The swallowing evaluation involves drinking barium and
      other liquids of varying thickness while fluoroscopy (like an x-ray movie) is done to
      evaluate swallowing function. You will also complete a questionnaire that asks questions
      about quality of life issues. The questionnaire should take about 10 minutes to complete.

      In this study you will receive radiation therapy 5 days per week (Monday through Friday) for
      6 weeks. You will not receive radiation therapy on weekends. For the first 3 weeks of
      treatment you will receive radiation once a day. Starting on the 4th week of treatment, you
      will receive radiation treatment twice a day. The treatments will be at least 6 hours apart.
      You will receive these twice daily radiation treatments Monday through Friday for 3 weeks.

      On your first day of radiation treatment you will also receive your first dose of docetaxel.
      You will receive docetaxel by vein over 15 to 30 minutes on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of
      treatment.

      Beginning on Day 2 of treatment, you will begin taking OSI-774 by mouth. You will take
      OSI-774 once a day in the morning with up to 7 ounces of water either 2 hours after or 1 hour
      before eating. If you are unable to swallow the OSI-774, you may dissolve it in distilled
      water and take it through a feeding tube. You will take OSI-774 every day while on treatment
      except on days on which you receive docetaxel (i.e., Days 1, 8, 15, and 22). You should not
      take OSI-774 on days you receive a docetaxel infusion.

      Participants will enter this study in groups of 3. The doses of both OSI-774 and docetaxel
      will be increased after each group. Six patients will be studied at the dose level that is
      estimated to be the highest safe dose.

      While receiving treatment on this study, you will be examined at least once a week. You will
      also have weekly blood tests (2-4 teaspoons). At the end of treatment, you will have another
      CT scan or MRI to measure your disease. You will also have a complete physical exam and blood
      tests (4 teaspoons). You may be taken off study if your disease gets worse or intolerable
      side effects occur.

      After completing treatment, you will have a follow-up visit every 3 months for 2 years, then
      every 4 months during Year 3, and every 6 months during Years 4 and 5. These visits will
      include a medical history and physical exam. A CT or MRI study and blood work (2-4 teaspoons)
      may also be done. You will have swallowing evaluations at 3 and 12 months following
      treatment, and then once yearly through year 5. When you have these swallowing evaluations,
      you will also be asked to complete a short questionnaire about swallowing. The questionnaire
      will take about 10 minutes to complete.

      This is an investigational study. OSI-774 is approved by the FDA for treatment of non-small
      cell lung cancer. Docetaxel is approved by the FDA for treatment of lung cancer and breast
      cancer. Their use together in this study with radiation treatment is experimental. Up to 24
      patients are expected to take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  