
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was in response to a demonstration and education initiative, "Improving
      Hypertensive Care for Inner City Minorities", which was reviewed and approved by the Clinical
      Applications and Prevention Advisory Committee in April 1992 and by the National Heart, Lung,
      and Blood Advisory Council in May 1992. The Request for Applications was released in October
      1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      An aggressive Hypertension Intervention Project (HIP) was developed in the Hypertension
      Research Section of King/Drew Medical Center in South-Central Los Angeles. The private CHUER
      clinic (located in the same cachement area) subcontracted with the Drew University Center in
      a community coalition consisting of several large health advocacy organizations. All subjects
      were randomized into usual care (controls) or interventional care (experimental) at the
      initiation of the HIP. The cornerstone of the aggressive intervention was the development of
      a computerized patient tracking system and the introduction into the clinic of several
      educational activities including a) exit interviews; b) home visits; c) support group
      sessions, and d) community health seminars/fairs. Community Health Workers performed the bulk
      of the patient tracking and educational intervention field work. Outcome measures of pre and
      post-study blood pressure, renal function, body weight change, and all-cause mortality were
      compared between experimental and controls at two, three and four years into the study.
      Quality-of-life questionnaires were obtained pre- and post-study and analyzed for new
      insights into needs assessment, awareness of hypertension, attitudes towards treatment,
      compliance with drug therapy, and effectiveness of various educational interventions employed
      in the study. Concurrent efforts to reduce co-morbid risk factors such as obesity, cigarette
      smoking, excessive alcohol consumption and stress were assessed as secondary outcomes. The
      HIP hoped to demonstrate cost-effective innovations for the adaptation of these Medical
      Center-targeted strategies to community physicians and health clinics of the inner city.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  