
    
      Fall of the elderly is a major public health problem, especially in people with fragile
      bones. Various tools are available to identify high-risk subjects. Timed Up and Go (TUG) is a
      clinical test used as a predictive test of fall. However, its real usefulness remains
      uncertain. The degradation of TUG appears to be validated after the fall, but discussed as a
      prediction of a future fall.

      On the other hand, human movement is separable into 2 phases, a programming phase
      (anticipation) and an execution phase. Movement programming can be reliably assessed through
      a simple test that evaluates the concordance between the duration of an imagined practice and
      a physical practice . Adapted to Timed Up and Go (= |realizedTUG -imaginedTUG|), the
      degradation of this Isochronic Index clinically marks a structural and functional degradation
      of cognitive abilities . In addition, the decrease in isochrony is correlated with the
      decrease in walking speed during the double task. This loss of isochrony could thus indicate
      a risk of falling due to poor anticipation of real motor skills.

      At Departmental Hospital Centre, a primary and secondary screening program for osteoporosis
      was set up in 2014 in the medical services (excluding oncology), gynaecology, outpatient
      surgery and orthopaedics. Patients who consulted outpatients in the emergency room were not
      taken into account due to the 24-hour opening hours. The objective of this program was to
      identify all patients at risk of osteoporosis; i. e. not only patients with a recent or
      previous fracture history, but also patients with osteoporosis risk factors without a history
      of fracture to date. This is in order to propose a prevention strategy to referring
      physicians and thus reduce the risk of fractures. The handover of the Timed Up and Go
      designed and physically carried out was added in July 2017 to the management of patients as
      part of this screening.

      During this screening, patients are asked to perform 2 realized Timed Up and Go (rTUG),
      followed by 2 imagined Timed Up and Go (iTUG).

      The interest in preventing falls in osteoporotic patients leads us to propose this evaluation
      as part of this "osteoporosis" screening. This study wills offer patients benefiting from
      osteoporosis screening as part of the process already in place at CHD to participate in the
      FallMi study. If agreement is reached, the patient's treating physician will be contacted to
      collect data on the occurrence of falls in these patients. After a request by mail, an email
      will be sent to the attending physicians of each patient at 6 months, then one year after the
      completion of the TUG. This email will ask the doctors about the presence of a fall that has
      occurred since the TUGs were performed, as well as the severity of this possible fall.

      Investigators objective is to evaluate rTUG and iTUG as predictive factors of a fall with
      moderate to fatal consequences.

      Investigators hypothesize that a lower isochrony between rTUG and iTUG is predictive of a
      risk of falling.
    
  