
    
      Work Package 1

      WP1 is a safety cohort pilot study targeting patients with DFU which are non-infected as
      determined by the IDSA criteria. 20 participants will be recruited from Diabetic Foot Clinic
      at the Royal Derby Hospital. Phage gel will be applied to the index ulcer after the first and
      second sets of measures at baseline, weeks 1, 2 and 3. Samples will be taken at baseline and
      weekly up to 4 weeks by surface swab and deep tissue sample for determination of bacterial
      colonisation using both conventional and genotypic (molecular) microbiological methods, prior
      to any IMP application.

      Work Package 2

      WP2 is a pilot double blind, placebo-controlled, randomised study targeting patients with
      mild or moderate infection of DFUs and comparing systemic antibiotic therapy plus phage gel
      against systemic antibiotics therapy plus placebo gel. A total of 50 participants from two
      centres (foot clinics at Royal Derby Hospital and City Campus, Nottingham University
      Hospitals NHS Trust) will be recruited. Phage gel or placebo will be applied to the index
      ulcer after the first and second sets of measures at baseline, weeks 1, 2 and 3. Samples will
      be taken at baseline and weekly up to 4 weeks by surface swab and deep tissue sample for
      determination of bacterial colonisation using both conventional and genotypic (molecular)
      microbiological methods

      Work Package 3

      WP3 is an observer-blind RCT targeting patients with mild diabetic foot infection by IDSA
      criteria and comparing phage gel with systemic antibiotics. A total of 50 participants from
      two centres (foot clinics at Royal Derby Hospital and City Campus, Nottingham University
      Hospitals NHS Trust) will be recruited. Those with moderately severe infections will be
      withheld from this work package because of the clinical and ethical issues associated with
      withholding antibiotics in those with a moderately severe infection.
    
  