
    
      The only curative treatment for corneal diseases that progress to vision loss is corneal
      transplantation (CT). Penetrating keratoplasty (PK) involves the surgical replacement of the
      host cornea with a donor cornea. In cases of graft failure with standard PK, the Boston
      keratoprosthesis (KPro), the most common artificial cornea, can alternatively restore vision
      rapidly. A current limitation in the use of KPro is that the vast majority of patients are at
      high risk of developing glaucoma. Glaucoma contributes to significant ocular morbidity after
      CT surgery and is the leading cause of irreversible vision loss after CT. High intraocular
      pressure (IOP) is the most important risk factor for glaucoma and may lead to irreversible
      retinal and optic nerve damage. Glaucoma is treated using drops or surgery to reduce IOP.
      When IOP-lowering drugs and laser surgery fail, glaucoma drainage device (GDD) surgery is
      used to divert aqueous humor (AH) from the anterior chamber to an external reservoir to
      regulate flow and decrease the IOP. The cause and mechanisms of glaucoma development and
      progression following CT are still unknown. Neuroinflammation has been suggested to play a
      key role in glaucomatous damage following CT. The role of inflammatory biomarkers in glaucoma
      pathogenesis after CT remains poorly understood and must be further studied. The AH is in
      direct communication with any corneal damage or surgery undertaken in the anterior chamber
      and can serve as a source of potential biomarkers to detect inflammatory changes in glaucoma.
      Tears are also one of the most accessible and non-invasive source of biomarkers, especially
      in Kpro eyes where the central optic allows communication between AH and the tears at the
      surface of the eye. Full thickness corneal transplantation (penetrating keratoplasty and
      Boston KPro) and intraocular surgeries for glaucoma, cataract and retina that are required by
      the participants of the study offer the opportunity to have access to the AH and tears in an
      accessible and safe way, without additional risks. These samples of AH and tears will be
      analyzed for multiple inflammatory mediators simultaneously.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      The investigators propose to test the hypothesis that distinct inflammatory mediators in the
      AH and tears can serve as biomarkers for glaucoma development and progression after CT,
      making them specifically amenable to targeted treatment strategies to minimize vision loss.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To examine the (a) presence and (b) concentration of inflammatory mediators in glaucoma
           after corneal transplantation.

        2. To examine the correlation between the presence and concentration of inflammatory
           mediators and clinical ophthalmological data.

        3. To examine the correlation between the inflammatory mediators found in aqueous humor and
           tears.
    
  