
    
      This study is conducted at the department of obstetrics of the University hospital of Zurich.
      194 breastfeeding or expressing participants with sore and painful nipple lesions who fulfill
      the inclusion criteria are included in this study. If the participant meets any exclusion
      criteria she is excluded from this study. After being enrolled in the study, the participant
      is randomized to get either 3 low-level laser therapy (LLLT) treatments or 3 placebo
      treatments within 1 to 3 days.

      Women having signed the declaration of consent and fulfill all inclusion criteria are then
      examined by a breastfeeding consultant. During this examination nipple lesions are classified
      into four different stages, causes for the lesions are evaluated and the nipple form is
      recorded. A swab of the milk is taken to rule out a pathogenetic colonization with germs.
      Then a blood sample is collected to analyze inflammatory parameters (C-reactive protein
      (CRP), leucocyte (Lc)), inflammation modulators (interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor
      alpha (TNF-α)) and the lactating hormone (prolactin). The taking of blood is repeated at the
      end of the third therapy. In the beginning and at the end of the last treatment, nipple
      lesions are classified and photographically documented. Specific instructions regarding the
      correct positioning and removal of the baby at the breast as well as breastfeeding positions
      are given to the women before starting the treatment. Women then breastfeed their baby once
      before and once after the entire therapy. Two hours after breastfeeding, the amount of milk
      is being measured after 15 minutes of pumping. Additionally, the sensation of pain is
      evaluated on the basis of a visual analog scale (VAS) from 1-10 and the satisfaction of the
      treatment is recorded before and after every single treatment. At the end of the last
      therapy, a final examination is conducted.

      For the statistical analysis of the primary and secondary endpoints a proportional odds model
      is used.
    
  