
    
      Inactivated split-virion vaccines from Shanghai Institute of Biological Products Company have
      been used for more than 10 years in Beijing population. Some 160 thousands doses have been
      sold to subjects aged 3 years and older in this area. We review and summarize spontaneously
      reported adverse events from safety surveillance.

      Adverse events were collected through the Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI)
      Surveillance System. Beijing CDC and local prefectural CDC must organize an expert panel to
      investigate adverse events and assess causality, using criteria based on Chinese Standard
      Procedures for Vaccination. The panels consist of physicians, epidemiologists, pharmacists,
      and other relevant experts. In general, expert panels investigate deaths, life-threatening
      illnesses, and permanent disabilities, and immunization-program managers or vaccination
      providers investigate common, minor adverse events. Adverse events are classified into one of
      five categories: vaccine reactions (common and minor to rare and more serious), program
      errors, coincidental illnesses, psychogenic reactions, and unclassifiable events.

      At the time of vaccination, vaccinees were instructed to report any adverse event to
      physicians or vaccination providers. The following adverse events were required to be
      reported: adverse events that were fatal or that resulted in disability and clusters of
      events (i.e., notably high numbers of similar adverse events related to a certain vaccine) ;
      anaphylaxis or other allergic reactions occurring within 24 hours after vaccination; fever
      (axillary temperature, >37.5°C), angioedema, or a local injection-site reaction (diameter,
      >2.5 cm) occurring within 5 days after vaccination; purpura, an Arthus reaction, febrile
      convulsion, seizure, or polyneuritis occurring within 15 days after vaccination; and the
      Guillain-Barré syndrome occurring within 3 months after vaccination. Other reactions that
      were common and minor (e.g., mild pain and fatigue) were not required to be reported.
    
  