
    
      Background

      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common type of cancer in Denmark and is a leading
      cause of cancer death. Since 2000, the incidence has been increasing by 1-1.5% each year. The
      estimated 5-year survival rate is currently 80% for stage I cancer, 50% for stages II and
      III, and <5 % for stage IV cancer. These figures emphasize the importance of detecting the
      disease in early stages and underline the current challenge of diagnosing CRC in general
      practice.

      In 2008, a national fast-track system for cancer patients was established to ensure fast
      diagnosis and initiation of treatment. The fast-track system implies that patients presenting
      'alarm' symptoms of e.g. CRC will be referred immediately for diagnostic workup; no more than
      14 days must pass from referral to initiation of treatment. Several studies have shown that
      the positive predictive values (PPV) of the symptoms regarding CRC are fairly low (4-8%). In
      addition, approximately 50% of new CRC incidents will present with other vague and
      uncharacteristic symptoms than alarm symptoms.

      In addition, a screening programme for CRC has been implemented. It is suggested that this
      will increase survival rate of CRC, however, it is estimated that approximately 75% of yearly
      CRC still have to be diagnosed through general practice.

      A huge load is, consequently, still placed on general practice in the quest for earlier
      diagnosis of CRC, and better methods to aid the general practitioner in the diagnostic
      process are needed.

      One tool could be the use of iFOBT in general practice for patients who present with symptoms
      that could origin from an underlying CRC, but without being alarm symptoms.

      Aim

      To implement iFOBT in general practice and evaluate the uptake and clinical use of the test.
      Furthermore, we want to investigate the performance of iFOBT when used on patients presenting
      with uncharacteristic symptoms of CRC, and the clinical implications.

      Materials and methods

      We will develop a guideline for the use of iFOBT in general practice. The guideline is aimed
      at men and women aged 30 years and above who present symptoms that could origin from a CRC,
      but are not classified as alarm symptoms. The guideline will contain a list of symptoms for
      which it is recommended to perform iFOBT and suggested actions for positive and negative test
      result. A value of <49µg/L will be considered 'negative' and >50µg/L as 'positive'.

      The study uses a cluster randomised stepped wedge design, and is executed in the Central
      Denmark Region. Municipalities of the region are randomised when to receive a CME, and are
      included sequentially in the study during the first seven month of the study period. The CME
      are arranged on scheduled GP-meetings in each municipality and will consist of a 45 minutes
      lecture on CRC diagnosis and use of iFOBT. Besides a CME, the intervention consist of a start
      package (10 iFOBT kits, a guideline and online educational material) that is sent to GPs when
      they are included in the study, and a status mail that GPs receive approx. one month after
      inclusion. The study period is one year. Data analysis will focus on the uptake and clinical
      use of iFOBT in general practice, the performance of iFOBT when used on patients presenting
      with uncharacteristic symptoms of CRC and the clinical implications.

      Perspectives

      This study will investigate iFOBT and explore its role in general practice. To our knowledge,
      this study will be one of the first and most thorough investigations of this test in a
      primary care setting. The results will bring important knowledge of how to improve the
      diagnostics of colorectal cancer in the future and hopefully reduce time to diagnosis.
      Especially for patients who do not meet the traditional Danish criteria for fast-track
      referral, this study will be a corner stone in the identification of more efficient ways to
      locate patients at risk of developing CRC. At both national and international level, this
      project will contribute with important knowledge that may provide better planning of CRC
      diagnostics in the future.
    
  