
    
      The System of Safety (SOS) project will catalyze and expand the investigators existing
      efforts to transform suicide risk detection and suicide prevention across the UMass Memorial
      HealthCare system (UMMHC), the largest healthcare system in central Massachusetts
      representing a catchment area of 1.06 million people. This effort will span emergency
      department, inpatient, and primary care settings; engage medical and behavioral health
      clinicians; target adults and children; and support integration and collaboration across the
      entire system to provide a 360-degree safety net for patients at risk for suicide. Building
      on our previous and ongoing work, Zero Suicide's Seven Essential Elements of Care (Essential
      Elements) will be the foundation for an innovative continuous performance improvement (CQI)
      hub-and-spoke model whereby a central System Hub will work with Local Hubs and Spokes
      representing each setting and clinical unit. SOS will evolve over three phases. Phase 1
      (months 1 - 12) will start with the emergency departments across the four UMMHC hospitals;
      Phase 2 (months 13 - 30) will extend the efforts to the inpatient medical and psychiatric
      units; and, Phase 3 (months 31 - 48) will expand to primary care settings. Overall, 39
      clinical units will be engaged.

      Consistent with central CQI tenets and the Zero Suicide model, the investigators will create
      protocols using best-practice approaches to identifying, assessing, managing, and intervening
      with suicidal patients while tailoring the approach to the particular clinical unit's unique
      needs and population. Units will learn from one another through regular collaborative work
      sessions, retreats, and cross departmental sentinel case reviews of suicides and suicide
      attempts. Fidelity to key components of the protocols will be measured.

      The investigators will use a stepped wedge design with cluster randomization of clinical
      units, stratified by setting. Within each setting (Phase), the study population will consist
      of all patients seen in any of the clinical units during the pre-specified observation period
      before (Control) or after (Intervention) the unit's implementation start date. The
      investigators will follow these estimated 310,000 patients from their 1st encounter with a
      clinical unit through 6 months after Phase 3 ends (month 54). The investigators Aims assess
      the effect of SOS on its intervention targets (clinician behaviors) and on patient outcomes,
      using a system-level analytic strategy. The Specific Aims are:

      Aim 1: Examine the impact of the SOS intervention on clinician-administered, standardized
      suicide risk screening and suicide risk identification across settings and clinical units.

      H1: Likelihood of clinician-administered standardized suicide risk screening (an intervention
      target) at the time when a patient enters the study will increase monotonically with time
      since study initiation.

      H2: Likelihood of suicide risk identification (patient outcome) at the time when a patient
      enters the study will increase monotonically with time since study initiation.

      H3: The increasing likelihoods of screening and identification are attributable to SOS
      implementation.

      Aim 2: Examine the impact of SOS on suicide related outcomes across settings and clinical
      units.

      H4: As SOS is implemented across more settings and clinical units, the likelihood of
      receiving a best practice suicide prevention intervention by a clinician (intervention
      target) will increase among newly identified at-risk patients. This includes, but is not
      limited to, collaborative safety planning, means restriction counseling, and a post-acute
      care follow-up telephone call within 24 hours of discharge.

      H5: SOS implementation will decrease the likelihood of suicide, suicide attempt, or
      suicide-related emergency requiring acute medical attention (patient outcomes) among newly
      identified at-risk patients.

      H6: "Dose" of exposure to SOS will mediate the effect of SOS noted in H5.

      Exploratory Aims: The investigators will also evaluate SOS from different perspectives by:

      A: Exploring potential moderating and mediating factors, and potential mechanisms of action,
      such as:

      EH1: Supportive organizational characteristics (e.g., embedded behavioral services on site,
      providing regular clinician-level performance feedback) will promote higher adherence to SOS
      implementation.

      B: Exploring the population level effect of SOS on a subgroup of UMMHC patients that
      constitutes an Accountable Care Organization (ACO). For example, the investigators
      hypothesize that:

      EH2: Suicide-related outcomes measured at the entire ACO population level (not just those
      encountering a clinical unit during the study period) will decrease monotonically during the
      study period (3-month increments).

      C: Exploring the cost-effectiveness of the SOS intervention compared to usual care. The
      investigators hypothesize that EH3: The cost of SOS will be < $50,000/ quality-adjusted life
      year saved, a commonly used threshold.
    
  