
    
      This study will be a randomized-controlled clinical study with cross-over design of two
      treatment phases of 24h duration each (1. Automated FiO2-adjustment (SPO2C), 2. combined use
      of automated FiO2-adjustment and SpO2-sensitive/apnea-sensitive S-NIPPV (SPO2C + BU), see
      Figures 1 and 2). The investigators will study two patient groups of premature infants
      depending on the type of respiratory support at study time: One group, where the infants are
      on CPAP at study time, and another group of preterm infants who are already supported by
      nasopharyngeal IPPV at study time. Both studies will be sufficiently powered to show a
      significant treatment effect if it is present. Study infants will be recruited in the
      neonatal ICU of the children's hospital, University of Ulm and the neonatal ICU, University
      of Munich. Both NICU team have participated previously in clinical trials investigated new
      modes of mechanical ventilation using automated ventilation adjustment in the target
      population.

      Randomization of the sequence of the two study phases will be carried out using sealed
      envelopes. Infants will be changed to a specific ventilator device approved for clinical use
      in neonates in Germany (Sophie®-Respirator, Stephan Medizintechnik GmbH, Gackenbach,
      Germany), which is capable to automatically adjust the FiO2 (called "SPO2C") and to apply
      noninvasive backup-ventilation (using a noninvasive trigger device (S-NIPPV) or
      non-synchronized nasal IPPV (NIPPV) based on readings of an incorporated SpO2 monitoring
      device (Masimo® Radical 7, averaging time 2 sec). Synchronization of NIPPV and detection of
      apnea is achieved by using the Graseby capsule (Stephan, Vio Healthcare Ltd, Ref. 103560103),
      which will be secured onto the anterior abdominal wall near to the right costal margin.

      Infants on CPAP (first group) will be exposed to the first study phase (SPO2C, or SPO2C + BU,
      Figure 1) for 24h and then will be switched to the alternate mode for 24h each. Infants, who
      are already on nasal IPPV (SIPPV or NIPPV) as chosen by the clinical team will be exposed to
      NIPPV with a standardized inflation rate of 40 breaths/min (nonsynchronized, because this
      seems to be the current standard of care according to the available literature) and SPO2C, or
      to SPO2C plus synchronized BU (starting with a rate of 80 inflations/min with stepwise
      weaning) and then will be switched to the alternate mode for 24h each.
    
  