
    
      It is expected that this 30-day integrated, prescriptive, and trackable wellness intervention
      (combining five wellness elements including exercise, mindfulness, sleep, social
      connectedness, and nutrition) will be found to be an efficacious program for those with
      Rheumatoid Arthritis taking a biologic or a JAK inhibitor.

      Traditionally mental health and other specialties like rheumatology have focused primarily on
      the diagnosis and treatment of illness rather than incorporating wellness as an essential
      element of treatment. Those in the helping professions are trained to diagnose health
      problems with treatment typically focusing on symptom reduction. More recently, mental health
      and other healthcare specialties like rheumatology have initiated a conversation and
      subsequent research focusing on the importance of integrating elements of wellness into
      treatment. Rather than focusing solely on symptom reduction, some providers have begun
      incorporating elements of wellness promotion into treatment with favorable results.

      To the best of our knowledge, even though there is abundant research supporting each of the
      KickStart30 elements (exercise, mindfulness, sleep, social connectedness, and nutrition)
      individually, there is no research exploring the effectiveness of an integrated,
      prescriptive, and trackable wellness intervention combining these five elements specific to a
      cohort of patients with RA. Therefore, this work will be unique in that it will collect both
      objective and subjective data to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of this type of
      wellness intervention. It will lend support to the growing body of research on the efficacy
      of wellness interventions for a variety of different health conditions, as well as a
      community-based population. Finally, it is hoped that positive results will yield increased
      access to and utilization of this type of intervention, thereby improving public health.

      The recruitment period will be open for 12 months to obtain a maximum of 50 participants. The
      study population will be individuals, ages 18 and older, interested in improving their
      overall wellness and that self-identify as having Rheumatoid Arthritis and taking a biologic
      or a JAK inhibitor. Each participant will be engaged in the program for 30 days. To determine
      a participant's eligibility, study personnel will conduct a preliminary screening/orientation
      telephone interview. If the participant is determined to be eligible for the study based on
      the preliminary screening/orientation phone interview, study personnel will collect the
      participant's email address, physical mailing address, and assign the participant a unique
      identification code based on the order in which the participant was screened. The consent
      form outlines the purpose and design of the study, data to be collected, confidentiality
      standards, alternatives to participation, and contact information for research personnel.
      Participants will have the option to download a PDF of their signed consent form for their
      records at the time of signing/completion.

      Study personnel will mail each participant a KickStart30 Workbook within one day of emailing
      participants their unique identification codes. Participants will be instructed to document
      adherence of their daily wellness practices and their daily HERO exercises online via
      Qualtrics, an online survey software. Participants can document their daily adherence using
      their computer and/or their smartphone as Qualtrics offers a mobile version of the
      Participant Tracking Form. A copy of the Participant Tracking Form will also be available in
      the KickStart30 Workbook so participants that prefer keeping a daily paper log can do so, and
      they can then transfer their program adherence information to the online Participant Tracking
      Form at their convenience throughout the program. The workbook will contain the participant's
      personal identification code; no personal identification will appear in the workbook in order
      to protect participant confidentiality. Participants will also receive daily motivational
      emails from MailChimp, which will provide general information about one of the five wellness
      elements and/or one of the HERO wellness traits, as well as encouragement to track their
      participation on a daily basis, and encouragement to contact study personnel via email with
      any questions and/or concerns.

      Data capture will occur at two points: once prior to beginning the study and again at the end
      of the 30-day study. Data will be collected online through program forms; all data will be
      hosted on Qualtrics, an online survey software. Program Forms assess items including
      depression, anxiety, wellbeing, mindfulness, sleep quality, social connectedness, emotional
      eating, pain, disability, physical function, happiness, enthusiasm, resilience, and optimism
      in patients with RA.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to discuss pre- and post-intervention scores. Differences
      between pretest and 30-day measures will be assessed with repeated measures ANOVA, with a p
      value of less than 0.05 indicating statistical significance.
    
  