
    
      Admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) with critical illness is typically associated with
      profound physical impairments including peripheral skeletal muscle wasting and dysfunction.
      These effects demonstrate a rapid onset from the point of ICU admission, affect those with
      higher illness acuity to greater levels, and contribute to the development of intensive care
      unit-acquired weakness (ICU-AW) defined as severe upper and lower limb muscle weakness.
      Clinically patients present with significant limitations in exercise capacity and performance
      of physical functional activities, with deficits persisting for many years following
      resolution of the original illness.

      Physical rehabilitation is recommended to address the physical and functional deficits
      associated with ICU-AW, and delivery is advocated across the continuum of the patient
      recovery pathway, commencing whilst in the ICU, following transfer to the ward and beyond
      hospital discharge. Physical rehabilitation within the ICU typically incorporates early
      mobilisation (EM), characterised by a hierarchical progression of increasingly functional
      activities such as active-assisted bed exercises, sitting-on-the-edge-of-the-bed (SOEOB),
      standing, marching-on-the-spot and walking. These activities are summarised in the ICU
      Mobility Scale. In recent years, adjunctive technologies including electrical muscle
      stimulation, interactive video-games and passive cycle ergometry have also been utilised.

      Delivery of early mobilisation is feasible, safe and effective in improving both short and
      long-term outcomes in critically ill patients even in the early stages of recovery whilst
      patients remain ventilated and receiving other forms of organ support. However, the optimum
      'dose' of physical rehabilitation to deliver to patients whilst in the ICU remains
      undetermined. Early mobilisation reflects a clinically pragmatic approach to patient
      management, but there are few data to support the intensity, frequency and timing of
      interventions.

      Furthermore, there is little known of the acute physiological response to undertaking this
      type of exercise in this patient population. Metabolic monitoring can provide information on
      the energy expenditure of patients. However, direct methods of data acquisition such as use
      of pulmonary artery catheters to measure whole-body oxygen consumption can be unreliable and
      their use in clinical practice has diminished in recent years. The non-invasive technique of
      indirect calorimetry (IC) has therefore emerged as a potential alternative that may be more
      practically applicable in the clinical setting. Indirect calorimetry measures total gas
      exchange, oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production which can in turn determine energy
      expenditure. However the widespread clinical utility of the IC technique, can be offset by
      the number of clinical factors that may preclude its use across all patients e.g. those with
      cardiovascular or ventilator instability, those with open chest drainage or receiving renal
      haemofiltration.

      Two studies to date have used IC to examine the response to physical rehabilitation
      activities performed by patients in the ICU. Collings et al conducted a randomised cross-over
      study in which 10 ICU patients completed either a passive chair transfer or an active
      sit-over-the-edge-of-the-bed (SOEOB) on one day, followed by the alternative activity on the
      consecutive day. The 'active' SOEOB activity elicited a significantly greater increase in
      oxygen consumption than the passive activity (90.69 ml/min (95% CI 44.04 to 137.34) vs 14.43
      ml/min (95% CI -27.28 to 56.14), p = 0.007). Hickmann et al examined active or passive
      cycling in critically ill patients and healthy controls, demonstrating increased oxygen
      consumption during the active exercise compared to passive in patients with differing energy
      requirements compared to healthy individuals.

      This limited existing evidence-base demonstrates the potential for use of IC to characterise
      physical rehabilitation in critically ill patients, but is restricted to particular types of
      activities and fails to capture sequential assessments of patients as their rehabilitation
      progresses through increasingly functional levels. Acknowledging the potential clinical
      limitations of applying the IC measurement technique to all critically ill patients, the aim
      of this study is to examine the feasibility of measuring energy expenditure of critically ill
      patients completing a range of physical rehabilitation activities (as characterised on the
      ICU Mobility Scale) performed sequentially during their ICU or ventilator weaning unit (Lane
      Fox Respiratory Unit, LFU) admission using indirect calorimetry.
    
  