
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM), a cancer of the plasma cells in bone marrow, is associated with
      osteolytic bone destruction, leading to deformities, chronic pain, reduced mobility and
      functioning, fatigue, and risk of fracture. Although incurable, newly developed therapies are
      extending survival, but some with significant side-effects. Patients may be living longer but
      with lasting, debilitating side-effects.

      Exercise has been proposed as a way to optimize patient function and quality of life in the
      face of lasting symptom burden. However, current evidence-informed exercise guidelines for
      cancer survivors may not be appropriate for those with bone fragility, including those with
      MM, as they are based on findings from studies in breast and prostate cancers. In MM
      specifically, the literature presents mixed results, and several studies have limited
      generalizability, reproducibility, or were underdosed.

      The main objective of this study is to determine the safety and feasibility of a 12-week
      virtually supported home-based aerobic and resistance exercise program that aims to progress
      individuals to the 2019 Exercise Guidelines for Cancer Survivors in a sample of cancer
      survivors with multiple myeloma, as defined by:

        -  Recruitment rate: ≥ 21 participants consenting to the study over a 7-month recruitment
           period (primary endpoint)

        -  Completion rate: ≥ 80% of participants consenting to the study complete the 12-week
           assessment

        -  Safety: no increase in the rate of bony events above those estimated to occur in the
           target population

        -  Adherence: average completion of ≥ 75% of the exercise prescription amongst participants

      We will aim to recruit 25 participants from clinics at the local cancer hospital, the local
      disease-group support society, and from the currently accruing Alberta Cancer Exercise
      program. Subjects will be screened for eligibility and if they meet all eligibility criteria,
      an information letter of the study will be provided, and they will be asked to contact the
      investigators if interested in taking part in the study. All participants will be required to
      provide written informed consent as per the Health Research Ethics Board of Alberta: Cancer
      Committee (HREBA).

      Participants will participate in a 12-week virtually supported home-based aerobic and
      resistance exercise program, twice weekly using the Heal-Me application. Sessions will be
      completed as virtual live classes or supported follow-along independent home workouts.
      Sessions will progress in duration and difficulty over the course of the program, aiming to
      have participants meet the 2019 Exercise Guidelines for Cancer Survivors by the end of the
      program. Each session will include aerobic exercise (i.e. walking, cycling, or cardio
      circuit), and a full-body resistance training routine using free weights, body weight
      exercises, and/or bands, followed by balance and stretching exercises.

      Analyses: Demographic and medical information will be presented using median and range and
      percentage for interval and nominal data, respectively. Descriptive statistics (mean ± SD and
      frequencies) will be used to report safety and feasibility measures. Adherence will be
      tracked as the percentage of total training load prescribed that was actually completed.
      Wilcoxon Signed Rank Tests will be used to compare and pre- and post-intervention fitness
      assessment and quality of life scores. All analyses will be conducted using Stata/MP (version
      13.0, StataCorp LLC, College Station, TX), with alpha set to 0.05.
    
  