
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical trial assessing the efficacy
      of Ultravate ointment in combination with Lac-Hydrin lotion in the treatment of plaque
      psoriasis. In the first phase, patients will be treated for two weeks with combination
      therapy using Ultravate ointment twice daily along with Lac-Hydrin lotion twice daily. After
      two weeks, psoriasis plaques will be evaluated to test treatment efficacy. Those patients
      with a significant clinical improvement per investigator clinical assessments, will be
      randomized in a 1:1 fashion into a maintenance phase and receive Lac-Hydrin lotion twice
      daily everyday with placebo ointment or Ultravate ointment twice daily on weekends only.
      Continuous use of Ultravate ointment will be discontinued following two weeks of treatment in
      compliance with its FDA indication. Patients will be evaluated every 4 weeks (monthly)
      through the maintenance phase. The purpose of this second phase of the study is to
      investigate whether use of Ultravate on weekends only can minimize risk of plaque recurrence,
      maximize duration of therapeutic effect, while limiting the need for the use of long-term
      continuous topical corticosteroid treatment. As well, the second phase of the study is to
      investigate whether twice daily Lac-Hydrin lotion has an impact in maximizing the duration of
      therapeutic effect as well as minimizing local cutaneous side effects such as skin atrophy
      and telangiectasia. Part of this clinical study consists of the use of patient and
      self-assessment questionnaires and the use of non-identifying digital photography of target
      lesions. The hypothesis is that Ultravate ointment on weekends only will be statistically
      more efficacious at maintaining an excellent initial clinical response and its combination
      with Lac-Hydrin lotion will help to minimize any local cutaneous side effects as well as
      enhance its therapeutic effect.
    
  