
    
      The gold standard instrument for blood pressure measurement is a mercury-filled
      sphygmomanometer with cuff and stethoscope (Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in
      Health; Canadian Electronic Library, 2012). However, such a device is not the most convenient
      for client self-monitoring or virtual (remote) care. Thus, there is a desire for an accurate,
      reliable alternative for the traditional mercury-containing sphygmomanometer.

      HeartBeat Technologies Ltd. ("Heartbeat") has developed a novel approach to measuring blood
      pressure after an initial blood pressure reading using the conventional measurement method,
      supplemented by specific characteristics of a person (age, gender, height, weight, and heart
      rate), has established a "baseline measurement" for the person. The "novel approach" uses a
      finger pulse oximeter, the Contec CMS50EW device (Figure 1) (manufactured by Contec Medical
      Systems Co., Ltd., Shanghai, People's Republic of China). The finger pulse oximeter detects
      the changes in blood volume directly below the person's skin and indirectly measures oxygen
      saturation in the blood. The measurement is in the form of a photoplethysmogram (PPG) which
      is captured by the Contec oximeter and then, by Bluetooth technology, transmitted to a
      smartphone or tablet. A HeartBeat application, called MediBeat, on the smartphone or tablet
      then transmits the PPG to a server where a proprietary algorithm analyzes the baseline
      measurement for the person and the PPG to calculate the person's current blood pressure.

      Heartbeat's intent is that the current blood pressure reading would then be made available to
      both the client and the health provider through separate web-based interfaces. Providers
      would be able to log onto the HeartBeat web-based application from anywhere to review and
      monitor the blood pressure of multiple clients, while clients can log onto the application to
      track their own measurements.
    
  