
    
      Subjects who meet inclusion criteria will be given Botox injections. The maximum dose that
      will be used will vary from patient to patient up to 400 units.

      We will test the effectiveness of botulinum toxin therapy in those who fail Aluminum
      Chloride. Failure will be defined as a non-response (no change in HDSS), inadequate response
      (post-treatment HDSS of 2 or more), or intolerance to Aluminum Chloride. This would be a
      natural progression of interventions consistent with guidelines for other forms of
      hyperhidrosis. Specifically, we will study botulinum toxin type A BTX-A, brand name Botox.
      While there are other BTX-A products on the market, Botox is the only FDA approved toxin for
      the treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis.

      There are a few considerations to make when dosing Botox for hyperhidrosis. These include the
      total dose, the dose per injection site, and the distribution of injection sites. Typical
      doses for axillary hyperhidrosis are 50- 100 units per axilla18. However, for clinical trials
      used to support the FDA-approved labeling in focal spasticity, doses up to 400 units were
      used. There are reports of off label dosing exceeding this amount, including the case series
      reported by Charrow for residual limb hyperhidrosis, which used doses ranging from 300 - 500
      units of Botox. There was no mention of adverse events in this series. It has been suggested
      that doses greater than 600 units pose a greater risk of serious adverse events including
      systemic weakness. Regarding dose per injection site, hyperhidrosis guidelines suggest 1 unit
      per site for the axilla, and 1.5 - 2 units per site for the palm or sole18. The largest case
      series in amputees used doses of 2-3 units per site. Regarding the distribution of injection
      sites, guidelines recommend injections every 1 - 2 cm in a grid-like fashion.

      We plan to conduct an open label study of Botox, up to 400 units, in amputees who have failed
      treatment with a topical antiperspirant.
    
  