
    
      While emotional eating, food intake in response to emotions, can be modulated by physical
      activity, the practice of that latter is difficult mostly in people with overweight. Thus,
      there is a need to adapt the practice of physical activity in function of the motivation of
      the individual. One of most prominent theoretical model is the transtheoretical model.
      Regarding changes in physical activity and eating behavior, some data suggest that the
      processes of change from the transtheoretical model predict the efficacy of a treatment and
      thus its therapeutic success. The motivational approach could lead to self-regulation of
      emotions and therefore a decrease in emotional eating. Methods The study is a prospective
      cohort. Participants are exposed to a five-days hospitalization and engaged in a program of
      therapeutic education. During this hospitalization, there are some collective and individuals
      workshop on topics related to physical activity and nutrition. Intervention The intervention
      is based on the processes of change from the transtheoretical model. There are 5 experiential
      and 5 behavioral processes of change. Thus, according to the response of a questionnaire
      evaluating these processes of change, participants will be proposed some individualized
      strategies. Types of intervention Depending on scores of motivation, the following strategies
      will be proposed to participants.

        -  identify the barriers related to physical activity

        -  increase informations related to physical activity and nutrition

        -  informations about the risk related to inactivity and diet

        -  ask to the individual to list and barriers related to barriers as thhe interest to
           modify the behavior.

        -  List persons who may act as social support

        -  set behavior change goals

        -  Increase self-confidence and self-efficacy about changing behavior

        -  Relaxation at home

        -  Use reinforcement management

        -  methods of time management

        -  counter-conditioning

        -  identify factors related to the relapse Time management Participants will be evaluated
           after the first 6 months. Then, they will be followed during 24 months. Statistical
           analysis Sample size The sample was calculated using a previous study. To obtain a
           difference of 0.51 in emotional eating with a standard deviation of 1.63 with an alpha
           risk of 5% and a power of 90%, the number of subject is 110 subject. Expected a drop-out
           of 20%, 138 subjects will be included. Predictive factors

             1. Identification of predictive factors Student T test to select the predictive
                factors

             2. Predictive factors Multiple linear regression

             3. Mechanisms analysis of mediation with the Baron and Kenny method
    
  