
    
      Subjects for this study will be recruited from Dr. Devi's clinical practice. Eligible
      subjects must have a diagnosis of possible or probable Alzheimer's disease using NINCDS-ADRDA
      criteria. The patient and his or her legally authorized representative need to be available
      to sign the informed consent. The assent of the incapable subject will be obtained prior to
      enrolling the subject in the study.

      Once informed consent and assent are obtained, the subject will have a functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) scan of their brain anytime during the 2 weeks prior to the first
      study visit. At Visit 1, subjects will undergo a baseline battery of cognitive tests lasting
      approximately 30 minutes. Subsequently, the subject will undergo rTMS.

      During the visit, Dr. Devi will locate the area of the brain to be stimulated and mark that
      area of the scalp with an indelible skin marker that will wash out over time. In addition,
      the subjects will be provided with ear plugs to use during stimulation. This process of
      locating the area to be stimulated will take about an hour and will occur once. Then rTMS
      will be started and this procedure will take approximately 20-30 minutes (please see the full
      protocol for a complete description of this process).

      Each rTMS stimulation session will last for about 30 minutes, 2 consecutive days a week for 2
      weeks. Both immediately prior to the onset of the first rTMS session, and just after the end
      of the fourth and final rTMS session, subjects will be tested on their cognitive and language
      skills. These two testing sessions will last 30 minutes each. Subjects will have another fMRI
      scan anytime during the 2 days after the fourth and final rTMS stimulation session.

      Subjects will continue to receive usual care throughout the study period. Any changes to
      usual treatment will be noted in the study file.

      All subjects will be seen again 4 weeks after the final study treatment session and will once
      again undergo the brief cognitive battery and fMRI scan.

      The investigators expect to recruit two subjects at a time for the study and each subject
      will be enrolled for 5 weeks from the baseline visit.
    
  