
    
      Baseline Visit:

      Signing this consent form does not mean that you will be able to take part in this study. The
      following baseline tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible:

        -  You will complete 7 questionnaires about your mood, sleep, fatigue, how you have been
           feeling, and your general quality of life. The questionnaires should take about 60-80
           minutes to complete.

        -  You will have an electroencephalogram (EEG) to check your brain's electrical activity.
           During the EEG, a snug cap with small electrodes will be placed on your head to measure
           the electrical patterns coming from the brain. This is like the way a doctor listens to
           your heart from the surface of your skin. During the EEG, you will complete 3 tests to
           check your attention, short-term memory, and levels of emotions on the computer. The
           study staff will discuss each test in more detail with you. The EEG and tests will take
           about 45-60 minutes total.

        -  If you have not had a computed tomography (CT) scan in the last 2 months, you will have
           one performed to check the status of the disease. If you have had one in the last 2
           months, the results will be collected from your medical records.

        -  You will have an electrocardiogram (EKG) to check your heart function.

        -  Blood (about 6 tablespoons) will be drawn for tests to measure hormones and your immune
           system responses. You will need to fast (not eat or drink anything except water) for 12
           hours before this blood draw. You will be provided with healthy snacks after your blood
           draw.

      The day after your baseline visit, saliva will be collected to measure the level of cortisol
      (a type of stress hormone) in your body. These saliva samples will be collected 4 times each
      day for 3 days in a row. You will collect these samples at home when you first wake up, about
      45 minutes later, about 10 hours after waking up, and then at bedtime. To collect each saliva
      sample, you will chew on a cotton ball for a few seconds and then put the cotton in a small
      plastic tube. You will write down the times you took these samples. You will mail these
      samples back to MD Anderson in postage-paid envelopes that will be provided to you. The tubes
      will also be provided at no cost to you. These saliva samples will be destroyed after being
      studied.

      Every day for the next 7 days after your baseline visit, you will fill out a diary about your
      sleeping habits. You will also wear a special type of wrist watch for these 7 days. The watch
      will collect data about your physical activity and sleeping habits. After you have worn it
      for 7 days, you will mail the watch and the sleep diary back to MD Anderson in postage-paid
      envelopes that will be provided to you.

      Extended Baseline:

      You will be asked to complete and provide all the same measures again 1 month after the first
      baseline visit.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study and you agree, you will be
      randomly assigned (as in the roll of dice) to 1 of 3 study groups. This is done because no
      one knows if one study group is better, the same, or worse than the other group.

        -  If you are assigned to Groups 1 or 2, you will take part in 1 of 2 types of residential
           group programs.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 3, you will receive standard cancer care without any
           participation in a residential group program.

      If you are assigned to Groups 1 or 2, neither you nor the study staff will know what kind of
      residential group program you are in.

      Residential Support Program Sessions (Groups 1 and 2 only):

      You will take part in a 7-day offsite, residential support program in groups of about 10
      participants each. On Day 5 of the retreat, you will be joined by your spouse or caregiver.

      During the 7 days, you will take part in group activities, learn relaxation skills, do
      different cognitive activities (for example, reading, watching movies, and having group
      discussions), and learn about mind-body connections. You will spend 7 days and 6 nights at
      the residential retreat. Activities at the retreat will last about 12 hours per day with
      breaks, group meals, and free time to rest in the morning, afternoon and evening, or as
      needed.

      At least 1 week before the retreat, you will be given a detailed agenda and schedule of all
      activities that will occur during the retreat.

      Follow-Up Sessions (All Groups):

      You will complete the same tests/procedures that were performed at the baseline visit within
      7 days after the residential program ends and then again about 3 months later. If you are in
      Group 3, you will complete the same tests/procedures on the same schedule.

      Length of Participation:

      Your participation on this study will be over after you complete the follow-up sessions.

      Depending on which study group you were assigned to, you may be able to take part in a
      residential program that you did NOT previously take part in. The study chair or research
      staff will discuss this option with you.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 100 participants and their caregivers will take part in this multicenter study. Up to
      74 will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  