
    
      Background and rationale Infant mental health is a significant public health issue as early
      adversity and exposure to early childhood stress has life-long consequences for these
      affected children on outcomes such physical and mental health, educational attainment, labor
      market success and family formation. Infants are - as a result of their dependency,
      vulnerability and relative social invisibility - more exposed to mental health risks than
      older children. Infants may be at risk due to a particular biological risk (e.g. infantile
      autism, retardation, prematurity, physical disabilities etc) or to psycho-social risks in the
      family (e.g. mentally ill parents, poverty, drug/alcohol abuse etc). Recent Danish estimates
      suggest that one in five families is at risk of inadequate parenting resources and child
      neglect.

      There is by now solid evidence that the establishment of attachment relationships, i.e. a
      stable emotional bond with a caregiver - mostly the parent - is one of the most important
      developmental milestones in infancy. Early parent-child attachment relationships function as
      a blueprint for future social relationships and serve as a framework within which children
      learn how to deal with stressful situations and to regulate the accompanying negative
      emotions. Insecure and disorganized attachment is a significant risk for longitudinal child
      development and psychopathology, as the ability to regulate ones feelings of stress and
      negative emotions is important for a wide range of socio-emotional outcomes ranging from
      social competence, moral development and empathy, to academic achievement. Recent
      meta-analyses show that insecure and disorganized children have a higher risk of developing
      mental problems later in life. Insecurely attached children are also more likely than
      securely attached children to develop internalizing problems, such as anxiety and depressive
      symptoms, as well as externalizing problems such as aggressive behavior. For externalizing
      problems, the risk was even higher for disorganized children. Furthermore, research into
      early brain development indicates that brain development can be physiologically altered by
      severe stress imposed by neglect and inadequate parenting during a child's early years.

      Evidence from attachment research shows that sensitive parenting, where the parent is alert
      and able to understand the infant's expression of emotional states and able to manage and
      meet the infant's needs contingently, adequately and in a comforting way will lead to the
      establishment of a pattern of secure attachment in the child. Lack of availability,
      inconsistent availability, misunderstanding of the infant's emotional expression and parental
      behavior that frightens the infant may all lead to an insure attachment and in the most
      severe cases a disorganized attachment. This is indicative of a breakdown of an organized
      (secure or insecure) attachment behavioral strategy. Disorganized attachment is considered to
      be the result of parental behavior that is frightening for the child. An extreme example of
      such behavior is child maltreatment, but all sorts of parental behavior that are not
      comprehensible for the child, such as dissociation, which is common in depressed parents, is
      potentially frightening for the child. This sort of behavior results in the paradoxical
      situation that the parent is a source of comfort and a source of fear at the same time. Thus,
      in stress situations the child does not know what to do, and the behavioral strategy
      collapses .

      Infant social withdrawal indicates infant distress and early attachment disturbances and is a
      known risk factor for infant mental health. Infant social withdrawal is indicated by a lack
      of either positive (e.g. smiling, eye contact) or negative vocal protestations. Sustained
      withdrawal behavior in infants can be seen as a chronic diminution of the attachment system,
      which is gradually generalized into a diminished engagement and lowered reactivity to the
      environment at large. In more European countries the use of the validated systematic
      screening method, Alarm Distress Baby Scale (ADBB) for identifying infant delayed
      socio-emotional development in infant mental health clinics and in home visiting programs
      have shown promising results.

      Postnatal depression (PND) is another known risk for infant mental health. A meta-analysis
      shows that up to 19% of new mothers may experience minor or major depression during the first
      months postpartum. If only including major depression, the prevalence was found to be 7.1 %.
      In a more recent European study, 1,066 women were followed from pregnancy to 12 months
      postpartum. The results indicated that 9.6% of new mothers may experience a major depressive
      episode during the first year after delivery. No estimates were given for minor depression.
      Most cases develop within the first three months with a peak incidence of about 4-6 weeks.

      PND has a substantial impact on the mother, her partner, her family, mother-baby interactions
      and attachment insecurity and the longer term socio-emotional and cognitive development of
      the baby, especially when depression occurs in the first year of life. Often, mothers
      suffering from postnatal depression are emotionally, cognitively and/or behaviorally
      inhibited or impaired in their ability to recognize and react with appropriate "sensitivity"
      and "responsiveness" to their children's needs. With regard to the infants of these mothers,
      higher incidences of negative behaviors, such as social withdrawal, persistent crying,
      averted gaze or head position, physical neediness and a lack of expression of delight in the
      presence of their mothers, have been observed. These behaviors increase the mother's
      experience of stress, which further contributes to the maintenance of maladaptive
      interactional behavioral patterns. Without improvement in these negative interaction cycles,
      for example, through early interventions, there is a greater likelihood for infants to
      develop an insecure-avoidant, an insecure ambivalent or disorganized attachment pattern.

      Research on the treatment of women with postnatal depression has shown that treatment that
      only focuses on the mother (i.e., medication, psychotherapy) is insufficient to buffer
      against the negative impact of maternal psychopathology on the child's cognitive and
      psychosocial development, as well as infant-mother attachment quality. Even when depression
      is effectively treated, this does not seem to "spill over" and improve the mother-infant
      relationship and long-term infant social-emotional outcomes. Instead, it is necessary to
      support the depressed mothers in their specific needs in caring and relating to their
      infants,

      Interventions targeting PND delivered in groups have been found to achieve change through the
      dual process of emotional experience and reflection in an interpersonal context. Group
      sessions provide a support network, reduce isolation and stigma, provide an environment in
      which to practice interpersonal and communication skills, shape coping strategies and learn
      from each other, and enable a number of families to be treated at once. Recently, building on
      evidence from attachment research, a special focus is given to preventive group programs that
      enhance parental sensitivity and secure attachment such as the intervention program "Circle
      of Security (COS)". Based on findings from more studies, COS has proved efficient in
      enhancing secure attachment as well as reducing maternal depressive symptomatology in
      high-risk samples, including mothers in prison and mentally ill mothers. The original COS
      program consists of 20 weekly sessions of 2 hour durations and includes an initial video
      assessment of parent -child attachment. In the COS intervention graphical illustrations of
      "the Circle of Security" are used. This Circle is a roadmap that encompasses the three basic
      control systems; the attachment system, the exploration system and the caregiving system. The
      parent is illustrated through the pair of hands that hold together the child's world. In COS
      concepts, "holding" means to serve as a secure base and safe haven. "The top half" of the
      Circle depicts the child's exploration system and needs. I order to explore, the child needs
      the parent to serve as a secure base by "watching over," "delighting in," "helping," and
      "enjoying with" the child. Having a parent that supports exploration helps the child develop
      his or her own sense of interest, leading to mastery and competency in later years. Along
      "the bottom half" is the child's attachment needs: "protect me," "comfort me," "delight in
      me," and "organize my feelings." By delighting in the child, the parent helps the child
      constructing an internal representation of him- of herself as a loved person and thereby
      establish self-worth, and by organizing the child's feelings by accepting, sharing and naming
      them, the parent co-regulates the child's emotions and lays the groundwork of later
      self-regulation of emotions. The child's needs for comfort and exploration encouragement
      shift rapidly and the caregiver must continuously adjust to those needs, whenever possible.

      Meta-analytic evidence identifies short term group approaches (< 16 sessions), targeting
      maternal sensitivity as being the most effective, and sensitivity focused interventions
      conducted with referred at-risk samples (e.g. DSM-III-R depressed mothers), as being more
      effective than interventions with other groups. Attachment security, in particular, has been
      found to be readily influenced by sensitivity-focused interventions. The program "Circle of
      Security Parenting" (COS-P) is a recent and shorter version of COS that consists of eight
      weekly sessions of two hours durations without the individual video assessment of attachment.
      In COS-P standard video materials of child attachment behaviors as well as the graphic
      materials to illustrate the Circle of Security are used. Themes that are covered during the
      program are: "The Circle of Security", "Exploration of the child's needs in the circle",
      "Being with your child in the circle", "Exploration of own challenges in meeting child's
      needs", and "Disruption and repair of the relationship".

      To the best of the investigator's knowledge, the effectiveness of COS-P in relation to
      enhancing maternal sensitivity and the mother-infant relationship has not been fully tested
      in an RCT design in a general population, making this study the first. Results will provide
      evidence regarding the efficacy of an American short term indicated parenting group program
      when implemented in a Scandinavian country. Further, COS-P is a promising approach as health
      nurses can be trained COS-P therapists in future up-scaling.
    
  