
    
      To assess the comparative clinical performance of the Vital Moto Mod device in the
      measurement of five vital signs (body temperature, respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen
      saturation and blood pressure) in correlation with a reference device used in the hospital
      environment for vital sign measurement.

      Vital sign measurement is a core process in delivering healthcare. Body temperature,
      respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure are some of the most
      frequently measured vital signs in inpatient as well as outpatient encounters. Currently,
      separate devices exist for measurement of each of these vital signs, each of which may have
      to be measured several times in a day. Consequently, measurement of vital signs is a time and
      human resource intensive process. Moreover, most of the devices currently used to measure
      vital signs cannot transmit data to the electronic medical record of patient, thereby
      creating opportunities for human error. VVVital USA has used proprietary sensor technology to
      develop Vital Moto Mod - a vital sign measurement platform that can non-invasively measure
      body temperature, respiratory rate, heart rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure from a
      person's index finger, and allows this information to be pushed into their electronic
      medical/health record from the point of care

      The primary market focus use of the Vital Moto Mod is to replace the vital sign cart in
      hospitals. Vital sign carts are expensive and cumbersome to move around the hospital. At a
      fraction of the cost, the Vital Moto Mod provides the same functionality including bar code
      scanning at a fraction of the cost. Additionally, the Vital Moto Mod can also be used at home
      without the need for a trained nurse. The Vital Moto Mod App will guide a user through the
      workflow of performing the measurements. The Vital Moto Mod is connected to a smartphone for
      storage, and has a USB interface for charging, thereby requiring no electrical connections
      during use. All measurements are taken by the device independent of the phone.

      Partners Connected Health will conduct a clinical validation study to evaluate the accuracy
      of measurement for each vital sign with the Vital Moto Mod platform, compared to appropriate
      reference devices used in the hospital setting. The study will recruit volunteers from the
      Partners Healthcare network of clinics and hospitals and the general public.
    
  