
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate the feasibility and adherence of using a consumer-based activity monitor
      during the preoperative period both in the hospital as well as at home.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of a consumer-based activity monitor to demonstrate a 50% decrease
      in average daily steps for participants before and after major oncologic surgery.

      II. To characterize in-home movement among older cancer patients. III. To compare in-home CAM
      data to in-clinic pre- and post-operative mobility testing using the Short Physical
      Performance Battery (SPPB).

      IV. To compare in-home CAM data to pre- and post-operative self-reported mobility using the
      Pepper Assessment Tool for Disability (PAT-D) and the Mobility Assessment Tool-Short Form
      (MAT-sf).

      V. To compare in-home CAM data to self-reported daily activity data during the pre- and
      post-operative period.

      VI. To determine estimates of future study accrual, adherence, and drop-out. VII. To obtain
      participant feedback from participants to determine potential study opportunities and
      barriers.

      VIII. To identify potential key stakeholders and potential patient partners for development
      of future grant submissions.

      IX. To summarize baseline cognitive screens, physical assessment questionnaire (Pepper
      Assessment Tool for Disability, PAT-D), mobility assessment tool-short form (MAT-sf),
      health-related quality of life (FACIT-G) questionnaire, activity questionnaire (Community
      Healthy Activities Model Program for Seniors [CHAMPS]), pain assessment (Pain Visual Analog
      Scale, PVAS), fatigue assessment (Fatigue Visual Analog Scale, FVAS), and physical function
      testing (Short Physical Performance Battery and time to complete 400-meter walk).

      X. CAM data will be compared with research grade activity data provided by the ActiGraph.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients wear Fitbit Zip (portable pedometer device) to track physical activity for 7 days
      before undergoing surgery and for 21 more days after undergoing surgery.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 21 and 90 days.
    
  