
    
      The surgical removal of third molars is a common surgical procedure performed in dentistry.
      Surgery to extract an impacted third molar can be due to various reasons such as infection,
      caries, pain, cyst or tumor formation, or to facilitate orthodontic treatment. Both
      clinicians and patients are concerned with the postoperative pain following surgery.

      Rationale for model selection The oral surgery model is well-suited for the measurement of
      acute pain.The model has been shown to be sensitive to the effects of analgesic drugs and is
      useful for examining peripheral biochemical measures of drugs in vivo.This model is
      recommended by the US Food and Drug Administration because patients are usually healthy
      without complicating medical conditions and most patients have pain for a short, predictable
      period after surgery.

      Rationale for drug selection Pain from the surgical incision and tissue manipulation
      associated with the surgical procedure is instigated immediately. This gives way to
      inflammatory pain that follows inflammatory cell recruitment to the injured area within the
      course of several hours. Inflammatory pain generally continues for several days, depending on
      the nature of the surgical procedure. As a consequence of tissue damage and release of
      neurogenic inflammatory mediators, there is activation of specific receptors and pathways
      that can contribute to central sensitization and development of hyperalgesia and persistent
      pain. While various pharmacological strategies, including the use of opioids, provide
      adequate attenuation of pain, their use is associated with undesirable side effects, drug
      interactions, pharmacokinetic variability, and often inadequate dosing, all of which can lead
      to ineffective analgesia and prolonged suffering. Opioids do not interrupt the inflammatory
      component of pain.

      The study drug Caldolor速 is an intravenous formulation of ibuprofen which was approved by the
      FDA in June 2009. Caldolor速 is the first injectable product available in the United States
      for the treatment of pain and fever. This is the first study in dentistry evaluating the use
      of Caldolor速 as a preemptive analgesia. Southworth et al and colleagues randomized 406
      patients undergoing elective single-site orthopedic or abdominal surgery to 400 mg
      intravenous (IV) Caldolor, 800 mg IV Caldolor, or placebo. The results showed that patients
      in the 800 mg group had a 25.6% lower median morphine use (P = .026) over the first 24 hours
      of treatment than the placebo group. Patients in the 400 mg group did not have a lower use of
      morphine, but both the 400 and 800 mg groups reported less pain at rest and with movement
      than with placebo.

      The comparator group Ofirmev速 is intravenous acetaminophen and was recently approved by the
      FDA for the management of mild to moderate pain, the management of moderate to severe pain
      with adjunctive opioid analgesics, and the reduction of fever. In a study conducted for total
      abdominal hysterectomy, preemptive IV paracetamol (acetaminophen) 1 g provided good quality
      postoperative analgesia, with decreased consumption of morphine and minimal side effects.
      Studies have showed that the use of 1 g of paracetamol as a single intravenous preemptive
      dose in abdominal surgery with perioperative epidural analgesia did not reduce the analgesic
      consumption and the intensity of pain in the postoperative period.

      Use of Pain Scale VAS Pain Scale Score: The primary end point is the clinical report of pain.
      Pain intensity will be assessed using a 100 mm VAS with anchors of "no pain" and "worst pain
      imaginable" and a 4-point category scale ("none", "mild", "moderate", and "severe") once
      pre-operatively and over the post-operative observation period at 30-minute intervals during
      the post- surgical time. The category scale is included for purposes of obtaining a
      patient-reported assignment of moderate pain (definition of clinically significant pain), and
      for computing the cut-offs for pain sensitivity.
    
  