
    
      All patients were subjected to full history taking, complete clinical examination, laboratory
      investigations (complete blood count, liver and kidney function tests, coagulation profile),
      ECG and Upper GI endoscopy was performed within 24 hours of hospital admission after initial
      resuscitation of patients including blood transfusion if HB level ≤ 7g ∕ L.

      Stigmata of recent hemorrhage was defined according to the Forrest (F) classification (FIa-
      spurting hemorrhage, FIb- oozing hemorrhage, FIIa- non-bleeding visible vessel, FIIb-
      adherent clot, FIIc- flat pigmented spot and FIII- clean base ulcer).The size of an ulcer was
      classified as < 2 cm or ≥ 2cm.

        -  PRP or diluted epinephrine were injected in 1-2 ml by multiple injections into and
           circumferentially around the ulcer until bleeding stopped using a 25-G retractable,
           standard sclerotherapy needle.

        -  Group I was subjected to multiple injection of PRP (each 1-2 ml), while group II was
           subjected to epinephrine injections (each 1-2 ml of a 1:10.000 solution of epinephrine)
           .

        -  Hemostasis was achieved if bleeding stopped for at least 3 min of observation.
           Immediately after the endoscopic hemostasis, PPIs were infused at a standard regimen (40
           mg bolus of PPI once daily for 72 h) or at a high-dose regimen (loading dose of 80 mg on
           the first day followed by continuous infusion of 8 mg/h for 72 h), after the initial 72
           h, patients were switched to oral PPIs (20 mg twice daily) until discharge .

      PRP preparation method

      Under complete aseptic conditions the blood was drawn with the addition of anticoagulant such
      as citrate dextrose A to prevent platelet activation prior to its use.

      1.30-60 cc of patients' blood drawn at the time of treatment by venipuncture in acid citrate
      dextrose (acts as an anticoagulant) tubes 2. Do not chill the blood. 3. Centrifuge the blood
      using a 'soft' spin (1st centrifugation). 4. Transfer the supernatant plasma containing
      platelets into another sterile tube (without anticoagulant).

      5. Centrifuge tube at a higher speed (a hard spin) to obtain a platelet concentrate (2nd
      centrifugation).

      6. The lower 1/3rd is PRP and upper 2/3rd is platelet-poor plasma (PPP). At the bottom of the
      tube, platelet pellets are formed.

      7. Remove PPP and suspend the platelet pellets in a minimum quantity of plasma (2-4 mL) by
      gently shaking the tube.

      8.Thrombin (dose) was added to activate PRP
    
  