
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent cancers in Asia and Africa.
      Although the first-line therapy for HCC is liver resection, the concomitant cirrhosis often
      leaves orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) rather than liver resection as the only
      potentially curative option. The risk of recurrence is the major concern in patients
      transplanted for HCC. It has been demonstrated that utilizing more restrictive selection
      criteria before submitting cirrhotic patients with HCC to liver transplantation is associated
      with a better outcome. The Milan criteria (one nodule ≤5 cm or 2-3 nodules all <3 cm, without
      macroscopic vascular invasion and extrahepatic spreading)provide a simple means of selecting
      patients with HCC for transplantation with a low risk (≈10%) for recurrence. However, the
      benefit of OLT for patients with HCC within the Milan criteria is opposed by a critical organ
      shortage, which lengthens the waiting time and thus allows tumor progression during the
      waiting period. Nearly one third of patients who have a transplant for HCC fall outside the
      Milan criteria on the basis of pathological findings in the explanted liver, and had a higher
      risk of tumor recurrence.This led to a dramatic decline in overall and disease-free survival,
      from 71-85% to 40-50%, and from 65-78% to 27-30%, respectively.

      Although it can be hypothesized that the pharmacologic immunosuppression required after liver
      transplantation for HCC may be accelerated tumor recurrence and metastasis, recent reports
      have suggest that not all immunosuppressive drugs necessarily promote HCC recurrence in
      transplant recipients. Sirolimus has emerged as a new, potent immunosuppressive agent which
      unlike other immunosuppressants [cyclosporine (CsA), tacrolimus (FK506), and azathioprine
      (AZA)] has potent antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. The immunosuppressive and
      antitumor effects of sirolimus share a common mechanism of action. Sirolimus inhibits the
      mammalian target of sirolimus (mTOR), which prevents acute graft rejection mediated by
      interleukin-2 and could block other cytokine signal transduction, thus directly inhibits
      tumor cell proliferation and angiogenesis. And the most important is that the antitumor
      activity of SRL has been shown at the same concentrations as maintenance target levels in
      posttransplant patients.

      Thus, it seems reasonable to speculate that sirolimus could simultaneously contribute to
      inhibition of tumor recurrence and preventing of rejection in OLT for patients with HCC.
    
  