
    
      There is growing consensus that exercise in subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF) may yield
      improvements in measures of physical fitness, lung function and quality of life. In most of
      the training studies exercise capacity was expressed as peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak), which
      has been found to be one of the best predictors of survival in subjects with CF. Those
      subjects with a higher VO2peak related to age and gender specific predicted VO2peak (%pred)
      have a better prognosis than those with a lower VO2peak (%pred). VO2peak represents the
      cardiorespiratory endurance is one aspect of physical fitness.

      Physical ﬁtness may be subdivided into health-related ﬁtness and skill/performance-related
      ﬁtness. Cardiorespiratory endurance, muscular strength and endurance, body composition and
      ﬂexibility are often referred to as health-related ﬁtness. Balance, coordination, speed,
      agility and power are often described as skill/performance related ﬁtness, reﬂecting the
      performance aspect of physical ﬁtness. It has been shown, that children and adolescents with
      a lower skill / performance related fitness are less physical active than those with a higher
      skill/performance related fitness. This may lead to physically inactive in daily life, less
      motivation to take part in organized sport and as a consequence to a lower VO2peak.

      The primary outcome parameters of this study is to evaluate the effects 12-month partially
      supervised exercise program on 1) health-related ﬁtness (endurance expressed as maximal
      workload, muscular strength) and skill / performance related fitness (balance, power,
      agility)and 2) habitual physical activity (steps / day; intensity expressed in METs) in a
      large group of subjects with CF. Secondary outcome parameters include forced exspiratory
      volume in 1 second (FEV1), sleep-wake cycle, quality of sleep, quality of life, and exercise
      related barriers and barrier management in physical exercise.

      In total 100 subjects with CF 6 year and older will be included. Habitual physical activity
      and sleep will be recorded by accelerometer before subjects enter the exercise program, and
      after 6 month and after 12 month. Check-ups, lung function measurement and testing of
      physical fitness will be performed at baseline, after 6 and 12 month.

      During the first six month the participants will be contacted by telephone every two weeks.
      After six month individual counseling by telephone will be stopped.

      The exercise program is planned as a "low-threshold exercise program "with low barriers to
      participate. Participants will be asked about their interests and preferences of sports
      activities to conceive the exercise program together with the participants. Along with
      counseling participants will be motivated to increase physical activity by at least 10-20
      minutes per day.

      The investigators expect to gain another insight into different aspects of physical fitness,
      habitual physical activity and sleep from the results of this study. Up to know, there are
      only a few trails investigated different aspects of physical fitness that means balance,
      flexibility, power as parameters of health-related ﬁtness and skill/performance-related
      ﬁtness. The investigators assume that participants with higher values are more physical
      active than those with lower values and these participants will have a higher
      cardiorespiratory endurance.
    
  