
    
      Over a million patients undergo open heart surgery annually and this number is likely to
      accelerate as the population ages and the prevalence of diabetes and cardiovascular disease
      continue to increase. Unfortunately, death, organ failure, and other serious complications
      are all too frequent following open heart surgery, especially in some high-risk patient
      populations.

      Selenium is a trace element that is important for many of the body's regulatory and metabolic
      functions especially during times of stress. International members of the study team have
      shown in a non-randomized study that high dose selenium supplementation was associated with
      improved clinical outcomes compared to a historical control group. The next step in this
      program of research is to conduct a randomized trial.

      The aim of this research program is to investigate the effects of perioperative high dose
      selenium supplementation in high-risk cardiac surgical patients undergoing complicated open
      heart surgery. The investigators hypothesize that the therapeutic strategy tested in this
      randomized trial may contribute to fewer complications, less organ injury and fewer deaths.

      The investigators propose to conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind,
      multicentre definitive trial of 1400 patients across 20 sites in Germany and Canada, which
      will include the pilot study patients. An industry partner (Biosyn) will provide the product
      and some additional support for the European sites. Patients will be randomized to receive
      either a daily perioperative high-dose selenium or placebo until postoperative day 10
      (maximum) or upon earlier discharge from ICU. If the hypothesis is proven true, and this
      simple, inexpensive nutrient reduces complications and improves recovery of patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery, there is the potential to dramatically change clinical practice
      and improve health outcomes.
    
  