
    
      Retinal detachment is a major cause of blindness, particularly among contemporary Asian
      populations due to the high prevalence of myopia. Without timely treatment, retinal
      detachment invariably results in blindness. As the only effective treatment is surgery, much
      effort has been invested to enhancing surgical outcome of retinal detachment repair. Advances
      in new instrumentations, viewing systems and refined surgical techniques have all contributed
      to improved rate of retinal re-attachment (anatomical outcome). Nevertheless, successful
      re-attachment of the retina after surgery does not always restore vision (visual outcome),
      especially when retinal detachment involves the macula ("macula-off" retinal detachment). The
      reason for poor visual outcome is believed to be due to apoptosis of photoreceptors, which
      may occur early and rapidly after the onset of retinal detachment. Neuroprotection has
      therefore been considered a valid strategy to improve visual outcome of retinal detachment
      surgery. Lutein is a promising potent neuroprotective agent for the retina, and has been
      shown in preliminary clinical and laboratory studies that it could salvage photorecepters in
      retinal detachment. We hypothesize that oral intake of lutein soon after onset of retinal
      detachment could prevent photoreceptor neurons from dying and thus limit the loss of vision.
      To test such hypothesis, we propose to conduct a double-masked, randomized controlled trial
      to evaluate the efficacy of lutein as an adjuvant therapy to improve visual outcome for
      surgical repair of primary rhematogenous retinal detachment involving the macula in Asian
      Singaporeans. The potential clinical and scientific significance of this trial is clear. It
      may provide first evidence that pharmacological neuroprotection can be used as an effective
      therapeutic modality in the clinical management of retinal detachment, and result in a
      paradigm shift in clinical practice, ultimately leading to better visual outcome and quality
      of life for patients undertaking surgical repair of retinal detachment.
    
  