
    
      With every passing minute, a family member in the United States becomes an informal caregiver
      for an elder with Alzheimer's disease or another related dementia, which can be highly
      distressing and adversely affect the caregiver's mental and physical health. Similar to
      caregivers of persons with bipolar disorder, who are currently participating in the parent
      study for which this supplement is proposed, caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's or
      related dementia have been found to experience greater distress than caregivers of persons
      with other chronic conditions. They have significantly more mental and physical health
      problems than the general population, leading to greater use of mental health and primary
      care services and resulting in their inability to continue to provide care for their family
      members. Thus, although the trajectories of the two conditions (bipolar disorder versus
      dementia) may differ, we propose that caregivers of persons with dementia may benefit
      similarly from tailored health self-management interventions, including resourcefulness
      skills or biofeedback training, more than the educational materials or programs they are
      typically offered. Therefore, the caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's disease or related
      dementia to be sampled in this administrative supplement will comprise an additional study
      arm for the randomized controlled trial constituting the parent study. They will be
      randomized to: 1) usual care (education program), 2) resourcefulness training, or 3)
      biofeedback. Three outcomes (health risk, mental health, and physical health) will be
      assessed at baseline and post-intervention.

      Study aims are to:

        1. Examine the effectiveness of resourcefulness training and biofeedback versus usual care
           (education program) in family caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's disease or related
           dementia;

        2. Compare the effects of usual care, resourcefulness training, and biofeedback obtained in
           caregivers of persons with dementia with those of the caregivers of persons with bipolar
           disorder from the parent study; and

        3. Explore differences between the two types of caregivers on their needs (determined by
           their lowest baseline cut score on measures of knowledge, resourcefulness, and heart
           rate variability) and preferences (determined by asking which intervention they would
           have chosen) among education, resourcefulness training, or biofeedback.

      Repeated measures analyses and descriptive statistics will address the study aims. Our
      findings will generate new scientific knowledge about the effectiveness of novel, easy to
      use, independently performed interventions that can be individualized and self-tailored to
      promote the health of Alzheimer's caregivers and other comparably distressed family
      caregivers.
    
  