
    
      Rationale: Patients hospitalized for COPD exacerbation treated with high dose
      glucocorticoids, frequently develop hyperglycaemia. Currently, sliding scale insulin is often
      used to bridge such episodes. However, sliding scale insulin is patient unfriendly, does not
      reduce glycaemic excursion nor glycaemic variability. In contrast, pharmacologic inhibition
      of the sodium glucose transporter-2 (SGLT-2) can be given as an oral agent and is likely to
      result in better glucose control with lower risk of hypoglycaemia Objective: glucose control
      and safety (risk of hypoglycaemia). Secondary objectives are patient satisfaction, other
      safety outcomes and other parameters of glucose control Study design: Double-blind placebo
      controlled intervention study Study population: Patients hospitalized for an exacerbation of
      chronic obstructive lung disease who are treated with high dose glucocorticoids.

      Intervention: One group receives once daily a 10mg tablet of dapagliflozin and the other
      group receives once daily a placebo tablet as add on to their prestudy glucose-lowering
      medication. Both groups will be treated with glucose lowering escape medication if required.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Glucose control is measured as the average time spent within
      target range in each patient. Safety is measured as the incidence rate of hypoglycaemia
      during study follow-up.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The burden of participation consists of the extra capillary glucose measurements
      that will be done 3-4 times daily and wearing a coin size glucose sensor. Furthermore,
      patients have to fill out a treatment satisfaction questionnaire. There will be no extra site
      visits for participants.

      Dapagliflozin (experimental group) carries a risk of hypoglycaemia, especially for patient
      who have concomitant therapy with insulin or sulfonylurea derivatives. Patients will be
      instructed to anticipate, and if required dosing of glucose lowering therapy will be
      adjusted. Furthermore, dapagliflozin carries an increased risk of urogenital infections,
      increased haematocrit and LDL cholesterol.
    
  