
    
      This is a prospective study aimed at identifying the frequency, natural history and long term
      outcomes of CCI and PICS in the survivors of Intra-abdominal sepsis.

      In addition to the in-hospital clinical data collected from the parent study, pre and
      post-sepsis measurements of frailty, comorbidity and disability will be obtained via
      questionnaires and the electronic health records. Frailty, comorbidity and disability
      assessments will also be completed at the three, six, and 12 month follow up assessments.

      Frailty measures A frailty index will be determined as a combination of factors.

      An older adult is considered physically vulnerable when they experience:

        1. muscle weakness

        2. fatigue

        3. low physical activity, and unintentional loss in body weight, which has been agreed upon
           by a consensus of experts.

      Two additional non-intravenous contrasted CT scans will be obtained at 3 and 12 months as
      part of the study protocol to assess for interval change in SMI/sarcopenia.

      Objective mobility and activity monitoring will be performed to supplement assessment of
      frailty and disability. Wearable monitors (similar in size and appearance to a "smart watch"
      have received significant attention because they offer minimal burden, objectivity,
      versatility and low cost for assessing activity and mobility patterns. The monitor is similar
      in shape and size to a standard wrist watch. Thus, it will have minimal burden to patients.
      Each monitor will be fitted on the wrist and worn for 24 hours a day, but can be quickly
      removed for medical procedures, patient care or hygiene needs. Patients will wear the monitor
      for their entire length of stay in the hospital. It will be removed at discharge.
      Post-discharge, patients will be sent a monitor to wear for up to 10 days at four different
      time points: 3 months, 6 months and 12 months post-discharge. If study subjects are
      hospitalized long enough that discharge is within 30 days of the 3 month follow up, the 1
      month post discharge monitoring period will be deferred. Outcomes include steps per day,
      total movements per day, minutes being sedentary and minutes moving at various intensities
      (e.g. light, moderate and vigorous).
    
  