
    
      Access to safe drinking water is a fundamental human right recognized by the United Nations,
      yet achieving universal access in the developing world has been impeded by insufficient water
      treatment infrastructure and lack of sustained maintenance. As of 2015, 844 million
      individuals in low- and lower-middle-income countries (LMICs) did not have access to improved
      drinking water sources and 159 million people directly used untreated surface water,
      resulting in the loss of 502 thousand lives annually by diarrheal diseases from
      pathogen-contaminated water. Because drinking water inequity and the associated mortality
      disproportionally burden the rural developing world, the provision of improved point-of-use
      (POU) water treatment technologies that are low cost, simple, and require minimal
      infrastructure is crucial for achieving ubiquitous access to safe drinking water.

      Several POU water treatment methods are currently applied in LMICs (e.g., solar disinfection
      (SODIS), granular media or ceramic pot filtration, chlorination, etc.). Although effective
      against bacteria, most perform relatively poorly for virus removal, and all POU technologies
      demonstrate lower efficacy in the field due to compromised initial water quality and
      operation by relatively unskilled users. While POU technologies have contributed to the
      reduction of bacterial and parasitic gastroenteritis, instances of viral gastroenteritis have
      not declined, with viral agents observed in 43% of developing world diarrheal cases.

      One POU technology in development that has demonstrated potential for inactivating viruses in
      drinking water is the application of an edible photosensitizing dye to the water for
      disinfection. When exposed to sunlight, the photosensitizing dye produces singlet oxygen, a
      reactive oxygen species (ROS) capable of inactivating a wide range of viruses. Erythrosine,
      an FDA-approved dye, has proven its ability to disinfect drinking water, achieving 4-log
      inactivation of bacteriophage MS2 in under 10 minutes of sunlight exposure. Furthermore, the
      dye photobleaches upon exposure to light, and the accompanying distinct color change (e.g.,
      from erythrosine red to transparent) occurs at a rate comparable to the disinfection,
      providing a safety indication that disinfection has completed, a much-needed function lacking
      in other POU technologies. At a total cost of $0.002-0.003 per liter of treated water, it is
      cheaper than boiling water in several developing nations and is a financially viable water
      disinfection technology.

      Erythrosine, also known as FD&C Red No. 3 in the USA, is approved by the FDA for use in
      foods, drugs, and cosmetics, with an acceptable daily intake (ADI) of 2.5 mg/kg bw/day. The
      concentration recommended by literature for disinfection in drinking water is 5.0 µM
      erythrosine, or approximately 4.4 mg/L. With the average American consuming 2.38 L of
      drinking water and beverages per day, a daily exposure of 10.5 mg erythrosine/day is
      expected. Assuming the total water consumption per day in LMICs matches the American
      consumption of 2.38 L, then a 60-kg individual would experience a daily erythrosine dose of
      0.17 mg/kg bw/day, well below the established FDA ADI.

      The motivation for investigating the human health effects of erythrosine stems from the
      unknown behavior of the photodegradation products. While the molecular structure of
      erythrosine will change upon oxidation by singlet oxygen, the typical reactions of singlet
      oxygen are addition reactions that do not typically lead to cleavage of the molecular
      structure. As a result, it is not expected that the absorption rates of erythrosine to change
      significantly upon oxidative photobleaching. However, these oxidative products have not been
      previously tested for toxicity and should be examined before allowing erythrosine-based water
      disinfection to be further developed. Recent tests have attempted to characterize the
      photooxidation products of erythrosine but were inconclusive.

      Furthermore, previous literature states that ~19% of iodine in the molecular structure of
      erythrosine is released to the solution after exposure to light and oxidation by singlet
      oxygen. If the previous water treatment parameters are followed (5.0 µM erythrosine, 2.38 L
      water/day, 60 kg individual), the daily consumption of iodine released from erythrosine would
      be 1.1 mg I/day. The lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) and no-observed adverse
      effect level (NOAEL) for iodine are 1.7 mg I/day and 1.0-1.2 mg I/day, resulting in the
      tolerable upper intake level (UL) of 1.1 mg I/day. If the literature-reported release of
      iodine from erythrosine is correct, then exposures are at the UL for iodine. Due to the poor
      absorption of erythrosine by the gastrointestinal tract, it is not expected that the iodine
      which remains bound to erythrosine to significantly impact the total iodine consumption.
      While it is not expected that erythrosine-based water treatment to result in adverse outcomes
      due to exposure to erythrosine photoproducts or overexposure to iodine, it is important to
      follow a cautious approach and test for its impact before allowing for the further
      development of a technology that would be consumed daily by individuals in the developing
      world.
    
  