
    
      Within the REWIRE project, nine exergames have been developed for the treatment of
      visuospatial neglect after stroke. All the exercises were aimed, according to classical
      rehabilitation, to drive the patients towards the exploration of the hemi-neglected space.
      The Gentile's taxonomy has been extended to neglect patients and was used to develop the
      exergames. Gentile's taxonomy of motor skills allows a simple to complex progression of
      skills and enables determining progress on an objective basis.

      According to these specifications, the exergames targeting the exploration of space with
      additional cognitive and memory tasks with increasing difficulty levels have been developed.
      This allows an individual game selection suitable for the neglect patient's cognitive skills
      and guarantees a constant learning process.

      The assessments and the virtual-reality based neglect training intervention for the stroke
      patients will take place at the collaborating rehabilitation clinics in Switzerland.

      The neglect training is thought to be an additional therapy option to regain functional
      independence together with the standard rehabilitation program patients are following during
      their inpatient stay at the clinic. The exergame neglect training intervention is based on
      the widely accepted motor learning training principles specificity, initial values, overload
      and progression. Furthermore, the intervention is planned according to the FITT components;
      these are: Frequency, Intensity, Time and Type of training. The intervention is characterized
      by the following parameters:

        -  Frequency: 5 sessions per week

        -  Intensity: individually adjusted by the treating therapist according to the progress of
           the participating patient

        -  Time: 30-45 minutes per training for 3 weeks

        -  Type: REWIRE neglect exergames

      The assessments:

      Assessing cognition: Zürcher Maxi Mental Status Test (ZüMAX) The ZüMAX is a test performed in
      an interview situation to get a quick (about 30 min) first assessment of neuropsychological
      deficits but suits also for long term controlling. It provides a reliable index of the
      following domains: language, praxia, learning and memory, perception and visual-constructive
      abilities as well as of executive functions. In each of these five functional domains, a
      maximum of 6 points can be scored; obviously, a total of 30 points represents optimal
      functioning. In addition to this numerical scoring, the ZüMAX allows also the qualitative
      judgment of an individual's alertness, ability to cooperate, tempo and emotion. The necessary
      equipment for the ZüMAX is the following: stopwatch, metronome, pencil for patients (no
      ruler, no eraser), 24 stimulus cards (chimerical faces), ZüMAX testing form with one
      coversheet, seven demonstration sheets, four work sheets and four record sheets. Its
      test-retest-reliability and concurrent validity have recently been examined for the stroke
      population.

      Assessing eye movements: The Eye Tribe Tracker (TETT) To get a better estimate if the games
      really influence the exploration of the hemi-neglected space, the eye movements will be
      tracked by "THE EYE TRIBE TRACKER" (TETT). It was developed by the Copenhagen-based
      eye-tracking start-up company, The Eye Tribe. The company is the first in its category to
      offer reliable, consumer-grade eye tracking products. The Eye Tribe tracker is a brand new
      sensor combined with an infrared illumination system that provides the very best conditions
      for the eye tracking algorithms to work with. The high resolution sensor ensures that the
      tiny movements of the pupils can be tracked with high precision while maintaining a wide
      field of view. The advanced algorithms work in tandem with the hardware to optimize for most
      environments and light conditions. However, it works best in indoor scenarios without direct
      sunlight on the device. Its operating range is from 45cm to 75cm, and the tracking area is
      40cm x 30cm at 65cm distance (30Hz). The participant will perform an adapted version (using
      their eyes instead of their finger) of the test developed by Rabuffetti et al. This Neglect
      test consists of a uniform distribution of 120 stimuli, either letters or shapes, including
      40 targets and 80 distracters. Each participant will be seated in front of the screen with
      the mid-sagittal plane of the trunk aligned with the center of the screen. The task consists
      of looking (instead of touching with the index finger) at all the targets that the subject
      will be able to detect. Once the target will be looked at for approximately 2 seconds, it
      will be circled.

      In order to avoid compensatory movements of the head, a chin rest (will be located at the
      table in front of the patient. This model is individually adjustable to the height of the
      patient, produced out of hygienic materials (varnished wood, aluminium, polyester tissue) and
      regularly used by opticians for vision training. The chin rest will also be used during the
      intervention while playing the exergames.

      Assessing visuospatial neglect: Behavioral Inattention Test (BIT, German: NET) The
      standardized BIT consists of six conventional subtests (similar to the cancellation,
      bisection, and copying measures) and nine behavioral subtests designed to identify a wide
      variety of visual neglect behaviors. The conventional subtests are as follows: Letter and
      Star Cancellation , Figure and Shape Copying, Line Crossing and Bisection and
      Representational Drawing.

      The nine behavioral subtests of the instrument all assess aspects of daily life: Picture
      Scanning with three pictures (plate of food, bathroom sink, and a room), Telephone Dialing,
      Menu Reading; Article Reading, Telling and Setting Time, Coin Sorting, Address and Sentence
      Copying, Map Navigation, and Card Sorting. Each subtest receives a maximum of 9 points, so
      the maximum total score is 81. Scores can provide a functional profile of neglect and a
      meaningful guide for treatment.

      The BIT has been shown to be a robust predictor of visuospatial neglect and is a predictor of
      functionality after stroke. It quantifies neglect through offering an established concrete
      cutoff for detection of visuospatial neglect (BIT < 130). Inter-rater, parallel form, and
      test-retest reliability are high (r = .99, .91, .99, respectively, p < .001). Concurrent
      validity was established by examining the relationship between the conventional and
      behavioral test scores (r = .92, P < .001). There exists a validated German version of the
      BIT, called NET (Neglect-Test) which will be used for this study project.

      The ZüMAX and the NET will be repeated after 3 weeks training intervention and furthermore 4
      weeks after the training intervention as follow up.

      As follow up the investigator assessing personal experiences of neglect patients with
      individual interviews.To describe and understand how persons with visuo-spatial neglect
      experience and discover their disabilities in daily life during rehabilitation, the
      investigator therefore has chosen to adopt a transcendental or psychological phenomenological
      research design. A phenomenological study describes the meaning for several individuals of
      their lived experiences of a phenomenon - in this project: visuo-spatial neglect. These
      experiences are best assessed in individual interviews. To find out if the experience of
      playing the neglect exergames supported them in learning to handle their disabilities,
      open-ended interview questions addressing this topic are included in the interview guide. The
      interview will take place during the same week as the follow-up measurements at a place
      convenient for the participant.

      Meanwhile the investigator is assessing also the personal experiences of the clinic staff
      involved in the neglect exergame training with a focus group interview. In order to deepen
      the collected answers from the questionnaire given by the clinic staff involved in the study,
      the examiner will organize a focus-group interview after termination of the neglect exergame
      training intervention. The beforehand evaluated "clinic staff questionnaires" will serve as a
      basis for discussion.
    
  