
    
      Objective

      Translocator protein 18 kDa (TSPO) is highly expressed in activated microglia and reactive
      astrocytes in brain, and it may, thereby, be a useful biomarker of neuroinflammation. We
      developed [(11)C]PBR28 as a positron emission tomographic (PET) radioligand to bind to TSPO
      and measure its density. Although [(11)C]PBR28 has high in vivo specific signal, it is very
      sensitive to the high and low affinity states of TSPO, which are caused by the rs6971 single
      nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the fourth exon of the TSPO gene resulting in a
      nonconservative alanine-to-threonine substitution in position 147 of the encoded TSPO
      protein. This co-dominant mutation yields three genetic groups: HH, HL, and LL, where H is
      the high-affinity form and L is the low affinity form. The frequency of the L allele is
      approximately 30%; thus, the frequency of the LL homozygote is approximately 9%. The affinity
      of PBR28 to H and L forms differs about 50 fold; thus, LL carriers provide no measureable
      signal in brain from [(11)C]PBR28. We recently developed a new TSPO ligand ER176, the
      affinity of which differs by only 1.2 fold and therefore LL carriers should provide
      measureable brain uptake. The purpose of this study is to assess the potential of
      [(11)C]ER176 to image TSPO in brain, characterize its binding sensitivity in lung of healthy
      subjects from all three genetic groups, and to do whole-body imaging for biodistribution and
      estimation of radiation dosimetry in humans.

      The present protocol will use a new PET ligand [(11)C]ER176 to 1) perform an initial
      whole-body scan after [(11)C]ER176 injection in a single healthy volunteer to confirm
      wide-spread distribution of radioactivity to different body organs (Phase 0); 2) perform
      kinetic brain scans in healthy volunteers of 3 different genotypes, with about half of these
      volunteers undergoing lung scans in the same session (Phase 1), and; 3) perform whole-body
      imaging in healthy volunteers (Phase 2).

      This study will assess the relative robustness of absolute quantitation of TSPO in the brain
      of healthy subjects, using an arterial input function and pharmacokinetic modeling. In
      addition, lung imaging will provide in vivo binding sensitivity of [(11)C]ER176 to TSPO
      genotype. Furthermore, the whole-body imaging would estimate the radiation-absorbed doses for
      future use of [(11)C]ER176 in clinical studies.

      Study Population

      We will select up to 36 healthy adult female and male volunteers (age 18 and older) of 3
      different TSPO genotypes for brain imaging, and up to 11 additional healthy volunteers for
      whole body dosimetry analysis.

      Design

      For absolute quantification of TSPO, up to 36 healthy controls (up to 12 each of three TSPO
      genotypes) will have brain PET imaging using [(11)C]ER176 and these subjects will have the
      arterial line and a brain MRI scan. In about half of those subjects from each genotype group,
      lungs will be scanned in the same session. For radiation dosimetry of [(11)C]ER176, up to 11
      subjects will have whole-body PET imaging. These subjects will not have arterial line and MRI
      scans.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measures are: (a) To assess absolute quantitation of TSPO with
      [(11)C]ER176, we will determine the identifiability and time stability of distribution volume
      in the brain calculated with compartmental modeling. The difference in mean distribution
      volumes among subjects with different genotypes would be used to evaluate the genotype
      sensitivity of [(11)C]ER176. (b) To assess whole-body biodistribution and dosimetry of
      [(11)C]ER176 we will use the organ time-activity curves.

      As secondary outcome measure, we will examine the effect of polymorphism on [(11)C]ER176
      binding in lungs because lungs have much higher density of TSPO and may be more effective to
      show whether ER176 is sensitive to the SNP.
    
  