
    
      All participants will receive a behavioral intervention as part of the testing protocol: they
      will be asked to generate words to complete a phrase as they read written steps to perform
      functional tasks. Mood will be assessed using the Geriatric Depression Scale.(see page 8)
      Participants will be asked to estimate their memory, immediate attention mood, functional
      tasks (performing cooking and financial task) and "ability to take medications correctly"
      (pre-test or "offline" ratings, abstract judgments of their own ability not based directly on
      performance). They will perform self-assessments of their cognitive, functional abilities and
      mood using Likert scales. They will mark each of 5 vertical (23.5 cm) lines centered on white
      paper to indicate their ability. Each line will be labeled for each domain.

      To estimate of naming ability, show the subject the Likert Scale (attached) for the naming
      domain. Then explain: "This scale is to measure how well you think your ability to name. Here
      is the top where you will mark if you think your performance is perfect, here is the bottom
      if you think you are terrible. You may be somewhere in between. (broadly indicated the whole
      middle area) mark where you think your performance would belong on this scale".

      This standard protocol will be used by the examiner in this study to explain each domain with
      specific types of tasks, and give subjects practical hypothetical examples of good and poor
      performance.

      Ability to take medication: Functional memory as applied to medication compliance will be
      assessed with the Hopkins Medication Schedule (HMS). This test has two part, HMS and pill
      box. The test will serve as a good evaluation of subject's functional memory, which we
      suspect it will be most strongly affected by Anosognosia.

      The HMS: the participant was read (and read along with) a hypothetical scenario in which her
      physician gave her 1 prescription for an antibiotic and for aspirin to treat an infection
      along with directions for taking each. The participant was then asked to plan a schedule for
      taking these medications and water during the course of a day, following the instructions
      provided.
    
  