
    
      Background: Pain is defined as an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience and in its
      chronic form, pain is highly prevalent, up to 25% of children and adolescents are affected by
      it. The exact etiology of many forms of chronic pain remains unknown. One mechanism that has
      been proposed to underlie increased pain sensitivity is central sensitization, i.e.,
      increased efficacy of the nervous system in transmitting pain signals, which manifests itself
      as a lower pain threshold. A lower pain threshold in turn has been recognized as a risk
      factor for the development of chronic pain. Being more sensitive to pain is one feature
      commonly shared by those with high sensory processing sensitivity (SPS), who are thought to
      react more strongly to both positive and negative environmental influences. The relationship
      between this increased sensitivity and pain tolerance has not been studied to date, but could
      contribute to our understanding of why some children and adolescents are more vulnerable to
      developing chronic pain than others.

      Objectives and Aims: The aim of this project is to increase scientific understanding of
      whether the trait of SPS can help explain increased pain sensitivity and hence vulnerability
      for chronic pain. Additionally, it will be tested whether participants with high SPS report
      differences in pain intensity in response to positive, negative, or neutral mood induction
      compared to individuals with lower SPS.

      Methods: To examine differences in pain perception of an experimentally induced pain stimulus
      between people with varying levels of SPS and whether pain perception can modulated by
      positive, negative, or neutral mood induction, I will apply a heat pain paradigm in a sample
      of healthy adolescents. Participants will be randomized to either neutral, positive or
      negative mood induction and I will test whether their pain sensitivity differs as a function
      of their scores on a high sensitivity scale and with regard to mood induction.

      Expected Results: We expect highly sensitive adolescents to have a lower pain threshold and
      tolerance and to react more strongly to positive (with decreased pain ratings) and negative
      (with increased pain ratings) mood induction compared to those with lower scores on the
      sensitivity scale.
    
  