
    
      Study design: This is an uncontrolled, non-randomised, un-blinded longitudinal observational
      data collection study with the N-Tidal C data-collector capnometer in patients with COPD.
      Patients will be enrolled into one of two cohorts: community-based case managed patients with
      chronic hypercapnia, and hospitalised patients who have been admitted via the emergency room
      for the treatment of COPD-related ventilatory failure.

      Patients who give informed consent will be screened for the study. Patients in the
      case-managed group will be screened at home or in routine clinic visits. Patients in the
      acute admission group will be screened after admission to hospital as soon as they are well
      enough to understand the study and to give written informed consent.

      The N-Tidal C data-collector capnometer will be explained to the patients and they will be
      trained how to use it. Case-managed patients will be asked to use the device at home over a
      period of approximately 6 weeks, 3 times per day (morning, afternoon and evening), or 6 times
      per day if they feel that they are starting an infection or an exacerbation. Hospitalised
      patients will also use the device 3 times per day as in-patients and will then continue with
      the monitoring after discharge from hospital for a total period of 6 weeks. All patients will
      complete a daily diary record.

      Case-managed patients will undergo clinical assessment of COPD during screening at home or in
      the COPD clinic; in-patients will undergo clinical assessment of COPD following admission and
      before discharge from hospital. All patients will be assessed a further 3 times: during the
      second and fourth week in the community, and at the end of the 6-week assessment period. A
      brief follow-up review will be conducted approximately 8 weeks after the start of capnometer
      monitoring. At each assessment, capnometry measurements will be taken in addition to routine
      spirometry, and arterial (in-patients) or capillary (in the community) blood gasses. The
      trial will not interfere with routine management of the patient's condition.
    
  