
    
      We will investigate 90 patients with bronchiectasis who are developing an exacerbation as
      defined by the British Thoracic Society guidelines requiring intravenous antibiotics.

      After being consented, patients will be randomly allocated to one of two arms (computer
      generated). 45 patients will have length of treatment guided by the bacterial load and 45
      patients will have 14 days IV Meropenem.

      Next they will all attend for their baseline visit. Here, they will be asked to provide a 24
      hour sputum collected the day prior to the visit, a spontaneous sample collected within 4
      hours from rising (sample used for sputum colour and microbiological analysis), undergo
      spirometry testing, incremental shuttle walk test, blood sampling (for inflammatory markers
      Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate, C Reactive Protein, Full Blood Count, procalcitonin), fill
      out a leicester cough questionnaire to assess their cough (LCQ) and a health related quality
      of life questionnaire (St George's respiratory questionnaire, SGRQ).

      All patients will be started on intravenous meropenem 2g, tds (assuming no previous
      documented resistant microbiology results or allergies).

      They will all return on day 7 for a check on their clinical progress. At this time they will
      again provide a 24hour sputum, spontaneous sputum sample and blood samples as documented
      above. Arm one (intervention arm) will have their antibiotics stopped on day 8 if the
      bacterial load is less than 10^6cfu/ml. Arm two will continue intravenous meropenem
      regardless of bacterial count.

      All patients will return again on day 10, they will again provide a 24hour sputum,
      spontaneous sputum sample and blood samples as documented above. Arm one (intervention arm)
      will have their antibiotics stopped on day 11 if the bacterial load is less than 10^6cfu/ml.
      Arm two will continue intravenous meropenem regardless of bacterial count.

      All patients will return on day 14. All above assessments as on baseline will be repeated
      except the LCQ and SGRQ. All antibiotics for all patients will stop after 14 days of
      treatment.

      All patients will return on day 21 where all the above assessments will be repeated. The LCQ
      and SGRQ will be completed on day 21. The date of and time to next exacerbation will be
      recorded at the next routine outpatient appointment.
    
  