
    
      This is a new protocol to evaluate the mode of birth in women with a low-lying placenta. In
      particular, we intend to propose a vaginal birth in women having a low-lying placenta with a
      distance between the inferior placental edge and the internal cervical os, called
      internal-os-distance (IOD) of > 5 mm, as assessed in the late III trimester using
      transvaginal sonography.

      Duration of the study:

        -  Duration of the study: 54 months

        -  Duration of enrollment: 42 months

        -  Duration of follow-up completion of enrolled cases: 6 months

        -  Duration of data analysis: 6 months

      Study Design:

      During the II trimester scan, all women presenting a placenta located in the lower uterine
      segment will undergo evaluation by Transvaginal Sonography (TVS).

      If a placenta previa or a low-lying placenta will be confirmed, the woman will be recruited
      and asked to participate in our study, by signing a written informed consent. In addition
      women attending the Maternity Triage with vaginal bleeding at < 316/7 weeks of gestation,
      with a diagnosis of placenta previa or low-lying placenta and not requiring an emergency
      delivery will be asked to participate and will be recruited after signing the informed
      consent.

      An expert Obstetrician will perform the TVS as scheduled, after inviting the woman to void.

      The assessment will include:

        -  the measurement of the IOD (first caliper on the internal cervical os and second caliper
           on the inferior placental edge). In case of a marginal sinus, the distance between the
           internal cervical os and the marginal sinus will also be assessed;

        -  the cervical length (defined as shortened if ≤25 mm);

        -  the placental edge thickness, measured within 1 cm from the meeting point between the
           basal and the chorionic plate. The placental edge will be considered "thick" if > 1cm or
           if the angle is >45°.

      All women with a resolution of a previa or low-lying placenta will be assessed in accordance
      with the protocol of each participating Maternity Unit, including a scan assessment at 38-39
      weeks of gestation or within 28 days from the due date.

      Calculation of sample size / power:

      Considering that the incidence of previa and low-lying placenta is approximately 2% at the II
      trimester scan and 0.4% at birth, and assuming a C.I. of 19% in the probability of vaginal
      birth in women with low-lying placenta/resolved low-lying (> 20 mm), 27 women will be needed
      for each participating Maternity Unit at the late III trimester scan. Anticipating a 10% drop
      out, 30 women will be needed to achieve a 95% statistical power to identify a clinically
      relevant difference in the rate of vaginal birth. This leads to the need of recruiting 150
      women at the II trimester scan.

      CRF and data management:

      All data will be recorded through CRF provided by the promoter center and the database will
      be based on Microsoft Excel.

      A sample of about 20-30 patients for each enrollment center is necessary to have a
      statistical power of 95% in detecting a clinically relevant difference in outcomes in the
      various study groups.

      Analysis plan:

      Descriptive statistics will be performed for all variables evaluated in the study population.
      Variables will be described by mean and standard deviation if normally distributed, otherwise
      by median and interquantile range; proportions will be used for categorical variables. The
      quantitative variables, among the study groups defined by the IOD at the last TVS, will be
      compared by parametric and non-parametric tests, whereas the categorical variables will be
      compared using Pearson's chi2 test (Fisher exact test where appropriate). The analyses for
      the primary outcome measure will be performed among women admitted to labor. A multivariate
      analysis will be conducted to assess the association between obstetric variables and vaginal
      birth.

      A p-value<0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  