
    
      Background:

      Multiple pathologies cause diaphragmatic dysfunction, including: respiratory, abdominal and
      neurological disease. Established clinical tests of diaphragmatic function, include: the
      transdiaphragmatic pressure, the maximal static inspiratory pressure, the sniff inspiratory
      pressure, pulmonary function tests, electromyography, a chest radiograph or fluoroscopy.

      However ultrasound assessment of diaphragmatic function is a non-invasive, radiation-free
      technique that has gained traction in clinical practice in recent years. Several different
      methods have been described, that examine motion in two different areas of the diaphragm,
      either the zone of apposition, or the dome of the diaphragm, however no one method has
      emerged as the standard of care.

      The current conventional technique (using B-mode or M-mode ultrasound via a phased array or
      curvilinear probe) in the subcostal region, has several limitations:

        -  It can be difficult to measure right hemi-diaphragm excursion with deep breathing, with
           a failure rate of up to 28% described for quantitative assessment.

        -  It is even more difficult to quantitatively assess left hemi-diaphragmatic excursion
           with deep breathing, as the spleen provides a smaller window compared to the liver
           window. Failure rates of 79% and 65% have been reported.

        -  When using M-mode, the ultrasound beam must image the diaphragmatic excursion line at a
           perpendicular angle, otherwise reproducibility and accuracy are adversely effected.

      The investigators propose a novel method, using linear ultrasound to examine the zone of
      apposition, and determine diaphragmatic excursion at end inspiration and expiration. In
      theory this technique may have a number of advantages over the conventional method. It is
      likely easier to learn, quicker to perform, and has a lower failure rate for imaging the
      diaphragm on both sides during deep breathing. The investigators will compare this method to
      the conventional method, i.e. a curvilinear probe as described above.

      Hypothesis:

      Diaphragmatic motion can be assessed more rapidly, and more reliably via a linear high
      frequency ultrasound probe, than a curved low frequency probe.

      Primary Objective:

      - To evaluate the ease and success of using a novel technique of point-of-care ultrasound
      diaphragm assessment with a linear probe in the mid-axillary line to measure diaphragmatic
      motion. The ease of procedure will be determined by the time and the number of attempts
      required to perform the ultrasound assessment.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the normal range of diaphragmatic excursion values from full expiration to
           full inspiration in men and women;

        -  To quantify the reduction in diaphragmatic motion following phrenic nerve palsy - due to
           an interscalene or supraclavicular brachial plexus block;

        -  To compare the finding of diminished diaphragmatic excursion with the conventional
           method of measurement; i.e. compare the sensitivity and specificity of the tests.

        -  To analyze the success rate of measuring the left and right hemi-diaphragmatic movement
           as compared with the conventional method of measurement.

      This prospective observational study, will involve patients undergoing elective surgery, and
      will consist of two phases:

      Phase 1:

      The first phase will be to evaluate a new lung ultrasound technique to measure diaphragmatic
      excursion using a linear probe in the mid-axillary line. This will involve scanning 75
      healthy patients undergoing elective surgery to determine normal reference values for this
      technique in men and women.

      Phase 2:

      The second phase will involve 100 patients who are undergoing an interscalene or
      supraclavicular brachial plexus block as part of their perioperative analgesic management for
      shoulder or arm surgery. This cohort of patient is likely to develop phrenic nerve palsy as a
      side effect of the brachial plexus block. The resultant phrenic nerve palsy, will result in
      reduced diaphragmatic motion, and the aim will be to evaluate the ability of using a linear
      probe technique to measure this reduction as compared to the conventional method of
      measurement.
    
  