
    
      Specific Aims

      The aims of this study are:

        1. to develop a nurse-led smartphone-based self-management programme (NSSMP) for patients
           with type 2 diabetes;

        2. to compare the NSSMP with an existing nurse-led diabetes service (NDS) on self-efficacy,
           diabetes self-care activities, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), glycaemic
           control, acute diabetes complications (e.g. hypoglycaemia, Diabetic Ketoacidosis [DKA]
           and Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic Syndrome [HHS]), and health-service use among type 2
           diabetes patients with poor glycemic control in Singapore.

      Study Hypotheses

      Study participants will be randomized into an existing NDS group (i.e. control group) and a
      newly developed NSSMP group (i.e. experimental group). It is hypothesized that participants
      in the NSSMP group as compared with participants in the NDS group will have significantly:

        1. Higher level of self-efficacy;

        2. Increased level of diabetes self-care activities;

        3. More positive perceived health-related quality of life;

        4. Reduced glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and acute diabetes complications (e.g.
           hypoglycaemia, Diabetic Ketoacidosis [DKA] and Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic Syndrome [HHS]
           ); and

        5. Reduced usage of health services (e.g. diabetes-related hospital readmission, emergency
           room attendance, and unplanned medical consultation).

      Approach Adopted in This Study Development of NSSMP: A nurse-led smartphone-based
      self-management programme, or NSSMP for short, will be developed by the study team. The model
      of self-efficacy will be used to guide the development of the NSSMP to ensure it would be
      theoretically sound and empirically tested. The NSSMP is a 6-month programme comprising an
      individual education session, and a newly developed smartphone App as a self-help education
      resource. The NSSMP involves the use of a smartphone, internet, and communication
      technologies to assist patients to manage their disease at homes or wherever they are.
      Patient's health data will be monitored by their smartphones. All the data will be
      synchronized to a web-connected portal on a remote server. The nurse would be able to access
      the participant's data (e.g. blood glucose, exercise, blood pressure, body weight, diet)
      through the web-connected portal so that the individualized care and consultation could be
      rendered through the tele or video conference.

      Study design, setting and participants: A randomized controlled trial with a pre- and
      repeated post-test control group design is adopted. A convenience sample of 128 type 2 DM
      patients with poor glycemic control will be recruited from the Diabetes Clinic of National
      University Hospital (NUH). Study participants will be randomly assigned either to a 6-month
      NSSMP group (i.e experimental group) or the NDS group (i.e. control group). The existing NDS
      for DM patients in the NUH consists of face-to-face patient education sessions plus telephone
      follow-ups. The patients are required to return back to the Diabetes Clinic to attend the
      educations sessions based on the scheduled appointment. They are instructed to measure blood
      glucose at home and modes of contact (voicemail, fax and email address) are given for
      reporting the glucose readings weekly. If the patient does not report, the nurse will have to
      make calls or send SMS message to the patient to follow up their blood glucose results. The
      nurses would then provide telephone counselling services to the patients where needed based
      on the blood glucose results, and sometime would request patients coming back to the Diabetes
      Clinic to see the doctors and the diabetes advanced practice nurses.

      Outcome measures: Study outcome measures include the 10-item General Self-Efficacy Scale,
      11-item Revised Summary of Diabetes Self-care Activities, and 19-item Diabetes-Dependent
      Quality of Life which will be used to measure self-efficacy, level of diabetes self-care
      activities, and health-related quality of life of the participants respectively. The
      participant's socio-demographic and clinical data (e.g. HbA1c, acute diabetes complications,
      and lipid level) will be also collected. Data will be collected at 3 time points: baseline
      (i.e. pre-test), 3 months from baseline (post-test 1), and 6 months from the baseline
      (post-test 2). The health service use (e.g. diabetes-related hospital readmission, emergency
      room attendance, and unplanned medical consultation) will be also assessed at the 6th month
      of the end of the programme.

      Data analysis: The IBM SPSS 23.0 will be used for data entry and analysis. Intention-to-treat
      will be adopted in data analysis. Repeated measures analysis of covariance will be used to
      examine the differences between, within, and the interaction (group x time) effects on each
      continuous outcome. Confounding variables (e.g. age), will be controlled as covariate in the
      analysis. The Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be used to test the difference of
      the incidence of acute diabetes complications and the numbers of health service use between
      the two groups. All statistical tests will be two-tailed, and a p < 0.05 is used to indicate
      statistical significance.

      Study Significance If the NSSMP is demonstrated to be effective in this study, a smartphone
      App developed in this project can be provided to all DM patients and their family
      members/caregivers as a self-help education resource at home. It will provide and equip
      knowledge to the patient and their family members/caregivers to enhance their knowledge and
      skills in management of diabetes so as to achieve the expected patient outcomes in improving
      self-efficacy, diabetes self-care activities, HRQoL, and clinical outcomes. It is expected
      that this programme will be an option that can be offered to diabetes patients to master
      their self-care management skills in addition to the existing diabetes service provided in
      diabetes clinics in Singapore hospitals where patients with poorly controlled condition are
      being monitored. In addition, the independent nature of this programme with application of
      technology will greatly reduce nurses' contact time with patients which accord them more time
      for those who require more time, for example, those afflicted with diabetes-related
      complications. This will result in a more efficient use of healthcare resources in the long
      run. Eventually, this programme will be available for all diabetes patients living in the
      community.

      Feasibility of the Study The research team comprises experienced researchers from different
      disciplines. The PI has extensive research experience in the area of chronic diseases
      management and mHealth intervention. Two Co-Is are practised clinicians in diabetes care,
      they will facilitate the access to potential study participants and oversee the
      implementation of the project. One Co-I has the expertise in biomedical engineering, mobile
      App development, and information management. He and his team will be in charge of developing
      the system. In addition, the preliminary integrative literature review and qualitative
      patient interviews were performed to inform the development of the content for the mobile
      app. Through harnessing the technology, the smartphone App based platform can be established
      to reduce the contact time with patients for the healthcare providers.
    
  