
    
      Background: Regular participation in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity in contact sports
      may be related to increases in cerebrovascular injury and head trauma. The diagnosis of head
      injury is lacking in validated objective measures immediate post event. Diagnostic markers
      may also be confounded by the exercise type and intensity. Therefore, it deserves further
      examination on a variety of functional (biomechanical and motor control) performance and
      blood-based biomarkers to determine how these indicators are affected by contact sport and
      the incidence of head injury. The study aims to investigate the changes in physiological,
      biomechanical and cognitive performance under a traumatic sport-event.

      Methods: The study will use a two-group randomized controlled trial (RCT) with double-blinded
      approach, comprising a traumatic sport-event group and a control group. Thirty rugby-7s
      players will be recruited and randomly assigned to one of the two groups, where the
      intervention group will play three consecutive rugby matches. Data will be collected pre and
      post rugby match performance. Particularly, demographic and anthropometric data will be
      collected at baseline and pre-match. Venous blood, biomechanical data, and cognitive-motor
      task data will be collected at baseline, pre-match, and after each of 3 consecutive matches.
      Notational analysis will be performed after each match. Venous blood will be collected 24,
      48, and 72 hours after the 3rd match.

      Discussion: It is expected to see a reduction in whole-body movement, coordination, and
      cognitive-motor tasks as the number of games continues through fatigue and/or traumatic
      events. It is also expected that changes in blood-based biomarker concentrations to correlate
      with changes in biomechanical and cognitive-motor tasks. The proposed study will yield
      meaningful, ecologically valid research regarding the occurrence of concussive events, the
      influence of these on the biological system of the performer, with direct impact on
      clinicians, scientists, and sport governing bodies. The scope of this study will have
      implications on health and wellbeing within sporting populations at all levels, genders, and
      ages. Additionally, the findings will facilitate greater understanding about the human
      responses to exercise induced trauma.
    
  