
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the pain grade and epidermal toxic response (ETR) of patients with T-cell or
           B-cell lymphoma or early chronic lymphocytic leukemia with cutaneous infiltrates treated
           with photodynamic therapy using aminolevulinic acid.

        -  Determine the feasibility of maintaining a pain grade of 1 or less and an approximate
           ETR of 2 in patients receiving up to 12 sessions of this regimen.

        -  Determine the maximal irradiance and corresponding exposure among multiple treatments at
           the same site and among different sites in the same and in different patients.

        -  Determine the cumulative response achieved at the completion of treatment in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the number of sessions required to complete treatment in these patients.

        -  Correlate ETR with incremental treatment response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients' individual lesions are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive a short duration of topical aminolevulinic acid (ALA) on the
           lesion and surrounding normal skin. The lesion is then illuminated with red light for up
           to 30 minutes.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive a medium duration of ALA followed by light illumination as in
           arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive a long duration of ALA followed by light illumination as in
           arm I.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 12 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or progressive (systemic) disease.

      Additional patients are accrued to a treatment arm if at least 2 of 3 patients on that arm
      experience 25% cumulative clinical response.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, and 6 months and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4-10 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-7 years.
    
  