
    
      Background:

      Hand foot and mouth disease outbreaks associated with enterovirus 71 (EV71) were unusual in
      their neurological manifestations. Since 1997, Taiwan, Malaysia and Vietnam have experienced
      large outbreaks of EV71-HFMD.

      Neurological manifestations include meningitis, brainstem encephalitis, and rare
      cardiopulmonary failure, thought to be neurogenic in origin.

      In Vietnam, children are admitted to hospital if they show signs of systemic disease. The
      Vietnam Ministry of Health has developed a grading system to stratify management and
      intervention. Grade 1 have solely the typical rash on palms of hands, soles on feet and
      buttock with ulcers in the mouth. Grade 2 have systemic features such has high fever,
      irritability and myoclonus. Grade 2 is split into 2a for parental report of symptoms or 2b if
      a health professional has observed neurological signs. Grade 2 onwards are admitted to
      hospital. Grade 3 develop irregular breathing, persistent tachycardia, hypertension, all
      features of autonomic disturbance due to brainstem encephalitis. Grade 4 develop often fatal
      cardiopulmonary failure, believed to be a consequence of excessive unopposed sympathetic
      activation from brainstem disease.

      Different countries use different grading or staging systems for HFMD. A study in 142 EV71
      suggested children affected at a younger age of onset of disease might have consequences for
      verbal comprehension. In 63 children with EV71 disease, 14% had cognitive or motor deficits.

      Hypothesis and Aims:

      The study aims to identify the neurological and neurodevelopmental outcomes following severe
      (hospitalised) HFMD in Vietnam.

      Study Design:

      Prospective observational cohort study. There are two cohorts in this study. The HFMD
      participants and healthy children. All children hospitalized with HFMD are eligible for
      participation. From preliminary review of admissions to the hospital, we identified the
      majority of patients were admitted from a local district in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) (District
      8). All participants will be asked if they agree for an optional brain magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI).

      We will approach kindergartens in that district to enroll healthy children, and also approach
      participants in another Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, HCMC study run at a local
      obstetric hospital to enroll healthy infants. This healthy cohort will be age and sex matched
      to the least severe grade of HFMD participants.

      HFMD will have neurological and neurodevelopmental assessments carried out 1 week after
      discharge, 6 months later and the last assessment 18 months after the initial assessment. The
      Healthy cohort will have a neurodevelopmental assessment at enrollment. 6 months and 18
      months after the initial assessment.

      Primary Outcomes

        1. Comparison of neurodevelopment scores at discharge, at 6 and at 18 months of follow up
           between least severe HFMD children and an age and sex matched healthy comparison cohort.

        2. Comparison of neurodevelopment scores at 1 week after discharge, at 6 and at 18 months
           after discharge between children stratified by HFMD disease grade.

      Other Outcomes

      1. Descriptive Brain MRI Changes according to severity of HFMD

      Sample size and analysis plan:

      We aim to include up to 350 children with HFMD grade 2a, 2b, 3 and 4, and 150 healthy
      children (matched for Grade 2a) and follow them up at enrolment, 6 and 18 months of
      follow-up.

      The Bayley scoring system has a mean score of 100 with a standard deviation (SD) of 15 in
      healthy American children. Based on this, we assume an SD of approximately 15 in all 5 study
      populations. As little is known about within-child longitudinal changes in Bailey scores over
      time, power considerations are based on pair-wise comparisons between groups at each time
      point separately. With the sample sizes given, we will have 80% power at the two-sided 5%
      significance level to detect differences in mean scores of - 7.4 or larger between grade 2a
      or 2b children compared to grade 3 or 4 children, respectively.

      Statistical Methods Standard data summaries such as median (inter-quartile range) for
      continuous variables and frequency (%) for categorical variable together with graphical
      summaries (histograms, box plots and scatterplots) will be used for descriptive analyses in
      all studies.

      Longitudinal profiles of development scores over time will be visualized by line plots of
      individual subjects' data with overlaid smoothed lines for average development scores over
      time within groups. Modeling of longitudinal profiles over time and group comparisons will be
      based on standard methods for longitudinal data analysis such as linear mixed effects models.

      Potential Impact:

      To public health implications of HFMD require evaluation of long-term. If the burden of
      disease continues to have a neurological impact on a significant proportion of children, a
      vaccine-based approach is essential and cost-effective.

      As intense efforts are underway in vaccine development, research is essential in helping
      clinicians on the front line to identify the minority of children who may progress and focus
      limited resources appropriately.
    
  