
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether those patients with an increase in perfusion computed tomography (CT)
      tumor blood flow (BF) from T0 to T1 demonstrate poorer progression-free survival (PFS)
      compared to those patients with a decrease in BF from T0 to T1, among platinum-resistant,
      recurrent ovarian cancer patients treated with bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether change in perfusion CT tumor BF from T0 to T1, as a continuous
      variable, is associated with PFS.

      II. To evaluate whether changes in perfusion CT tumor blood volume (BV) or permeability
      surface product area (PS) from T0 to T1 are associated with PFS.

      III. To evaluate whether changes in perfusion CT tumor BF, BV, or PS from T0 to T1 are
      associated with response rate according to the standard anatomic response evaluation criteria
      (RECIST 1.1).

      IV. To identify which combination of perfusion CT parameters, including tumor BF, BV, and PS,
      can serve to optimally distinguish patients in terms of PFS outcome.

      V. To evaluate whether the association between change in perfusion CT parameters and
      treatment outcome (PFS or tumor response) is stable when analyzed with various
      commercially-available post-processing software.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. In the subset of patients with multiple, eligible perfusion target lesions within the CT
      imaging volume, describe the variability of perfusion CT changes across different lesions
      within the same patient, and evaluate the impact of multiple target lesions on the
      association between change in perfusion CT parameters and PFS.

      II. In a subset of patients, measure the reliability of perfusion CT parameters by analyzing
      the same perfusion imaging dataset using different readers and different post-processing
      software.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo computed tomography perfusion imaging at baseline and on day 15 after
      initiation of standard of care bevacizumab treatment and before the second dose.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up every 8 weeks for up to 18 months.
    
  