
    
      Suicide is a major public heath concern. The estimated global burden of suicide is a million
      deaths per year. Self-inflicted death accounts for 1.5% of all deaths and is the tenth
      leading cause of death worldwide.

      Compiling evidence on suicidality is fraught with problems. E.g. suicide deaths are generally
      perceived as underreported or prone to misclassification during cause-of-death ascertainment
      procedures. The suicide rates may be underestimated by 10% to 22%.

      The reliability of suicidality recording in electronic databases has recently been studied.
      Arana et al investigated data from the United Kingdom database THIN and found that the codes
      and the algorithm used to identify suicidality had a very high predictive value (97%). The
      positive predictive values for completed suicide was lower (88%) and 14% of 'true', completed
      suicides were not identified as having died. Hall who did a validation study of death and
      suicide recording in the same databases identified seven cases of suicide out of 1394 'true
      deaths' (0.5%). One had a record of 'suicide' as a Read code, a second case was identified by
      'hanging' in the comments section, a third probable suicide case by the Read term 'overdose
      of drug' plus an additional comment 'paracetamol/propaxyphene', and the four remaining cases
      were identified by external documents such as death certificates. Hall excluded patients with
      'major emotional events' and a history of cancer. This may be one of the reasons why the
      percentage of suicide deaths was lower than expected (0.5% versus 1.5%) as mentioned above.

      Antiepileptic medications are a heterogeneous pharmacologic class characterized by various
      chemical structures and postulated mechanisms of actions. The main therapeutic applications
      of antiepileptics include epilepsy, bipolar disorder, depression, neuralgia, and migraine.
      AEDs are among the most commonly prescribed centrally active agents. In a survey, carried out
      in a Danish County, 1.1% of the studied people received AEDs. The use of these drugs
      increased with increasing age.

      Patients with the above mentioned indication such as epilepsy, major depression, and bipolar
      disorders have a higher risk for suicide compared with the general population.

      A possible association between antiepileptic drugs and suicidality has been studied using
      different data sources such as the UK GPRD, the UK THIN, the US HealthCore Integrated
      Research Database (HIRD), Danish patient registries, Swedish patient registries, and data
      from clinical trials. The investigators applied different study designs such as cohort,
      matched case-control, case-crossover studies as well as a meta-analysis.

      The published effects of antiepileptic drugs on suicidality covered a range between odds
      ratio (OR) 0.24 (95% CI: 0.03-2.17) for pregabalin and OR 6.42 (95% CI: 1.24-33.36) for
      levetiracetam. The effects of individual AEDs differed considerably within studies and
      between studies. The same holds for different indications. Arana et al found the lowest OR in
      patients with epilepsy only (OR 0.59; 95% CI: 0.35 - 0.98) and the highest OR in patients
      with depression only (OR 1.65; 95% CI: 1.24 - 2.19). The authors compared current use of AEDs
      with no use of AEDs in different indications.

      Due to the complexity of the present issue, adequate adjustment for the numerous potential
      confounders such as socioeconomic aspects, various comorbidities, and concomitantly
      prescribed medication, is an analytic challenge. Further to this, the availability of a
      sufficiently large number of patients for investigation is another issue.
    
  