
    
      SCD is an inherited blood disorder. Symptoms include anemia, infections, organ damage, and
      intense episodes of pain, which are called "sickle cell crises." SCD is caused by an abnormal
      type of hemoglobin, which is a protein inside red blood cells that carries oxygen. HbSC is a
      form of SCD that is characterized by the presence of dense red blood cells. People with HbSC
      usually develop less severe SCD symptoms than people with the more common form of the
      disease. There are limited treatment approaches aimed specifically at modifying the abnormal
      state of red blood cells. Also, few combination therapy treatments have been studied. The
      medication hydroxyurea is currently used to prevent sickle cell crises and to decrease the
      need for blood transfusions. The dietary supplement magnesium has not been widely studied as
      a treatment for SCD, but it may prevent dehydration, which may decrease the frequency of
      sickle cell crises. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of
      hydroxyurea and magnesium pidolate, alone and combined, at reducing red blood cell density
      and the frequency of sickle cell crises in people with HbSC.

      This 1-year study will enroll people with HbSC. Participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of the following four treatment groups:

        -  Group 1 participants will receive placebo pills and placebo liquid.

        -  Group 2 participants will receive hydroxyurea pills and placebo liquid.

        -  Group 3 participants will receive placebo pills and magnesium pidolate liquid.

        -  Group 4 participants will receive hydroxyurea pills and magnesium pidolate liquid.

      Participants will receive the hydroxyurea or placebo pills once a day and the magnesium
      pidolate or placebo liquid twice a day for 11 months. Study visits will occur every 2 weeks
      during the first 2 months of the study, once a month for the following 9 months, and then at
      Year 1. At each visit, a physical exam and blood collection will occur. Selected visits will
      also include urine collection and a pregnancy test for female participants. Throughout the
      study, participants will record their study medication use in a daily diary.
    
  