
    
      OBJECTIVES The purpose of this study is to determine if long-term use of alendronate can
      suppress coronary artery and aortic calcification in chronic PD patients. The effect of
      alendronate on bone mineral density in this patient group is also evaluated.

      METHODS

        1. Patients To be eligible for the study, patients have to meet all of the following
           criteria: (1) have received maintenance PD for more than 3 months at Far Eastern
           Memorial Hospital, (2) have high CPP level (≧55), and (3) have chest X-ray proven aortic
           calcification or coronary artery calcification proven before. Patients are excluded if
           they have any one of the following conditions: (1) had been hospitalized in recent 3
           months due to severe comorbid diseases, (2) are hypersensitive to alendronate or any of
           its components, (3) have esophageal diseases (4) are not able to stand or sit upright
           for 30 minutes, (5) have refractory hypocalcemia, or (6) patients who are pregnant.

           Each eligible participant has to give his/her written informed consent before the start
           of study. The study should be approved by the Institutional Review Board of the
           hospital.

        2. Study Design The study is a prospective, randomized cross-over study. Fifty patients
           will be included. All participants are randomly allocated to either group 1 or group 2.
           Each group consists of 25 patients. Group 1 patients receive alendronate 70 mg once
           weekly since the first week till the 16th week of the study, while group 2 patients
           receive the same dose of drug every week since the 17th week till the 32nd week. Group 1
           patients will not receive alendronate since the 17th week till the 32nd week, and group
           2 patients will not receive alendronate since the first week till the 16 week. The
           extent of coronary artery and aortic calcification is evaluated by using multi-detector
           spiral computed tomography, whereas bone mineral density is measured by dual-energy
           X-ray absorptiometry. Both examinations are performed at week 0, 16 and 32 for each
           participant. Serum level of calcium should be kept within normal limits and serum level
           of phosphorus should be kept below 6 mg/dl.

      （3）Administration of Alendronate One tablet of alendronate (70 mg per tablet) should be
      swallowed by each patient once every week with water at least 30 minutes before breakfast,
      beverage or medication of the day during the treatment period. Patients must not lie down for
      at least 30 minutes after taking the drug.

      （4）Measurement of Coronary Artery and Aortic Calcification Multi-detector spiral computerized
      tomography (CT) of the chest is performed at week 0, 16 and 32 for each participant to
      measure the extent of coronary and aortic calcification.

      （5）Measurement of Bone Density Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry is performed at week 0, 16
      and 32 for each participant to measure the density of bone.

      （6）Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of Patients Patients characteristics such as age
      and sex are documented. Clinical parameters including body height, body weight, duration of
      dialysis, calcium concentration of dialysate, and medication under use are recorded. Blood
      pressure is measured at each clinical visit for 3 times after the patient has sit for at
      least 15 minutes.

      （7）Collection of Laboratory Data Fasting serum levels of albumin, phosphorus, calcium,
      alkaline phosphatase (ALP), intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) and hemoglobin level of each
      patient are checked at study entry and once every month. Fasting serum levels of
      triglyceride, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-chol), low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-chol), and hypersensitive C-reactive protein (CRP) of each
      patient are checked at study entry and once every 3 months.

      （8）Record of Adverse Effects of Alendronate Any adverse effect of alendronate is recorded
      every month at clinic visit. （9）Compliance of Patients Compliance of the patients is
      monitored by using telephone call once every week during the treatment period with
      alendronate.

      （10）Statistical Analysis All values are expressed as mean ± SD. All data are tested for
      normal distribution before analysis. Differences between mean values of the 2 groups are
      tested by means of analysis of variance. Group comparisons of categorical variables are
      analyzed using chi-square test. Multivariate regression is applied to identify independent
      determinants of coronary artery and aortic calcification. A probability less than 0.05 is
      considered statistically significant.
    
  