
    
      Endocare® treatment is a stand-alone software medical device, which is composed of a mobile
      application and an accessory VR headset, intended to mitigate the pain for patients prone to
      endometriosis.

      Mitigation of pain is realized through sequences of treatments via audio and visual
      stimulations.

      The Endocare® treatment's main functionality, which addressed the intended purpose, is
      conducting sequences for treatment to mitigate the pain sensed by the patient.

      The software will allow mitigating the sensed pain through 3D Virtual Reality via sequences
      of environments. The software will emit through sequences of 3D environments, auditory and
      visual stimulations.

      The medical device is a CE marked Class I device. Women suffering from endometriosis present
      recurrent pelvic pain impairing their quality of life. The endometriosis-related pain has
      pejorative repercussions on sexual, family and professional life. Currently, the physician
      armamentarium is limited to analgesics and non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs to treat
      endometriosis-related pain. Endocare® treatment intends to relieve pain thanks to its action
      on central nervous system. This study will describe the evolution of pain in patients
      experiencing endometriosis-related pain after a single treatment of Endocare® or a digital
      control.

      The use of a digital control as a comparator is the only way to show a specific effect of the
      Endocare® treatment. Therefore, a digital control displaying visual and auditive sequences
      with no expected effect will be used for the study. This digital control, for which only a
      placebo effect may occur, will be displayed on a tablet instead of VR (Colloca et al., 2020).

      The main analysis will be performed on an intent-to-treat basis. The statistical analysis
      will be performed using the SAS 9.4 (or higher) software (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA).

      Continuous variables will be described by the number of observations, mean, standard
      deviation, minimum, maximum and median. Categorical variables will be described by the number
      and percentage of each modality. Percentages will be calculated on the number of observed
      data.
    
  