
    
      The first phase of the study will use a non-randomized two-group prospective longitudinal
      study design (Group A subjects with LBP, Group B subjects without LBP). The second phase of
      the study will use a single-group prospective longitudinal study design (Group A, subjects
      with low back pain). A timeline and step-by-step detail of the study procedures for these
      phases are also described in Appendix B.

      Group A which will include subjects with LBP, members of the research team will screen and
      attempt to consecutively enroll all patients who undergo assessment for low back pain at two
      clinical locations (International Spine Pain & Performance Center, and Synergy Manual
      Physical Therapy). The enrollment and baseline visit can occur at the same time. During
      enrollment each subject will privately be briefed on the purpose and involvement in the study
      and be allowed to ask questions and opt out if not interested. Informed consent will be
      reviewed and signed and each subject will be given a copy of the consent form (15 minutes).
      Since collection of "baseline data" (outcome measures and ViMove Assessment) is already
      considered standard clinical practice for subjects with low back pain at these clinical
      settings, providing informed consent would allow the researchers to access this information
      for purposes of the registry. A summary of the information collected at baseline will
      include: patient demographics/medical history (age, gender, pain episode duration, BMI,
      employment, marital status, comorbidities, co-interventions, ICD-10 LBP diagnosis), outcome
      measures (LBP movement pattern classification, LBP Classifier Questionnaire, QVAS for back
      and leg, Oswestry Disability index, START-Keele, Fear Avoidance Behavior Questionnaire,
      EuroQol-5D, DASS-21, patient perception of movement contribution to pain) (20 minutes), and
      an assessment (ViMove standard assessment, 30 sec chair test, 40m walk test) (25 minutes).
      See Appendix C.

      Group B which will include subjects without LBP, members of the research team will recruit
      volunteers within the DC metro area using flyers posted on campus at the George Washington
      University, local DC metro gymnasiums and recreational centers, word of mouth and email list
      serves associated with educational programs within The George Washington University School of
      Medicine and Health Sciences. Subjects will be screened by phone for the presence or history
      of low back pain as well as other exclusion criteria. If the subject agrees to move forward
      with participation they will be asked to come to The George Washington University Program in
      Physical Therapy located at 2000 Pennsylvania Ave Suite 2000, NW Washington DC 20006, or
      International Spine Pain & Performance Center or Synergy Manual Physical Therapy. Enrollment
      and baseline visits can occur at the same time. During enrollment each subject will privately
      be briefed on the purpose and involvement in the study and be allowed to ask questions and
      opt out if not interested. Informed consent will be reviewed and signed and each subject will
      be given a copy of the consent form (15 minutes). Baseline data will then be collected which
      will include: subject demographics/medical history (age, gender, BMI, employment, marital
      status, comorbidities, co-interventions) and QVAS for back and leg, EQ-5D, DASS-21 (10
      minutes) and ViMove standard assessment, 30 sec chair test, and 40m walk test (25 minutes).
      See Appendix C.

      ViMove Testing (Groups A & B): The ViMove system (dorsaVi, Australia) which will be used to
      assess movement patterns and lumbar muscle activity in both groups during the ViMove standard
      assessment, 30 sec chair test, 40m walk test, is an inertial measurement system comprised of
      two wireless motion sensors containing a triaxial accelerometer, a triaxial gyroscope and a
      magnetometer, two wireless surface electromyography (EMG) sensors, and a small wireless
      recording device (RFD) that can be worn by the subject. The manufacturer reports average
      differences of < 1 degree for single plane, through range movements when comparing matched
      measurements from the ViMove and a Fastrak opto-electronic device (Charry, Umer et al. 2011).
      The ViMove motion sensors collect data at approximately 20 Hz.

      When ViMove testing is performed for both groups, 4 sensors will be adhered to the subject's
      skin using customised biocompatible adhesives. The placement of the sensors is determined
      through the use of templates which have been validated as part of the FDA 510K application.
      During testing, the sensors communicate data wirelessly to the RFD which is connected to a
      computer running dorsaVi (ViMove software). Customised algorithms convert data generated by
      the software to meaningful biomechanical information, including measures such as range of
      movement, peak angles, speed of movement and muscle activation.

      Subjects in Group A will follow-up with their healthcare provider based on standard clinical
      care practices. Enrolled subjects in Group A will undergo follow up at 3 months, 6 months and
      12 months (45 minutes each session); these follow up visits may or may not coincide with a
      regular clinical office visit with their healthcare provider. Subjects in Group B will follow
      up at 3 months only (35 minutes).

      Follow up will include completing outcome measures and an assessment as collected at baseline
      as well as collection of patient status, events, and protocol deviations.

      Subjects may exit from the research project under the following circumstances:

        -  Subject chooses to withdraw (e.g. consent withdrawal)

        -  At the end of their follow-up period

        -  Investigator deems withdrawal is necessary (e.g. medically justified, failure of patient
           to maintain adequate registry compliance)

        -  Subject death

        -  Subject is no longer available for follow-up
    
  