
    
      1. ABMSC mobilization and harvest

             -  For harvesting more ABMSC, ABMSC mobilization was induced by rhG-CSF (Gran○R),
                administered subcutaneously at a dose of 300μg daily for three consecutive days
                before open abdominal portal hypertension surgery.

             -  Bone marrow (160-200ml) of the patients was harvested from both posterior superior
                iliac according to standard procedures under local anaesthesia and was collected in
                a plastic bag containing heparin.

        2. Open abdominal portal hypertension surgery

           - Immediately after the harvest of ABMSC, the modified Sugiura procedure was performed
           for the patients who were assigned to the study group. The same surgical procedure was
           also performed for the control group (without harvest of ABMSC and ABMSC infusion).

        3. ABMSC separation and infusion

             -  While performing the portal hypertension surgery, ABMSC was separated and purified
                in a class 10,000 clean laboratory. After fat and bony particles were removed by
                filtration, collected cells were moved to a cell-processing device. We used the
                reagent kit ([Patent Number] ZL 2006 1 0106875.5; [Number of Criteria Applicable]
                YZB/NING YIN 0008-2008; [Researcher and Developer] Wealthlin Science & Technology
                Inc., Canada; [Producer] Ningxia Zhonglianda Biotech Co., Ltd.). The reagents adopt
                the method of negative cells collection. Take the cells which intended to remove as
                target cells, and carry out the removal step-by-step. On the basis of this method,
                red blood cells, blood platelets, blood plasma will be completely removed with part
                of white cells and lymphocytes being remarkably removed as well while all the stem
                cells / progenitor cells are being well retained.

             -  The nucleated cell (white blood cell) count of final ABMSC was measured by an
                automated complete blood count instrument and flow cytometry analysis. The number
                of mononuclear cells was counted manually under a microscope by Wright-Giemsa stain
                method. CD34 positive cells were determined by flow cytometry analysis.

             -  The time of ABMSC separation and purification was 2.5-3 hours which had to be
                completed before the conclusion of portal hypertension surgery (3-3.5 hours). ABMSC
                was added to 10 ml saline and well mixed by shaking the vial gently. Before
                incision closure, the right gastric artery or right gastroepiploic artery was
                selected and a catheter was inserted. The catheter was pushed to reach the proper
                hepatic artery. The diameter of the catheter is 1.4mm, it is thin enough to easily
                been inserted to right gastric artery or right gastroepiploic artery (central
                venous catheterization, REF product NO.ES-04218, Arrow International, Inc.). The
                mixture of saline and AMBC was infused into hepatic artery at uniform speed for
                about two minutes. The catheter was removed after the ABMSCi. The puncture point of
                the right gastric artery was repaired using blood vessel suture or transfixed.

        4. Statistical analysis - Categorical data are presented as absolute values and
           percentages, whereas continuous data are summarized as mean and Standard Deviation.
           Statistical analysis was performed using t-test for paired or unpaired samples. Time
           courses of measurements of liver function parameters were analyzed by repeated-measures
           ANOVA. The analyses were performed using the SPSS 15.0 statistical package (SPSS Inc.,
           Chicago, IL, USA). All statistical analyses were based on two-tailed hypothesis tests
           with a significance level of p< 0.05.
    
  