
    
      PhD protocol

      Efficacy of Multi-professional Rehabilitation in Patients with Bladder Cancer (offered
      radical cystectomy)

      Bente Thoft Jensen, RN, MPH, research nurse Department of Urology Aarhus University Hospital,
      Skejby

      Supervisors:

      Michael Borre, associate professor, DMSc, PhD, Department of Urology, Aarhus University
      Hosptial, Skejby (head supervisor).

      Klaus Ernst-Møller Jensen, consultant, DMSc, Department of Urology, Aarhus University
      Hospital, Skejby

      Sussie Laustsen, associate professor, PhD, Clinical Institut, Aarhus University

      Mette Krintel Petersen, post-doc, PhD, research physiotherapist, Department of Physiotherapy
      and Occupational Therapy, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby

      Collaborators:

      Department of Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby
      Mette Borre, dietician, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Aarhus University
      Hospital, Aarhus Sygehus, Norrebrogade Berit Kiesby, stoma-care nurse, Department of Urology,
      Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby

      Background In Denmark, the incidence of patients with bladder cancer is approximately 1800
      cases annually; 75% of the cases are men. The disease is most frequent among the 50 to
      80-year-olds and most cases are approximately 70 years old [1]. Recent studies have shown
      that the incidence of bladder cancer is increasing in Europe[2]. Cystectomy is one of the
      most comprehensive surgical procedures in urology[3,4]. In Denmark, the average
      post-operative length of stay (LOS) was 19 days in 2005; the hospital mortality rate was 3.7%
      and 58% had a complicated course of disease. The mortality was comparable to experiences
      abroad [3,5]. LOS is, however, long compared with high-volume hospitals with well-defined
      clinical patient pathways [1,5,6]. Major surgery causes pain and stress-induced catabolism
      leading to an unwanted metabolic and inflammatory response, impaired organ function and risk
      of thrombosis. These conditions increase the risk of losing muscle mass and reduce the
      activity level [2]. Overall, the above-mentioned circumstances delay the rehabilitation
      process. The concept "fast-track surgery" is a multi-modal and inter-professional approach to
      reduce post-surgical morbidity and optimise post-surgical rehabilitation [7,8].

      The multi-modal approach comprises both pre-operative optimisation of organ function, patient
      education, effective pain management, early post-operative mobilisation and early oral
      nutrition [9]. The concept has proven effective, though primarily documented in connection
      with colorectal surgery [9-11,12,13,], with increased survival, reduced LOS and reduced costs
      compared with conventional patient pathways[14,15]. The combination of a major surgical
      intervention and an increasing number of elderly comorbid patients with bladder cancer poses
      a challenge to treatment and care in all phases of the patient pathway. The above studies
      primarily focus on the pre- and post-operative effort. Evidence is sparse concerning the
      importance of an optimised pre-operative effort in rehabilitation [11]. It is hypothesised
      that an optimised patient pathway calls for an inter-professional pre-operative clinical
      evaluation and a pre-optimisation of the patient's general condition including nutrition and
      physical activity[11,16-18]. There is low evidence of the efficacy of multi-modal
      pre-optimisation efforts in major surgical procedures in urology [2,19]. Especially
      concerning the importance of a multi-facilitated pre-operative intervention for
      rehabilitation and health-related quality of life [7,8]. Generally, there has been a
      post-operative effect concerning early nutritional intervention and LOS [20]. Early
      nutritional intervention increases the number of patients fulfilling the threshold for
      sufficient nutritional status [15,21]. Nutrition strategies are increasingly combined with
      physical training consisting of exercise to increase muscle strength and endurance, to
      increase hypertrophy of muscle cells by increasing muscle protein synthesis and reducing
      disintegration [22]. Thus, a pre-operative multi-modal intervention involving nutritional
      optimisation and physical training should be a part of future studies. A muli-modal patient
      pathway will involve expectations of an increased risk that the economic burden will shift to
      the primary sector [23], an increased frequency of readmissions, complications and reduced
      quality of life. This thesis investigates the efficacy of pre- and post-operative multi-modal
      interventions in the rehabilitation of patients with bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy.

      Material: All patients undergoing cystectomy at Aarhus University Hospital in 2009 fulfilling
      the inclusion criteria.

      Study A. To investigate the efficacy of pre- and post-operative multi-modal intervention in
      bladder cancer patients referred to radical cystectomy

      The following hypotheses are tested:

        -  An inter-professional multi-modal pre- and post-operative intervention promotes
           rehabilitation and reduces length of stay

        -  The intervention group obtains a higher functional and activity level compared with the
           control group

        -  The intervention group obtains a better management of urinary diversion compared with
           the control group

      Material and methods:

      Primary endpoints: LOS is defined as number of post-operative days (until 7 defined discharge
      criteria are fulfilled). The outcome data will be presented approximately 12 months after
      inclusion have been closed

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  complications ( measured at discharge and 120 days postoperatively in average)

        -  Activity and functional level( will be measured every day during admission and 120 days
           after discharge).Pfysical parametres like bioimpedance, musclepower and handgrip
           strength will be measured at baseline( two weeks before operation, one day before
           operation, at discharge and 120 days after operation in both arms)

        -  Patient-experienced quality during admission ( measured with EORTC-questionaire at
           discharge in both arms)Informations will be presented approximately 12 months after
           inclusion is closed

        -  Health-related quality of life will be measured at baseline and 120 days after operation
           ( EORTC questionaire).

        -  Management of urinary diversion will be measured at baseline, before operation,35 days
           and 120 days after operation.A validated stoma score scale for patient stoma skills will
           be used.The outcome data will be presented approximately 12 months after inclusion have
           been closed

      Sample size. The study population is calculated on the basis on LOS for patients undergoing
      cystectomy at the Department of Urology, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby in 2008. Average
      LOS was 13 days with a standard deviation of 4.75 days. Risk of type 1 error was 5% at a
      2-sided analysis and strength at 80%. Lowest relevant difference in effect is a 20% reduction
      in LOS in the intervention group. When a 2-sided comparison is made, 92 patients have to be
      included; 46 in the intervention and control group, respectively.Written information about
      the study is forwarded to the patients along with the appointment for a uro-oncological
      evaluation.

      Randomisation: Performed 14-17 days prior to surgery. When deciding on surgery the patient
      receives oral information about the examination. After time for deliberation and giving
      informed consent, the patients are randomised at the outpatient consultation following the
      uro-oncological evaluation.

      Monitoring:

      Demographic and clinical background variables are registered at baseline. Follow-up after 4
      months. Data are collected for further analysis at 1-year follow-up (appendix 1.1-1.5). All
      patients undergo nutritional screening at baseline by NRS [32,33].

      Patients with age-adjusted score<3 will receive supplements according to standard
      criteria[25-28]. Energy demand is calculated as weight x100x1.3 KJ /day. Protein need is
      calculated as weight x 1.5 gram protein/day. Fluid need is calculated as weight x 30 ml/day
      [30]. Comorbidity is scored using the Charlson index score, pain and nausea using the
      VAS-score [32,33].Habitual intestinal function is scored using the Bristol scale[34].

      Physical activity level is estimated at baseline using the Physical Activity Scale (PAS)
      [35]. Daily mobilisation time and walking distance are registered pre-operatively and during
      admission using a pedometer [36,37].

      Ability to perform personal activities of daily living are evaluated daily during admission
      using the KATZ score [38].

      Muscle power, muscle strength and body composition are registered at baseline,
      pre-operatively, at discharge and 35, 120 (and 365) days post-operatively. Muscle power
      (force x velocity) is evaluated by leg extensor power Rig [39]; Isometric muscle strength
      (hand grip strength) is evaluated by "Good Muscle Strength" [40]and body composition is
      evaluated by bioimpedance [41] Progression in management of urinary diversion is evaluated by
      a categorial scale (appendix 1.4).

      Standard treatment:

      Patients eat normally until the operation. The rectal ampulla is emptied the evening before
      surgery. From midnight the patients fast and drink two glasses of sweet juice at 06.00 am
      before the operation. TED stockings are used to prevent thrombosis per- and post-operatively
      until the mobilisation criteria have been met. 5000 IU of Fragmin are injected subcutaneously
      from day 0. Individual prescriptions are made for patients with sclerotic diseases.
      Per-operative infection prophylaxis is standardised.

      Sevofluorane is used as a sedative and Bupivacain as well as Ultiva infusions as pain
      management. Epidural catheter is used for pain treatment at th-12-L1 level. The transfusion
      regime is standardised. Pain treatment: Post-operatively - epidurally administered Bupivacain
      2.5 mg /ml 5-6 ml / h in 3 full days. Peripheral pain treatment is tablet paracetamol 1g x 4
      and from day 2, two tablets Ibuprofen 400 mg x 3.

        -  Care of urinary diversion; When surgery is decided there is an interprofessional meeting
           concerning management of stoma and neobladder. Stoma markings are made the day before
           surgery in collaboration with the surgeon, the patient and the stoma care nurse.
           Relevant aids are demonstrated and the post-operative regime is presented.

        -  Physiotherapy: Instruction and information about pulmonary physiotherapy is performed
           pre-operatively. Daily mobilisation in each shift post-operatively.

        -  Discharge criteria (see appendix 1.5)

      Intervention

      In addition, the following initiatives are made in the intervention group:

        -  Pre-operative optimisation: The intervention group is taught pre-operatively about the
           management of urinary diversion. Exercise kit is handed out with exercises to perform in
           the home. Intensive instruction and teaching is provided by physiotherapist. Moreover,
           plans for post-operative progressive mobilisation and transfer techniques. Balancing
           mutual expectations for the entire intervention.

        -  Post-operative optimisation: Intensive, structured and progressive plans for daily
           mobilisation and physical activity from the day of surgery until planned discharge at
           7-9 post-operative day as well as instruction in urinary diversion by the stoma care
           nurse.

      Effect: Expressed as the difference in: LOS, complications, functional and activity level and
      management of urinary diversion.

      Statistics: Normally distributed data are described as mean, standard deviation (SD) and 95%
      confidence intervals (CI) and tested with Student's t-test for paired data, unpaired data are
      tested by unpaired t-test and repeated measurements. Non-normally distributed data are
      described as median and range and tested by the Mann-Whitnew U-test or Wilcoxon's sign rank
      test. When testing 3 or more variables the Friedman test is applied. Pearson's test is
      applied in correlation analyses if conditions are met or Spearman's Rho. Frequencies are
      compared by Fischer's exact test. Associations between variables are reported as odds ratios
      and 95% CI.

      Study B: Health-related quality of life and experienced patient quality in multi-modal
      interventions

      Purpose: to study the effect of multi-modal interventions concerning the patient experience
      during hospital admission and health-related quality of life (HeQoL).

      Hypothesis:

      The intervention group will have better experienced quality and higher HeQoL. End points:
      Score concerning HeQoL and patient experienced quality. Material /Method: Same method and
      study population as in study 2. Disease-specific questionnaires from the European
      Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, EORTC QLQ-BLM30 and QLQ-C30 [42] were
      applied. Scores are made at baseline and follow-up at planned control visits (35 days, 120
      days and 365 days). At discharge EORTC In-PATSAT32 is used to evaluate the patient experience
      of quality during admission. All questionnaires are validated and translated into Danish
      [43,44].

      Statistics study B. Data are registered at a categorial scale and described as mentioned in
      study A for non-normally distributed data. Wilcoxon's sign rank test is used to test the
      difference in HeQoL between the groups.When testing 3 or more groups, Friedman's test is
      applied. Spearman's Rho is used for correlation analyses of non-normally distributed data.
      Associations between variables are reported as ORs and 95% CI.

      Ethical considerations: The study is approved by the Central Denmark Committee on Biomedical
      and Research Ethics and the Danish Data Agency. Transport costs in connection with control
      visits are refunded and it is attempted that examinations take place at days where the
      patient has to meet for a control visit at the hospital. At present, the treatment offer to
      this patient group does not include pre- and post-operative optimisation and it is not deemed
      unethical to randomise patients to pre- or post-operative optimisation or standard treatment,
      respectively. The study is registered in the American clinical database
      www.clinicaltrials.gov.

      Research plan including time schedule: Daily project management, data processing and
      statistical analyses will be made and interpreted by PhD student Bente Thoft Jensen(BTJ), who
      is also responsible for publication of results. Data collection will be made in collaboration
      with the stoma care and nutrition responsible nurses and a dietician. Instruction in home
      exercises, test of functional and activity level is made in collaboration with the
      physiotherapists in the bladder team. The project is expected to start in the spring 2011.
      Inclusion of patients will run for 1.5 years according to the current surgical activity. Data
      collection and analyses are made in 2011 and 2012. Summary and reporting of results will be
      made in 2012.

      Publication: The project results are communicated in 3 peer-reviewed articles and in a PhD
      thesis.

      Funding:The project will be partly financed by the Department of Urology, Aarhus University
      Hospital, Skejby (1/3), by the hospital management teat, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby
      (1/3) and the rest will be university scholar ships, industrial collaborators and
      foundations.

      Perspective: Cystectomy is one of the most resource-consuming surgical procedures. Despite
      comprehensive shifts in paradigms in both nursing and treatment strategies throughout the
      last decade, the average LOS has only been modestly reduced. In addition to the newly
      introduced packages for diagnostics and treatment of cancer patients it is essential to
      strengthen the overall effort. This PhD project should be seen as a part of the endavour to
      fulfil all parts of the overall purpose concerning evidence-based optimisation of the
      rehabilitation of bladder cancer patients. Whether urological patient pathways with a
      pre-operative intervention can minimise post-operative complications, lead to a higher HeQoL
      and shorten the rehabilitation period will be highlighted.
    
  