
    
      This study is a prospective open phase I study to investigate the safety and tolerability of
      administration of repeated doses of a cell based medicinal product (CBMP) ALECSAT.

      ALECSAT is an autologous CBMP that is made from the patient's own blood cells. ALECSAT
      contains a large amount of tumour specific cytotoxic Lymphocytes (CTL) and Natural Killer
      (NK) cells that are isolated activated and amplified in number.

      The CBMP is given as a slow i. v. injection to patients with prostate cancer. The patients
      are in the late stage of the disease where they have received hormone treatment but their
      disease is progressing.

      The primary objective of the study is to observe if any side effects or tolerability issues
      occur as a consequence of the repeated administration of ALECSAT, secondarily it will be
      observed if changes in Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) levels or any positive anti tumor
      effect may be observed. The study has the purpose to investigate whether repeated treatment
      with ALECSAT in any way is toxic.

      Trial Design: The study is an open, prospective phase I safety study of ALECSAT in prostate
      cancer patients.

      A group consisting of 4 patients will be treated twice with ALECSAT according to the
      protocol. Then an interim analysis will be done. If there are no signs of significant
      toxicity related to the treatment, the study will continue to the third treatment for these
      patients and with 14 more patients that will be treated with ALECSAT according to the
      protocol. Thus this study will include a total of 20 patients.

      The patients will after the first administration of ALECSAT be hospitalized for 2 days. Five
      and 10 weeks later the patients will be hospitalized for 1 day and receive the second and
      third administration of ALECSAT. Each patient will furthermore be followed closely for 12
      weeks after the third treatment. During the course of the entire study the patients will be
      monitored by 11 planned study visits, by the investigators at Department of Urology,
      Fredrikssund Hospital, Denmark.
    
  