
    
      This study will prospectively assess clinical outcomes in health-related quality of life
      (HRQOL) in men undergoing open, or robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. Open
      radical prostatectomy is a frequently performed treatment for patients with clinically
      localized (cT1-T2) prostate cancer. The open technique stands as a benchmark against which
      all other treatments, including new surgical techniques, must be compared. Robotic-assisted
      and laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is considered an alternative surgical option for
      clinically localized prostate cancer. While this minimally invasive technique is more
      frequently being performed in the United States, a detailed comparison of the open and
      robotic-assisted laparoscopic techniques has not been performed. The relative risks and
      benefits of these surgical treatment options have not been explored in a contemporary group
      of patients treated at the same center by surgeons experienced in the open and
      robotic-assisted laparoscopic techniques. This study will address this deficiency in that
      follow-up information will be collected prospectively in consecutive patients undergoing open
      or robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. While a prospective, randomized trial
      might be considered a more appropriate methodology to conduct such a comparative study, we
      have no baseline information, no guidelines to assess robotic-assisted laparoscopic
      competence, and a lack of skilled robotic-assisted laparoscopic pelvic surgeons to justify a
      lengthy and expensive trial. We will also collect information on health service utilization
      and employment during the 12-month postoperative period in order to assess the economic
      impacts of the different surgical approaches. While results from our proposed study will not
      necessarily be generalizable to all surgeons and may very well be a comparison of surgeons
      rather than techniques, the results will provide an initial assessment comparing experts in
      the open and robotic-assisted laparoscopic techniques. To date, no such comparison has been
      published. To our knowledge, no other center has expert surgeons in these techniques where
      such a study would be feasible. Because open techniques have improved dramatically over the
      past several years, and because the baseline data to be recorded in this proposal is not
      currently collected, use of historical controls for open radical prostatectomy would be
      inappropriate.
    
  