
    
      Peritoneal metastasis(PM) is common in advanced gastric cancer and associated with a poor
      prognosis. The median survival time is 3 to 4 months and even shorter in the patients with
      malignant ascites. Systemic chemotherapy is considered to be less effective against
      peritoneal metastasis (PM) due to the existence of the blood-peritoneal barrier (BPB), which
      inhibits the movement of drugs from systemic circulation to the peritoneal cavity.

      S-1 is one kind of oral fluoropyrimidine derivatives and has been reported to be effective on
      PM. Docetaxel (DTX) has a pharmacokinetic advantage after intraperitoneal（IP）delivery which
      is hundreds of times higher than systemic administration. The use of S-1 and docetaxel has
      been studied in some phase II trials. Fujiwara and Fushida reported the usefulness of IP
      docetaxel combined with oral S-1 regimen in gastric cancer with PM respectively，the median
      survival time can exceed 16 months and one year survival rate was over 70%. Therefore, the
      investigators suppose IP docetaxel and oral S-1 can also be effective for gastric cancer with
      malignant ascites and start this study.

      This is a single center, open-label, prospective clinical trial. Patients with histological
      proven gastric cancer with ascites, who fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria, can be
      recruited in this study. Patients will be firstly received laparoscopic exploration for
      Peritoneal Cancer Index (PCI）score, extraction of 100ml ascites for cytology examination, and
      one peritoneal access port is implanted in the subcutaneous space of the lower abdomen. Then
      patients were treated with chemotherapy on the first day after operation, the regimen as
      follows: DTX is administered IP at a dose of 60 mg/m2 on day 1. DTX is diluted in 1 litre
      normal saline and administered through the implanted peritoneal access port over 1 hour. S-1
      was administered orally twice daily at a dose of 80 mg/m2 per day for 14 consecutive days,
      followed by 7 days of rest. The treatment course will be repeated every three weeks until
      observation of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Before each intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy, investigators extract 50-100 ml ascites for cytology pathologic examination,
      the abdominal CT will be reviewed after every three course to evaluate the volume of ascites.

      The volume of ascites before and after therapy, PCI scores, ascites cytology results,
      complications, side effects and conditions of survival state and follow-up will be recorded
      and analyzed to evaluate the effect, survival benefit and safety of this study.
    
  