
    
      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is a malignant skin cancer that is believed to develop from the
      basal layer of the epidermis. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is the primary cause of BCC. It
      induces local and systemic immuno-suppression, p53 mutations, pyrimidine covalent dimers in
      desoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), and bcl-2 overexpression. All of these UV-induced changes are
      believed to be critical in the pathogenesis of BCC.

      Topical application of imiquimod induces local interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), interleukin-12
      (IL-12), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), with a resulting cytokine cascade that
      may induce and/or support a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (Th1) immune response. Intralesional
      IFN-alpha has been shown to be effective for the treatment of BCC. Imiquimod may be an
      effective therapy for BCC.

      Results from a pilot study demonstrated that topical imiquimod could clear superficial and
      nodular BCCs. Three phase II dose response studies in subjects with nodular BCC (nBCC) showed
      that the histological cure rates with imiquimod depend on the doses applied per week and the
      duration of treatment. Daily dosing or 5 times per week applications showed higher total
      clearance rates than 3 times per week dosing or less frequent dosing. Furthermore, a 12 week
      treatment period resulted in better efficacy results than a duration of only 6 weeks. On the
      other hand, local skin reactions increased with the doses applied per week. So a prolonged
      treatment period of 8 or 12 weeks with an application frequence of 3 times a week seems to be
      a good compromise between efficacy and safety.

      The current safety and efficacy study of imiquimod 5% cream in the treatment of nodular basal
      cell carcinoma (nBCC) will use a composite endpoint including both a clinical (visual)
      assessment of the target tumor site and a histological evaluation of an excisional surgery
      taken from the target tumor site for primary assessment of complete tumor clearance 8 weeks
      post treatment.
    
  