
    
      The purpose of the present study is to ensure a continuous comparison of the TAVI-valves
      implanted, and to monitor long-term valve performances.

      Purpose: To randomize between two TAVI-valve types in patients who according to a heart team
      conference is found eligible for treatment with more than one valve.

      Hypotheses:

        1. There is no difference in the combined endpoint (death, stroke, moderate/severe
           para-valvular leakage, moderate/severe device stenosis) between the two valves to be
           compared.

        2. There is no difference between valves in secondary endpoints: death, stroke,
           moderate/major paravalvular leakage, moderate/severe aortic device stenosis, new
           pacemaker implantation, readmission for congestive heart failure, 6-minute walk test,
           and degeneration of the valve as evaluated by computerized tomography (HCT),
           transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), or MRI.

      Design: Randomized controlled trial with clinical national registry follow-up.

      Centers eligible for inclusion: Scandinavian and European centers who fulfill the above
      mentioned criteria.

      Randomization:

      Before randomizing patients, the center decides which two valves the patient is found
      eligible for, and enters these valves in the electronic randomization form (TrialPartner).
      Randomization is then performed between these two valves. A patient is only randomized if a
      dedicated technical TAVI conference has found the patient eligible for treatment with both
      valves.

      Consecutive cohorts are established.

      In the current study we plan to initiate the following cohorts:

      Cohort B: Patients randomized to the Sapien or the Myval TAVI valve.

      Operator requirements:

      Any procedure requires that the physician has performed at least 15 implantations with the
      valve in use. Otherwise the procedure is performed according to the routine of the
      institution.
    
  