
    
      Mood disorders complicated by suicidal ideation (SI) are common among patients presenting to
      the Emergency Department (ED). Under current standard practice, patients awaiting psychiatric
      evaluation in the emergency department do not typically receive interventions to address
      their mood disorder or SI. With no end to the extended ED boarding of psychiatric patients in
      sight, improvements in the acute treatment of SI with ketamine may help more patients receive
      prompt and appropriate treatment. Low-dose ketamine has been well studied in psychiatric
      literature. Studies involving a single dose of ketamine are promising, demonstrating both
      immediate and sustained reductions in suicidal ideations. Low dose ketamine has been
      well-studied in the ED for pain, asthma, and agitation, but not mood disorders or SI.

      This study aims to determine whether or not it is feasible to administer low dose ketamine in
      the emergency department for the management of mood disorders with SI. Feasibility of
      ketamine administration in the ED and will be determined by: (1) ability to recruit
      participants, (2) tolerability of the intervention, and (3) acceptability by
      patients/providers. The investigators will also explore whether the administration of
      ketamine results in improvements in mood and SI.

      This prospective open label feasibility pilot study will enroll 20 participants to receive
      ketamine at 0.5mg/kg infused intravenously over 40 minutes. Patients that have active
      suicidal ideation as determined by psychiatry staff who are being admitted to psychiatry
      under voluntary certification will be eligible for the study. The investigators will assess
      self-reported mood and suicidal ideations pre- and post-infusion of ketamine. Participants
      will complete assessments at baseline (pre-infusion), 2 hours and 6 hours post-infusion, and
      daily while in the ED until inpatient disposition.

      The investigators hypothesize ketamine administration will be feasible in the emergency
      department and will result in improved mood and decreased SI.
    
  