
    
      Central line associated bloodstream infection (CL-ABI) is an important and preventable cause
      of nosocomial infections and is responsible for considerable morbidity and mortality. It is
      estimated that 5 to 26% of patients experience an infectious complication from their central
      venous catheter [1]. In the United States, it is estimated that nearly 50,000 patients
      develop central line associated bloodstream infections in the ICUs annually, at a rate of
      approximately 5 infections per 1000 catheter days [2] and as many as 15,000 deaths annually.
      Central line associated bloodstream infections are also associated with increased hospital
      and ICU lengths of stay in the ICU (2). Estimates of the cost of CL-ABI to hospitals range
      from $25,000 to $65,000 per patient [3, 4].

      The Centers for Disease Control have published guidelines for the prevention of CL-ABI that
      represent a collaborative effort by a multidisciplinary coalition of professional
      organizations that provide evidence based recommendations to prevent catheter related
      infections [5]. The interventions emphasize five distinct practices, including: education and
      training of healthcare providers who place and care for catheters, utilizing maximum sterile
      barrier precautions during catheter placement, skin preparation using 2% chlorhexidine,
      avoiding routine replacement of central lines as a strategy to reduce infection, and using
      antiseptic or antibiotic coated lines in the event that infection rates remain high despite
      adherence to the above measures [5].

      Several studies have demonstrated impressive reductions in CL-ABI from the application of
      these strategies, ranging from 18 to 100% reductions and realizing significant reductions in
      mortality and cost [2]. The simple introduction of maximum sterile barrier precautions to
      insert central lines has been observed to dramatically reduce infection rates for over a
      decade [6]. However, the CDC's guidelines, despite their seeming simplicity, have been found
      to be frequently insufficiently applied, whether by ignorance or omission [2].

      In the past 12 months there have been a total 24 documented central venous line (CVL)
      infections at SLRHC with cumulative rate of infection of 3.8 per 1000 central line days.
      These infection rate figures are above the benchmark experience. For SLRHC the cost incurred
      over the past 12 months is estimated to be $1,080,000.

      Training and education of healthcare personnel and the utilization of maximum sterile
      precautions are two important areas. Residents still most frequently learn central line
      placement techniques by the "see one, do one, teach one" method, which by its very definition
      allows for a multitude of techniques in practice. While this teaching theoretically includes
      the utilization of maximal sterile precautions for central line placement, the focus of
      teaching, and of residents' anxieties, is most often focused on the proper placement of the
      line, not the sterile technique used to place it. In emergency medicine, residents also
      frequently learn procedures in an emergent environment- where attention to maximum sterile
      precautions may be less than ideal. Guzzo et al found in particular that mentors of trainees
      performing CVC placements in both emergent and non-emergent situations were significantly
      less likely to consistently utilize maximum sterile precautions [8]. Furthermore, in a study
      of a video-based training on sterile technique in CVC insertion in a trauma resuscitation
      unit that evaluated only non-emergent CVC placements, a total of 5 cases of central-
      catheter- related bacteremia were reported on just 68 patients, and even with video based
      training, 26% of residents continued to have infractions in their compliance with sterile
      precautions [9].

      Medical simulators allow residents to practice skills in a realistic and interactive
      environment that minimizes risk to patients. Studies have found simulation to be an effective
      means for teaching skills as diverse as ACLS and airway management to laparoscopic surgical
      skills [10,11,12]. Additionally, the use of audio-visual equipment in a medical simulator to
      record a resident's performance gives valuable firsthand feedback that is otherwise not
      available, as it allows residents to visualize their own missteps [13]. This is hypothesized
      to be of particular value in the proper acquisition of physical skills such as maximum
      sterile precautions. Furthermore, the Society for Academic Medicine has recently published a
      consensus paper outlining a research agenda for the use of simulation in Emergency Medicine
      that identifies procedural training as a priority area and notes that it is "an incompletely
      tested assessment method for the range of procedural skills required of emergency physicians
      [14]." The paper goes on to state that:

      "Competency" must be defined precisely for every procedure. Each step must be identified, and
      the proper sequence of those steps must be established. Objective checklists and expert
      scoring systems must be created, and training and assessment methodologies must be validated.
      [14] With this in mind, the Department of Emergency Medicine has recently approved a training
      policy in aseptic technique during central venous access placement (see attached copy). All
      EM residents will be trained in MBP techniques in the Sim Lab. Training will include baseline
      assessment of residents skills in maintaining maximum sterile precautions using a
      standardized scoring tool, videotape training, short exam, and individual simulated
      debriefing on performance of correct MBP with follow up assessment and training as needed.

      We plan to collect data prospectively on all EM residents who will undergo evaluation and
      training in maximum barrier precaution during CVC placement. Data will be reviewed and
      analyzed for future research publication
    
  