
    
      The Translocator Protein (TSPO) is a protein which reaches very high levels when there is
      inflammation in the brain.

      Recently, radioligands have been developed which attach to the TSPO (a radioligand is a drug
      which has been tagged with radioactivity). Using positron emission tomography (PET) imaging,
      the radioligand can be detected following injection into a patient. However, it is difficult
      to accurately measure the amount of TSPO using PET at the moment. This is because the brain
      does not have a "reference region" for TSPO (ie an area in the brain with no TSPO at all).
      "Reference regions" are very useful to help work out how much of a PET signal represents
      "specific binding" (of the radioligand to the target of interest), and how much represents
      "non specific binding" (of the radioligand to many other structures which are not of
      interest). In the absence of a reference region, non specific binding can be estimated by
      giving a drug which binds to the TSPO.

      The drug prevents the radioligand binding the TSPO and (in a manner of speaking) "creates" a
      temporary reference region so non specific binding can be measured. The aim of this study,
      therefore, is to develop a method to allow accurate quantification of TSPO expression in the
      brain of healthy subjects. The study will also include patients with multiple sclerosis to
      determine the reproducibility of the 11C-PBR28 PET signal in a population which is
      characterised by a raised TSPO signal. This is vital since 11C-PBR28 PET signal is being
      evaluated as a marker of disease activity and treatment response, in conditions characterised
      by neuroinflammation including MS. If there is high test re-test variability in people with
      raised TSPO signal, this argues against the usefulness of 11C-PBR28 PET for these purposes.To
      do this, we will use XBD173 (Emapunil is an anxiolytic drug which acts as a selective agonist
      at the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor) to bind TSPO and block binding of the PET ligand
      ([11C]PBR28), a TSPO ligand from the phenoxyarlyacetamide class. Because different people
      possess different types of TSPO (due to a genetic difference between subjects, there are 3
      types of TSPO expression patterns) it will be important to study subjects from each of the 3
      groups.

      We will study healthy volunteers and patients with multiple sclerosis. Each subject will
      undergo:

        1. Screening visit, to take blood and determine the TSPO subtype of the subject.

        2. Study day 1: the subject will undergo two PET/CT scans and an MRI scan of the brain.
           This will involve insertion of an arterial line. In between the two PET scans, the
           subject will be given an oral dose of XBD173 (up to 90mg).

        3. Study day 2: Repeat of the procedures of Study day 1. Only one MRI scan will be done
           during one of the two study visits. Recruitment Healthy volunteers will be recruited
           from posters (including e-posters on electronic notice boards and emails), announcements
           in lectures, and word of mouth around Imperial College campuses. MS patients will be
           recruited from Neurology clinics across the Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust Hospitals,
           such as Charing Cross Hospital and St Mary's Hospital. Patients may be referred from
           University College London Hospital and National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery
           if suitable for the study.

      Male or female participants between 18 to 70 will be included. Women of child bearing
      potential will undergo a urinary pregnancy test prior to scanning to ensure they are not
      pregnant.
    
  