
    
      Almost 15% of European citizens suffer from migraine and its comorbidities. Migraine is the
      second most disabling chronic neurological disease, with devastating repercussions on the
      life of those who are affected, their relatives and society. Migraine manifests in recurring
      attacks lasting 4-72 hours characterized by severe head pain, often throbbing, associated
      with nausea, photo and phonophobia, vomiting, cognitive deficits, severe emotional distress
      and complete disability. If not diagnosed and appropriately treated, migraine can transform
      into a chronic form (15 or more days of headache/ month) often associated with acute
      medication overuse and severe comorbidities such as depression, anxiety and panic disorders.

      The disability associated to migraine is closely related to the frequency of the attacks.
      Epidemiological studies show that in Europe 34$ of migraineurs suffer from more than 5
      headache days per month and 1-3% of the general population has migraine on more than 15
      days/month, thus qualifying for the diagnosis of Chronic Migraine (CM).

      Migraine is a genetically-driven, chronic "neurosensorial" disorder, where the unpredictable
      recurrence of the attacks is modulated by the variable efficiency of the fine-tuned interplay
      of the brain with dynamic sensory stimuli originating from the internal or external
      environment.

      Migraine can be viewed as a cycling functional disorder that affects several areas of the
      brain, involving multiple pathways ultimately leading to the excessive activation of
      trigeminovascular afferents in the meninges with the local release of vasoactive substances
      (calcitonin gene-related peptide - CGRP ) and the activation of the neuroinflammatory
      cascade.

      Unlike several other chronic neurological diseases, migraine can be successfully treated and
      prevented. Unfortunately, this is true only for subgroups of patients and for a limited
      period, due to the nonspecific therapeutic armamentarium available: calcium antagonists,
      beta-blockers, antidepressants, antiepileptics and, only for chronic migraine,
      onabotulinumtoxin-A. This is the direct consequence of the complex pathophysiology of the
      disease, but mostly and, more importantly, by the total absence of biomarkers of disease and
      of responsiveness to available drugs.

      In the last years, enormous efforts have indeed been undertaken to identify biomarker of
      migraine, especially for the chronic form. Functional imaging has provided important clues on
      the machinery underlying attack generation and imaging biomarkers for chronic migraine,
      whereas it has become evident that epigenetic processes - DNA methylation in particular - may
      play an important role in the phenotypical expression of migraine. Attack recurrence and the
      associated changes in neuronal activity may indeed cause epigenetic changes that alter
      synaptic plasticity, thus leading to more frequent migraine attacks and ultimately promotes
      stable epigenetic changes in a feed-forward loop. Circulating levels of CGRP have also been
      evaluated as a possible peripheral biomarker of migraine in consideration of the seminal
      observations that CGRP levels increase in the external jugular vein during a migraine attack.

      The second half of 2018 marked a revolution in the treatment of migraine: the advent of the
      monoclonal antibodies (mABs) directed against CGRP or its receptor. They proved safe and
      effective in reducing migraine frequency and represent the first class of preventive drugs
      targeting a specific step in the cascade of events leading to the migraine attack. Results
      from clinical trials have shown that approximately 1/3 of patients are excellent responders
      (>75% reduction in headache days) whilst 1/3 patients are non- or poor responders (<25%
      reduction in headache days) to CGRP-targeted mABs.

      CGRP-targeted mABs do not interfere with other systems or medications. Consequently, the fact
      that patients can be stratified as responders and non-responders creates a unique opportunity
      to better understand the difference of response in patients clinically alike and, through
      this, provide unprecedented insights into the pathophysiology of migraine allowing the
      migraine field to move towards a pathophysiological driven classification.

      For decades the migraine scientific community has been searching for biomarkers associated
      with the disease or with its response to treatment. Unfortunately, to date none has been
      validated. This failure is likely related to multiple reasons: the complex and dynamic nature
      of migraine-associated biological processes (attack vs. pre-post interictal phase), the
      multiplicity of neurotransmitters (serotonin dopamine, neuropeptides, etc.), the
      neuroanatomical structures (peripheral, central) and the interindividual variability of
      disease expression. Moreover, the reasons for the failure of previous studies are also
      associated with the variability between studies, in terms of methodology, population and
      endpoints, which has led to inconsistent findings and low estimate precision.

      Now, a selective class of preventive drugs that specifically target a biological step in
      migraine disease has become available, prompting the possibility to precisely stratify
      migraine subjects on the basis of their pharmacological response. The availability of
      high-throughput technologies is providing unprecedented opportunities to identify molecular
      markers of complex disease by extracting meaningful signatures from complex and heterogeneous
      sets of data. Molecular biomarkers of thoroughly stratified populations can be combined with
      deep clinical phenotyping and also with epigenetic, pharmacogenetic and neuroimaging
      variables, that are relevant for migraine. The availability of migraine-specific animal
      models also contributes to identifying and firmly placing important pieces to the migraine
      puzzle.

      Against this background, a hybrid data-driven and knowledge-based approach building on
      clinical and preclinical inputs and including phenotype, genetic, neuroimaging and animal
      data will provide a large informative dataset that can be effectively analyzed with machine
      and deep learning algorithms for feature selection, modeling and for subsequent
      cross-validation to ultimately yield a precise, robust and reproducible model for predicting
      the response of migraine to a specifically targeted preventive treatment. This will be a
      crucial step in the therapeutic decision process, especially in the most severe and disabling
      form of migraine, chronic migraine. It will also provide additional positive implications in
      the field, such as prompting the ground for a pathophysiology-driven diagnosis and, equally
      important, robust scientific evidence to European decision makers and health-care providers
      for optimizing the distribution of resources and rationalizing the access to care of migraine
      sufferers. Engagement of patients is envisaged both in the planning and conducting of the
      study to ensure that project methodology and results are in line with their needs and
      expectations, thus favoring the translation into clinical practice.

      Monoclonal antibodies targeting CGRP (CGRP-mABs) have been shown to be effective in the
      preventive treatment of migraine. They are large molecules that do not cross the blood brain
      barrier, have a long half-life (20-45 days) and do not interact pharmacologically. They are
      administered parenterally, which warrants less intra-individual variations and a better
      adherence to treatment.

      CGRP-mABs have proven safe and effective in multiple phase II and III randomized controlled
      clinical trials and were approved by FDA and European Medicines Agency (EMA) as a preventive
      treatment for migraine. Four CGRP-mABs have been studied and 3 of them have been approved by
      EMA in late 2018 and 2019: erenumab, galcanezumab and fremanezumab.

      A strong body of evidence suggests that CGRP-mABs induce a 50% response (50% reduction in
      monthly headache days) in about 50% of subjects, with a 75% response in 30-40% of patients.
      The latter group, from now on defined as 'excellent responders', represents an interesting
      subgroup of migraine subjects whose disease is likely particularly dependent on CGRP-related
      pathways. Hence, the availability of mABs targeting CGRP together with the demonstration of
      their efficacy in relevant subgroups of subjects prompt a formidable tool to tackle precisely
      a subset of mechanisms and pathways underlying the disease.

      CGRP-targeted mABs do not interfere with other systems or medications. Consequently, the fact
      that patients can be precisely stratified as excellent responders and non-responders creates
      a unique novel opportunity to unravel hitherto concealed differences between patients with
      the same diagnosis and, through this, provides unprecedented insights into the
      pathophysiology of migraine. Ultimately, this will allow the migraine field to move towards a
      neurobiological definition of responders and a pathophysiological driven classification.
      Defining predictors to this response will in turn allow obtaining a more cost-effective
      approach to migraine healthcare. Engagement of patients is envisaged both in the planning and
      conducting of the study based on the long-standing collaboration with the European Migraine
      and Headache Alliance (EMHA), which has been aligned and involved in the preparation of the
      present proposal.

      Epigenetics is acquiring an increasing importance in the panorama of biological events that
      leads to the transformation of episodic migraine (EM) into chronic migraine (CM). Frequent
      recurrence of migraine attacks may indeed promote stable epigenetic changes in a feed-forward
      loop thus altering synaptic plasticity. So far, the most significant associated CpG sites
      related to migraine chronification are SH2D5, NPTX2 and RAMP1, three brain-expressed genes
      involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity and CGRP modulation. However, it is still
      not known whether a specific profile of DNA methylation, which is a stable epigenetic
      chemical marker crucial for many cellular activities, can predict the clinical response to
      preventive therapy in migraine patients.

      Neuroimaging Functional imaging studies have revolutionized this area and provided unique
      neuroanatomical and functional insights into migraine machinery. Functional imaging has
      revealed that the pathophysiology of migraine crucially involves
      hypothalamo-thalamo-brainstem networks. Pharmacological imaging has begun to shed light on
      how medications may enfold their effect in migraine.

      The combination of structural and functional imaging parameters with and without external
      input will give us the unique opportunity to characterize patients who respond to
      CGRP_targeting antibodies against those who do not. These data will then be an additional
      powerful source for informing animal projects and also machine learning algorithms.

      The overarching and main objective of this proposal is the identification of predictive
      biomarkers of response to treatment with CGRP-targeted mAbs in chronic migraine, the most
      severe and disabling form of migraine.

      Screening will be performed at visit 1 (month 0). Patients will sign the informed consent and
      will be instructed to fill in a headache diary and will return after 1 month (+2 days) for
      visit 2 (V2). At V2, after verification of inclusion/exclusion criteria, enrolled subjects
      will fill in the protocol scales (Assessment of disability - monthly MIDAS, Headache Impact
      Test 6 (HIT-6) -, depression - Beck Depression Inventory, BDI-II -, anxiety - Beck Anxiety
      Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) -, quality of life - MSQ- , subjective cognitive
      impairment scale for migraine attacks - Mig-SCog -, comorbidities, acute medications intake,
      anxiety and depression - Beck scales - and Emergency Room Use), they will undergo blood
      sampling, neuroimaging and they will receive the first treatment administration.

      Healthy controls will be screened at V1 and, following the verification of the satisfaction
      of inclusion/exclusion criteria and the signature of the informed consent, will fill in the
      protocol scale, they will undergo blood sampling and neuroimaging.

      The first dose (defined according to the indication approved by the Local Health Authorities)
      of the CGRP-targeting monoclonal antibody will be administered during the hospital visit.

      The patient will receive 2 additional doses of the drug and a training on the modality of
      self-injection and specific indication of the day they will perform the self-injection. They
      will also receive the headache diary and associated instructions for filling it in regularly
      during the following 3 months.

      No drug treatment is foreseen for healthy controls.

      No concomitant migraine preventive treatment will be allowed during the screening, baseline
      and the 3-month treatment period.

      Abortive medications will be allowed, but the type and formulation should be kept stable
      during the study. Data about their doses and frequencies will be recorded.

      A remote visit will be scheduled 30 (week 4) and 60 (week 8) days after day 1 to monitor
      patient's health status, remind the treatment schedule and collect the data from the headache
      diaries (visit 3 and 4).

      At visit 5 (week 12), all migraine subjects will undergo:

        -  Assessment of disability (MIDAS, HIT-6), work impairment (WPAI scale), evaluation of
           acute medications intake, anxiety and depression, quality of life (MSQ), Emergency Room
           Use.

        -  Assessment of treatment efficacy through the headache diaries (migraine days/month)

        -  Assessment of treatment satisfaction with validated patient reported outcomes (PROs).

      Excellent responders and non-responders will also undergo neuroimaging evaluation: 3Tesla
      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) involving Structural (sMRI) resting state MRI (rsMRI),
      Arterial Spin Labelling (ASL) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI).
    
  