
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the response to induction combination chemotherapy comprising methotrexate,
           vinorelbine ditartrate, and cisplatin in patients with previously untreated malignant
           pleural mesothelioma.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the tolerability and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine relapse-free and overall survival of patients treated with induction
           combination chemotherapy with or without surgery and hemithoracic radiation.

        -  Assess the impact of induction combination chemotherapy on operability and surgical
           success.

        -  Evaluate the impact of these treatment regimens on quality of life.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive MVP chemotherapy comprising cisplatin IV over
           30-60 minutes on day 1 and vinorelbine ditartrate IV over 5-10 minutes and methotrexate
           IV over 5-30 minutes on days 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2
           courses. Patients with unresectable disease may receive up to 2 additional courses of
           induction chemotherapy. Patients requiring palliative radiotherapy or who have
           progressive disease are removed from the study. Patients with resectable disease or
           sarcomatoid histology and T1-3, N1-2 disease with a complete or partial response to
           induction chemotherapy proceed to surgery.

        -  Surgery: Patients with extensive disease undergo palliative debulking pleurectomy and
           decortication and then are taken off study. All other patients undergo a thoracotomy
           with an extrapleural pneumonectomy and then proceed to chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 6-10 weeks after surgery, patients undergo 3-dimensional
           conformal or intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks.
           Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Patients with
           responding disease proceed to adjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive 2 additional courses of MVP chemotherapy as
           above.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after each course of induction chemotherapy, before
      surgery, and then every 3 months thereafter.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  