
    
      Objectives:

      There are 2 objectives in the index study. • The primary objective is to determine how
      therapy with valsartan (160mg/daily) in combination with aliskiren (150-300mg/daily) over
      four weeks affects platelet/coagulation/fibrinolytic biomarkers in recently diagnosed
      hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, this is an exploratory study,
      our current knowledge is based on in vitro and ex vivo evidence for valsartan, but only on in
      vitro aliskiren data. There are no data on antithrombotic biomarkers currently available for
      the combination therapy.

      The secondary objective is:

      • To define whether combination therapy is superior over monotherapy with aliskiren with
      regard to the improvement of hemostatic biomarkers (platelet aggregation, expression of GP
      IIb/IIIa, and plasma levels of antithrombin-III).

      Study Design:

      This is a randomized 1:1, two arm, single-blind, single-site, parallel group, post-marketing
      comparison study of the effects on antithrombotic biomarkers of aliskiren 150-300mg/day alone
      vs combined treatment with aliskiren 150-300mg/day plus valsartan 160mg/day over a four week
      primary treatment period. An optional four week extension phase may be offered pending
      assessment of the antithrombotic biomarker assays at week four.

      Population:

      Two groups (25 patients each), for a total of 50, recently diagnosed hypertensive patients
      with previously diagnosed mild to moderate type 2 diabetes will constitute the proposed study
      population. The diagnosis of diabetes will be made based on the American Diabetes Association
      criteria, such as random plasma glucose >200 mg/dL with or without symptoms of hyperglycemia
      (polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia) and weight loss, or fasting plasma glucose > 126 mg/dL, to
      be determined at least twice. Patients will qualify if they are insulin-free, treated with an
      oral antiglycemic agent,(metformin only) and/or managed on diet alone for no less than 30
      days and have adequate glucose control at the time of their Screening Visit.
    
  