
    
      A majority of preterm very low birthweight (VLBW) infants are exposed to antibiotics. Surveys
      from large databases in the US show that the rate of culture proven bacteremia in these
      infants at birth is only between 1-2 percent.

      Antibiotic use, especially when repeated, induces a perturbation ("dysbiosis") in gut
      microbiota that may not recover to the basal state. Antibiotic use increases the risk of
      subsequent disease and adverse outcomes. The dependence of the developing immune system on
      the intestinal microbiota is supported by emerging evidence from studies in animals
      demonstrating decreased resistance to subsequent disease with early exposure to antibiotics.

      A retrospective review of 50,0261 neonates across 127 neonatal intensive care units (NICUs)
      from California showed a forty-fold variation in NICU antibiotic prescribing practice with
      similar burdens of proven infection and mortality. A large number of preterm infants are thus
      subjected to a potentially harmful course of antibiotics that provides no clear benefit.
      There remains a major gap in our understanding of antibiotic-related intestinal microbial
      dysbiosis and how this may result in disease.

      There will be two aims. In the first aim, a prospective, randomized pilot study, will test
      the effects of pre-emptive postnatal antibiotics on the microbiome, metabolome and
      inflammatory responses in the neonate during the NICU course. The second aim will assess the
      effects of pre-emptive postnatal antibiotics on adverse outcomes in the neonate while in the
      NICU. The hypothesis is that higher antibiotic use will not be associated with decreased
      early onset sepsis and in fact, will be associated with increased adverse outcomes including
      retinopathy of prematurity, necrotizing enterocolitis, spontaneous ileal perforation, late
      onset sepsis, chronic lung disease, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, intraventricular hemorrhage,
      periventricular leukomalacia, and mortality.
    
  