
    
      Guidelines on antithrombotic therapy after TAVI are scarce and no randomized evaluation has
      been performed to demonstrate what the optimal antithrombotic strategy is. The rates of major
      stroke and of major bleeding on DAPT, the standard of care in TAVI (Class IIb LOE C), are
      respectively as high as 3% and 10% within the first 30 days excluding the perioperative
      period. In addition, the rate of MACCE is estimated to be of 15% on DAPT. However, more than
      half of senior patients display high on-clopidogrel platelet reactivity, less than 1/3
      undergo coronary stent implantation prior to valve replacement and more than 1/3 display
      transient atrial fibrillation (AF) during hospital stay. Anticoagulation appears therefore to
      be underused in this high stroke risk population and has never been evaluated in post-TAVI
      procedures. Non-vitamin K Oral Anticoagulants (NOAC) have shown superiority or
      non-inferiority versus VKA to prevent cardio-embolic events with a consistent reduction in
      intracranial bleeds in patients with non-valvular AF. Apixaban, a direct anti-Xa inhibitor,
      is the only NOAC which has demonstrated a mortality benefit associated with significant
      reductions in embolism and major bleeding versus VKA. In addition, apixaban is the only NOAC
      which has demonstrated superiority over aspirin to prevent cardio-embolic events with a
      similar safety profile in non-valvular AF patients with a contraindication to VKA. The
      investigators therefore formulate the hypothesis that apixaban is superior to SOC to prevent
      cardiovascular events in post-TAVI procedures.

      The main purpose is to demonstrate superiority of a strategy of anticoagulation with apixaban
      5mg bid (Anti-Xa Group) with dose adjustment as compared to the current standard of care (SOC
      Group = VKA or Antiplatelet therapy) as measured by the time from randomization to the first
      occurrence of any event of the composite endpoint of death, myocardial infarction,
      stroke/TIA/systemic embolism, intracardiac or bioprosthesis thrombus, episode of deep vein
      thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, life-threatening or disabling or major bleeding at one year
      follow-up defined according to VARC2.

      Patients who underwent a clinically successful TAVI procedure. Non-inclusion criteria include
      any recent acute cardiovascular event, mechanical heart valve, necessary use of prasugrel or
      ticagrelor (new P2Y12 inhibitors), concomitant medical illness associated with reduced
      survival, end stage renal failure defined as a creatinine clearance < 15mL/min.
    
  