
    
      This is a randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled trial over 52 weeks. Patients will be
      on one of four combinations of medications at the time of entry into the study: a) lithium
      and risperidone, b) lithium and olanzapine, c) valproate and risperidone, or d) valproate and
      olanzapine. After obtaining informed consent, patients will be randomised to one of three
      groups 1)"0" week group: patients will receive lithium or valproate plus placebo for 52 weeks
      (risperidone or olanzapine tapering will begin on the day of randomisation with
      discontinuation of the drug within 2 weeks), 2) continuation of the same atypical
      antipsychotic, risperidone or olanzapine, plus lithium or valproate for 24 weeks (tapering of
      the antipsychotic begins at the end of 24 weeks and completed within 2 weeks) followed by the
      same mood stabilizer plus placebo for another 28 weeks, and 3) continuation of the atypical
      antipsychotic, risperidone or olanzapine, plus lithium or valproate for 52 weeks. The
      duration of the double-blind phase of the study will be 52 weeks and all patients will
      continue on the mood stabilizer, lithium or valproate, they had been on during the acute
      mania for the full duration of the study. The serum level of the mood stabilizer will be
      maintained within the therapeutic range (0.6 to 1.2 mmol/L for lithium and 50 to 125 ug/L for
      valproate) throughout the 52 weeks as determined by blood tests. The dose and the type of
      atypical antipsychotic (ie risperidone or olanzapine) each patient will receive during the
      double-blind period will be the same that the patient had been on at the time of entry into
      the double-blind phase. All patients, irrespective of which treatment arm they are in, will
      receive active psychoeducation and counselling regarding sleep hygiene, healthy daily
      routines and rhythms, alcohol and substance abuse, anxiety management, conflict resolution
      and problem solving as clinically indicated in routine clinical practice. Patients who
      withdraw from or meet a primary end point of the study will be treated actively as done in
      regular clinical practice.

      Patients will not be allowed to receive any other psychotropic medication with the exception
      of benzodiazepines for sedation and anti-parkinsonian medication for extrapyramidal side
      effects. The doses of these will be recorded.
    
  