
    
      We posit that practice systems to promote healthy behaviors must combine five attributes to
      be effective and sustainable. They must be comprehensive (addressing multiple behaviors and
      the "5 As"), flexible (offering options), generalizable to ordinary practices,
      practice-friendly (limiting burden), and apply the Chronic Care Model. We will test the
      effectiveness and implementation of an innovative "packaged" intervention with these
      features. Six ACORN-affiliated practices will adopt a brief (3 minute) routine to deliver
      A1-3 (Ask, Advise, Agree) in the office and to offer patients four options for intensive
      assistance (Assist [A4], Arrange [A5]) outside the office. Patients can select 9 months of
      online, telephone, or group counseling; or usual care. An electronic health record (EHR) will
      expedite the in-office intervention and referrals. Outcome measures will include health
      behaviors (derived from 7200 surveys administered pre-intervention and 3 and 9 months
      post-exposure) and implementation (derived from EHR data, "counselee" surveys, and
      patient/staff interviews). We hypothesize that implementing this novel "package" of
      interventions will be associated with improved health behaviors (using the Common Measures
      for physical activity, diet, smoking, and alcohol use). EHR-captured data will measure RE-AIM
      parameters, including Reach (14 sub-measures), Adoption, and Maintenance. Surveys and
      qualitative analysis of semi-structured interviews with patients and office staff will
      explore Implementation issues and suggested improvements. We hope to demonstrate that this
      innovative intervention not only promotes healthy behaviors but is feasible and sustainable
      in primary care. Accomplishing these goals requires a delicate balancing act--deploying
      evidence-based strategies that are effective in lifestyle change but limit demands for new
      staff, training, or time. We strike this balance by harnessing effective technologies and
      tools and by leveraging resources outside the practice. If our intervention helps patients
      change unhealthy behaviors and is appealing to ordinary practices, we envision the potential
      for widespread adoption and substantial population health benefits.
    
  