
    
      Stress and early adversity have been found to influence immune function via enhanced
      expression of the conserved transcriptional response to adversity (CTRA) genetic profile.
      Expression of this genetic profile was reduced in adults who completed a prosocial behavior
      intervention. This project aims to implement this intervention in adolescents. 90 high school
      students will be recruited and assigned to one of three groups (30/group). Participants will
      either conduct 3 acts of kindness for themselves, conduct 3 acts of kindness for others, or
      report about their day 3 times per week for 4 weeks. During this intervention, they will
      receive text messages 3 days per week instructing them to complete their respective act.
      Participants will provide a brief description of this act that evening, as well as complete
      brief surveys at the end of the week for each week of the intervention. Participants will
      come into the lab twice, once before and once after the 4-week intervention. During these lab
      sessions participants will complete survey measures, have their heart rate measured, and have
      a blood draw conducted by a trained phlebotomist. Participants' parents will also complete a
      brief survey to provide demographic information and an idea of what prosocial behaviors
      participants witnessed in their home. The investigators will use these data to assess the
      effects of prosocial behavior on health and the psychological mechanisms underlying these
      effects. At the second study visit, participants will be given the opportunity to donate part
      of their study payment to a charity to measure prosociality. Any donations will be vetted
      with the psychology department's accounting group prior to making any donations in the
      university's name. Scott Monatlik, Director, Tax and Information Practices, at
      smonatlik@finance.ucla.edu or (310) 794-6724 will be contacted and information regarding the
      appropriate steps to take to ensure that the donation is made to an acceptable charity prior
      to any donations. Actual helping behavior (donations) is measured to provide an ecologically
      valid experimental evaluation of prosociality rather than traditional metrics of
      computerized, fictional giving. Conceptual frameworks from developmental and health
      psychology guide the hypothesis that prosocial behavior will influence adolescents.
    
  