
    
      Many of the approximately 25,000 American Indian (AI) students enrolled in tribal
      colleges/universities in the US arrive there as smokers. A 2011 study of high school seniors
      reported that the smoking prevalence among AI students is approximately 40%, the highest rate
      among all racial and ethnic groups studied. Although prevalence data on smoking among AI
      college students are limited, studies have shown that the majority of smokers in high school
      continue to smoke once they reach college. Prohibited from marketing to adolescents and
      children, the tobacco industry in recent years has shifted its most intense marketing to
      college students, resulting in increases in smoking rates among them. The transition to
      college provides amble opportunities for young adults to acquire new and harmful habits. Many
      of these habits do not seem so alien to young AIs: Cigarette smoking is the number one cause
      of preventable death among AIs. Cancer is the second leading cause of death among AIs, and
      lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths for both AI men and women. Cultural
      factors, socioeconomic circumstances, and lack of culturally-tailored cessation programs for
      American Indian tribal college students have prevented access to effective interventions that
      promote smoking cessation. To date, few studies have focused on methods to encourage smoking
      cessation among tribal college students and no randomized clinical trials have yet been
      conducted. To address this public health deficit, we propose an innovative, effective,
      culturally and individually-tailored smoking cessation programs to promote cessation.

      Primary aim is to: To test the effectiveness of a culturally-tailored internet-based smoking
      cessation intervention (I-ANBL) compared to an internet-based heart healthy diet
      (I-FV:fruit/vegetable) control condition in a randomized controlled trial with Tribal College
      students. Our hypothesis is that American Indian tribal college students randomized to the
      culturally-tailored smoking cessation arm will have significantly higher 7-day point
      prevalence abstinence (defined as no cigarettes in the past 7 days, biochemically verified)
      rates at 6 months than those receiving the heart healthy diet intervention.
    
  