
    
      Heart failure, where the heart muscle is damaged and is unable to pump blood efficiently,
      affects 9% of those aged 55 or more and is responsible for about 2% of the hospital
      admissions in the UK. The first symptom many patients complain of is breathlessness on
      exercise and an inability to perform their normal daily activities. Unfortunately these
      symptoms are similar to those experienced in numerous diseases of the heart and lungs.
      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing, through measuring numerous values taken from breathing
      during exercise can tell us which disease is causing the symptoms.

      The leading parameter from a CPET, peak VO2, has for many years been the single value used to
      guide management of patients following a diagnosis of many diseases from the heart and lungs.
      Newer measures predict outcome from heart failure (our principal area of interest) better. We
      believe this may be because they are less affected by lung disease than peak VO2 and we know
      that many patients have both heart and lung diseases.

      By showing the best CPET variable for each individual disease state, we will be able to
      ensure patients are correctly put into a level of risk for their condition and that they will
      be followed-up with the most accurate marker from exercise testing, rather than a "one size
      fits all" approach of peak VO2.

      With regards to heart valve disease, standard exercise testing just using ECG leads, rather
      than cardiopulmonary exercise testing, is starting to be used more in identifying patients
      without symptoms for possible surgery. The inaccuracy of this test will inevitably lead to
      patients being wrongly categorised. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing is a much more accurate
      way of establishing the impact of any disease on the heart or lung over traditional exercise
      testing and therefore we believe that evidence of its role around the time of surgery could
      be used as further support for its role in improving decision making for patient.

      Ultimately the greater knowledge of this test and when we should use it will help patients
      with very common heart conditions to be treated appropriately, potentially helping many
      patients.
    
  