
    
      Tracheal intubation through a supraglottic airway device (SAD) is a well-established
      technique in the management of patients with a difficult airway. The technique can be used in
      patients in whom difficult intubation is expected, or in situations when tracheal intubation
      using another method was not possible. It is now recommended that tracheal intubation through
      the SAD should be performed using a fibreoptic scope (a camera device) to minimise the risk
      of trauma to the airway, and that second generation SADs are used to minimise the risk of
      aspiration of gastric contents.

      There are two second generation SADs currently available which allow tracheal intubation: the
      I-gel and the LMA protector.

      The I-gel is a second generation supraglottic airway device widely used in anaesthesia and
      resuscitation. Fibreoptic intubation through the I-gel has been evaluated in a recent
      prospective study (1), with the first attempt success rate of 91.4%. In another study (2) of
      patients with predicted difficult airway, the success rate of the procedure at first attempt
      was 96%.

      LMA Protector is a recently introduced, improved version the LMA supreme - another second
      generation SAD. LMA supreme has been used in clinical practice for more than 10 years,
      however, tracheal intubation through the device was extremely difficult because of the small
      size of the breathing channel. The LMA Protector, has a larger breathing channel allowing the
      passage of an endotracheal tube. Compared to the I-gel, is has also got a larger gastric
      drainage tube. This allows easy suction in the event of regurgitation. Therefore, it appears
      to be superior to the I-gel in preventing the aspiration. But there are no studies comparing
      the ease of intubation through I-gel and LMA Protector

      The aim of this study is to compare the ease of performing the fibreoptic guided tracheal
      intubation through these two devices. Our hypothesis is that intubation through the I-gel is
      easier and quicker.
    
  