
    
      A randomized, partially masked, observational/interventional trial looking at the efficacy
      and safety of 2 FDA approved anti-VEGF agents vis-a-vis the dexamethasone implant as primary
      therapy for treatment naive diabetic macular edema in phakic as well as pseudophakic
      patients.

      Patients with treatment naive clinically significant macular edema will be randomized to
      receive one of the aforementioned therapies in a 1:1:1 distribution. Primary inclusion
      criteria are :

      Well controlled diabetes(HbA1c<7%) and co-morbidities. Central Subfield Thickness of 300
      microns or greater BCVA < or equal to 6/12.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Contraindications to the aforementioned drugs Confounding Ocular co-morbidities that can
      affect visual assessment(except Cataract Grade II or less as per the LOCS III classification)
      Refusal for enrolment

      A comprehensive ocular and systemic examination will be performed along with fundus
      fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography and intraocular pressure measurements
      with the Goldmann Applanation Tonometer. The BCVA will be recorded using Snellen's chart

      Intravitreal injections will be administered using a standardized technique and under strict
      asepsis. No postoperative antibiotics will be given.

      Patients will be followed on postoperative days 1, 7 and then monthly for 2 years.

      At each visit, the BCVA, IOP, ocular exam and OCT scans will be performed at each visit.

      Patients will be treated as per the guidelines laid out for the treat and extend study. For
      the dexamethasone implant, re-injections will be allowed first 3 months after the first
      injection.

      Switch therapy is permissible for anti-VEGF agents after 6 months; first to the other
      anti-VEGF(for 6 more injections) and then to the dexamethasone implant. Rescue Laser therapy
      is as per physician's description.

      Primary outcome measure: The BCVA in each group from baseline to final follow-up at 2 years.

      Secondary outcome measure: Change in CST from baseline to years, the number of injections
      required per group and the complications, if any.

      Statistical Analysis will include demographic descriptions, the Shapiro Wilk test to look for
      normality of distribution, multiple measures ANOVA test, Fisher's exact test, Chi-Square test
      and paired and unpaired t-test wherever appropriate.
    
  