
    
      Interferon beta has become the treatment of choice in relapsing MS. In previous clinical
      studies, the interferon-beta 1a (Rebif) used within the scope of this PMS study has
      demonstrated significant efficacy in all aspects of treatment - magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) data, relapse rate, and progression of disability. The PRISMS-4 study demonstrated that
      treatment with Rebif reduces the frequency and severity of clinical relapses over 4 years and
      slows the progression of disability.

      In order to achieve good subject compliance, it is important that the subject be given a
      realistic picture of the expected result of treatment and of the demands that will be made in
      connection with the treatment. Interferon beta cannot cure MS, however treatment with Rebif
      can reduce the number and severity of relapses and delay the progression of disability.

      Rebif therapy is a long-term therapy. For this reason, subject may not feel any positive
      effects immediately, but instead may notice the benefits of treatment only after a
      considerable period of time. The early period after the start of treatment is considered to
      be crucial in terms of whether the treatment will be accepted and tolerated by the subject or
      whether unplanned cessation of treatment will occur.

      OBJECTIVES

      The principal objective of this PMS study was to provide subjects with the greatest possible
      degree of safety and support by means of optimal management in the first few weeks after the
      start of treatment or after the change from a different treatment regimen. This objective was
      to be achieved by, among other things, a flexible dose escalation regimen that took into
      account individual subjects' acceptance. It is precisely during this critical early phase of
      treatment, marked as it is by uncertainty, change, and in some cases problems of
      tolerability, that poor subject compliance occurs, leading in some cases to treatment
      dropouts.

      Another question addressed in the study was related to the small number of subjects who after
      this initial phase could not tolerate Rebif therapy at the high dosage (44 µg x3). In these
      cases there was the option of a temporary dose reduction to the lower dosage (22 µg x3). The
      objective of this dose reduction was to avoid an unnecessary change of treatment regimen and
      thereby to make an important contribution to improving compliance. In the present PMS study,
      particular attention was paid to the question of subject compliance at the start of Rebif
      therapy. This applied both to Rebif-naive subjects and to subjects who were being switched to
      Rebif after receiving other forms of MS therapy.
    
  