
    
      The proposed research aims to study the effects of antioxidant therapy, commonly used in male
      infertility treatment, on semen analysis. Several studies have been conducted to evaluate the
      effect of many antioxidant regimens on male infertility. A randomized double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial investigated a combined antioxidant regimen, including vitamin C,
      using Menevit (lycopene 6mg, vitamin E 400IU, vitamin C 100mg, zinc 25mg, selenium 26 mcg,
      folate 0.5mg, garlic 1g) in couples undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection. The authors
      reported a significant improvement in viable pregnancy rate in the treatment group, where
      38.5% of transferred embryos resulted in a viable fetus compared to 16% in the placebo group
      (Tremellen K, 2007). Suleiman et al. studied 300 mg of daily vitamin E in a
      placebo-controlled study revealing significant improvement in sperm motility and reduction of
      oxidative stress measures in the treatment group. Moreover, they reported a 21% spontaneous
      pregnancy rate in the treatment group compared to 0% in the placebo group (Suleiman SA,
      1996).

      Patients presenting with male infertility, who are found to have abnormal semen analysis
      shall be recruited to this study. They will be asked to provide a sample of semen for routine
      semen analysis and advanced semen tests including sperm DNA fragmentation and sORP before
      starting with antioxidant therapy and after 3-month treatment with antioxidants. No other
      procedures will be done for research purposes. All other investigations or treatments will be
      given according to the standard of care. Routinely patients presenting to the male
      infertility unit at HMC seeking evaluation and treatment for delayed conception will be
      assessed with a history and physical examination, investigated with semen and endocrine
      studies and be placed on an antioxidant regimen comprised of vitamins C and E, L-Carnitine
      and pentoxyfylline. Further management will be individualized and planned according to each
      patient's condition.
    
  