
    
      Although the notions that kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for patients with
      end-stage renal disease and that simultaneous kidney and pancreas transplant is the only
      treatment able to restore euglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes and selected patients
      with type 2 diabetes, are now consolidated, rates of transplantation remain low among
      potential candidates with high levels of preformed anti-HLA antibodies. Most of the data
      comes from the experience in kidney transplant but can be easily translated to pancreas
      transplant.

      Approximately 30% of patients on the transplant waiting list have evidence of sensitization
      in the form of alloantibodies, generated from exposure to previous transplants, blood
      transfusions, pregnancy, or other events. The presence of a panel-reactive antibody level of
      at least 80% (i.e. a high level of sensitization) creates difficulty in finding matched
      kidneys from compatible donors, leading to lower rates of transplantation in highly
      sensitized candidates compared to non-sensitized; the longer waiting times translates in an
      increased mortality rate. Despite the development of desensitization strategies and the
      advancement in immunosuppression protocols, it is apparent that transplanting these patients
      carries an increased risk of acute antibody mediated rejection; 25%-50% of transplants will
      have an early acute antibody mediated rejection . Most of these rejections can be
      successfully treated, but a high rate of transplant glomerulopathy and chronic antibody
      mediated rejection (AMR) leading to accelerated allograft failure is common.

      This protocol has been designed to demonstrate the feasibility and efficacy of spleen
      transplant as a desensitization strategy for highly sensitized patients, potential candidates
      of kidney or simultaneous kidney pancreas transplant with (positive cross-match by flow
      cytometry (T or B) or B positive standard cross-match). After obtaining surgical and research
      consent at a pre-transplant clinic visit, patients will be receiving spleen transplant
      followed by spleen removal and kidney or simultaneous kidney pancreas transplant. Duration of
      the subject participation will begin upon consent and will last for one year after the
      surgery.

      Incidence of treated acute rejection (humoral or cellulo-mediated) within the first year
      (defined as biopsy proven or clinically indicated) will be determined. Graft and patient
      survival will be monitored and compared with a cohort of highly sensitized patients with
      similar immunological characteristics, treated with our standard protocol. DSA levels and
      post-transplant cross-match will be determined.
    
  