
    
      The study is conducted in the areas under Sakhanmaw Rural Health Center, Ann Township in
      Southern Rakhine State, Myanmar.

      General objective was to evaluate the performance of the new highly-sensitive rapid
      diagnostic test (RDT) developed by SD Bioline versus conventional RDT, compared with PCR as
      the gold standard, in reactive case detection of malaria infections in Rakhine State,
      Myanmar.

      Specific objectives

        -  To evaluate the prevalence of malaria identified by the new hsRDT in comparison with
           that by cRDT and PCR

        -  To assess the diagnostic performance characteristics of hsRDT versus cRDT, using PCR as
           gold standard, in the detection of P.falciparum infections

        -  To evaluate correlation of detection capability between cRDT and hsRDT

        -  To identify risk factors associated with malaria infection, including but not limited
           to, socio-demographic factors and travel history related with malaria index cases

      This is a prospective community-based single-center reactive case detection (RCD) study to
      assess the performance of hsRDT versus cRDT in identifying individuals with malaria infection
      ("Secondary case") in a population living and/or working in a close physical proximity to an
      "index case." All cases parasitologically confirmed by conventional RDT will be promptly
      notified to the study team and interviewed with a standardized case investigation form at
      their home, possibly within 3 days. All members of the primary case household and those of
      the nearest 10 households, aged 5 years and above, will be invited to participate in the
      study. A blood spot will be collected for subsequent PCR analysis. At least 50 index cases
      are targeted for investigation and reactive case detection and an estimated number of 1,980
      persons will be involved in the study.

      It is expected that this study will be an important input for the national malaria control
      program in Myanmar as they develop the strategies to conduct reactive case detection.

      A suitable statistical software, e.g. STATA will be used to analyze the data resulting from
      the participant interviews and 3 parasitological tests. Logistic regression models will be
      developed to examine factors significantly associated with malaria infections.
    
  