
    
      Material and Methods

        1. Patients who have a high probability of infection based on the Musculoskeletal Infection
           Society (MSIS) criteria and are scheduled for debridement only or debridement with
           implant removal, will be invited to enroll the study after signed informed consent.

           The synovial joint fluid will be sampled before the arthrotomy at the operation room.
           Aspirates will be collected under an aseptic technique with an 18-Fr sterile syringe
           with a minimum amount of 14 ccs. The sample will be divided between MALDI-TOF mass
           spectrometry in standard blood culture bottles (10 ccs), wound culture tube (2 ccs), and
           synovial fluid analysis (2 ccs). The samples will be delivered to microbiology
           laboratory within a 2-hour period.

        2. Bacterial culture and conventional identification Bacterial identification will be
           performed by the conventional method using the Vitek 2 system. For the conventional
           culture, 1 µL of well-mixed synovial joint fluid will be inoculated and spread onto
           blood agar plates and MacConkey agar plates using a sterile plastic disposable loop.
           Plates will be incubated in an aerobic atmosphere at 37℃ for 18-24 hr. When bacterial
           growth is observed, the colonies on blood agar will be counted, and colonies from both
           types of plates will be identified by using the Vitek 2 system.

        3. MALDI-TOF MS identification The suspension obtained following the above sample
           preparation will be centrifuged at 13,000g for 2 minutes, and the supernatant will be
           discarded. The pellet will be centrifuged at 13,000g for another 2 minutes prior to the
           removal of the residual ethanol. Fifty microliters of formic acid (70% v/v) and 50 mL of
           100% acetonitrile will be added to the pellet, and mixed thoroughly after each reagent
           is added. The suspension will be centrifuged again at 13,000g for another 2 minutes, and
           1 mL of the supernatant will be spotted onto the steel target plate. Analysis will be
           performed following air-drying of 1 mL a-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid matrix solution
           placed onto the dried sample spot in duplicate.

           Mass spectra profiles will be acquired using a microflex LT MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer
           (Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany) following the manufacturer's settings. Spectra will
           be recorded in the linear positive mode at a laser frequency of 60 Hz within a mass
           range from 2000 Da to 20,000 Da. All bacteria identifications will be performed by
           MALDI-TOF Biotyper RTC and the Bruker MALDI Biotyper 3.1 software and library (4613
           isolates; Bruker Daltonics). Criteria used for microorganism analysis and identification
           will be as recommended by the manufacturer.

        4. Statistical analysis Time to identification will be determined as the time from colony
           formation to the time at which the final result is reported to a physician. Statistical
           analysis will be performed to compare the three methods using Chi-square tests. The
           level of statistical significance will be set at p < 0.05.
    
  