
    
      Subjects will be selected for the study based on treatment plans for Phase II orthodontics at
      Saint Louis University Center for Advanced Dental Education orthodontics program, which
      require the use of palatally placed mini-screw implants for anchorage control. If the patient
      is at or beyond the age of 18 years, they will be approached about this study. If the patient
      is under the age of 18 years, the parent or legal guardian of the patient will be approached.
      After the consult is completed, where the treatment plan has been explained and standard
      consent forms have been signed, a member of the research team will verbally confirm with the
      patient or the patient and parent/guardian that the patient cannot be excluded from the study
      based on exclusion criteria from the patient's medical history. Orthodontic treatment at SLU
      CADE involves monthly visits to the orthodontic clinic where patients receive orthodontic
      treatment, including leveling and aligning of teeth with archwires and fixed appliances on
      teeth, space closure, occlusion correction, and finishing and detailing. Mini-screw placement
      is not necessary nor included in all treatment plans given at SLU CADE orthodontics. The
      possible subjects for the study will patients who will receive mini-screw implants as a
      course of their treatment for orthodontic anchorage (standard of care).

      Participants will be weighed so that appropriate dosing can be ensured and randomized 1:1 to
      receive either and antibiotic (Amoxicillin) or a placebo (glucose) 1 hour prior to mini-screw
      insertion (research related). Patients weighing less than 40 kg will be given 50mg/kg. The
      Amoxicillin and the placebo (glucose) will be prepared in capsule form by a pharmacist and
      made to look identical. The Amoxicillin or placebo will be dispensed at CADE and taken at
      CADE 1 hour prior to the procedure. Standard procedure for dispensing Amoxicillin at SLU CADE
      is to draw appropriate dosage from the dispensary and provide Amoxicillin to at risk patients
      prior to invasive dental procedures, in accordance with prophylaxis guidelines set form by
      the American Heart Association. Documentation of dosage and time of dispensing is noted in
      the patient record. However, in this study, documentation in the patient dental record will
      only reflect that either a placebo or Amoxicillin was given as part of a randomized
      controlled trial. Standard of care for orthodontic mini-screw implants includes oral hygiene
      instructions and 1 week of oral antibiotic mouth rinse use (.12% Chlorhexidine) and all
      participants in this study will follow standard of care in addition to the administration of
      either placebo or antibiotic. Randomization between control or experimental group will be
      conducted by the Research Chair, Hiroshi Ueno, and the PI will have no knowledge of to which
      group subjects are assigned.

      Participants will be followed at time of mini-screw placement (T0), 1 month post procedure
      (T1), 3 months post-procedure (T2), and 6 months post-procedure (T3). The participant has
      standard of care appointments at these time points, so there are not any extra visits for
      research purposes. At these appointment, participants will undergo an intra-oral exam to
      determine mobility of the mini-screw(s), to check for inflammation at the site of mini-screw
      placement, assess oral hygiene at the site of mini-screw placement, and be asked to rate both
      their pain and tenderness related to the mini-screw. Pain is defined as spontaneous pain frim
      the mini-screw site. Tenderness is defined as pain resulting from palpation of the
      mini-screw. Mobility will be determined by placing a small amount of force on the mini-screw
      with a cotton plier. The amount of mobility will be assessed as having no mobility (Grade 0),
      having between 0mm and 1 mm of mobility (Grade 1), or having more than 1 mm of mobility
      (Grade 2). Inflammation will be assessed as having no redness or swelling at the site (Grade
      0), having redness only at the site (Grade 1), or having both redness and swelling (Grade 2).
      Oral hygiene will be assessed as having no visible plaque at the site (Grade 0), having small
      amounts of plaque at the site (Grade 1), or having moderate to large amounts of plaque at the
      site (Grade 2). Pain and tenderness will be evaluated separately and will be assessed by
      asking the patient to rate their pain level on a scale of 0 to 10, 0 being no pain and 10
      being unbearable, excruciating pain. A member of the research team will make these
      evaluations at each time point. All five of these would be assessed as part of the standard
      of care for mini-screw placement, regardless of participation in the research study or lack
      thereof. The only action related to the research that is not standard of care is the
      dispensing of either the antibiotic or the placebo at 1 hour prior to mini-screw placement.

      Success of the mini-screw will be defined as number of survival with "Mobility Grade 0 or 1"
      & "No Pain" & "Inflammation Grade 0 or 1".

      Failure of the mini-screw will be immediately determined as failed if the mini-screw is not
      present at one of the time points or upon an assessment of Grade 2 mobility. Grade 2 mobility
      will result in removal of the mini-screw.

      If the mini-screw implants fail, the participants will have the mini-screw removed. It is up
      to assigned instructors as to whether or not mini-screws will be replaced. If the mini-screws
      will not be replaced, the patient will be removed from the study, but all data collected will
      be included in the research.

      Standard of Care will be followed in all instances at time points T(0), T(1), T(2) and T(3).

      The dependent variable will be success or failure, while the independent variable will be
      antibiotic prophylaxis or placebo. Failure will be defined as mobile or lost MSIs, and
      success will be defined as stability of the MSIs maintained after 6 months. 8mm long, 1.5 mm
      diameter, palatally placed MSIs provided by a single manufacturer (Forestadent) that are
      immediately force loaded or delayed in force loading will be included in the study. Data will
      be analyzed with SPSS for Windows (SPSS Inc., Chicago, Ill). A Chi Square test for
      independence will be used to determine association, if any, between the two categorical
      variables. This study will establish an alpha of 0.05 and a beta of 0.08322, and to achieve
      power of 0.91, a sample size of 100 subjects is the goal for recruiting.
    
  