
    
      • Background and significance:

      COVID-19 (Coronavirus Disease-2019) is a public health emergency of international concern.
      Radiological, lung function changes were reported in different studies of pulmonary viral
      infection.

      After a patient has recovered from severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), CT shows
      transient interlobular septal thickening and reticulation over a course of several weeks to
      months. The reticulation appears after the 2nd week and peaks around the 4th week. One-third
      of patients with persistent respiratory symptoms will have imaging findings of fibrosis,
      including interlobular and intralobular reticulation, traction bronchiectasis, and, rarely,
      honeycombing. Areas of air trapping, caused by damage to ciliated respiratory epithelium,
      have been reported in 92% of patients who have recovered from pneumonia and are less likely
      to resolve completely. Likewise, in patients with MERS, although the majority fully recover,
      33% show evidence of lung fibrosis on follow-up imaging. These patients were commonly older,
      had prolonged ICU admission, and had greater lung involvement in the acute phase of the
      disease.

      CT was performed 1 year after MERS-CoV infection in 65 (89%) patients. Radiological sequelae
      were revealed in 25% (4/16), 63% (19/30), and 95% (18/19) of patients in the no, mild, and
      severe pneumonia groups, respectively (P < 0.001). The median radiological sequelae score was
      0, 1, and 3 in the no, mild, and severe pneumonia groups, respectively, and the radiological
      sequelae scores were significantly correlated with the severity of pneumonia (P < 0.001). The
      finding that more severe MERS pneumonia resulted in more impaired lung function strongly
      suggests that pulmonary sequelae can remain at least 1 year after MERS-CoV pneumonia, which
      is also supported by the correlation of radiological sequela correlated with the severity of
      MERS pneumonia.

      A previous study showed that 24% of SARS survivors have impaired DLCO and 5% reduced lung
      volume at 12 months.

      A follow-up study of 55 patients with SARS at 24 months revealed that 10 (18.2%), 9 (16.4%),
      6 (10.9%) and 29 (52.7%) subjects had FEV1, FVC, TLC and DL(CO) < 80% of predicted values,
      respectively. The mean (SD) 6MWD increased significantly from 439.0 (89.1) m at 3 months to
      460.1 (102.8) m at 6 months (P 0.016) and became steady after 6 months. However, 6MWD and 36
      item Short Form General Health Survey scores were lower than the normal population throughout
      the study.

      Pulmonary function defects were detected in half of the recovered severe acute respiratory
      syndrome patients 3 months after hospital discharge, but the impairment was mild in almost
      all cases. Many patients had reduced exercise capacity that cannot be accounted for by
      impairment of pulmonary function.

      The deleterious SARS-CoV-2 infection myocardial effects could also be perpetuated by the
      prompt and severe downregulation of myocardial and pulmonary ACE2 pathways, thereby mediating
      myocardial inflammation, lung edema, and acute respiratory failure. ACE2 is widely expressed
      not only in the lungs but also in the cardiovascular system and, therefore, ACE2-related
      signalling pathways might even have a role in heart injury. Other proposed mechanisms of
      myocardial injury include a cytokine storm triggered by an imbalanced response by type 1 and
      2 T-helper cells strong interferon-mediated immunopathological events and respiratory
      dysfunction and hypoxemia caused by COVID-19, resulting in damage to myocardial cells.

      Infection due to viral, bacterial, or fungal pathogens initiates complex systemic
      inflammatory responses as part of innate immunity. Activation of host defense systems results
      in subsequent activation of coagulation and thrombin generation as critical communication
      components among humoral and cellular amplification pathways, a term called
      thromboinflammation or immunothrombosis.

      Several serological immunoassays have been developed for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 viral
      proteins and antibodies in the serum or plasma. The most widely used biomarkers for the
      detection of SARS-CoV-2 infection in commercial immunoassays are IgM and IgG antibodies
      produced in suspects from the 2nd week of viral infection. IgM can be detected in the patient
      samples from 10 to 30 days after SARS-CoV-2 infection, while IgG can be detected from 20 days
      onwards. The IgM response occurs earlier than that of IgG, but it then decreases and
      disappears. On the other hand, IgG can persist after infection for a long time and may have a
      protective role.

      A study reported that ELISA detected SARS-CoV-2 IgM or IgG in 34/40 individuals with an
      RT-PCR-confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection (sensitivity 85%, 95%CI 70-94%), vs 0/50
      pre-pandemic controls (specificity 100% [95%CI 93-100%]). IgG levels were detected in 31/31
      RT-PCR positive individuals tested ≥10 days after symptom onset (sensitivity 100%, 95%CI
      89-100%). IgG titres rose during the 3 weeks post symptom onset and began to fall by 8 weeks,
      but remained above the detection threshold. Point estimates for the sensitivity of lateral
      flow immunoassay (LFIA) devices ranged from 55-70% versus RT-PCR and 65-85% versus ELISA,
      with specificity 95-100% and 93-100% respectively.

      • Timeliness, innovative nature and relevance of the project

      AS COVID -19 is an emerging pandemic since late 2019, follow up studies of its sequelae are
      still lacking. The aim is to track any consequences regarding radiological findings,
      functional impairment of respiratory system and immunological response to COVID -19. This may
      have an economic and social burden if lung functions are deteriorating post infection. Also,
      development of an effective vaccination is an issue of great interest all over the world.
      Existence and duration of persistence of protective antibodies may help prediction of
      vaccination frequency and better understanding of the nature of the virus.

      • Research design and methodologies:

      One hundred RT- PCR positive COVID-19 patients will be enrolled.

      The following data will be collected:

        -  Medical history: age, sex, occupation, comorbidities, previous treatment, …

        -  Clinical classification of COVID-19 infection:

           1- Mild: clinical symptoms without pneumonia 2- Moderate: clinical symptoms with
           pneumonia 3- Severe: who meet any of the following: respiratory rate 30 breath\minute,
           oxygen saturation less than 93% at rest and patient with more than 50%lesion progression
           within 24 to 48h in the lung

        -  Radiological data:

      Pulmonary CT pattern of COVID-19 using Philips Ingenuity core 128 the Netherlands:

        1. COVID-19 pneumonia, Type L:

           Only ground-glass densities are present on CT scan, primarily located subpleural and
           along the lung fissures. Consequently, lung weight is only moderately increased.

        2. COVID-19 pneumonia, Type H:

      The increased amount of non-aerated tissue Follow up CT at 3, 6 and 12 months intervals

      Echocardiography using Sonoscape A5 portable echocardigraph:

      3, 6 and 12 months intervals after clinical improvement

      • Pulmonary function test: Spirometry: measurement of lung volumes and capacities (forced
      expiratory volume in first second FEV1, forced vital capacity FVC, FEV1\FVC and FEF25\75)
      Diffusion capacity of the lung to carbon monoxide (DLCO) at 3, 6 and 12 months intervals
      after clinical improvement

      • Immunological data: Detection of COVID-19 IgG and IgM antibody in patient's plasma During
      infection and at 3, 6 and 12 months intervals after clinical improvement by BIOCREDIT
      COVID-19 IgG+ IgM Duo (One Step SARS-CoV-2 IgG and IgM Antibody Rapid Test) RapiGEN.INC.

      BIOCREDIT COVID-19 IgG+ IgM Duo is a lateral flow immunochromatographic assay for qualitative
      detection of IgG and IgM specific to SARS-COV-2 virus in human serum, plasma and whole blood.
      Antihuman IgG and IgM conjugated with colloidal gold particles will react specifically with
      the SARS-COV-2 IgG and IgM antibodies in patient's serum, plasma and whole blood. The
      colloidal gold conjugated anti-human IgG & IgM and SARS-COV-2 specific IgG & IgM forms
      antibody-antibody-gold particle complex then it moves to pre-coated SARS-COV-2 NP and Spike
      protein recombinant antigens on the membrane. The reaction forms
      antigen-antibody-antibody-gold particle complex then they show as color band at T- line area.
      The control line (C) is used for procedural control and should always appear if the test is
      performed correctly.

      • Detailed time plan

      On discharge from hospital 1 month post discharge 3 months post discharge 6 months post
      discharge 12 months post discharge

      CT angiographychest 1,3,6,12 months Lateral flow immunoassay 1,3,6,12 months Spirometry
      1,3,6,12 months DLCO 1,3,6,12 months Echo 1,3,6,12 months

      • Quality of the research team

      Research team members are quick thinker, eager to know more and more, have analytical mind,
      show Commitment, cooperative and have excellent written and verbal communication skills.
      Also, the team is well qualified and has several national and international publications.

        -  Independent thinking and major research achievements This project will help us to know
           the sequalae of post infection by covid 19, regarding the immunological impact and the
           persistence of antibodies in the blood of survivors, persistent symptom, pulmonary
           remote effects in these patients.

        -  Impact

      This study is set out to detect functional impairment in COVID-19 survivors which may have
      economic and social impact. Also, investigator will assess possible protective immune
      response following infection which may affect vaccination schedule

      •
    
  