
    
      With the extension of survival time in nasopharyngeal carcinoma(NPC), more and more patients
      suffer from recurrence with radiation brain injury after radiotherapy, recurrence after the
      second or more courses of radiotherapy, standard treatment failure after recurrence, and
      first-line treatment failure after multiple distant metastasis. We define these four types as
      refractory nasopharyngeal carcinoma[1-2] due to the complex and high risk of treatment and
      poor prognosis. For recurrence and metastasis NPC, the objective response rate ranges from
      25% to 46.4% with platinum-based, or 5-Fu-based, or gemcitabine-based salvage
      chemotherapy[2--5].

      At present, there is no standard treatment for refractory nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

      Most patients in this trial were pretreated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Nedaplatin has
      the equivalent antitumor effect with cisplatin and less renal toxicity and gastrointestinal
      toxicity in the treatment of NPC[6]. In addition, nedaplatin does not have the cross
      tolerance with cisplatin. After cisplatin failure, nedaplatin(80-100 mg/m2) still work in NPC
      treatment[3].

      5-Fu is a classic, effective, and safe chemotherapeutic drug in NPC treatment. Low dose
      continuous intravenous infusion of 5-Fu(300mg/m2/d, 6 weeks) is a effective regimen for
      recurrent and metastasis NPC with low toxicity[4].

      Endostatin is a multiple targeted angiogenesis inhibitor acting on tumor associated
      neovascular endothelial cells, normalizing the morphology and function of tumor vasculature,
      and indirectly leading to the quiescence or reduction of tumors[7-9]. Anti-angiogenic therapy
      might optimally require that endothelial cells be exposed to steady blood levels of the
      inhibitor, and blood levels of certain angiogenesis inhibitors (such as endostatin) that are
      too high or too low will be ineffective[7,10]. Endostar® is recombinant human endostatin
      injection with better medicinal properties, stability and curative effect. Hoekman K. etc
      conducted a phase I clinical pharmacokinetic study in advanced cancer and the results showed
      that continuous intravenous pump of endostar® is safe[11]. Moreover, endostar® combined with
      chemotherapy can improve the outcome of the chemotherapy alone and does not increase the
      treatment related toxicity, such as in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer[12], advanced
      cervical cancer[13], advanced gastric cancer[14] and also metastasis NPC[15].

      Given that the patients in this trial have the following features: had received standard
      radical treatment, poor tolerance of treatment due to the toxicity after many courses of
      chemotherapy, and the present treatment goal is palliative therapy. Therefore, the treatment
      principle in this trial is using low toxicity, well tolerance treatment regimen to relieve
      and control tumor, improve the quality of life, and further to prolong the survival time.

      Based on above background and considering the Efficacy and tolerability, we use nedaplatin
      plus continuous low dose 5-Fu intravenous infusion as chemotherapy regimen, and administrate
      endostar® in continuous intravenous infusion.

      This phase II randomized controlled trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of
      nedaplatin plus continuous low dose 5-Fu intravenous infusion combined with endostar®
      (Recombinant Human Endostatin Injection) continuous intravenous infusion compared with
      nedaplatin plus continuous low dose 5-Fu intravenous infusion alone in refractory
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
    
  