
    
      The circadian system is strongly linked to type 2 diabetes. Adults with type 2 diabetes have
      circadian rhythms that are both weakened and mistimed. Weak rhythms may be due to
      insufficient bright light exposure during the daytime, irregular meal timing, or grazing on
      food throughout the day. Mistiming may be due to ill-timed food intake or light exposure-such
      as eating later in the day or light exposure at night-which causes central and peripheral
      circadian clocks within the body to become out of sync (circadian misalignment). This
      circadian misalignment impairs glucose metabolism: data now show that eating late in the day
      and light exposure at night rapidly elevate glucose (blood sugar) and insulin levels in
      humans within days. Conversely, well-timed food intake and light exposure appear to improve
      glycemic (blood sugar) control, circadian rhythms, and several other aspects of health.

      This study will test the health effects of eating early in the daytime (early time-restricted
      feeding; early TRF) and timed light therapy in adults with type 2 diabetes. The study will
      test the following aims:

        1. Determine whether early TRF and/or timed light therapy improve glycemic control

        2. (a) Determine how early TRF and/or timed light therapy affect the central and peripheral
           circadian clocks and (b) determine which patients benefit the most from circadian-based
           therapies

        3. Determine whether early TRF and/or timed light therapy improve sleep, body weight, body
           composition, cardiovascular risk factors, quality of life, and psychological health.

      Approximately 344 veterans and civilians aged 30-80 with insulin-independent type 2 diabetes
      will be randomized to the following 2 x 2 study design:

        1. No change in eating or light exposure habits

        2. Early TRF

        3. Timed light therapy

        4. Early TRF and timed light therapy

      Participants will be asked to follow their assigned treatment for 16 weeks and then be
      followed up for an additional eight months (1 year in total). Baseline and post-intervention
      testing will be conducted during a 38-hour inpatient (hospital) stay. Testing will involve
      three 3-hour meal tolerance tests to determine insulin sensitivity and secretion; 24-hour
      measurement of glucose, insulin, and C-peptide levels; 24-hour measurement of cortisol and
      melatonin to measure the phase and amplitude of the central clock; and a constant glucose
      infusion to determine the phase and amplitude of the effective glycemic ("peripheral")
      circadian clock. Sleep, weight loss, body composition, and cardiovascular risk factors will
      also be measured, and questionnaires and an interview will be administered to determine
      improvements in quality of life and psychological health.

      Note: Pre-registered primary and secondary outcomes are listed below. Pre-registered tertiary
      outcomes appear in the study protocol, which will be uploaded to this website.
    
  