
    
      Aim:

        1. To combine a carbon monoxide rebreathing method and bioimpedance which allows to
           objectively measure the amount of fluid in the bloodstream (intravascular) and
           throughout the body, and thereby test the actual amount of fluid in the body when
           patients are hydrated according to their clinical dry weight.

        2. To validate carbon monoxide rebreathing method in hemodialysis patients compared against
           a radioactive labeling of erythrocytes and albumin (the gold standard).

        3. To investigate whether hemoglobin is a valid marker of anemia in this patient population
           by measuring the erythrocyte volume and hemoglobin mass by the carbon monoxide
           rebreathing method and correlating this to the hemoglobin concentration.

      Background:

      Anemia and overhydration are challenging conditions in patients on hemodialysis.
      Overhydration is associated with hypertension, cardiomyopathy and increased mortality. In
      assessing the patient's volume status, blood pressure, body weight and peripheral edema are
      used as indicators. To achieve a more accurate estimate, these measures have been combined
      with various techniques, such as relative changes in blood volume (measured with blood volume
      sensor (BVS)) and bioimpedance. These methods are used to varying degrees in everyday
      clinical practice.

      In case of overhydration, fluid is distributed intravascularly and can thereby expand blood
      volume. The primary clinical problem with an expanded blood volume is hypertension and
      increased risk of cardiovascular complications. Measurement of the intravascular volume can
      therefore have great clinical relevance, but currently there are no direct measures for this
      implemented in the clinical daily routine. Various techniques have been used for research
      purposes. These include fluorescent dilution techniques, radioactive labeling of erythrocytes
      and albumin, as well as infusion of dialysate during dialysis where changes in BVS
      measurements can be used to calculate the intravascular volumes.

      Bioimpedance can be used to measure the total water phase and the intra- and extracellular
      volume. The method has been shown to be useful in the diagnosis of overhydration in
      hemodialysis patients. Overhydration detected by bioimpedance in hemodialysis patients has
      been shown to correlate to increased mortality. Bioimpedance is a non-invasive, painless and
      practically useful way of assessing the volume status.

      Anemia is another significant challenge in patients on hemodialysis. The majority of patients
      on hemodialysis have a significant decrease in endogenous erythropoietin production, which
      causes anemia and requires treatment with an erythrocyte stimulant (ESA). The basis for
      anemia diagnosis and the decision on ESA treatment in hemodialysis patients is based on
      pre-dialysis hemoglobin (measured at dialysis start-up). Upon overhydration, fluid
      distributed to the intravascular space will lead to dilated plasma volume (PV) and dilution
      of hemoglobin. This dilution and thus artificial decrease in hemoglobin makes pre-dialysis
      hemoglobin difficult to interpret in patients on dialysis. Time-averaged hemoglobin,
      calculated on the basis of pre-dialysis and post-dialysis hemoglobin, has been shown to
      correlate better with the actual hemoglobin of hemodialysis patients, but the value has not
      gained ground in practice.

      The carbon monoxide rebreathing method is a well-proven technique for determining
      intravascular volume, (blood volume, BV), PV and red blood cell volume (RBCV). In renally
      healthy patients, the method is validated against a radioactive labeling technique (gold
      standard) where high correlation (r = 0.97) has been demonstrated between the two methods.
      The carbon monoxide rebreathing method has also been shown to be able to detect even very
      small changes in blood volume. The method is safe and requires 6 minutes of carbon monoxide
      inhalation. A prerequisite for using the carbon monoxide rebreathing method is a normal
      diffusion of gas over the lungs, which allows uptake into the blood. Dialysis patients may be
      significantly overhydrated and possible accumulation of water in the alveoli may decrease the
      diffusion of carbon monoxide and affect the method. Against this background, the method is to
      be validated against a radioactive labeling technique.

      The validity of the carbon monoxide rebreathing method in hemodialysis patients has not been
      performed which is important if the method is to be implemented clinically and for research
      purposes.

      Method:

      Case-control study with 25 patients in each group. The case group consists of hemodialysis
      patients and the control group consists of healthy individuals with eGFR above 60
      ml/min/1.73m2. Subjects were matched on gender, age (+/- 5 years) and (weight +/- 10kg).

      Hemodialysis group: 25 hemodialysis patients are included. Immediately before the start of
      dialysis, the total body water is measured by bioimpedance and blood samples are taken. A
      normal hemodialysis lasts 3-4 hours and during this period the patient undergoes fluid
      extraction corresponding to their estimated dry weight. 30 minutes after the dialysis is
      completed, the total boby water is measured with bioimpedance and the blood volume, plasma
      volume and erythrocyte volume are measured by carbon monoxide rebreathing method. In 10
      participants, blood volume, plasma volume and the erythrocyte volume are measured by a
      radioactive labeling of erythrocytes and albumin, where blood is taken at the beginning of
      dialysis and cleaned at the end of dialysis. Hemoglobin and hematocrit are measured
      pre-dialysis, post-dialysis and 30 minutes after cessation of dialysis. Participation in the
      study involving the radioactive labeling of erythrocytes and albumin may be omitted if a
      participant does not wish the study.

      Control group: Includes 25 patients with eGFR above 60 ml/min/1.73m2 and without severe heart
      failure, liver failure or lung disease. In all participants, the intravascular volume is
      measured by carbon monoxide rebreathing method and the total body water by bioimpedance. In
      10 participants, blood volume is measured by a radioactive label of erythrocytes and albumin.
      Hemoglobin and other standard samples are measured.

      If a participant after inclusion must be withdrawn, the patient is replaced by a new
      participant until a number of 25 participants in each group is achieved. If a matched
      participant cannot be found for an included participant, the person in question is withdrawn
      and replaced by a new one.

      Statistics:

      Blood volume in patients hemodialysis has been found to be 73.4 ml / kg (SD 15 ml / kg) and
      from the predicted normal blood volume has been found to be 59.0 ml / kg (SD 9.3 ml / kg). In
      a two-sided unpaired t-test with α = 0.05, SD = 15 and a power of 90%, a sample size of 23
      patients in each group will show a significant difference. A dropout rate of approximately 2
      patients is assumed and a total of 25 are included in each group.

      After completion of the study and data completion the results are analysed according to
      primary and secondary endpoints. Results are reported as mean values with confidence interval
      or median and interquartile range. Data are analysed with parametric (normally distributed
      data) or non-parametric statistics (non-normal distributed data). A 95 % confidence interval
      is accepted as statistically significant (p < 0.05). Analysis are performed as a per protocol
      analysis.
    
  