
    
      SPIROMICS was initially funded through contracts from the NIH. That phase of SPIROMICS is now
      referred to as SPIROMICS I. SPIROMICS is now funded as a grant from the NIH. The current
      phase is referred to as SPIROMICS II.

      Brief summary of SPIROMICS I:

      The purpose of SPIROMICS is to learn about chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
      which is sometimes called emphysema or chronic bronchitis. Millions of Americans have COPD,
      and it is the fourth leading cause of death in the country. The most common cause of COPD is
      cigarette smoking, although not all smokers get COPD. The discovery of new treatments for
      COPD has been slowed by a poor understanding of different types of COPD and a lack of ways to
      measure whether or not COPD is getting worse.

      The study has two main goals. The first is to find groups of patients with COPD who share
      certain characteristics. Certain groups may respond differently to certain treatments. The
      second is to find new ways of measuring whether or not COPD is getting worse. This would
      provide new ways of testing whether a new treatment is working.

      SPIROMICS has three substudies and two ancillary studies.

      Substudies:

        1. Repeatability Substudy: The entire baseline clinic visit will be repeated on 100
           volunteers. The goal of this substudy is to determine reliability of measurement
           procedures.

        2. Bronchoscopy Substudy: 300 participants will be enrolled for two additional study
           visits, including a bronchoscopy. The goal of this substudy is to collect and assess
           biological specimens and relate those results to clinical measurements.

        3. Exacerbation Substudy: Up to 400 participants will be enrolled in this substudy. A daily
           symptom diary will be collected on all participants. Participants will also be seen in
           the clinic during a pulmonary exacerbation. The goals of this substudy are to 1) better
           understand the relationship between symptoms and exacerbations and 2) obtain clinical
           data and specimens during a pulmonary exacerbation.

      Ancillary Studies:

        1. Air Pollution Ancillary Study: The SPIROMICS Air Pollution ancillary study uses
           state-of-the art air pollution exposure assessments to determine individual-level
           outdoor and indoor air pollution exposure. The goals of this substudy are to determine
           the effect of long-term air pollution exposure on COPD morbidity and to determine
           whether short-term changes in outdoor air pollution are associated with changes in COPD
           morbidity.

        2. Parametric Response Mapping in COPD: The Parametric Response Mapping (PRM) in COPD
           ancillary study collects an additional CT scan during the final study visit and uses a
           new analysis technique (PRM) to assess the functional small airways of the lung and
           emphysema.

      Brief summary of SPIROMICS II:

      Aim 1 is to define the natural history of "Smokers with symptoms despite preserved
      spirometry" and characterize the airway mucus abnormalities underlying this condition. Aim 2
      is to determine the radiographic precursor lesion(s) for emphysema, and identify the
      molecular phenotypes underlying airway disease and emphysema. Aim 3 is to advance
      understanding of the biology of COPD exacerbations through analysis of predisposing baseline
      phenotypes, exacerbation triggers and host inflammatory response.

      SPIROMICS II will continue follow-up of current participants, with no new enrollment. Each
      participant will have one clinic visit and will be contacted by telephone every 4 months.
    
  