
    
      When patients arrive at the enrollment meeting, research staff will walk them through the
      informed consent form to explain and answer questions about the study. Patients who sign the
      consent form enroll in the study. Those who choose not to enroll are thanked for their time
      and encouraged to use CHCI smoking cessation services, regardless.

      After providing written consent to participate in the study, patients will complete a short
      (15 minute) baseline survey assessing their smoking habits. Patients will complete the survey
      on their own or with the assistance of a research staff member. See Appendix B for the survey
      instrument.

      Immediately following the survey, randomization will occur, corresponding to the two phases
      of the intervention. Patients will be blinded to randomization. Randomization is done offsite
      using Stata. The research staff will enter basic, unidentifiable information about the
      patient into a web interface designed specifically for the purpose of this study and receive
      a treatment assignment for that participant. In this way, the enrollment staff does not deal
      directly with the randomization process. Patients are assigned to one of four study arms:
      Control, Treatment 1: Rewards Only, Treatment 2: Rewards w/ pre-commitment for deposit
      contract, Treatment 3: Rewards w/ commitment for deposit contract at 2 months.

      Soon after enrollment, patients will receive an automated call verifying participation.

      Phase I runs from study enrollment through the first biochemical verification of abstinence
      from smoking ("biochemical test"), at 2 months. Study participants assigned to the treatment
      group, but not the control, will receive rewards in the form of gift cards for engaging in
      the smoking cessation activities ("process") and for a negative result on the biochemical
      test ("outcome").

      Process:

      Five process activities will be rewarded for treatment group members:

        1. One-time sign up reward for stickK.com

        2. submitting a weekly self-report of smoking abstinence on stickK

        3. writing a stickK journal entry

        4. enlisting family and friends to register as stickK "Supporters" to track progress and
           provide positive reinforcement,

        5. utilizing CHCI group or individual counseling services provided by a nurse or behavioral
           health provider

      When possible, initial appointments with counseling services will be offered on the same day
      as the enrollment visit using CHCI's "warm handoff" behavioral health appointments.
      Participants will be encouraged to log their completion of these visits on stickK, and
      research staff will verify on stickK that the patient attended and completed a valid smoking
      cessation clinic visit.

      For each completed and verified process activity, treatment group participants accrue points
      on stickK that can be redeemed for a gift card to a retail store at Phase I end, conditional
      on biochemical verification of smoking cessation. If the participant fails to demonstrate
      abstinence, s/he forfeits all accrued process points.

      Members of the control group will not receive information about stickK or a stickK account
      associated with the study, though they may sign up for the online service independently. The
      control group will receive information about and have access to CHCI's full menu of smoking
      cessation services.

      Biochemical verification:

      The biochemical tests will be conducted two months after study enrollment. Research staff
      will contact patients via phone and/or email to schedule visits to complete these tests.
      Investigators will ask all control group members to take the test and compensate them for
      doing so, regardless of test result ("measurement incentive"). Only treatment group members
      who self-report not smoking during the last week, or from whom investigators were unable to
      procure a self-report, will be asked to take the test. This group will not receive a
      measurement incentive.

      All patients will first complete a CO breathalyzer test. Those that test positive will have
      no further testing. Those testing negative will have a urine verification test at the
      in-house Quest Diagnostics. Test results will be sent to the EHR.

      Process and outcome changes are rewarded according to the following schedule:

      Phase I end: redemption of rewards or adoption of deposit contract. The majority of
      participants will receive confirmation of their smoking status at the clinic within a few
      minutes of taking the test. Research staff will verify the confirmatory test result on stickK
      and assist participants as they adopt the deposit contract or redeem their rewards. The
      deposit contract is a commitment device that allows users to voluntarily "deposit" rewards
      that they can only recover if they succeed in achieving a predetermined goal, which, in this
      case, is maintaining smoking abstinence over the four-month Phase II period. In other words,
      participants who elect to use the deposit contract risk losing some or all of the rewards
      they accrued during the "rewards phase" if they fail to test negative for smoking at Phase II
      end.

      Protocol by biochemical test result, randomized assignment, and take-up decision:

        -  Test positive for smoking -> lose accrued process rewards; not eligible for deposit
           contract

        -  Test negative for smoking, and

        -  No deposit contract -> redeem process and outcome rewards

        -  Deposit contract-pre-commitment and pre-committed -> confirm, adjust, or opt-out of
           commitment

        -  Deposit contract-pre-commitment and did not pre-commit -> receive deposit contract offer
           one final time

        -  Deposit contract- No pre-commitment -> receive deposit contract offer for the first and
           final time

      Those who are eligible for but decline the deposit contract redeem 100% of their rewards. The
      intervention ends after Phase I for these individuals.

      Those who adopt the deposit contract redeem the percentage of their rewards that they did not
      invest in the deposit contract. The rest is automatically rolled into the deposit contract,
      and the contract period, i.e. Phase II of the intervention, begins immediately.

      Phase II: Deposit contract, months 3 through 6. Phase II lasts 4 months, from month 3 through
      6. The majority of study participants won't hold a deposit contract and thus won't experience
      an active intervention during this time. Participants who do hold a deposit contract will be
      free to engage with stickK as they like (e.g. write journal entries, share progress on social
      media), but will not receive rewards for doing so.

      At 6 months, investigators will ask all study participants to take the second confirmatory
      test. Participants without a deposit contract will receive a measurement incentive to take
      the test but no performance incentives contingent on the test result. For deposit contract
      holders, recovery of the deposit will be contingent on testing negative for smoking.

      Measurement of long-term smoking abstinence:

      At month 12, all study participants will be asked to visit the clinic for a final
      confirmatory test, and all will receive a measurement incentive. No incentives are contingent
      on smoking status.

      An endline survey will be administered at this time. The endline survey will be
      self-administered by participants either via email, mailing, or in person depending on the
      availability of participants.
    
  