
    
      Sepsis represents the most common cause of childhood mortality worldwide. In the United
      States alone, 200 cases of pediatric sepsis are diagnosed each day, with an associated
      hospital mortality rate of 5-10% and health care expenditures now approaching $5 billion
      annually. Moreover, nearly one third of children admitted to pediatric intensive care units
      (PICUs) for septic shock have not regained their baseline health-related quality of life one
      year following the sepsis event.

      During early resuscitation of the child with septic shock, in addition to antibiotics, volume
      replacement, and vasoactive-inotropic support, the most recent pediatric treatment guidelines
      advise the practitioner to consider adjunctive hydrocortisone therapy if the patient "is at
      risk of absolute adrenal insufficiency or adrenal pituitary axis failure". However, the
      potential benefits and risks of this recommendation have not been rigorously examined. On the
      one hand, corticosteroids are inexpensive and have been frequently demonstrated to improve
      hemodynamic status in children and adults with sepsis. Conversely, this drug class is known
      to alter transcription of approximately 30% of the human genome. Notably, corticosteroids
      down regulate most aspects of the immune response, but particularly adaptive immunity.
      Moreover, recent data suggests that children with particular gene expression profiles in
      sepsis have increased likelihood of mortality when treated with corticosteroids.

      SHIPSS (Stress Hydrocortisone In Pediatric Septic Shock) is a prospective, randomized,
      double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial examining the potential benefits and risks of
      adjunctive hydrocortisone prescribed to critically ill children with fluid and
      vasoactive-inotropic refractory septic shock. Up to 1,032 children will be enrolled,
      randomized, and evaluated at baseline, and 28 and 90 days following study enrollment.

      The primary hypothesis is that hydrocortisone, compared to placebo, will decrease the
      proportion of subjects with poor outcomes, defined as death or severely impaired (≥25%
      decrease from baseline) HRQL. Subjects will be monitored daily while receiving care in the
      PICU for the occurrence of adverse events, including the following protocol specified
      events:hyperglycemia treated with any insulin; gastrointestinal hemorrhage treated with blood
      product transfusion or vasopressin or octreotide infusion; delirium requiring medical
      treatment; and hospital-acquired infection treated with new antimicrobials. Finally, the
      investigators will test the hypothesis that biomarker-based prognostic and predictive
      enrichment strategies can improve our ability to identify which children with septic shock
      are more likely to benefit from adjunctive hydrocortisone, and which may be harmed. This
      trial will have a significant impact on public health by providing the heretofore missing
      evidence to inform guidelines regarding therapy for septic shock in children.

      The SHIPSS trial will enroll patients from Canada and the US. Health Canada approval is not
      required as hydrocortisone is approved for use in septic shock in children, and this trial
      meets the criteria of a Phase IV study. In the United States, this trial is considered a
      Phase III trial as hydrocortisone is approved for use in septic shock but not specifically
      approved for use in pediatric septic shock.
    
  