
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Despite the recognized benefits of regular physical activity for older adults, people over
      the age of 65 remain among the most inactive groups of the U.S. population. Efforts to
      understand the factors influencing physical activity in this important group have been
      limited primarily to demographic and psychosocial domains. The importance of the neighborhood
      environment in influencing a host of health, behavioral, and psychosocial outcomes has been
      recognized. However, to date, no systematic investigation of the relationship between
      objective and subjective environmental factors and objectively measured physical activity
      levels among older adults has been undertaken.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This observational study will investigate whether seniors living in neighborhoods conducive
      to walking are more physically active, after adjusting for socioeconomic status (SES), than
      those living in neighborhoods less conducive to walking or other forms of physical activity
      for transportation or recreational purposes. Additional questions of interest concern the
      moderating effects of physical function and the proportion of seniors living nearby on the
      relationship between environment and physical activity. The study will take advantage of the
      sampling, recruitment, and data collection methods of an ongoing NIH-funded research project
      aimed at integrating public health and urban planning frameworks in studying the impacts of
      environmental factors on physical activity levels in younger adults. Population-based
      sampling methods will be used to recruit adults over 65 years of age who are living in more
      walkable versus less walkable neighborhoods of varying SES levels. Participants will be
      recruited from Seattle, Washington (n = 600) and Baltimore, Maryland (n = 600). In addition
      to objectively measured physical environment (using geographic information systems {GIS}) and
      physical activity levels (using accelerometry), self-reported neighborhood environment,
      physical activity, and quality of life variables of particular relevance to older adults will
      be assessed twice during a 12-month period.
    
  