
    
      The proposed study, Internal versus External Cues for Eating and Activity, will collect data
      on within-person changes in psychological (e.g. attunement with bodily signals, eating and
      activity behaviors) and physiological (e.g., body mass index, heart rate, saliva) markers of
      risk for both eating disorders and obesity in female University of Delaware students.
      Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, mid-treatment, end-of-treatment, and one-year
      follow-up. This three-armed randomized, controlled trial will assess the effects of a novel
      internal cues intervention (treatment group; intuitive eating and body positive yoga)
      compared to an active control group consisting of traditional healthy weight sessions,
      following standardized government recommendations for eating and activity, and a no-treatment
      control group completing assessments only. The Internal Cues group will attend one intuitive
      eating session and take three body-positive yoga sessions weekly for ten weeks. The External
      Cues group will attend one healthy weight class and three cardiovascular-based exercise
      sessions each week for ten weeks. The Assessment Only no-treatment control group will only
      attend assessments. The curriculum for the intuitive eating classes (previously piloted and
      revised accordingly) and healthy weight classes (modeled off of classes offered at
      universities and government-available recommendations and educational documents) will be
      taught by two Registered Dietitians who are Certified Intuitive Eating Counselors. The yoga
      classes will be taught by a Registered Yoga Instructor trained in Body Positive Yoga and in a
      curriculum specifically designed for UD students (funded by Dean Matt). During the Internal
      Cues group's intuitive eating classes, participants will, as a group, eat dinner that is
      prepared by ServSafe certified undergraduate dietetics students in the test kitchen in the
      STAR Tower. This dinner will allow the participants to experientially learn the intuitive
      eating principles taught in class. The External Cues group will receive an identical dinner
      during the class period but they will learn how to properly portion their meals to meet their
      caloric needs, in line with traditional education about weight control. Finally, students
      randomized to the External Cues group will receive a UD fitness pass and will be able to
      choose from select cardio-based fitness classes in order to meet public health
      recommendations for physical activity.

      Additionally, the interventionists for both the Internal Cues and External Cues sessions will
      be video recorded to allow content to be tested in a lab study following the intervention.
      The research team worked with IT at STAR campus to position equipment so that the video only
      captures the interventionists (session leaders). Participants will not be recorded. If any
      participant audio is captured, content containing participants' voices will be deleted from
      the file. The purpose of recording is to modify the curriculum for future interventions and
      programs.
    
  