
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the benefit from sequential administration of 3 courses of combination
           chemotherapy (FEC100) followed by 3 courses of ixabepilone versus docetaxel on the
           5-year disease-free survival of women with nonmetastatic, poor-prognosis breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the 5-year distant metastasis-free survival.

        -  To compare the 5-year event-free survival.

        -  To compare the 5-year overall survival.

        -  To compare the safety profiles for the two chemotherapy regimens.

        -  To identify and/or validate predictive-gene expression profiles of clinical
           response/resistance to the two treatment regimens.

        -  To bank frozen and fixed tumor and frozen serum prospectively for future translational
           studies in both genomics and proteomics (transcriptome and proteome analyses, tissue
           array analyses).

        -  To compare the cost-effectiveness of these 2 regimens.

        -  To compare the quality-of-life of patients treated with these 2 regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center, menopausal status (pre- vs post-menopausal), and tumor hormone-receptor status
      (triple-negative vs progesterone-receptor negative, HER negative, and estrogen-receptor [ER]
      positive). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Docetaxel Arm: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV, fluorouracil IV, and
           cyclophosphamide IV every 3 weeks in courses 1-3 and docetaxel IV alone every 3 weeks in
           courses 4-6.

        -  Ixabepilone Arm: Patients receive treatment in courses 1-3 as in arm I and ixabepilone
           IV alone every 3 weeks in courses 4-6.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients also complete a quality of life questionnaire periodically.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.
    
  