
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common chronic condition with substantial impact on health
      outcomes. Many cases of AF are detected too late - as a manifestation of stroke, heart
      failure, or other complication. Whilst earlier detection of AF offers the potential to
      prevent premature cardiovascular disease, population screening is not recommended.

      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a leading cardiovascular health problem. It is the most common
      sustained cardiac arrhythmia, affecting 1-2% of the population of Europe and the USA, with a
      lifetime risk of one in four in the general population. It has an increasing prevalence as
      the population ages. Consequently, these estimates are likely to increase, and presently are
      underestimated given that AF may long remain undiagnosed. AF incurs 1-3% of healthcare
      expenditure as a result of stroke, sudden death, heart failure, unplanned hospitalisation,
      and associated complications. The resultant emerging AF epidemic and its associated costly
      complications (including, but not limited to stroke, depression, heart failure, acute
      coronary syndrome, cognitive decline and unscheduled hospitalisation) has ensured that AF is
      now a major threat to healthy longevity. The early diagnosis of AF, ideally before
      manifestation of the first complication, remains a major public health challenge. While for
      some patients AF may present with symptomatic palpitations, for others the first diagnosis of
      AF may be when they present to healthcare professionals with stroke, acute cardiac
      decompensation or co-morbidity exacerbation - a stage that is unnecessarily late in the
      disease trajectory. This is because many patients with AF may not have AF-associated
      symptoms. Given that nearly one third of patients admitted to a stroke ward have AF at the
      time of their admission to hospital and that oral anticoagulants reduce the risk of stroke by
      up to two thirds in those with AF who are at higher risk of stroke, there is a compelling
      argument for the earlier detection of AF. To that end, opportunistic screening for AF (pulse
      palpation followed by ECG in patients with an irregular pulse) in patients aged 65 years and
      over is now recommended in national and international guidelines. International guidelines
      also recommend the use of a 12 lead ECG and ambulatory rhythm monitors (within increasing
      duration according to perceived risk of AF), escalating to implantable leadless AF recorders
      in patients with suspected but undiagnosed AF - and each with implications for healthcare
      costs and patient satisfaction. Whilst there are promising results from systematic screening
      of elderly populations for AF using self-operated devices, presently there is no
      recommendation in the United Kingdom (UK) for population-wide systematic screening for AF
      because it is not yet clear if those identified as at risk would benefit from early
      diagnosis. Indeed, research is needed to understand better the detection rates, diagnostic
      accuracy, outcomes of such programs, as well as to define in what sub-populations AF
      screening would offer the greatest patient and public health value.

      The identification of AF has important patient and clinical ramifications. Those patients at
      higher risk of stroke (CHADSVASC score ≥ 2) without a contra-indication should be offered
      stroke prophylaxis with an oral anticoagulant. Moreover, most patients with AF will have
      stroke risk factors, making them eligible for an oral anticoagulant, and many will have
      concomitant cardiovascular disease (such as hypertension, valvular heart disease or heart
      failure) making them eligible for further investigation or treatment. Equally, in those with
      AF who are low risk for stroke (and therefore do not qualify for oral anticoagulation),
      surveillance for increasing stroke risk is advisable. Predicting precisely if and when a
      person will have new onset AF may allow phenotype and temporal-specific (thus more effective)
      screening, as well as identify putative risk markers for AF aetiology. For example, patients
      presently in sinus rhythm, but at higher risk of stroke and predicted to develop AF at a
      specific time-point in the future may benefit from screening for AF nearer the forecasted
      date. Equally, modifiable risk factors for the development of AF and for risk of stroke may
      be proactively addressed in light of knowledge of higher risk of new onset AF, and new risk
      factors studied for causality. Other possible research opportunities may include the study of
      patients who do not have and are not predicted to have AF, and the evaluation of lifestyle,
      device technology and pharmacotherapeutic strategies to reduce the risk of AF in patients at
      high predicted risk of new onset AF.

      To date, a number of AF risk prediction tools have been developed, including those from the
      CHARGE-AF consortium, Framingham Heart Study, the CHADS score, the CHADSVASC score and the
      CHEST score, among others. The CHEST score (structural heart disease, heart failure, age ≥ 75
      years, coronary artery disease, hyperthyroidism, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
      (COPD), and hypertension) derived from 471,446 subjects from the Chinese Yunnan Insurance
      Database and validated in 451,199 subjects from the Korean National Health Insurance Service
      was found to predict future incident AF. Of the 4764 participants in the Framingham Heart
      Study, age, sex, body-mass index, systolic blood pressure, treatment for hypertension, the
      time from the onset of the P wave to the start of the ventricular depolarization (QRS)
      complex (PR interval), clinically significant cardiac murmur, and heart failure were found
      using survival modelling to be components of a score predicting incident AF at 10 years.
      However, each of the studies to date are limited by one or more of, their use of
      geographically remote data, historical data, small datasets, lack of temporal information,
      crude risk modelling with consequent suboptimal model performance and/or predictor variables
      not readily available to the General Practitioner. Understandably, none have reached
      widespread clinical practice. Artificial intelligence facilitates the use of vast quantities
      of event data and the associated temporal information (such as that in primary care
      datasets), handles large numbers of predictors with automatic variable selection techniques,
      accommodates nonlinearities and interactions among variables, enables a live learning
      approach (whereby the prediction model is automatically updated), and can use population-wide
      data to predict if and when there will be new onset AF for an individual. A range of
      Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques have been applied to EHR data and have demonstrated
      better diagnostic and prediction power over traditional statistical approaches in large scale
      EHR data. Yet, as highlighted recently, it is important to identify models that are
      clinically useful. For example, a study which developed an AI-enabled ECG algorithm that
      predicted AF from ECGs with normal sinus rhythm, whilst an important step forward may not be
      applicable in the community setting where routine ECGs are not always available. Thus,
      developing a predictive algorithm for new onset AF from routine primary care electronic
      health records data using AI techniques could offer the opportunity for early translation to
      clinical practice. The investigators will develop and validate a deep neural networks
      learning model, utilising large scale linked electronic health records (EHR) from primary
      care, to predict the risk of new AF. The prediction algorithm will be trained and tested for
      its accuracy and robustness in predicting future AF events using Clinical Practice Research
      Datalink (CPRD)-Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD), and will be
      externally validated using similar databases CPRD-AURUM but at different geographic
      locations. The new predictive algorithm will be compared against a range of classic machine
      learning techniques as well as traditional statistical predictive modelling methods. Pending
      a successful model of improving the predicting accuracy of at least 5% compared with existing
      models, the algorithm could be made readily available through free to use software.
    
  