
    
      GUARD is a two-armed, randomised, controlled, open label multicentre clinical trial with
      optional observational mechanistic study in a subgroup from each arm, comparing
      Ursodeoxycholic Acid to Metformin (both oral BD). H0 is no difference in in maternal fasting
      glucose at 36 weeks. HA is a difference of 6% (0.28mmol/L), consistent with previously
      reported differences with UDCA treatment for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The
      RCT design was chosen as the generally accepted way of demonstrating clinically important
      effects of medical treatment, prior to their general acceptance into medical care. The open
      label is due to the practical difficulty of matching the treatments, due to pill sizes and
      different dosages.

      At present it is known that not all women with GDM respond to oral metformin treatment. Some
      women cannot tolerate the drug and it is ineffective in others. Many women are reluctant to
      take insulin as this requires injections and is not without the risk of hypoglycaemia.
      Therefore there is a need for additional oral treatments to improve glycaemic control. UDCA
      is a reasonable drug to study as it has good safety data for use in pregnancy (due to studies
      in women with cholestasis in pregnancy). If previous trials of women with cholestasis is was
      shown to reduce insulin resistance. It also reduced umbilical cord lipid concentrations.
      Therefore it is reasonable to compare UDCA to metformin as it may have an equivalent (or
      better) impact upon glucose control and, if women with GDM have a similar response to those
      with cholestasis in pregnancy, it could be associated with better outcomes for the baby, e.g.
      improved umbilical cord blood lipids. As it has not been studied before The investigators do
      not know if it will be effective, but the existing data suggest it is reasonable to study
      UDCA. As there is the option of treatment with insulin for women that do not have acceptable
      glucose control when taking UDCA (as there is for metformin) both drugs are used with an
      acceptable alternative treatment if they are not sufficiently effective at achieving
      glycaemic control.

      The investigators plan recruitment to last for 18-24 months, and a further 12 months to allow
      for close out activities.

      According to sample size calculations, enrolling 158 participants will provide sufficient
      statistical power to detect the primary outcome, and allow for a 20% withdrawal rate. An
      additional 40 participants will be enrolled onto GUARD MEC to serve as controls for this part
      of the research. Participants will be identified following their OGTT appointment and
      approached by the diabetes nurse or the study midwife, ideally when they receive dietary and
      lifestyle education. Interdepartment co-operation will be required.

      The Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) will review outcomes after 25% of the
      participants have given birth. Data will be monitored by the IDMC at intervals to ensure the
      interest of participants and validity of data is safeguarded. Most of the outcomes are
      clinical samples, objective measurements and patient questionnaires. As such researcher bias
      should have a minimal impact on the reporting. Should this be identified, it will be
      escalated to the Trial Steering Committee for decision.

      An observational sub-study called GUARD MEC will be conducted. 40 GUARD participants, plus
      other two other control groups (20 women with GDM who do not require pharmacological
      treatment, and 20 healthy pregnant women), will be invited to participate in the optional
      study, which will involve eating a specific breakfast in hospital and collecting blood
      samples at 4 timepoints.

      Monitoring of this trial is performed to ensure compliance with Good Clinical Practice, and
      scientific integrity is managed and oversight retained by the King's Health Partners Clinical
      Trials Office (KHP-CTO) Quality Team. A study specific monitoring plan has been developed by
      the KHP-CTO on the basis of a risk assessment. The KHP-CTO will carry out on-site monitoring
      to undertake source data verification checks and confirm that records are being ppropriately
      maintained by the PI and pharmacy teams.
    
  