
    
      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      The investigators will perform a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate
      the use of vaginal progesterone in women with arrested preterm labor after 24 weeks'
      gestation to reduce the risk of preterm birth before 37 weeks' gestation. Women enrolled in
      the study will be randomized to daily vaginal administration of progesterone (200 mg) or
      placebo from time of enrollment until 36 6/7 weeks' gestation. Women will be eligible if they
      have a singleton or twin gestation between 24 0/7 and 33 6/7 weeks' gestation and initially
      present with regular uterine contractions and a clinical diagnosis of preterm labor but
      remain undelivered without further cervical change 12 hours after discontinuation of acute
      tocolytic therapy. Women may also participate if it has been less than if they are considered
      eligible for discharge based on attending physician judgement prior to the 12 hour period of
      time.

      Randomization and Blinding- Participants in the study will be randomized using a
      computer-generated randomization scheme with 1:1 allocation to receive progesterone or
      placebo. Investigators and research team members, participants, and the obstetric providers
      will be blinded to the allocated intervention.

      Procedures-

        -  Data collection- Information will be recorded from the participant's medical record.
           Additional study information not included in the medical record will be obtained
           directly from the participant in an interview with the research team member.

        -  Follow-up- Regardless of whether the participant remains hospitalized or is discharged
           prior to delivery, she will meet with a study coordinator every 2 weeks. During the
           follow-up visit, a study team member will discuss compliance with the study drug and
           possible side effects. The participant will fill out a 1-page questionnaire that asks
           questions about compliance and side effects. This information will be recorded and
           provided to the Data Safety and Monitoring Board at the midpoint review.

      SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATION

      The investigators plan to enroll 120 patients, with a 1:1 allocation to treatment and
      placebo. This sample size is adequate to detect a one-half reduction in the primary outcome,
      delivery before 37 weeks.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Baseline characteristics of women randomized to progesterone will be compared with women
      randomized to placebo. Rates of delivery before 37 weeks' gestation will be compared among
      the groups using the Chi-square test. Secondary outcomes will be evaluated using the
      Chi-square test for binary outcomes and the Student t-test for continuous outcomes. Length of
      time from enrollment to delivery will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves and the Cox
      proportional hazards model. All analyses will be performed using the intention-to-treat
      principle.
    
  