
    
      Design: A cross-sectional investigation. The inclusion period will be one year.

      The target group: Patients admitted to inpatient units (adult psychiatry, mental health
      centres or hospitals) due to risk of severe self-harm. The duration of admissions are either
      more than 4 weeks and/or patients have had more than five admissions in the preceding year.

      The comparison group is a collaboration with the Norwegian Network of personality-focused
      treatments and includes clinical data from 19 outpatient units within specialist mental
      health services across Norway (baseline data for 300 patients admitted to treatment during
      2017-2018).

      Sample size: An inclusion of N=300 patients in the target Group and comparison group

      Assessments: The assessment battery combines therapist administered interviews and patient
      self-report measures to provide a broad differential-diagnostic evaluation and information
      about treatment and health-service collaborations. It also includes therapist-reports.

      Psychopathology: Assessment of psychiatric disorders includes interviews for symptom
      disorders (MINI), personality traits and disorders (SCID-5-PD, and observer-evaluated global
      functioning (GAF) administered in both the target and the comparison group. Assessment of the
      target group will additionally include a screening interview on cognitive functioning (Hayes
      Ability Screening Index, HASI, specific approval has been given), self-report screening of
      autism (Ritvo Autisme Asperger Diagnoseskjema - Revidert RAADS-R), and a detailed interview
      on psychosis (questions from MINI plus).

      General, social and personality functioning: The assessment battery includes a combination of
      well-established, (no cost) self-report measures covering overall functioning, symptoms,
      trauma, personality functioning and maladaptive behaviors. These will be administered in both
      the target and the comparison group. More details on assessment battery can be given on
      request to PI.

      Self-harming behaviors: Self-report on self-harming behaviors and suicide attempts last 6
      months are included. Assessment of the target group will additionally include a more detailed
      interview of self-harming behaviors adapted for Norwegian studies (Lifetime Para suicide
      Count).

      Service use, treatment experiences, and health service collaborations: Assessment of previous
      treatments, age first time, and contact with child/adolescent psychiatry (self-report, both
      the target and the comparison group), and a detailed interview on medication, treatments,
      primary health care and welfare services last 6 months (specially designed interview, both
      target and comparison group). In addition, for the target group, questions about involuntary
      and restrictive regimes, treatment involvement, confidence, alliance and collaboration within
      and across health services are included (patient and therapist reported).

      Research collaborators:

      The PhD candidate will follow the PhD educationary program at the University of Oslo. Main
      supervisor is also Principle Investigator (E.H.Kvarstein), and co supervisor (G.Pedersen)
      heads the Network collaboration. The PhD candidate will join the national project group and
      be an associated member of the Research group for Personality Psychiatry.

      The national project group is central in all phases; design, preparations, implementation
      procedures, evaluation, and presentations of results. It covers all health regions, relevant
      research environments, clinicians and users. It includes: Middle HR: T.Torgersen, PhD,
      Western HR: T.Tveit, MD. Southeastern HR: P.A.Ringen, PhD, P.Danielsen, MA, C.A.Sveen (MA),
      Tore Buer (MD). Northern HR: H.Tvete, MD, T.Høifødt, PhD. National Centre, Suicide Research
      and Prevention: F.Walby,MA, R.K.Ramleth, MD (BUP). Regional Centre, Violence and Traumatic
      Stress: I.Lunde, MA. Early intervention Psychosis: K.L.Romm, PhD. Personality Psychiatry
      National Advisory Unit: Ø.Urnes,MD. User experience: T.Røstbakken, M.Pettersen, A.Holst.

      The Research group for personality psychiatry (University of Oslo/Oslo University Hospital)
      is an active, well-established research group with engagement in national and international
      research collaborations specializing on personality pathology and clinical research.

      The principle investigator (PI) and main supervisor of this project, E.H.Kvarstein, associate
      professor, University of Oslo/ Head senior consultant, Section for Personality Psychiatry,
      Oslo University Hospital, is head of the Research group of personality psychiatry.

      The Norwegian Network for personality-focused treatment is a well-established collaboration
      aiming to ensure clinical quality, systematic treatment evaluation and generate data for
      clinical research (anonymous data collection). The Network was established in 1993 and
      currently includes 19 outpatient treatment teams across Norway for patients with personality
      disorder. Approximately 400 patients are admitted to treatments within the Network each year
      (mean treatment duration: 2 years). The Network provides systems for patient assessment and
      progress evaluation, systematic feedback reports on clinical outcomes and
      supervision/seminars on diagnostic assessment and treatment. The main (ongoing) research
      project in the Network is a multi-centre feasibility investigation of evidence-based
      treatment for personality disorder (started in 2017) aiming to include longitudinal treatment
      data for 500 patients.

      "Extreme challenges" is a research collaboration between the national project group and the
      Network. Baseline data from the multi-centre project constitute the outpatient comparison
      group in "Extreme challenges" (300 patients, admitted to outpatient treatment in 2017-18,
      data available in 2020).

      Cosupervisor in the PhD project, head of the Network, is senior researcher Geir Pedersen. He
      is affiliated within the Section for Personality Psychiatry, Oslo University Hospital and the
      University of Oslo. He is a member of the research group.

      Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Personality Psychiatry (NAPP) is the initiator of the
      current project and the organizer of the national project group. With the establishment of an
      expert user panel (recruiting users from the whole country), NAPP has also had an active role
      establishing user engagement in this project.

      Plan for activities - practical implementation of the cross sectional investigation: The
      national project group has already completed a preliminary screening investigation, first
      publication, and designed the current project. The project group is currently preparing
      practical implementation of the project (mobilizing regional collaborators, local resource
      groups and finalizing ethic approvals and systems for data collection).

      2018/19: Preparation: Regional preparatory seminars for local clinicians and all
      collaborators are scheduled to autumn 2019.

      2019/2020: Data collection: Assessments of the target population will be performed at the
      inpatient institutions by local clinicians qualified for diagnostic procedures. During the
      data collection possibilities for feedbacks/clinical discussion of individual cases will be
      offered.

      Assessments in the comparison group involve measures already implemented (from June 2017).

      2021: Dataanalysis, discussion and presentation of results: Datacollection will be concluded
      and analyses of results proceeds.

      2022: Project conclusion

      Plan for dissemination of results:

      Running information about the project with Norwegian summaries, key researchers and
      references to all publications will be available at the internet home site of the Research
      group for Personality Psychiatry in all phases of the project.

      Three research publications are scheduled. Manuscripts will be submitted to international
      peer reviewed journals (open access publication). Research results will also be presented in
      relevant international/national conferences

      When the project is concluded, the project group will arrange a conference for participating
      clinicians/institutions/organizations, evaluating the investigation, implications and further
      developments.

      User involvement:

      The project-group includes three members with relevant user experience, Thea Røstbakken, Mona
      Pettersen and Andrea Holst.

      Ethical considerations The regional ethical committee (REC) has approved the investigator's
      application for ethical approval. REC reference number is: 2018/1124 A (REC South East).
    
  