
    
      The current study will evaluate the efficacy of manual-based psychological therapies
      administered with youth with anxiety and mood problems. It will also assess the role of
      several mediators (e.g., coping skills, negative self-statements, parenting practices)
      hypothesized to maintain youth anxiety and depression. Youth (ages 7 - 16) diagnosed with a
      principal Anxiety or Depressive Disorder will be recruited to receive Cognitive-Behavioral
      Therapy (CBT). Anxiety (e.g., Generalized Anxiety Disorder, Separation Anxiety Disorder,
      Social Phobia) and depressive disorders (e.g., Major Depression Disorder, Dysthymia Disorder)
      are among the most common emotional disorder affecting America's youth, with 12-20% of youth
      meeting criteria for an anxiety disorder and 2-5% meeting criteria for depression at any one
      point in time. Both forms of disorders are associated with significant distress and
      functional impairment in school, peer, and family domains. Left untreated, early affliction
      with these disorders leaves individuals at risk for adult anxiety disorders, chronic
      depression, substance abuse, and long-term functional impairment. Identifying efficacious
      treatments and their most effective, "active ingredients" is a top health research priority.
      In addition, knowledge about how our psychotherapies work lags behind research documenting
      simple treatment effects. Knowing the therapy techniques that have the best outcomes as well
      as knowing how those interventions produce gains will provide valuable information for
      improving our already effective therapies.

      Two manual-based psychological treatments that have received empirical support in clinical
      trial outcome studies are cognitive-behavioral treatment for anxious children (Kendall's
      Coping Cat) and cognitive-behavioral treatment for depressed children (Weisz's PASCET). Both
      treatments (a) use a manual and (b) have been supported in clinical trial outcome studies
      where youth receiving the manualized treatment interventions improve more than the control
      groups. The Kendall treatment program has produced some of the strongest treatment effects
      yet seen in the empirical literature for children and adolescents.

      Despite our increasing knowledge of treatments that work, there has been insufficient
      analysis of psychological mediators in youth psychotherapy. Research on psychological
      mediators, or "mechanisms of action," provide information about how psychotherapy works.
      Randomized clinical trials document that CBT produces clinical outcomes, such as decreased
      symptoms and impairment following treatment. Fewer studies have assessed the degree to which
      coping skills, emotion management, or cognitive restructuring mediate these clinical gains.
      This type of mediator analysis is essential to test the theory underlying our treatments and
      helps inform our models of pathology. For example, if increased primary (active) coping
      skills precede a reduction in depressive symptoms, we might infer that poor coping skills are
      a maintaining factor of depression and that successful therapy works by increasing a youth's
      use of such skills.

      In the current study, we will invite youth to participate in a CBT intervention with
      demonstrated efficacy and will conduct a thorough assessment of potential therapy process and
      mediator variables that impact treatment outcomes. Both primary (active problem solving) and
      secondary (attempts to adjust to situations that can not be changed) coping skills have been
      linked to a number of psychological distress states in youth and may have specific links to
      maintaining depression in youth. In anxious youth, the ratio of negative to positive
      self-talk has been shown to mediate gains in CBT. The role of parenting practices has also
      been highlighted as an important maintaining factor in anxiety (e.g., modeled anxious
      behavior, parent intrusiveness). Self-efficacy, a cognitive appraisal of one's ability to
      manage challenges, has also been related to distress in youth. Affective components, such as
      positive affect, negative affect, and physiological hyperarousal have received increased
      attention because of they reflect basic emotional processes that underlie and distinguish
      anxiety and depressive disorders. Finally, less research has identified cognitive functioning
      related to anxiety and depression, but experts encourage the assessment of multidimensional
      cognitive factors in the expression of psychological distress to enhance our ability to
      factor in normative developmental processes. Given this, the current study will assess youth
      primary and secondary coping skills, youth automatic thoughts and self-statements, parenting
      practices, affective processes and cognitive functioning as treatment outcomes and potential
      mediators of symptom change in CBT.

      There have also only been minimal attempts to explore the therapist and client factors that
      impact within-session therapy processes that could improve the delivery of our
      empirically-supported treatments. Process factors like client engagement and therapeutic
      alliance may deserve particular attention in youth-based therapies because youth rarely refer
      themselves for treatment, often do not recognize or acknowledge the existence of problems,
      and frequently are at odds with their parents about the goals of therapy. Recent empirical
      data suggests that youth demonstrating greater engagement or stronger therapeutic alliance
      may experience better treatment outcomes. Therapist responsiveness to child needs and
      flexibility in implementing manual-based therapies might also have significant, if indirect,
      effects on successful treatment. A greater understanding of therapist, child, and
      interpersonal factors that improve the delivery of therapy could lead to concrete
      recommendations in training novice clinicians or in developing improved versions of current
      therapy manuals.

      Because treatment will occur within a semi-natural clinic setting, a multiple baseline,
      single-case design will be used. Employing a single-case design in this context will permit
      continuous assessment throughout baseline and treatment phases. This design will provide data
      for the course and sequence of symptom and mediator change. We will also be able to document
      the sequence of symptom change as it relates to the introduction of specific treatment
      interventions. The combined information can provide valuable information for how these
      treatments work and which interventions produce what specific client change.

      II. SPECIFIC AIMS

      The current study will attempt to address the following aims:

      Aim 1. Determine whether CBT for anxiety and depression are effective in a natural clinic
      setting where cases exhibit greater range of symptom severity, multiple clinical problems,
      and greater socioeconomic and cultural diversity. Effectiveness will be assessed in
      diagnostic, symptom, and adaptive functioning domains, including executive cognitive
      functioning.

      Aim 2. Determine if youth coping skills, behavioral activation, automatic thoughts, affective
      process, self-efficacy or parenting practices mediate the relationship between CBT
      interventions and clinical outcomes.

      Aim 3. Determine if youth or therapist within-session processes (e.g., child involvement,
      therapeutic alliance, therapist adherence to treatment protocol) moderates treatment success.

      Aim 4. Determine the pattern of symptom change associated with CBT for youth (e.g., gradual
      symptom decline, presence of sudden gains).

      Aim 5. Note patterns of additional youth mental health services and auxiliary services that
      families seek beyond treatment received at the Youth Anxiety and Depression Clinic.
    
  