
    
      The primary aim is to evaluate the capability of EUS-FNB to enhance diagnostic levels of AIP,
      that means to obtain definitive diagnosis of type 1 and type 2 AIP. Secondary aims are to
      evaluate: Safety of EUS-FNB in this setting of patients; the possibility to obtain a
      definitive diagnosis in focal/segmental form of AIP (that are the most clinically relevant
      because of the mimicking of cancer); diagnostic yield of EUS-FNB in this patient population;
      the rate of pancreatic neoplasms mimicking AIP.

      Consecutive patients ≥ 18 years old, with suspected focal or diffuse AIP, according to ICDC
      (probable type 1 AIP; probable type 2 AIP; NOS-AIP) with written consent to participate in
      the study will be enrolled.

      Exclusion criteria include: previous diagnosis of AIP; definitive type 1 AIP; steroid
      administration within 3 months before the EUS-FNB; coagulation disorders; pregnancy and
      lactation; unability to give informed consent .

      The histopathology of the preparations will be evaluated, according to the ICDC, including
      the LPSP findings and the IDCP findings and recording the absence or presence of specific
      criteria: Periductal lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate without GELs, Storiform fibrosis,
      Obliterative phlebitis >10 IgG4-positive cells per HPF; GEL of duct wall; Granulocytic and
      lympho- plasmacytic acinar infiltrate.

      According to the current clinical practice, when the diagnosis of AIP is confirmed (and
      malignancy is ruled-out) patient will be treated with the standard therapy for AIP. Patients
      will be followed for 12 months, in order to exclude misdiagnosed malignancy, and to evaluate
      the clinical course of the disease (response to steroid therapy, relapses, changes in imaging
      findings or surgical pathology in resected patients).

      The final diagnosis of AIP will be confirmed on surgical pathology (in resected patients) or
      when a compatible clinical course is observed during a follow-up of at least 1 year
      (significant improvement on imaging after steroid therapy, no appearance of metastasis or
      sign of infiltration).

      The number of cases where EUS-FNB histology improves the diagnostic level will be summarized
      using absolute and relative frequencies. The 95% confidence interval of this proportion will
      also be computed. The number of adverse events, the number of cases where histological
      finding diagnostic of AIP are observed in focal/segmental form and the number of pancreatic
      neoplasm will be summarized using absolute and relative frequencies. Sensitivity,
      specificity, positive likelihood ratio (LR+), negative likelihood Ratio (LR-) and the ROC
      curve will be used to analyze the capability of EUS-FNB to obtain a definitive diagnosis of
      type 1 and 2 AIP.
    
  