
    
      The objective of this study is to determine whether the withholding of NSAID use is
      associated with a clinically significant decrease in postpartum hypertension in women with
      antepartum hypertension. The investigators are interested in whether the use of NSAIDs
      elevates blood pressure to greater than or equal to 150/100 mmHg (by either systolic or
      diastolic parameters) more frequently in hypertensive women. The investigators hypothesize
      that among participants with hypertensive disease associated with pregnancy, those who have
      NSAIDs withheld from standard postpartum care (experimental arm) will be half as likely to
      have an increase of blood pressure of 150/100 mmHg in the first 24 hours postpartum compared
      to participants receiving standard care that includes NSAIDs (control arm).

      This trial is a randomized, open label study investigating the effect of NSAID use on blood
      pressure during the immediate postpartum period in women with chronic hypertension (cHTN) or
      pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH). The experimental group in this study will be women
      randomized to withholding NSAIDs during the study period, as women with hypertension
      routinely receive NSAIDs postpartum. Women with a diagnosis of pregnancy induced hypertension
      [gestational hypertension (gHTN), preeclampsia, superimposed preeclampsia, ] or cHTN will be
      enrolled antepartum and will be separated into two groups by the route of delivery: vaginal
      vs. cesarean delivery. Participants in the control arm will be assigned to receive standard
      care, which includes NSAIDs (ketorolac, ibuprofen) and participants in the experimental arm
      will be assigned to receive standard care with NSAIDs withheld in the postpartum period for
      the duration of hospitalization. The intervention period will last approximately 2-4 days and
      will conclude at the time of hospital discharge.

      Blood pressure measurements will be obtained and recorded routinely in the postpartum period
      until hospital discharge. More frequent measurements may be performed in the event of severe
      blood pressure elevations at the discretion of the provider and treating clinical team.
      Complete Blood Count (CBC) on postpartum Day 1 will be performed as part of standard care.
      Additional laboratory evaluations will be performed at the discretion of the provider. In
      addition to blood pressure measurement, pain scale scores will be recorded daily using a
      Numeric Pain Scale Score. Initiation of anti-hypertensive medication, severe hypertension (BP
      160/110 mmHg), treatment with magnesium sulfate and adverse maternal outcomes
      (cerebrovascular accident, congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, eclamptic seizure,
      death) will be documented and abstracted from the medical record.

      A power calculation to estimate the appropriate number of subjects needed to detect a
      difference of 30% in the primary outcome, with an alpha level of 0.05 and 80% power
      demonstrates that approximately 100 subjects per group (50 in the experimental group and 50
      in the control group) will be needed for each delivery route tested (vaginal and cesarean).
    
  