
    
      Bangladesh like other low and middle-income countries has a high burden of hyperbilirubinemia
      induced neonatal morbidity and mortality. Approximately 60%-80% of newborns develop neonatal
      jaundice and 18% of infants are at risk for adverse outcomes from neonatal jaundice. Severe
      neonatal jaundice can put neonates at risk for long term neuro-developmental impairments and
      death. Delay in diagnosis and treatment of severe neonatal jaundice can result in brain
      damage to the newborn that is preventable with timely treatment.

      Approximately 14 million infants per year in low to middle-income countries (LMIC) are at
      risk from neonatal jaundice progressing to extreme hyperbilirubinemia and brain damage.
      Nearly 80% of the 481,000 cases of extreme hyperbilirubinemia are in LMIC because infants are
      identified too late or health facility treatment is inaccessible or inadequate.

      New, low-cost, easy to use screening and phototherapy treatment technologies enable our
      proposed redesign of care delivery in LMIC to save infant's brains. The investigators plan to
      shift care from specialists and hospitals to community health workers (CHW) and homes.
      Investigators will integrate CHW-led prevention during pregnancy, with timely household
      screening and treatment. Investigators will reach infants before brain damage occurs and
      treat infants who would not otherwise be treated.

      LMIC including Bangladesh have had difficulty addressing neonatal jaundice because of the
      expense and logistics of providing timely prevention, screening and treatment to families.
      This study aim to test 3 hypothesis:

      H1: Prenatal modules for pregnant mothers will increase breastfeeding rates at 1 hour of life
      and at 3 months of age.

      H2: CHWs can screen 80% of newborns by 48 hours of age for jaundice and are skilled in
      identifying sick infants.

      H3: CHW-led household screening for neonatal jaundice will increase the rate of indicated
      treatment for neonatal jaundice compared to current practice.

      Investigators will conduct formative research to engage Government and other stakeholders to
      develop intervention package for prevention and treatment of neonatal jaundice and
      configuring and adapting LED phototherapy device to use for home treatment. Investigators
      will then conduct randomized control trial to implement the intervention package in
      intervention community and will assess the effectiveness of the intervention package.
      Investigators will compare the rates of indicated treatment for neonatal jaundice in the
      intervention and treatment arms.
    
  