
    
      Elian etal. classified extraction sockets into 3 types: type 1 sockets have labial plate of
      bone and soft tissue completely intact, type 2: where the soft tissue is intact while there
      is a dehiscence bony defect indicating partial or complete loss of labial bone plate, and
      type 3 where a midfacial recession occurred indicating loss of labial bone plate and soft
      tissue loss.

      The clinical outcomes of type 2 sockets reconstructions: Noelken etal. Published survival of
      16 implants immediately placed in sockets with

      complete loss of labial bone plate and buccal gaps were filled with autogenous bone without
      using barrier membrane. IN this study immediate implant is to be placed in type 2 sockets
      filing the gap with a mix of autogenous bone harvested from tuberosity and xenograft in
      addition to a resorbable collagen membrane lining the socket and healing abutment .

      Immediate implant placement concurrent with provisional restoration has been advocated to
      improve the esthetic restorative outcome for the patients. The success of this procedure
      depends on many variables including gingival health and morphology, bone dimensions and
      primary stability of the implants.

      Immediate implant placement is most commonly indicated when tooth extraction is due to
      trauma,endodontic lesion, root fracture, root resorption, root perforation, unfavorable crown
      to root ratio(not due to periodontal loss and bony walls

      of alveolus are still intact.

      Contraindications includes presence of active infection, insufficient bone (<3 mm) beyond the
      tooth socket apex for initial implant stability and wide and/or long gingival recession.

      Immediate implant placement even in the aesthetic zone is a literature supported treatment
      modality with success comparable to alternative placement protocols.3, 4 Immediate placement
      reduces the number of surgical interventions, shortens time to final restoration, may offer a
      fixed provisional restoration alternative to a removable interim prosthesis, and may
      partially support the peri-implant tissues prior to collapse from the extraction socket
      remodeling. Certain clinical criteria however need to be met in order to achieve a successful
      treatment outcome, namely: intact extraction socket walls, facial bone residual at ≥ 1 mm,
      thick gingival biotype, absence of acute infection, and sufficient residual bone at the
      palatal and apical tooth socket.

      Current knowledge suggests that implant placement should be at least 3 to 4 mm in depth from
      the midfacial free gingival margin and 2 mm palatally from the facial osseous crest.
    
  