
    
      Lipectomy is the most frequently performed aesthetic surgery in the U.S. today and is
      considered permanent, by The American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, but no long term
      follow-up studies have been done to verify this assertion. Indeed, animal studies suggest
      rapid adipose tissue (AT) re-accumulation after lipectomy is common and may even be
      accompanied by unfavorable changes in disease risk. Recent studies in humans have focused on
      abdominal lipectomy as a means of reducing metabolic disease risk in obese premenopausal
      women. However, none of these studies evaluated AT re-accumulation or reported long-term (>6
      mo) changes in metabolic outcomes, and none have evaluated the effect of removing femoral AT
      despite this being a common site for lipectomy in women and despite the apparent
      cardioprotective benefit of lower body adiposity. Further, none of these studies included
      postmenopausal women who are at an increased risk of abdominal AT accumulation. It is the
      investigator's overall working hypothesis that removal of femoral AT by lipectomy may worsen
      metabolic disease risk (as measured by postprandial lipemia) in estrogen-deficient
      postmenopausal women who, in contrast to premenopausal women, will accumulate AT in the
      abdominal rather than the femoral region. The global aims of this study are to determine
      whether: 1) there are menopause-related differences in regional (abdominal vs. femoral) AT
      re-accumulation following lipectomy; and 2) changes (removal and regain) in femoral AT mass
      alter postprandial triglyceride clearance and storage of meal-derived fatty acids. Further,
      the investigators postulate that menopause-related differences in postprandial lipemia and
      handling of dietary fatty acids will determine the degree to which femoral lipectomy worsens
      these parameters. Pre- and postmenopausal women (n=80) will be randomly assigned to either
      femoral lipectomy or control (no surgery). All eligible volunteers will undergo testing at
      the beginning of the study and at 2, 8, and 14 months following lipectomy. Measurements will
      include body composition assessments, meal tests and AT biopsies to assess lipectomy-related
      changes in: 1) abdominal and femoral fat mass; 2) systemic postprandial triglyceride
      excursions; and 3) storage of dietary fatty acids in AT. These studies are designed to
      evaluate the effect of femoral lipectomy on regional AT re-accumulation and metabolic disease
      risk in pre- and postmenopausal women.
    
  