
    
      Specific aim 1: Determine if liberal (ad lib) resumption of postoperative activity levels is
      non-inferior to standard restrictions with regards to short-term anatomic and symptomatic
      outcome, as measured by maximum pelvic organ prolapse support loss ('SLmax') and the Pelvic
      Organ Prolapse Distress Inventory (POPDI) at 3 months. (Co-primary outcome)

      Specific aim 2: Compare postoperative "Recovery Time" and physical function between women
      instructed to resume their activity levels ad lib versus women instructed to restrict
      activity levels. "Recovery Time," defined as the postoperative day at which the patient
      resumes 90% of her baseline activity levels will be objectively measured using the Actigraph
      accelerometer.8 ,9 Physical function will be measured with the 6-minute walk, chair stand
      tests, and through patient-reported outcome measures. (exploratory outcome)

      Specific aim 3: Compare timing of return-to-work and health-related QOL in women instructed
      to resume activity levels and return to work ad lib versus restrict their activity levels
      (exploratory outcome)

      Eligible participants will first be briefly explained regarding the research study. If
      interested, will then complete the informed consent process. She will first be asked to
      complete the International Physical Activity Short Form to confirm study eligibility. For
      study eligibility, participants must at least report a baseline of 725 MET-minutes per week
      of physical activity according to the IPAQ-SF, which is consistent with the lowest quartile
      of activity among elderly women. If she reports greater than 725 MET-minutes per week of
      physical activity, she will undergo the remainder of baseline assessments. If she reports
      less than 725 MET-minutes per week of physical activity, she will be explained that she does
      not meet the activity level criteria for completion of the study at this time. She will then
      be asked to complete a series of baseline questionnaires (demographics, past medical history,
      POPDI, AAS, PROMIS, PFDI, PFIQ). She will also undergo a baseline POPQ exam and tests of
      physical function, including the 6-minute walk test and chair stand test.

      A sealed envelope will then be opened by the research coordinator (or study investigator) in
      front of the patient indicating the patient's study allocation. The packet will also include
      an accelerometer which the patient will be instructed to wear for a 7-day period
      preoperatively. However, to ensure that participants are not given an accelerometer too far
      in advance from her surgery (as at times surgery may be scheduled remotely from the initial
      decision to proceed with surgery which would potentially result in too many accelerometers
      being out of circulation), the envelope containing study allocation and accelerometers may
      alternatively be provided at the preoperative "Surgical Workup" visit once the surgery is
      scheduled and at a date no greater than 3 weeks from the planned surgery. If a participant
      will be undergoing surgery at an interval greater than 1 week from the initial receipt of the
      accelerometer, she will only be required to wear the accelerometer for 1 week prior to the
      surgery. Patients will be given an opportunity to ask any questions regarding postoperative
      activity instructions to research personnel or nurses at the time of study enrollment and at
      any point prior to her surgery. Patients will be notified, prior to providing consent, that
      her primary surgeon will remain blinded as to her treatment allocation until completion of
      her study participation.

      Any questions related to surgical recovery which arise preoperatively will be addressed by
      nurses and research personnel not involved in the patient's intraoperative decision-making.
      Postoperatively, fellow and attending surgeons will only be unblinded if necessary to address
      any acute postoperative issues. Patients will also be provided with a duplicate set of
      postoperative set of activity instructions on the day of her surgery upon discharge which
      will be entered in the patient's electronic chart by study personnel on the day of her
      surgery as a modification to the standard postoperative discharge instructions.

      The patient will wear the activity tracker for 6 weeks postoperatively. At the 1-week
      postoperative time point, patient reminder phone calls will be made to remind the patient to
      wear and charge the activity tracker (whose battery life is 25 days). She will also be asked
      to provide a count of the number of narcotic pills she has left remaining at this time. She
      will follow-up for a routine postoperative visit with her primary surgeon at which point a
      routine 6-week postoperative POPQ will be performed. Accelerometers will be returned at this
      visit.

      She will then follow up for a separate research visit at 3 months postoperatively. At this
      time, the patient will complete all follow-up activity, symptom, and HRQOL questionnaires
      including the: Activities Assessment Scale, Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory, Pelvic Floor
      Impact Questionnaire, and the PROMIS short form subscales of physical function, anxiety,
      depression, fatigue, satisfaction with social role, and pain interference. A six-minute walk
      and chair stand test will be administered by trained research personnel in the clinic. She
      will additionally be inquired regarding timing of return to work. A POPQ will also be
      performed at this time by a blinded provider NOT involved in the patient's index surgery.
    
  