
    
      This is a diagnostic accuracy study comparing selected ultrasound techniques to a well
      validated standard for predicting fluid responsiveness in septic patients (NICOM). The
      primary outcomes will be reported in sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value,
      negative predictive value, likelihood ratios, and receiver operating characteristic curves.

      The timeframe for measurement is within 72 hours of the subjects' admission. Determination of
      the outcome (i.e., whether a subject is fluid responsive) is based upon the data generated by
      the NICOM device. The NICOM generates data within 5 minutes of assessment. The ultrasound
      modalities to be studied will generate data within 5 minutes of assessment as well. The US
      data will be compared to the NICOM data to generate the statistics listed in this protocol.
      There is no further planned follow-up for the subjects.

        1. The investigators will compare the ability of dynamic changes in inferior vena caval
           diameter (IVC-CI), dynamic changes in peripheral arterial waveform derived variables (PA
           Doppler), and dynamic changes in left ventricular outflow tract waveform derived
           variables (LVOT Doppler) to detect fluid responsiveness (FRes) relative to FRes as
           assessed by bioreactance cardiac output monitoring before and after passive leg raise
           (PLR).

           Hypothesis: PA Doppler and LVOT Doppler will have superior sensitivity and specificity
           to predict FRes in comparison to IVC-CI.

        2. The investigators will evaluate data acquisition duration and data acquisition failure
           rate of IVC-CI, PA Doppler, and LVOT Doppler. Hypothesis: PA Doppler will have shorter
           data acquisition durations in comparison to LVOT velocity variation and IVC-CI.

           Hypothesis: PA Doppler will have lower data acquisition failure rates in comparison to
           LVOT velocity variation and IVC-CI.

        3. The investigators will compare the ability of IVC-CI, PA Doppler, and LVOT Doppler to
           predict FRes in comparison to FRes as predicted by clinical judgment.

           Hypothesis: PA Doppler and LVOT Doppler will have superior sensitivity and specificity
           to predict FRes in comparison to clinical judgment.

        4. The investigators will evaluate the ability of dynamic changes in PA corrected flow
           times (cFT) to detect FRes relative to FRes as assessed by bioreactance cardiac output
           monitoring before and after PLR. Hypothesis: cFT will have greatest sensitivity and
           specificity to predict FRes at a Δflow time threshold of ≥15% after PLR.

      Hypothesis: At a Δflow time threshold of ≥15%, cFT will have superior sensitivity and
      specificity to detect FRes in comparison to IVC-CI.
    
  