
    
      Reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) of the knee is a painful procedure,
      with postoperative analgesia providing patient comfort, early mobilization, and discharge
      within 24 hours.

      Various methods for postoperative analgesia management are available, such as systemic
      opioids, epidural local anesthetic, peripheral nerve block and local anesthetic infiltration
      analgesia. Use of systemic opioids can cause adverse effects that may affect functional
      rehabilitation, such as nausea, vomiting, pruritus, sedation and respiratory depression.
      Hypotension, urinary retention, and pruritus are more common in patients with epidural
      analgesia. In addition, use of long-acting intrathecal opioids causes adverse effects such as
      bilateral motor block, tremor and hypotension. Systemic and intrathecal methods for
      postoperative analgesia are gradually being abandoned because of these negative effects.

      The saphenous nerve is the largest contributor to sensory perception around the knee, while
      the adductor canal contains the nerve to the vastus medialis, the medial femoral cutaneous
      nerve, the medial retinacular nerve, articular branches from the posterior division of the
      obturator nerve and occasionally the anterior branch of the obturator nerve. Although
      adductor canal block (ACB) can contribute towards motor blockade of the periarticular
      musculature, its effect on functional weakness of the quadriceps has been reported to be
      minimal, compared with femoral nerve block (FNB).

      Intra-articular (IA) local anesthetic agents have been used either alone or in combination
      with other agent. However, it was observed that use of combination of drug is better than
      single drug for prevention of postoperative pain, providing synergistic effect and reducing
      side effects compared to high dose of single drug.

      Levobupivacaine, the S-enantiomer of bupivacaine is a comparatively newer local anesthetic
      agent introduced into clinical practice and it also possesses less cardiac and neural
      toxicity. Levobupivacaine has been shown to be safe and effective for epidural and spinal
      anesthesia and blockade of the brachial plexus.

      Dexamethasone is a potent and highly selective glucocorticoid with minimal mineralocorticoid
      effect. It blocks the nociceptive impulse transmission along the myelinated C fibers.
      Dexamethasone prolongs the duration of regional blocks, when combined with local anesthetics.
    
  