
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if post-operative adjuvant chemo-radiation therapy (CRT) can significantly
      improve recurrence-free survival (RFS) when compared to radiation therapy (RT) alone in stage
      I-IIA cervical cancer patients with intermediate-risk factors after treatment with radical
      hysterectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether post-operative adjuvant CRT can improve overall survival (OS) when
      compared to RT alone in stage I-IIA cervical cancer patients with intermediate risk factors
      after treatment with radical hysterectomy.

      II. To assess differences (across treatment arms) in incidence and severity of therapy
      attributed adverse events utilizing the active version of Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE).

      III. To provide assessment of patient risk version (vs) benefit (positive study only).

      QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether post-operative adjuvant CRT improves the health-related
      quality-of-life (QOL) (compared to RT alone) as measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Cervix (FACT-Cx) Trial Outcome Index (TOI) and produce favorable toxicity profiles
      (with particular focus on treatment related genitourinary, gastrointestinal, neurological,
      pain and sexual adverse events).

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To bank archival tumor tissue for research studies, including studies that evaluate the
      association between biomarkers, RFS, OS, and clinical-surgical-pathologic characteristics in
      patients randomized to post-operative adjuvant CRT compared to RT alone.

      II. To bank deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from whole blood for research studies, including
      studies that evaluate associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and
      measures of clinical outcome, including RFS, OS, and adverse events in patients randomized to
      post-operative adjuvant CRT compared to RT alone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo pelvic external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT) or intensity-modulated
      radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 and undergo radiotherapy as in
      Arm I. Treatment with cisplatin repeats every 7 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  