
    
      This trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of a currently available medication,
      methylphenidate (Ritalin®), combined with a mitochondrial support nutrient formula (K-PAX
      Synergy) to treat Gulf War Illness (GWI).

      The nutrient formula to be used in this trial is a broad-spectrum micronutrient supplement.
      This nutrient formula provides GWI patients with vitamins, minerals, and other cofactors
      (amino acids, antioxidants, and mitochondrial cofactors) to complement the low-dose Central
      Nervous System (CNS) stimulant (methylphenidate). The low-dose CNS stimulant provides the
      necessary catalyst to augment the metabolism of cellular fuel and the production of cellular
      energy.Therapeutic dosages of micronutrients are provided to support the functioning of the
      nervous, endocrine, and immune systems to a level at which a lower than customary dosage of
      methylphenidate can produce positive clinical effects on GWI symptoms and also be well
      tolerated without further depleting or degrading these systems.

      The dose of methylphenidate (Ritalin®) being tested in this study is relatively low (5-10mg
      twice daily). This drug has been in clinical use for over 50 years for the treatment of
      Narcolepsy and Attention Deficit Disorder and has a well-described safety profile when used
      as recommended. GWI and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) share a high degree of symptom
      overlap. They have both been linked to mitochondrial dysfunction. Methylphenidate alone has
      been studied as a treatment for CFS in the past and has been shown to produce mild benefits
      and be well-tolerated. When provided as innovative therapy, methylphenidate plus this CFS
      Nutrient Formula has produced substantial improvements in CFS symptoms in a limited number of
      patients, and demonstrated excellent tolerability.

      Use of low dose methylphenidate coadministered with a mitochondria support nutrient formula
      has not been previously evaluated in a controlled clinical study. The risk to patients using
      this combination is believed to be low, especially in the context of a well-controlled
      clinical study. Furthermore, this combination is not expected to increase the incidence or
      severity of adverse events associated with methylphenidate.
    
  