
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare progression-free survival associated with the combination of carboplatin,
      paclitaxel and vorinostat versus carboplatin, paclitaxel and placebo for patients with
      previously untreated, advanced NSCLC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate, time to treatment failure, and overall survival for the
      two regimens.

      II. To assess the safety profile of the regimen of vorinostat, carboplatin and paclitaxel for
      patients with advanced NSCLC.

      III. To understand the mechanistic aspects of drug effect by conducting correlative science
      studies on peripheral blood and archived tumor tissue.

      An initial safety run-in study is planned (phase I) before starting the phase II randomized
      study as described below. Doses of Vorinostat to be tested during the safety run-in portion
      are: Dose Level -1 500 mg QD, Dose Level 1 600 mg QD, Dose Level 2 800 mg QD. Patients will
      not be randomized during the safety lead-in period, and no patients treated during the
      lead-in will be considered in the primary evaluation of each arm in any comparison. Once the
      safety run-in portion is completed, all patients will randomized to receive either placebo or
      vorinostat at a fixed dose determined during the run-in portion.

      Phase II Portion of Study:

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day
      0. Patients also receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily on days -2 to 2.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Patients also receive
      placebo PO once daily on days -2 to 2.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, quarterly for 1
      year, and then twice a year thereafter.
    
  