
    
      Trial Design: This is a prospective, single center, comparative, diagnostic study of two
      biopsy techniques. All men aged 50 to 75 years with clinical suspicion of PCa (elevated
      prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels in blood and/or abnormal digital rectal examination)
      and an MRI with suspicious lesion(s) (presence of PI-RADS 3-5 lesion) will be included.
      Participants receive both types of biopsy, but will be randomized concerning the order of the
      biopsy. All men will also receive traditional systematic biopsies. Treatment and further
      follow-up is according to EAU guidelines. Data of treatment and follow-up will be retrieved
      till 2 years after initial MRI-visit.

      Sample Size: Based on McNemar test for the comparison between the accuracy of the two biopsy
      techniques, the required sample size is estimated on 96 patients.

      Assessment of efficacy: Efficacy of software and visual registration biopsy will be
      determined by histopathology: cancer core length (actual length and percentage) and
      comparison with systematic biopsy as reference standard.

      Direct access to source data and documents: The investigator(s) and the institution(s) will
      permit trial-related monitoring, audits, EC review, and regulatory inspections (where
      appropriate) by providing direct access to source data and other documents (i.e. patients'
      case sheets, blood test reports, X-ray reports, histology reports, etc.).

      Data handling and management: All data collected during the study remain confidential and
      according to the GDPR regulation. Data of the participants will be retrieved from their
      electronic patient files. Each participant will be given a unique identification number. When
      data are coded, there continues to be a link between the data and the individual who provided
      it. The research team is obligated to protect the data from disclosure outside the research
      according to the terms of the research protocol and the informed consent document. The
      subject's name or other identifiers should be stored separately (site file) from their
      research data and replaced with a unique code to create a new identity for the subject. Note
      that coded data are not anonymous. All data is collected and stored electronically by the
      principal investigator and co-investigators.
    
  