
    
      To achieve the proposed objectives it will be performed a randomized, triple-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial, with patients admitted to the adult ICU with COVID-19 using
      invasive mechanical ventilation due to respiratory failure. The patients will be randomly
      allocated to two treatment groups: 1. Active PBMT/sMF (MR5™ ACTIV PRO LaserShower) or Placebo
      PBMT/sMF (MR5™ ACTIV PRO LaserShower). The patients will be treated by a blinded therapist,
      and the patients will be blinded to the treatment received.

      Since there are no studies in this field, initially it will be randomized 30 patients (15
      patients per group) to determine the final sample size for this study.

      The patients randomly allocated to the two groups will be subjected to treatment once a day,
      during the ICU stay, until discharge or death.

      All data will be collected by a blinded assessor. The investigators will analyze:

        1. Number of days hospitalized in the ICU until discharge or death.

        2. Survival rate: rate of how many people survived and were discharged and how many died.

        3. Muscular function of the diaphragm: the first assessment will be performed within 24
           hours after the patient's intubation, the second 10 days after the first, and the third
           at the pre-discharge from the ICU.

        4. Blood tests: baseline (admission to the ICU), 10 days after the admission, and endpoint
           (discharge or death).

        5. Mechanical ventilation control parameters: baseline (admission to the ICU), 10 days
           after the admission, and endpoint (discharge or death).

        6. Arterial Blood Gas Analysis: baseline (admission to the ICU), 10 days after the
           admission, and endpoint (discharge or death).

      The data regarding the blood tests and arterial blood gas analysis will be collected directly
      from electronic medical record of each patients, since it is a daily hospital routine to
      perform these blood tests. The data will be collected by two assessors blinded to the
      treatment applied. The mechanical ventilation control parameters will be collected directly
      in the mechanical ventilator.

      Statistical analysis: All the data will be analyzed by a blinded researcher not involved in
      data collection. The findings will be tested for their normality using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      test. Parametric data will be expressed as mean and standard deviation and non-parametric
      data as median and respective upper and lower limits, data can be also expressed as frequency
      (%). Parametric data will be analysed by two-way repeated measures analysis of variance (time
      vs experimental group) with post hoc Bonferroni correction. Non-parametric data will be
      analysed using the Friedman test and, secondarily, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The
      association between categorical variables will be analyzed using the Chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test. The significance level will be set at p<0.05.
    
  