
    
      FDG-PET imaging is a promising imaging technique, which has the potential to overcome many of
      the shortcomings mentioned previously with regard to radiologic and scintigraphic
      methodologies. FDG is a diagnostic tracer utilized to measure the metabolic rates of normal
      and abnormal tissues. Many investigators have noted the affinity of FDG for active
      inflammatory and infectious disorders, such as sarcoidosis, the abdominal abscess, brain
      abscess, lung abscess, renal abscess, inflammatory pancreatic disease, lobar pneumonia,
      asthma, tuberculosis, colitis, sinusitis, myositis, mastitis, vasculitis, deep venous
      thrombosis, thyroiditis and other infections including those encountered in orthopedic
      patients.

      According to the literature, the most accurate nuclear medicine modality for detecting
      infection associated with diabetic foot is the labeled WBC method. We hypothesize that
      FDG-PET imaging has several advantages over this method. Detection of infection by labeled
      WBC imaging is based upon the assumption that the administered cells will migrate to the
      sites of infection. Since the majority of the labeled leukocyte preparation consists of
      neutrophils, inflammatory/infectious processes with a predominantly neutrophilic infiltrate
      (acute infections) are likely to yield positive results. However, most infections associated
      with diabetic foot are sub-acute or chronic. Consequently, the dominant inflammatory cells
      involved are monocytes and lymphocytes. Therefore, labeled leukocytes are unlikely to detect
      chronic infection since very few monocytes and lymphocytes are labeled. In addition, the
      previous treatment (antibiotics, etc) can severely reduce the chemotropic effect of bacteria
      and therefore, fewer leukocytes will migrate to the infectious sites, rendering the labeled
      leukocyte method ineffective.

      In contrast, the uptake of FDG in inflammatory cells reflects "in vivo labeling" of the
      existing cells at the site of infection soon after the administration of the compound. This
      would indicate that FDG-PET technique might allow imaging a substantially larger population
      of cells, which are residing in the area of infection and inflammation. Therefore, in
      addition to considerable simplification of procedures associated with the labeled WBC method,
      including the time required to complete the study, this approach may provide higher
      sensitivity for diagnosing infection in such settings. Furthermore, since FDG uptake does not
      rely upon leukocyte migration, treatment with antibiotics is less likely to affect its
      sensitivity in delineating the sites of infection. One possible advantage of the labeled WBC
      method over FDG-PET imaging is that high serum glucose levels do not appear to have an
      adverse effect on the test results with the former technique while hyperglycemia is known to
      decrease tumor cell FDG uptake. However, our preliminary results indicate that high glucose
      levels do not negatively affect FDG uptake by inflammatory cells. Based on these
      observations, FDG-PET imaging appears to be an attractive alternative to conventional
      techniques for the detection of infection.

      FDG-PET imaging offers a unique tool for the diagnosis and management of the diabetic foot.
      Through the establishment of appropriate diagnostic criteria, a PET scan may prove to be
      highly accurate in localizing deep infections of bone and soft tissue associated with the
      complicated diabetic foot. By distinguishing these infections from inflammation, it has the
      potential to become the optimal diagnostic imaging technique with which to diagnose and
      manage patients with diabetic foot. Therefore, research studies designed to further validate
      the ability of this technique are essential to achieving this goal.
    
  