
    
      Children with hemiplegia will be given an intensive hand therapy protocol for six weeks (6
      hrs/day, 5 days/week - total of 180 hours. Therapy will be given in two blocks.

      In one block (3 weeks, 90 hours of therapy), children will receive constraint-induced
      movement therapy (CIMT), also known as constraint therapy. During CIMT, children wear a mitt
      over their less-affected hand, which restricts use of that hand. Children engage in intensive
      therapy to improve active range of motion, strength, motor control and sensory awareness of
      the affected hand. Activities are functional and play based. Daily structure of therapy
      includes: morning gym, fine motor, gross motor, sensory motor, therapeutic feeding, sports
      and self care activities. During training, children perform play-based and functional
      activities with the affected hand. Example activities include playing card and board games,
      arts and crafts, and activities that provide sensory stimulation to the affected hand, such
      as finger painting. Activities also include stretching and strengthening exercises.

      In one block (3 weeks, 90 hours of therapy), children will receive bimanual therapy. During
      bimanual therapy, children do not wear a mitt over the less-affected hand. Children will be
      provided individualized activities that facilitated active use of both hands. Therapists will
      adapt and grade activities and guided children to problem solve for success. Bimanual
      activities include self-care (tying shoes, zippering, cutting food), sports activities, and
      manipulation of classroom tools (cutting with scissors).

      Before the intervention begins, children will be randomized to one of two arms. In Arm 1,
      children will receive 3 weeks of CIMT followed by 3 weeks of bimanual therapy. In Arm 2,
      children will receive 3 weeks of bimanual therapy followed by 3 weeks of CIMT.
    
  