
    
      Cardiopulmonary bypass (CBP) during cardiac surgery induces a systemic inflammatory response
      associated with an immune dysregulation and a significant pulmonary dysfunction. First, the
      inflammatory response, usually attributed to surgical trauma, contact of blood with
      artificial surfaces, and ischemia reperfusion injury, is responsible for a postoperative
      immunodepression. For instance, an early impairment of lung cellular immune response after
      CPB, which could promote the development of postoperative pneumonia, has been found. Along
      these lines, a downregulation of human leukocyte antigen-DR antigen (HLA-DR) expression on
      monocytes and an increase in plasma interleukin 10 (IL-10) associated with the occurrence of
      nosocomial infections have been reported. Second, CPB induces a pulmonary dysfunction, which
      ranges from a temporary and clinically insignificant reduction in arterial oxygenation to a
      life-threatening injury manifested as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). This
      phenomenon is of multifactorial sources, but one of the main mechanisms is the occurrence of
      atelectasis during surgery. Atelectasis has been associated with lung injury and release of
      cytokines by shear forces on alveoli and small airways. However, it is not clear whether this
      injury is due to a recruitment/derecruitment phenomenon (i.e., atelectrauma) or whether it
      might by itself lead to the release of cytokine. Since CPB mechanically circulates and
      oxygenates blood bypassing the heart and lungs, usual procedure during CPB is to stop
      mechanical ventilation (MV) (apnea). Nevertheless, maintaining MV with positive expiratory
      pressure (PEEP) during CPB diminished the occurrence of atelectasis and the postoperative
      inflammatory response. Thus, we investigated the effects of maintaining MV during CPB for
      cardiac surgery on postoperative immunodepression and found that maintaining MV during CPB
      decreased postoperative immune dysfunction and could be an interesting strategy to diminish
      the occurrence of postoperative infection (nosocomial infection) without hampering the
      surgical procedure. However, these findings have to be confirmed in a clinical trial using
      the incidence of nosocomial infection as an endpoint.
    
  