
    
      Children undergoing heart surgery are under significant bodily stress, which can lead to
      higher than normal or lower than normal blood glucose levels. A synthetic form of insulin, a
      naturally occurring hormone in the body, can be injected into people to normalize blood
      glucose levels. Insulin is most commonly used to treat people with diabetes, but it is also
      used in hospitals to control blood glucose levels in patients. Previous studies of adult
      intensive care unit (ICU) patients have shown that patients whose blood sugar levels are
      maintained at normal levels with the use of insulin contract fewer infections and are
      released more quickly from the ICU than patients who do not maintain normal blood glucose
      levels. This study will use a continuous blood glucose monitoring system to detect changes in
      blood glucose levels. Intravenous insulin infusions will be used to then safely maintain
      normal blood glucose levels. The purpose of this study is to determine if maintaining normal
      blood glucose levels during an ICU stay will help decrease the incidence of infections and
      improve surgical recovery in young children following heart surgery.

      This study will enroll children who are undergoing heart surgery that requires a
      cardiopulmonary bypass procedure. Participants will be randomly assigned to either a control
      group or the treatment group. All participants will receive usual care while in the ICU and
      will undergo continuous glucose monitoring. Participants in the treatment group will receive
      intravenous insulin infusions to keep their blood glucose within the normal range. While in
      the ICU, blood will be collected from all participants once a day for the first 3 days and
      then once a week to monitor glucose levels, hormone levels, and measurements of nutrition and
      immune function. On days 1 and 5 following surgery, participants who are on a ventilator will
      have their breath measured to monitor heart function and energy use. Thirty days and 1 year
      following surgery, study researchers will contact the participant's parent or doctor to
      collect information on health status and any new infections at the surgical site. Children
      who enroll in the study will be asked to participate in follow-up neurodevelopmental
      evaluations at 1 and 3 years of age to assess longer term cognitive effects of tight glycemic
      control in the ICU.
    
  