
    
      The ability to measure cardiac output accurately and reproducibly at frequent intervals
      remains elusive to the clinician caring for critically ill pediatric patients although a
      large proportion of these children are known to have hemodynamic compromise as a result of
      their illnesses. I propose to define the accuracy of clinician estimates of cardiac output in
      these patients and to test the ability of a new device that measures central blood volume to
      predict preload in this setting.

      I will study 100 patients in two groups. The first group will consist of critically ill
      pediatric patients at the time of admission to the PICU. These 50 patients will have cardiac
      output estimated by three methods: Estimation by a "panel of experienced clinicians";
      Calculation of the arteriovenous content difference; and Direct measurement using a new
      minimally invasive system based on assessing changes in ultrasound transmission in blood
      after intravenous administration of a small (< 5 ml) bolus of normal saline. Group two will
      consist of 50 PICU patients who therapeutically require either a fluid bolus (25 patients) or
      a single intravenous dose of diuretic (25 patients). These patients will be assessed in the
      same fashion at the outset, but will have ongoing measurements of cardiac output and central
      blood volume using the minimally invasive system and central venous pressure using
      conventional techniques at 3 intervals within the first hour.

      Data will be analyzed to evaluate the strength of correlations between expert assessment and
      objective measures of cardiac output in all patients (linear regression with calculation of
      correlation coefficient). Group two patients will be divided according to therapeutic
      intervention. The strength of correlation between changes in central blood volume and changes
      in central venous pressure and cardiac output will be assessed using similar statistical
      techniques.
    
  