
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Bevacizumab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      growth of blood vessels.

      Capecitabine and erlotinib hydrochloride are designed to interfere with the growth of cancer
      cells.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in the study, you will begin receiving
      capecitabine, erlotinib hydrochloride, and bevacizumab. The dose you receive will be based on
      how many participants have been enrolled before you, and on the safety data that are
      available. The first group of enrolled participants will be given low doses of capecitabine,
      erlotinib hydrochloride, and bevacizumab. If no intolerable side effects occur, the next
      group will be enrolled at a higher dose level. This process will continue until researchers
      find the highest dose of capecitabine, erlotinib hydrochloride, and bevacizumab that can be
      given without intolerable side effects occurring. The study doctor will tell you what dose
      you will be receiving and how it compares to the doses other participants have received.

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Days 1, 14, and 28, you will receive bevacizumab through a needle in your vein. Your first
      infusion will last about 90 minutes. If you tolerate the drug well, the next infusion will
      last about 60 minutes. If the 60-minute infusion is well tolerated, all other infusions will
      last about 30 minutes.

      On each day that you receive radiation, you will take capecitabine and erlotinib
      hydrochloride by mouth in the morning and evening with food.

      Radiation:

      You will receive radiation once a day on Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. This
      schedule will be continue for 5 1/2 weeks or 28 doses.

      Study Visits:

      Every week while you are on study, you will have the following tests and procedures
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

        -  You will repeat the same health questionnaire that you filled out at screening.

      Bevacizumab and Surgery:

      If at any time during the study the tumor can be removed surgically, you will have surgery. A
      separate consent form would be used. Because bevacizumab may slow the healing of wounds,
      study participants may not have surgery within 10 weeks after the last bevacizumab infusion.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for up to 5 1/2 weeks. You will be taken off-study early if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-Of-Study Visit:

      Four (4) to 6 weeks after you finish radiation, you will have an end-of-study visit with the
      following tests and procedures performed:

        -  You will have a complete physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have chest x-rays and CT scans of the abdomen.

        -  You will repeat the health questionnaire.

      Additional Experimental Therapy:

      If you appear to be benefitting from the experimental therapy, the study doctor may decide to
      continue your experimental therapy after the end-of-study visit. This would be daily
      erlotinib hydrochloride, with bevacizumab infusions every 2 weeks unless the disease gets
      worse or intolerable side effects occur. You would have study visits once a month, with the
      same procedures as you did during the weekly study visits (except for the questionnaires).

      This is an investigational study. Capecitabine, bevacizumab, and erlotinib hydrochloride are
      FDA approved and commercially available. The use of capecitabine and bevacizumab for
      pancreatic cancer and in combination with erlotinib hydrochloride is investigational. At this
      time, the 3-drug combination is being used in research only.

      Up to 30 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  