
    
      Patients with advanced breast cancer may often fail standard of care treatments for
      metastatic disease. This research is studying a combinations of agents that impact the immune
      system.

      About >85% of all human cancers, including breast cancer, express telomerase (hTERT)
      activity. Targeting hTERT immunologically may also minimize immune escape due to antigen loss
      because mutation or deletion of hTERT may be incompatible with sustained tumor growth. hTERT
      Multi-Peptide Vaccine is made up of 1540 hTERT peptide and cryptic peptides selected for
      "low-affinity" binding to HLA-A2 in order to increase the likelihood that the host immune
      system would ignore them, and then they have been modified by changing the first amino acid
      of the peptides to tyrosine in order to increase HLA - A2 affinity. The two "heteroclitic"
      peptides are R572Y (YLFFYRKSV) and D988Y (YLQVNSLQTV), which bind HLA-A2 with high avidity
      and elicit specific CTL (cytotoxic T lymphocyte) responses using healthy donor mononuclear
      cells in vitro. In addition, in mouse models, these peptide vaccines elicit lytic CTL
      responses which are protective against tumor challenges using a TERT-expressing murine tumor.

      Subjects will also be immunized with a peptide vaccine derived from survivin, an important
      anti-apoptotic protein which is overexpressed in a broad range of malignancies including
      breast cancer. Survivin may be an ideal and "universal" tumor antigen since it is
      overexpressed in a wide variety of cancers yet terminally differentiated adult cells do not
      express the protein.

      CMV derived CTL epitopes will be used as positive control peptides.

      Daclizumab is a humanized anti-human CD25 monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to CD25
      expressing cells, including Treg cells, and inhibits its proliferation.

      Prevnar is designed to augment T-helper cell immunity.
    
  