
    
      Transmembrane Potential (TMP) is one of the known cellular signalling pathways regulating
      synthesis of various proteins like those responsible for programmed cell death (e.g., p53
      group) at the appropriate time in living cells. Many illnesses like cancer and degenerative
      diseases are linked to disturbances in transmembrane potential and protein transcription
      process.(Cone CD, 1970)

      The protein responsible for production of myelin by the oligodendrocytes is Connexin 32. It
      has been established that in cases of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) this protein is not synthesized
      by the oligodendrocytes thus leading to non-repair of the demyelination process in the
      Central Nervous System (CNS) (Scherer SS et al., 1995; Sargiannidou I et al., 2009; Bondurand
      N et al., 2001). This causes the fibrotic damage and plaque formation and consequent signs
      and symptoms of MS. RFQMR therapy addresses this process of stimulation of Oligodendrocytes
      to synthesize Connexin 32 thus causing remyelination.

      RFQMR therapy is delivered with CYTOTRON®. This device is a long body, wide bore machine with
      864 guns, with near field antennae and parabolic reflector delivery system. The device is
      capable of producing a wide range of dosimetry, involving multiple modulations in both fixed
      and variable proton density dosimetry. Appropriately modulated multi-harmonic Radio Frequency
      (RF) signals in the lower end of the electromagnetic spectrum can be used in altering the
      cell signaling process using the TMP pathways, thus able to tackle systemic disorders.
      Generically known as Rotational Field Quantum Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (RFQMR), it is a
      technology that is made to deliver highly complex quantum instantaneous Nuclear Magnetic
      Resonance beams in the RF bands and its harmonics ranging from 3KHz to 300 MHz with a near
      field delivery using specialized antenna in the presence of high instantaneous magnetic
      field.
    
  