
    
      Current Knowledge and Rationale

      Pancreatic cancer is one of the most lethal malignancies, with an overall 5-year survival
      rate of less than 10%. It is the 12th most common cancer and 7th most frequent cause of
      cancer-related death worldwide and 4th leading cause of cancer death among men and women in
      Canada. Surgery is the only curative option, however, less than 20% of patients have
      resectable disease at the time of diagnosis and the remainder have either locally advanced or
      metastatic cancer. Approximately 40 percent of patients with pancreatic cancer present with
      locally advanced or surgically unresectable pancreatic cancer. The optimal management of
      patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer remains unknown. Treatment options include
      chemotherapy alone, radiation alone, or combination of chemotherapy and radiation. Despites
      absence of metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis, patients with locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer have poor prognosis with a median overall survival of about 12 months.

      For many years single agent gemcitabine remained the standard therapy for patients with
      locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer (6). Two randomized trials showed benefit
      of combination chemotherapy over single agent gemcitabine. For example, the ACCORD II trial
      demonstrated the efficacy of FOLFIRINOX (5-FU, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin) over
      gemcitabine in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. The median progression-free
      survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) with FOLFIRNOX were 6.4 months and 11.1 months,
      respectively, compared with 3.3 months and 6.8 months, respectively, with gemcitabine alone.
      The MPACT trial demonstrated the superiority of the combination of gemcitabine plus
      nab-paclitaxel over gemcitabine alone in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. The
      median PFS and OS were 5.5 months and 8.5 months, respectively, in the
      gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel group, compared with 3.7 and 6.7 months in the gemcitabine group,
      respectively. Based on the improved activity and survival of both regimens in patients with
      metastatic pancreatic cancer, FOLFIRINOX (5-FU, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin) and
      gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel have become standard chemotherapy regimens in the management
      of patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer. In the investigators' world experience
      of patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer who were treated with either FOLFIRINOX
      (5-FU, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin) or gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel over a
      five year period in Saskatchewan had a median OS of 12.0 months.

      Because patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer have localized disease,
      loco-regional therapies such as radiation treatment have been employed with limited success.
      For example, in a randomized trial involving 449 patients with locally advanced pancreatic
      cancer with stable disease after 4 months of induction chemotherapy, there was no significant
      difference in overall survival with chemoradiotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone. The
      median OS of patients who received chemotherapy was 16.5 months compared with 15.2 months it
      combination of chemotherapy and radiation (p=0.83). Currently, in most institutions outside
      the setting of a clinical trial, patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer, are
      primarily treated with combination of chemotherapy. Other conventional ablative therapies
      such thermal ablation have limited role due to collateral damage to the adjacent vital
      structure such as blood vessels and bile duct. These limitations could be overcome by
      irreversible electroporation (IRE), a novel, non-thermal ablative method that has been
      examined in the treatment of various solid organ cancers.

      IRE also known as NanoKnife® is a unique treatment modality as it ablates tumor cells without
      using heat or radiation and hence does not cause injury to nearby blood vessels, ducts, and
      bowel. This makes it particularly appealing for the treatment of locally advanced
      unresectable pancreatic cancers. This local treatment for cancer involves delivering brief
      pulses of high voltage electrical current across the tumor (either percutaneously or open
      surgery), which results in the formation of tiny holes (nanopores) in the cell membranes. The
      loss of electrolytes and the gain of fluid into the cell from these pores causes the cells to
      die an apoptotic death. The collagen scaffolding is unaffected because IRE ablation occurs
      without heat, and this allows for destruction of tumors without collateral thermal injury.
      IRE is therefore an ideal ablation strategy for the pancreas, which is intimate with the
      common bile duct, the portal vein, and the duodenum, all of which are injured if heat
      ablation or even radiation are used.

      IRE has been evaluated in patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic tumors. Currently most
      results about efficacy and safety of IRE are derived from retrospectives studies and case
      series. The largest retrospective series about IRE involving 200 patients with locally
      advanced pancreatic cancer is reported by Martin and others. In their study the addition of
      IRE to conventional chemotherapy and radiation therapy resulted in prolonged survival
      compared with historical controls. With a median follow-up of 29 months, median OS of treated
      cohort was 24.9 months . Among them 37% experienced complications but most were mild to
      moderate. A recent retrospective study involving 50 patients with locally advanced pancreatic
      cancer is reported by Narayanan and others. Median OS of study cohort was 27.0 months from
      time of diagnosis and 14.2 months from time of IRE. Of note, patients with 3 cm or smaller
      tumors had better survival. There was no IRE-related mortality. Serious adverse events
      occurred in 20% patients. Despite promising results with IRE in patients with locally
      advanced pancreatic cancer, currently, there is a very limited prospective data available.
      The current study aims to prospectively validate efficacy and safety of IRE in Canadian
      patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer and based on the result develop a later
      phase multicenter national clinical trial.

      Primary Research question

      Does addition of IRE to combination of chemotherapy in patient with locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer improve their outcomes?

      Hypothesis

      It is hypothesized that addition of IRE to combination of chemotherapy in patients with
      locally advanced pancreatic cancer improves median PFS from 4-6 months to 10-12 months and
      median OS from 12 months to approximately 24 months.

      Methods

      Study Design and Sample Size The SMART study is a prospective multicenter single arm phase II
      study. Assuming 12-month disease progression rate of 40% in patients treated with IRE and
      chemotherapy versus 80% in patients who are treated with chemotherapy alone a sample of n=27
      to achieve 80% power with an alpha error of 0.05 is estimated. The eligible patients will be
      recruited over a two-year period at the two major cancer centers in Saskatchewan.

      Assessment, interventions, and follow-up visits Potentially eligible patients will be
      identified by the provincial hepatobiliary surgical team and will be discussed in a
      multidisciplinary hepatobiliary-pancreatic cancer round. Patients with locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer will be assessed by a medical oncologist and if are found to be eligible
      for combination chemotherapy will be offered the study. Eligible patients will receive 3
      months of FOLFIRINOX or Gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel at the discretion of treating
      oncologist (induction phase). Treatment will be administered in an out-patient chemotherapy
      unit. Baseline and follow up imaging studies will be performed as per current standard (CT
      scan every 2-3 months and PET and other imaging studies as indicated). The candidacy for the
      procedure will be determined by IRE team comprised of diagnostic radiologist, interventional
      radiologist, hepatobiliary surgeon and a medical oncologist. Patients who do not progress
      following induction chemotherapy and are candidate for IRE will undergo IRE.

      Approximately four weeks after the procedure patients will be assessed by the treating
      oncologist and 3 additional months of chemotherapy will be recommended. After total six
      months of chemotherapy if there is no progression further chemotherapy could be given at the
      discretion of treating physicians. Those patients who are not found to be eligible for IRE
      will continue to receive chemotherapy (continuation phase). Their scans will be reviewed
      every 2-3 months by the IRE team for potential eligibility for IRE till disease progression.
      Quality of life will be assessed at baseline, after induction chemotherapy, and prior to the
      start of second phase of chemotherapy and then every three months till disease progression.
      Periodic assessment prior to each cycle of chemotherapy, blood work and imaging study will be
      performed as per standard for pancreatic cancer. Specific drug reductions and management of
      side effects will be in accordance with published recommendations and will be at the
      discretion of treating oncologists. On progression patients will be off the study. All
      patients will be followed at the cancer center till their death.

      Analysis Response rates and stable disease rates will be summarized by percentages and their
      95% CI. Survival curves will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences
      between groups will be analyzed using log-rank test. The efficacy and toxicities of IRE will
      be recorded and be compared with the historic control from the publish literature. In
      addition, a subgroup of patients who are no able to undergo IRE will serve as an internal
      control. Correlation will be significant at the .05 level (two tailed). A Cox proportional
      survival analysis will be done to assess various clinical and pathologic factors for their
      correlation with survival.

      Quality of Life:

      The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life
      Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) along with the EORTC Pancreatic Cancer Module (QLQ-PAN26).
      The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a widely used instrument for measuring general cancer QOL. It consists
      of 30 items and patients responses are transformed to produce 0-100 scores on five functional
      scales, nine symptom scales and a scale representing global quality of life. Higher
      functional scale scores indicate better QOL whereas higher symptom scale/item scores indicate
      higher level of symptoms. The QLQ-PAN26 is currently being validates for patients with
      pancreatic cancer. The QOL will be measured periodically as described above.

      Correlative science

      Five cc blood will be collected and freeze at baseline and after induction phase of
      chemotherapy, (0 and 3 months) and within 4 weeks and 12 weeks (0 and 3 months) after IRE for
      patients who undergo IRE for future correlative science study.

      Timeline

      Each year about 160 patients are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in Saskatchewan. About 40%
      of them have locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Assuming 40% of patients with newly
      diagnosed locally advanced pancreatic cancer are eligible for combination chemotherapy
      (FOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine Nab paclitaxel), accrual was estimated at a rate of 1-2 patient
      per month over a period of 18-24 months. In Saskatchewan all patients with locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer are followed for indefinite period of time at the cancer center. After the
      two-year period patients who are on active treatment or in remission following IRE will
      continue to be follow for progression-free and overall survival.

      Knowledge Translation

      The research findings will be presented in the international cancer conferences and published
      in peered review journals. In addition, following strategies will be used to facilitate
      knowledge dissemination and its application.

        -  The results will be shared with the knowledge users using various platforms at the
           different stages of research (tumor-groups meetings/rounds, cancer conferences,
           guideline/clinical trials meetings, newsletter, etc.).

        -  The results will be presented to the Pharmacy and Therapeutic Committee of Saskatchewan
           for implementation of research findings.

        -  Networking and communication will be done with the Western and Eastern Canadian
           Gastrointestinal Cancer groups to share results and to work on developing a late phase
           clinical trial.

      Significance

      Despite progress in the management of most solid organ cancers and better outcomes, little
      advancement has been made in the treatment of patients with locally advanced pancreatic
      cancer. Unfortunately, most patients have very limited life expectancy. There is an unmet
      need for novel approaches in the management of patients with locally advanced pancreatic
      cancer. IRE in combination with chemotherapy has potential to improve local disease control
      and thereby improves survival previously and may prove a valuable tool to add in the
      multidisciplinary treatment of cancer. This approach in combination of chemotherapy could
      potentially be more cost effective than continuing chemotherapy alone. In addition, in the
      proposed study patients selection for their eligibility of combination chemotherapy and dose
      modification will be at the discretion of treating oncologists. This approach will broaden
      generalizability of the results and will provide a real-world experience. It is expected that
      the result of this study will guide for the development of a future multicenter national late
      phase trial.
    
  