
    
      Autowave Reverberator:

        1. Proved that, a Autowave Reverberator appears a result of a rupture of Autowave front;
           initial conditions - Natal Trauma:

           1.1 Proved that, such a rupture may occur, via collision of the Autowave front with a
           nonexcitable obstacle - brain injury or injury of vertebral;

           1.2 Proved that, such a rupture may occur by loss of excitation in a certain region of
           the Active medium - cerebral anoxia;

           1.3 Locomotor, Transport and Information functions in the physiological systems, and
           Communicative Efforts, Speech, Language and Related Cognitive Functions this is Autowave
           processes in Active media.

        2. An important feature of reverberators is that these Autowave sources have the highest
           frequency. By generating pulses at a maximum frequency such sources force out
           self-pacemakers of any other types from the medium. As a result, the Active medium is
           filled with only Spiral Autowaves:

           2.1 The basic parameters of a reverberator are the frequency of generated waves, the
           critical dimension and characteristics of the structure of the kernel, and the velocity
           of the kernel in space, at Drift of Spiral Autowaves and/or Annihilation of Spiral
           Autowaves, or Multiplication of Spiral Autowaves;

           2.2 Commonly, there are two characteristic regions in a reverberator: a kernel having an
           excitation "tongue" entering it and Spiral Autowaves generated by the kernel - one
           spiral/two spirals/three spirals/four spirals; central filament of the Autowaves-branch
           rotates Left/Right;

           2.3 The kernel can have the form of a circle or a ring, a so-called "anomalous" kernel.
           If the source drifts, the form of the kernel is involved and can hardly be determined
           unambiguously.

        3. Proved that, the reverberator is not tied to any structure in the Active medium:

           3.1 Proved that, due to this property, reverberators can Appear and Disappear in the
           different Endoderm/Mesoderm/Ectoderm of the Active media, and at different locations of
           the Active medium;

           3.2 Proved that, due to this property, reverberators can Appear and Disappear in the
           Ectodermal Active media - Brain/spinal cord/hair/Skin; central filament of the
           endogenous Brain branch/exogenous Skin-branch;

           3.3 Proved that, reverberators can Observe on the skin, Spiral Autowaves generated by
           the kernel - one spiral/two spirals/three spirals/four spirals; central filament of the
           Pileous-branch rotates Left/Right.

        4. Proved, Center of Synergetics/Dr. Synergetic (the name of a new physician - Nonlinear
           Control of Autowaves chaos in Active media), Nonlinear Control of Autowaves
           reverberators:

           4.1 Proved, Nonlinear Control of Autowaves reverberators: Hysteresis of Spiral
           Autowaves, Drift of Spiral Autowaves and Annihilation of Spiral Autowaves.

        5. Treatment of Autowave Reverberator of Autism (this will be administered by Presence of
           Clinical protocol CRF-SQUED™):

      5.1 Diagnostics of Autowave reverberators and Mathematical Modeling of Autowave reverberators
      in Active media + Algorithmic approach;

      5.2 Computational Simulation of Autowave reverberator and Mathematical Modeling of treatment
      code (Trade Secret) + creation Active medium SQUED™ for a patient;

      5.3 Recording for a patient of treatment code (Trade Secret) on the Image Converter/Sound
      Converter/Electromagnetic Converter + Autowave regime: Hysteresis of Spiral Autowaves; Drift
      of Spiral Autowaves; Annihilation of Autowave reverberator;

      5.4 SQUED™ Treatment of Autowave reverberator of Autism (Novel type energy/Non-invasive) +
      Semiconducting Quantum Excitonic Device - artificial active medium, where the processes of
      self-organization lead to creation and converter of Autowaves energy.

      Some autowaves have the properties of quasi-particles!

      Participants in the study will be asked to do the following things:

        -  Grant permission for the researchers to view medical/psychological and/or educational
           and/or speech records associated with the diagnosis of autism.

        -  Complete a questionnaire and provide a health history.

        -  Complete evaluations by our study team to assess the diagnosis and gain a clearer
           understanding of the participant's current functioning.

        -  Give to our study team of Photo of Autowave Reverberator - Presence on the Skin of the
           interruption of Autowave front (interruption of hair separatrix - dorsal/ventral) and/or
           Photo of Spiral Autowaves, generated by the kernel of Autowave Reverberator - the kernel
           having an excitation "tongue".

        -  Give to our study team of Graphics on tracing paper of Autowave Reverberator - Presence
           on the Skin of the interruption of Autowave front (interruption of hair separatrix -
           dorsal/ventral) and/or Graphics on tracing paper of Spiral Autowaves, generated by the
           kernel of Autowave Reverberator - the kernel having an excitation "tongue".

        -  Complete several tasks and training interventions that involve such things as learning
           new words or pictures, saying words out loud, or naming objects.

        -  Complete several tasks and training interventions that involve such things as creation
           pictures iSQUED™ and music compositions sSQUED™.

        -  Give permission to audio and video-tape test sessions for later scoring and observation.

        -  Give permission to audio or video-tape in the Home environment or classroom using
           non-intrusive audio-visual recording devices.

        -  Participate in computerized tasks of Image converter SQUED™ (iSQUED™). The
           software/device poses no risk and is non-invasive.

        -  Participate in computerized tasks of Sound converter SQUED™ (sSQUED™). The
           software/device poses no risk and is non-invasive.

        -  Participate in computerized tasks of Electromagnetic converter SQUED™ (eSQUED™). The
           device/software poses no risk and is non-invasive.
    
  