
    
      Rationale: Hypotension in the very preterm infant (gestational age [GA] <32wks) is a
      frequently occurring clinical problem. Although no real consensus has been reached on the
      definition of hypotension in the very preterm baby, in clinical practice a mean blood
      pressure (BP) in mmHg lower than the GA age in weeks is considered to be the starting point
      for anti-hypotensive therapy. However, although an association between neonatal hypotension
      and mortality and morbidity exists, there is no evidence of causation between hypotension and
      neonatal mortality and morbidity (including neurodevelopmental outcome at 2 and 3 years of
      age). In addition, using mean BP alone as the indication of treatment of neonatal
      cardiovascular compromise without taking into consideration information on the status of
      tissue perfusion may lead to unnecessary exposure of neonates to forceful vasoactive
      medications potentially causing harm to these extremely vulnerable patients.

      Objective: To compare neonatal mortality and short-term (advanced MRI indices of structural
      brain injury at 40 weeks' GA) and long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes (Bayley scales of
      infant development III [BSID-III] at 24 months) between two groups of very preterm infants
      presenting with hypotension without clinical and laboratory evidence of compromised tissue
      perfusion during the first 72 postnatal hours (3 days). Hypotension will be defined as the
      mean BP (in mm Hg) lower than the infant's GA (in weeks). Patients randomized to "Group A"
      will be treated according to the treatment policy operative in the Neonatal Intensive Care
      Unit (NICU) of the Wilhelmina Children's Hospital/University Medical Centre Utrecht (UMCU)
      while "Group B" will receive no cardiovascular support for hypotension unless they have a
      mean BP lower than the current limit minus 5 mmHg and/or evidence of compromised tissue
      perfusion and end-organ function and thus meet established criteria (see below).

      Study design: A single-centre randomized non-blinded cohort study in the NICU at the UMCU of
      preterm neonates <30 weeks' gestation during postnatal days 0 to 3.

      Study population: All preterm infants with a GA of <30 weeks admitted on day of postnatal
      life 0 to the NICU at the UMCU. Patients will be managed according to their randomization to
      Group A or B until the end of postnatal day 3.

      Intervention Patients randomized to "Group A" will be treated for hypotension according to
      the treatment protocol operative in the NICU at the UMCU. Patients randomized to "Group B"
      will receive no cardiovascular supportive therapy irrespective of their BP value unless their
      mean BP is >5 mmHg below GA in weeks for 30 minutes and/or they have indirect clinical or
      direct laboratory evidence of tissue hypoperfusion and/or end-organ dysfunction (i.e. rScO2
      is <50% despite optimized ventilatory support and FiO2 administration, plasma lactate >6
      mmol/L; and/or urine output <0.6 mL/kg/hour).

      As CO2 is the most potent regulator of cerebral blood flow (CBF), it is understandable why
      changes in arterial CO2 tension (PaCO2) has been associated with increased incidence of
      peri-intraventricular hemorrhage (PIVH) in preterm neonates with significant hypercapnia and
      with white matter injury (periventricular leukomalacia; PVL) in preterm neonates with
      hypocapnia during the immediate postnatal period. Therefore, in the present study,
      ventilation will be closely followed and PaCO2 values monitored and attempted to be kept
      within normal limits (40-to-50 mmHg) during the first three postnatal days to control for the
      potential impact of this confounding variable as far as the primary and secondary outcome
      measures are concerned (see below).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: To determine whether refraining (group B) from
      anti-hypotensive treatment has a negative, positive or no effect on the composite outcome of
      mortality and neurodevelopmental outcome (determined by BSID-III) at 24 months of age.
      Secondary outcome measures will include 1) differences between the groups in the incidence of
      PIVH during the first 7 postnatal days detected by head ultrasound, 2) differences in the
      incidence of white matter injury PVL and gray matter injury not detected within the first 7
      days by ultrasound using advanced MRI parameters of the brain at the adjusted postmenstrual
      age of 40 weeks as well as the ability to maintain CBF autoregulation during the first three
      postnatal days.
    
  