
    
      Purpose:To compare the efficacy of a non-surgical intervention bundle for the prevention and
      treatment of persistent gastrocutaneous fistulae.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that the bundled delivery of 3 non-surgical
      interventions will reduce the development of GCFs and subsequently the need for surgical
      closure as compared to an established historical control group.

      Justification: Persistent gastrocutaneous fistulae are common complications after gastrostomy
      tube removal (33%), with the current gold-standard treatment being operative intervention;
      exposing the child to the risks of anesthesia and surgery. Several non-surgical treatments
      exist, and have shown promise in small retrospective studies, however their true efficacy is
      yet to be elucidated through a prospective trial. Non-surgical treatment options include the
      use of proton-pump inhibitors, topical fibrin glue, silver nitrate application, and collagen
      plugging. As standard of care, patients may receive one, none or a combination of these
      non-surgical treatments based on clinician decision.

      Objectives: The objective of this study is to prospectively evaluate the efficacy of a
      bundled delivery of non-surgical adjuncts immediately after gastrostomy tube removal and
      compare outcomes to the historical rate of GCF development.

      Research Design: This study is a prospective observational "pre-post" study, which will
      compare our intervention arm (non-surgical intervention bundle) with a recently established
      historical control group (completed systematic review of all reported cases). Baseline data
      will be entered at the time of enrollment. Assessment of our primary outcome (rate of GCF one
      month after treatment) and secondary outcomes (including an estimate of treatment cost,
      complications, treatment satisfaction, and need for further interventions) will be made at
      standard 2 and 4 week follow-up visits.

      Statistical Analysis: Standardized quantitative hypothesis testing will be performed for the
      primary outcome with the aid of a local biostatistician. Power analysis has been established
      based on a 50% reduction in GCF development, with a sample size of 100 subjects. Secondary
      outcomes will be tabulated and subjected to quantitative or qualitative assessment as
      appropriate.
    
  