
    
      The KEO study is a single arm phase II trial including 44 patients with T1N1-2B, T2N0-N2B
      head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) eligible for curative-intent resection (+/-
      adjuvant therapy), who receive neo-adjvuant pembrolizumab + epacadostat. Patients that fit
      the inclusion criteria (see detailed eligibility criteria below) will receive neoadjuvant
      immunotherapy either with anti-PD-1 (pembrolizumab) alone or anti-PD-1 in combination with
      IDO1 inhibition (epacadostat). Patients will receive 200 mg IV Pembrolizumab every 3 weeks
      for up to 3 doses over a period of 8 weeks as well as oral epacadostat 100 mg BID starting on
      day 1 for the duration of pembrolizumab treatment.

      All patients will undergo baseline biopsy (mandatory, sampling ≥ 4 areas to represent the
      tumor), as well as baseline imaging (and for exploratory analysis collection of blood for
      baseline ctDNA testing and TCR analysis). Patients who are unable to safely (or for other
      reasons unwilling to undergo biopsy at baseline and on treatment 3-4 weeks in for infiltrate
      assessment are not eligible for the study. MRI is the preferred imaging modality; however,
      diagnostic CT is acceptable if patient is unable to undergo MRI or as clinically indicated.

      Subsequently at week 3-4 an interim assessment will be performed:

        1. All patients will undergo imaging with a 2nd MRI scan (or CT, to match prior imaging).

        2. All patients will also undergo repeat mandatory on-treatment biopsy consisting of of 4-6
           representative samples to compare to the baseline biopsy. Adequacy of response to
           treatment will be assessed in assessing eradication of tumor/presence of antitumor tumor
           response (analogous to reports in lung cancer (Forde et al ESMO 2016). The on-treatment
           biopsy is essential in the assessment of early response and decision to extend
           neo-adjuvant treatment to 8 weeks is based in large part on this biopsy. In patients
           where an on-treatment biopsy is not obtained (e.g no longer considered safe or status of
           patient has changed), patients will automatically be considered non-complete responders,
           and take off study after 4 weeks (with the very unlikely but possible exceptions of
           complete response radiologic response at 4 weeks imaging).

        3. For exploratory purposes, blood will also be drawn for repeat ctDNA and TCR analysis in
           order to assess potential suitability of dynamic changes ctDNA or TCR
           clonality/diversity as candidate biomarkers for follow-up studies.

      At the week 3/4 interim assessment, results of the imaging and biopsy will be used to
      determine response and to determine continuation of immunotherapy induction treatment for up
      to 8 weeks (full immunotherapy induction course). Patients that demonstrate stable disease or
      tumor shrinkage radiographically and biopsy demonstrating dense lymphocytic infiltrate with
      dying tumor / decrease in residual viable tumor will continue on protocol.

      Those patients with lack of lymphocytic infiltrate/dying tumor or increasing tumor on
      radiology (and confirmed on pathology from 2nd biopsy) will be transitioned to standard of
      care treatment with early salvage surgery or chemoradiation (as clinically indicated).

      Pre-surgery assessment: For those patients continuing - a second confirmatory scan will be
      done 3-4 weeks later again coupled with a blood draw, and followed by surgery at/around week
      8 (+/-1 week depending on operating schedules).

      Definitive surgery will be done at week 8. Surgical specimens will again be evaluated for
      percentage residual viable tumor and inflammatory infiltrate. Patients that exhibit complete
      pathologic response (no viable tumor) will follow close observation with repeat imaging
      (CT/MRI at 4-6 weeks), clinical exams and a PET scan at 12 weeks post-surgery (as well as
      serial ctDNA draws (exploratory).

      Patients with major pathologic responses (≤10% residual tumor, but tumor present) will be
      treated with de-escalated adjuvant radiation therapy as determined by the tumor
      board/radiation oncology.

      Patients with a surgical specimen that demonstrates >10% residual tumor after surgery will
      undergo standard adjuvant RT/CRT as indicated.

      Adjuvant Phase: Patients will continue adjuvant pembrolizumab plus epacadostat every 3 weeks
      for 12 months and be monitored with ctDNA and imaging.
    
  