
    
      1. Screening and Informed Consent Subjects will be screened on a weekly basis for eligibility
      of enrollment. If eligible, patients will be approached by study staff at the initial
      surgical consultation. The purpose of the study and risks of the procedures will be explained
      to the subject and the consent process must be documented accordingly in the medical record.
      Subjects who agree to study participation must sign an IRB approved informed consent form.
      Subjects will be informed that their participation in this study is voluntary and they may
      refuse to participate or discontinue from the study at any time. Subjects will be given the
      opportunity to ask the investigator questions so that they are adequately informed about the
      research. A copy of the signed informed consent must be provided to the subject and the
      informed consent process will be documented in source documents. If new information becomes
      available that may affect a subject's decision to continue to take part in the study, this
      information will be discussed with the subject by the investigator.

      Failure to meet submission requirements:

      Each patient will be required to meet their individual insurance companies requirements for
      submission of bariatric surgery approval. Subjects who provide study consent but then do not
      submit for insurance approval or are denied will be considered "discontinued" and will not
      require additional study follow-up visits. The reason for the discontinuation will be clearly
      delineated on the applicable case report form. Subjects in who the L-DS procedure is begun
      but not completed will be considered "discontinued" once discharged from the hospital and not
      require any additional study follow-up visits. Reasons for discontinuation will be recorded
      in the case report form. Additionally, female patients of child bearing age will undergo a
      standard of care pregnancy test at the time of the pre-operative surgical testing (2/3 weeks
      before surgery) and always the morning of surgery by urine HCG.

      Surgical Procedures:

      The operation will be performed per standard of care and as previously described (1-3), with
      the exception that in this protocol the duodeno-intestinal anastomosis will be performed at
      approximately 300 cc with moderate stretch from the ileocecal valve, rather than 200 cm or
      250 cm, as in previous reports. The purpose of this change is to allow greater nutrient
      absorption since a previous report observed no difference in mean excess weight loss between
      200 cm and 250 cm (Sanchez-Pernaute 2013). In addition, the sleeve gastrectomy will be
      performed over a 40 French bougie. The duodeno-intestinal anastomosis will be hand-sewn.
      Subjects will be maintained on a low-calorie diet for the first post-operative month, as per
      standard of care. In addition, multivitamin supplements, calcium, and iron should be
      prescribed and maintained per standard of care.

      Schedule:

      Subjects will be evaluated preoperatively, during the procedure, at discharge, and at 2
      weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months. Assessments to be conducted/data
      collected at each visit are listed below and in the study assessments table.

        1. Pre-operative Assessment The following assessments will be performed pre-operatively
           prior to the scheduled surgical procedure and the results recorded on the appropriate
           subject report form Verification of pre-operative eligibility criteria Subject
           demographics (gender, age, race, ethnicity, smoking history) Height, weight, and body
           mass index (BMI) Comorbidity assessment (prevalence and duration of type 2 diabetes
           mellitus, sleep apnea, hypertension, dyslipidemia/hyperlipidemia, and other clinically
           relevant comorbidities as determined by the treating physician), including medications
           Fasting labs (glucose, hemoglobin, HbA1C, hematocrit, ferritin, albumin, total protein,
           calcium, parathyroid hormone, vitamin A, Vitamin B1, Vitamin B12, Vitamin D2/3, Vitamin
           3, Vitamin K, folic acid, insulin, lipid panel, triglycerides, total cholesterol,
           high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), C-peptides, iron, copper,
           and zinc) Surgical history Health- related Quality of life, as measured by the SF-36
           assessment Gastrointestinal symptom rating scale, as measured by the GSRS form GERD
           HR-QL Pre-operative Dietary Restrictions

        2. Operative Assessment The following procedures and assessments will be performed on the
           day of/during the procedure: Weight and BMI American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
           grade operative time (defined as skin to skin time) anesthesia start and stop time
           estimated blood loss adverse events surgical technique (eg protocol requires: 40 French
           bougie, distal gastrectomy starting 5 cm distal to the pylorus, duodeno-intestinal
           anastomosis performed at approximately 300 cm from the ileocecal valve, hand-sewn
           anastomosis, and fascia closure for all port sites accommodating trocars greater than 12
           mm) surgical conversions to open concomitant procedures performed during the procedure

        3. Discharge Assessment

           The following procedures and assessments will be performed prior to discharge:

           Length of hospital stay Surgical site infection assessment Surgical site infection (SSI)
           Adverse events (see below)

        4. Post-operative follow-up assessments The following procedures and assessments will be
           performed at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months post procedure
           (+/- 7 days for 2 and 6 week follow-up, +/- 14 day days for all other months).

           Post-operative standard of care:

           Compliance with prescribed dietary supplements Weight and BMI EWL Comorbidity assessment
           (prevalence and duration of type 2 diabetes mellitus, sleep apnea, hypertension,
           dyslipidemia/hyperlipidemia, and other clinically relevant comorbidities as determined
           by the treating physician), including medications and relevant lab tests per standard of
           care at 3, 6, and 12 months (glucose, hemoglobin, HbA1C, hematocrit, ferritin, albumin,
           total protein, calcium, parathyroid hormone, vitamin A, Vitamin B1, Vitamin B12, Vitamin
           D2/3, Vitamin 3, Vitamin K, folic acid, insulin, lipid panel, triglycerides, total
           cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), C-peptides,
           iron, copper, and zinc) Surgical site infection assessment at 1 month only
           health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) (SF-36), GERD-HRQL and GSRS questionnaire
           expressed as change from baseline at 3, 6 and 12 months only need for endoscopy adverse
           events (see below)

        5. Adverse Events Adverse events for all bariatric procedures are tracked within our
           centers Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program
           (MBSAQIP) database. All bariatric centers accredited by the American Society for
           Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) are required to submit all bariatric surgery
           data, including experimental procedures like the L-DS, to the MBSAQIP database for
           quality review. Our bariatric surgery team has open access to our centers data for
           quality review purposes and will compare adverse events for the L-DS to the other
           procedures performed by our center. Adverse events are categorized by organ system
           (wound, respiratory, urinary tract, CNS, cardiac, or other) as specified by the MBSAQIP.
           Any post-operative occurrence within 30 days will be documented if related to the
           bariatric procedure. Bariatric related readmission and reoperations are also tracked per
           MBSAQIP guidelines. The L-DS would be stopped if a statistically significant increase in
           morbidity, mortality, or failed weight loss is found compared to the centers other
           commonly performed bariatric procedures.
    
  