
    
      In order to have the earliest possible representativeness of French furniture shop, a
      "virtual" store will be created from 400 volunteer employees from 14 French furniture shop.
      Each job will be represented and the number of employees per job will respect the average
      proportion observed in the French furniture shop.

      Following the on-site presentation of the details of the survey, by a doctor from
      Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital, volunteers will be informed within their company of the
      start of the survey. Each volunteer employee will have access to the information document
      (paper format) explaining in detail the purpose, content and conduct of the survey. If the
      voluntary collaborator agrees to participate, he / she will be asked to respond to the survey
      via the computer platform of the Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital.

      Before completing the questionnaires, the employee will be asked to participate in the
      survey, via a YES / NO choice on the computer platform, which will serve as proof of
      non-opposition. The employee will be free to reverse his initial decision at any time by
      informing the coordinating center.

      Volunteers who have agreed to participate in the study will be asked to respond to the survey
      questionnaires during each survey. Volunteers will have no obligation to participate in all
      investigations.

      The data manager of the coordinating center will build a specific and secure platform via the
      REDCap website (http://project-redcap.org/). Volunteer collaborators will be provided with
      the web link to respond to the survey directly on the REDCap platform at their workplace or
      at home.

      The deployment of the survey to employees will be carried out over a period of 1 month.

      This survey will take place in 4 separate campaigns with a 4-month interval: October /
      February / June / October (to give an overview of the season effect on the data, as well as a
      longitudinal aspect). During each campaign, employees will be notified and can participate in
      the survey. Each employee may participate in one or more investigations.
    
  