
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the late effects of treatment and the quality-of-life of patients with germ
           cell tumors (GCT) previously treated on clinical trial CCLG-GC-1979-01 or
           CCLG-GC-1989-01.

        -  Evaluate the late effects of carboplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin in patients treated
           on clinical trial CCLG-GC-1989-01.

        -  Determine the toxicity of bleomycin and a combination of either cisplatin and
           vinblastine, etoposide and cisplatin, or carboplatin and etoposide in patients treated
           on clinical trial CCLG-GC-1979-01.

        -  Evaluate tumor-associated/surgical morbidity (bladder, bowel, and lower limb function)
           in patients with malignant sacrococcygeal tumors treated in these clinical trials.

        -  Evaluate tumor-associated/surgical morbidity (sexual function/fertility) in patients
           with malignant gonadal or pelvic GCTs.

        -  Evaluate tumor-associated/surgical morbidity (respiratory function) in patients with
           thoracic GCTs.

        -  Develop a methodology and recommendations for the prospective late evaluation of
           patients treated on future extracranial GCT clinical trials and those included in this
           study.

        -  Inform clinicians about the late effects of treatment of malignant GCTs and advise them
           on what long-term care these patients require.

      OUTLINE: This is a cohort, multicenter study.

      Patients complete questionnaires about ototoxicity, bladder and bowel dysfunction, and sexual
      function and fertility as appropriate. They also complete a health-related quality-of-life
      questionnaire over 20 minutes.

      Treating physicians complete a lower-limb and neurologic dysfunction questionnaire. Data from
      myelodysplasia, second malignancy, ototoxicity, nephrotoxicity, and pulmonary toxicity
      assessments are collected from the patient's treating physician.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  