
    
      Rationale: In prostate cancer with histopathologically proven pelvic lymph node metastasis
      (pN1) after extended pelvic lymph node dissection, multimodality treatment consisting of
      treatment of the primary tumor, androgen deprivation therapy and whole pelvic radiotherapy
      offers the best results and is the standard-of-care. However, in case >1 pelvic lymph node is
      invaded by tumor, after extended pelvic lymph node dissection, 40% of the patients relapse
      biochemically and clinically. Clinical relapse is present in the para-aortic lymph nodes (M1a
      disease) in 25% of the cases as we observed in series. Therefore Elective Para-Aortic
      Radiotherapy (PART) may improve disease control.

      Objective: The main goal of this phase II study is to investigate whether elective
      para-aortic radiotherapy increases the clinical relapse-free survival (cRFS) defined as the
      absence of clinical relapse (cR) at biological imaging at 5 years. The secondary objectives
      of this study are: acute toxicity, late toxicity, quality of life (QoL), time to palliative
      androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), time to castration refractory prostate cancer (CRPC),
      cause-specific survival and in field pelvic and para-aortic disease control.

      Study design: The PART-trial is a non-randomized phase II trial.

      Study population: Men with histological proven adenocarcinoma of the prostate (cT1-4; pT2-4)
      and presence of pN1 disease after ePLND are eligible for the study. For trial-inclusion, pN1
      disease is defined on the basis of one of following criteria: (1) two or more positive LN;
      (2) ratio positive LN / removed LN > 7%; (3) presence of extracapsular LN extension. Patients
      referred for external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) who fulfill the inclusion criteria and without
      any of the exclusion criteria will be included in the present trial after written informed
      consent.

      Intervention: Patients included in the PART-trial receive radiotherapy to the prostate or
      prostate bed and the pelvic lymph nodes according to the current standard. Furthermore
      patients in the PART-trial receive an additional elective radiation to the para-aortic lymph
      nodes. The total radiation dose that will be delivered to the para-aortic lymph node area is
      45 Gy in 25 fractions of 1.8 Gy. Androgen deprivation therapy is foreseen in this trial for
      24 months (long term).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is to evaluate whether the addition of
      an elective para-aortic irradiation for pN1 prostate cancer patients increases the clinical
      relapse-free survival (cRFS) defined as the absence of clinical relapse (cR) at biological
      imaging at 5 years. Clinical relapse-free survival is defined by a combination of PSA
      measurements and imaging. Secondary endpoints are acute and late gastrointestinal (GI) and
      genitourinary (GU) toxicity using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version 4.0, QoL, time to palliative ADT, time to CRPC, cause-specific survival and in field
      pelvic and para-aortic disease control.
    
  