
    
      The main study will randomize participants to one of two conditions, an intervention
      condition ("immediate") and a no-intervention control ("delayed"). For the control "quit on
      your own" condition, we will offer a 6-month "Delayed" treatment condition (DC) and will
      inform participants that we are testing whether smokers who are motivated enough to seek
      Internet information on smoking cessation can quit on their own at the same rate as smokers
      who are given access to an interactive stop smoking Web site. For our intervention, the
      "Immediate" treatment condition (IC) is the UCSF Spanish/English Stop Smoking research Web
      site (www.stopsmoking.ucsf.edu) that provides smokers their preference of all elements tested
      in earlier trials: 1) a Web version of a National Cancer Institute-designated evidence-based
      intervention with updated content, the Guía para Dejar de Fumar; 2) A document summarizing
      pharmacological treatment to aide smoking cessation available over the counter such as
      nicotine gum or patch or by prescriptions from a clinician; 3) e-mail reminders to return to
      the site timed to individually set quit dates; 4) a mood management smoking cessation
      intervention; and 5) a virtual group (an asynchronous bulletin board designed to let
      participants provide mutual support). We will recruit study participants until we have
      randomized 1200 HL smokers in English or Spanish stratified by gender within language group.
      Participants will be followed at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after randomization to obtain
      self-reported prolonged abstinence and 7- and 30-day time point prevalence rates. E-mail
      reminders will be sent to remind participants to return to the site to complete follow-up
      surveys online. Only HL smokers from the US will be followed up by telephone calls at 1 and 6
      months. The main comparison measure will be cessation at 6 and 12 months from original
      randomization. DC participants will be able to access the interactive site after finishing
      the 6-month follow-up. We plan to attract Spanish-speaking HL participants to our Web site
      using Spanish-language TV and radio interviews and public service announcements (PSA),
      Spanish-language Google ads and networking with U.S. cessation groups.
    
  