
    
      The study is a crossover clinical trial where the effect of two interventions is compared on
      the same subject.

      The two interventions are:

        -  Intimate hygiene with water and soap

        -  Intimate hygiene with prepackaged disposable wet wipes

      Null hypothesis: Same effectiveness to reduce microbiological counts on skin

      Alternative hypothesis: Significant different effectiveness to reduce microbiological counts
      on skin

      Each individual receives the two interventions in random order. The effect of the
      interventions on microbiological counts on the patients skin is evaluated on the same
      patient.

      A crossover trial requires half the number of participants and reduces confounding factors.

      All participants receive a sequence of the two different interventions. But there is a
      sufficient gab between the two interventions to ensure a washout period and avoid a crossover
      effect. In this study this is 12-24 hours.

      The study uses block randomization, without intra block correlation to achieve allocation
      balance over time.

      Furthermore it may prevent some predictable allocation.

      Microbiological sampling with moistened swaps and aseptic techniques, sterile equipment and
      sterile recovery medium (Stewarts Medium) are used to obtain skin samples from the patients
      before and after intimate hygiene with water and soap and wet wipes.

      Differences in microbiological skin counts will be compared (delta values) before and after
      the two interventions and between interventions.

      Data will be blinded during microbiological count and statistical analyses.

      Analyses:

      Data are structured in CASTOR and will be stored in a secure Team Collaboration Software Tool
      (SharePoint).

      Descriptive analysis including mean, median, confidence interval, standard deviation, and
      standard error.

      Statistical analyses will be performed using STATA. Test of differences will be performed by
      simple t- test or Wilcoxon sign rank test, depending on the distribution of the data. A
      multiple regression analysis including possible confounders will be considered.

      Inclusion of 68 patients
    
  