
    
      PD patients with asymmetric disease aged 40 years or older, diagnosed as idiopathic PD
      according to the UK Brain Bank criteria, with Hoehn & Yahr stages II - IV while "off" will be
      recruited. Participants on antidepressants should be at least 2 months on stable therapy.

      Patient will be excluded if:

        1. They have concomitant epilepsy, a history of seizure or heat convulsion or history of
           epilepsy in first degree relative.

        2. Are on neuroleptics.

        3. Have dementia or any unstable medical disorder.

        4. Have a history or current unstable hypertension.

        5. Have a history of head injury or neurosurgical interventions.

        6. Have a history of any metal in the head (outside the mouth).

        7. Have a known history of any metallic particles in the eye, implanted cardiac pacemaker,
           implanted neurostimulators, surgical clips (above the shoulder line) or any medical
           pumps.

      Patients will be randomized into two groups: The first group of patients will receive an
      active unilateral stimulation over the motor cortex contralateral to the more affected body
      side (1Hz stimulation 110% of the MT for 15 minutes). Patients in the second group will
      receive a similar rTMS stimulation pattern over the motor cortex and over the prefrontal
      cortex (10Hz stimulation 100% of the MT, 2 seconds each train, 20 seconds between trains, for
      15 minutes).

      The following outcome measures will be taken prior to the treatment (screening visit), and at
      day 1, 10, 30 and 60 Evaluation will be while subjects both at "on" and "off".

      Motor:

        1. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS )

        2. Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGIS)

        3. Pegboard test.

        4. Tapping test

        5. Up & Go test

        6. Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) Mood and affect

      1. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) Cognition

        1. Mini mental State examination (MMSE)

        2. Digit forward and backward tests.

        3. Word fluency.

        4. Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB) Side effects will be closely monitored by the
           researchers and will be promptly reported to the IRB.

      8.Have a history of migraine or frequent or severe headaches. 9.Have a history of hearing
      loss. 10.Has a of cochlear implants 11.Have a history of drug abuse or alcoholism. 12.Is
      pregnant or not using a reliable method of birth control. 13.Is participating in current
      clinical study or clinical study within 30 days prior to this study.
    
  