
    
      Study Design - Intervention

        -  Web or phone prescreening: Participants will first complete a brief online screening to
           determine initial eligibility criteria (self-report of medical and psychiatric
           conditions, sleep disorders). Individuals who are potentially eligible will be sent an
           Actiwatch via FedEx, along with training instructions. Participants will wear the
           Actiwatch for a 7-day prescreening assessment. Research staff will receive verbal
           consent for this screening procedure and will go over instructions over the phone to
           ensure participants understand how to use this device.

        -  Study Visits: Visit 1- Screening assessment: Participants will attend a one hour
           laboratory visit that will include consent procedures, standardized measurements of
           height, weight, waist and hip circumference, and blood pressure. Participants will
           complete baseline study questionnaires.

        -  Enrollment: During visit 1, staff will review eligibility. Participants will be informed
           at the end of visit one of their eligibility. If the participant is eligible, they will
           receive a verbal and written instructions and informing them of their study group
           assignment. If they are not eligible, a payment will be sent via check.

        -  Randomization: Participants will be randomized to 4 study groups using sealed envelopes
           with assignments determined via a random number generator.

        -  Study Conditions: Participants will be randomly assigned to 1 of 4 study groups.

        -  Study group 1: Participants will receive the telephone coaching and wear the Fitbit
           device week 1 through week 6.

        -  Study group 2: Participants will receive the telephone coaching only.

        -  Study group 3: Participants will wear the Fitbit device week 1 through week 6 study but
           will not receive telephone coaching.

        -  Study group 4: Control group. Participants will not receive telephone coaching nor will
           they wear the Fitbit device. They will be instructed to keep their sleep schedule
           consistent.

      Arms and Interventions -

        -  The intervention will be delivered via smartphone and adherence will be facilitated by
           telephone coaching. Participants will receive weekly "lessons", which are content that
           is emailed each week as part of the program. In study groups 1 and 3, participants will
           wear a Fitbit sleep tracking monitor for the duration of the intervention. Coaches will
           be able to log in and see participants' data to help encourage them to meet their sleep
           goals.

        -  Weekly lesson content will be delivered via email (e.g. mail chimp).

        -  Telephone coaching: Participants in study groups 1 and 2 will be assigned to a sleep
           coach who will monitor their progress during the study and provide weekly telephone
           coaching sessions related to their sleep-related goals. The coaches will establish
           legitimacy by their knowledge of sleep and basic counseling principles. They will
           establish goals with the participants based on the participants' values and beliefs,
           including the particular sleep related goals and also usage goals, (e.g., number of
           log-ins completed per week). Performance monitoring will be completed through an online
           dashboard visible to the coaches (Fitbit web log in). The first coaching session is a 20
           min engagement session, which includes introductions, rational for the program,
           clarifying roles of the coach and the participants' goals for the program. Coaches
           (directed by Dr. Baron) will provide feedback to the participant based on Fitbit and
           sleep diary data. For weeks 2-6, the coach and participant will also have weekly brief
           (5-10 min) follow-up support calls to troubleshoot any problems with the application or
           Fitbit, review progress, problem solve barriers to progress, and set goals for the
           following week. In-between sessions, the coaches will be available, mostly over email,
           to troubleshoot any problems with the content or Fitbit. Frequency of text, phone, and
           email communication will be recorded.

        -  Control group: Participants assigned to the no-treatment wait list control condition
           will be told they were assigned to the wait list group, and therefore eligible to
           receive the intervention components at the end of the study. At the end of the final
           session, they will receive a Fitbit wearable fitness tracker and emails with the 6
           didactic lessons.
    
  