
    
      Background

      From mechanical point of view the goal of the cardiovascular system is to distribute the
      kinetic energy of blood ejection from the left ventricle (LV) to body organs with minimal
      loss and greatest efficiency. The left ventricle and the arterial circulation work as
      "coupled" system. The ideal coupling supposes that a maximum of the energy produced by the LV
      is converted into forward flow to perfuse the body organs. This matching between "the source"
      (LV) and "the load" (arterial circulation) is governed by the mechanical properties of these
      parts of cardiovascular system.

      Variety of pathological conditions change this coupling in such a way that may adversely
      affect the organ blood flow in the presence of unchanged or even high cardiac output, or
      significantly increase the metabolic demand on the LV for the maintenance of adequate
      systemic perfusion due to decrease of mechanical efficiency of the work produced by LV.

      Although effects of anesthetic agents on myocardial contractility and peripheral vascular
      tone were extensively studied in clinical conditions, little is known about their influence
      on ventriculo-arterial coupling. Propofol and inhalational agents appear to impair this
      equilibrium in animal experiments. This is not surprising, since these agents cause complex
      dose-dependent changes in many physiologic parameters, including myocardial contractility,
      left ventricular preload and afterload, diastolic properties of myocardium and baroreceptor
      control of hemodynamics. Although these properties of anesthetic agents have been delineated
      extensively, very limited data characterizing their influence on ventriculo-arterial coupling
      in clinical conditions exist. This information is especially meaningful while planning the
      anesthetic management of patients undergoing cardiac surgery, where maintenance of
      circulatory homeostasis is of outmost importance. Since the main hemodynamic goal during
      anesthesia of the patient with cardiovascular disease is to provide optimal tissue perfusion
      with minimal myocardial oxygen demand, i.e. with maximal mechanical efficiency, knowledge of
      anesthetic induced changes in ventriculo-arterial coupling is extremely relevant from the
      clinical point of view.

      The most convenient method for the evaluation of ventriculo-arterial coupling is the analysis
      of the relationship between LV end-systolic elastance, load-independent measure of myocardial
      contractility, and effective arterial end-systolic elastance, measure mechanical loading
      conditions8. Physiological data necessary for the calculation of these parameters may be
      acquired in relatively non-invasive way by combining and analyzing together recording of
      arterial blood pressure waveform and data of changes of LV volume, which may be obtained by
      means of echocardiography.

      Objectives

      General

      The aim of the study is to delineate and compare the changes in ventriculo-arterial coupling
      caused by two popular anesthetic protocols commonly used in cardiac surgery (intravenous,
      based on the infusion of propofol, versus inhalational, based on isoflurane) on different
      stages of the surgery.

      Specific

        1. To compare influence of two anesthetic protocols on myocardial contractility at the end
           of the surgery.

        2. To assess net changes in effective arterial elastance produced by surgery with the use
           of cardiopulmonary bypass and evaluate possible differences between these two anesthetic
           protocols in respect to changes of arterial tone.

        3. To evaluate the preservation of ventriculo-arterial coupling by two different anesthetic
           modes.
    
  