
    
      This component is grounded in the past work of the Center. It continues the tradition of
      working with complex populations in new settings. However, it addresses the problem that
      shorter (standard or traditional tobacco dependence) interventions do not appear to work well
      in this population, and it tests a research-based alternative that has shown effectiveness in
      prior research. If the Innovative System (IS) that we propose is shown to be effective in
      this population, this line of research will offer the field a strategy to more effectively
      address tobacco dependence among persons with non-nicotinic drug abuse disorders. It is an
      extended treatment, and with appropriate adaptations, could become a continuing care
      intervention in a variety of health systems using a variety of health care personnel,
      including pharmacists, primary care physicians & nurses.

      Drug addiction treatment patients, including those in treatment for opioid dependence, have a
      high rate of tobacco dependence, especially cigarette smoking. The proposed study evaluates
      an Innovative System (IS) for the treatment of tobacco dependence in one group of opioid
      treatment patients, those in buprenorphine maintenance. The primary specific aims of the
      proposed study are to test four efficacy hypotheses and to study cost and cost effectiveness
      of the IS. We will test the following four hypotheses and explore one additional primary aim:

        1. We hypothesize that at months 12 and 18, participants in IS will attain higher
           biochemically verified cigarette abstinence rates than those in STC.

        2. We hypothesize that at months 6, 12, and 18, participants in IS will report more quit
           attempts and more stringent cigarette abstinence goals than participants in STC.

        3. We hypothesize that, in both treatment conditions, a higher number of cigarettes smoked
           at baseline and higher baseline Fagerström Test of Nicotine Dependence (FTND) score will
           predict a lower probability of abstinence at months 3, 6, 12, and 18.

        4. We hypothesize that, in both experimental conditions, participants with smaller
           Cotinine/3HC (COT/3HC) ratios will be more likely to be abstinent at months 3, 6, 12,
           and 18, than those with larger ratios.

        5. The final primary specific aim is to determine the cost of providing innovative smoking
           cessation treatment to opiate dependent individuals in buprenorphine treatment and to
           learn if the treatment is cost-effective, that is, if its benefits are sufficient to
           justify its cost. This aim reflects an ongoing and historical emphasis in this P50
           center grant, that of obtaining cost and cost-effectiveness data, as well as efficacy
           data A secondary aim is to obtain preliminary data about differences in use of
           non-nicotinic drugs between participants who achieve abstinence from cigarettes during
           the study, and those who do not.
    
  