
    
      The exact mechanism underlying POVL is poorly understood, but nearly all cases seem to
      involve ischemic optic neuropathy (ION). Posterior ION is more commonly the result of spinal
      procedures. The spine surgery associated risk factors include: prone position, Trendelenburg
      positioning, blood loss, prolonged procedure, use of vasoconstriction agents to correct blood
      pressure, direct ocular compression, and hypotension [1,2]. Given the fact that the suspected
      mechanism is a gradual infarction of the optic nerve, POVL could theoretically be prevented
      based on early detection of reversible optic nerve dysfunction. Visual evoked potentials
      (VEP) are a highly sensitive method for detecting optic nerve dysfunction, including
      ischemia.

      During intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM), an emitted light passes through
      the lens, reaching the retina and causing hyperpolarization. The signal generated by the
      retina in response to a flash of light is known as the electroretinogram (ERG). This response
      may be recorded using conventional neurophysiological equipment and reflects overall retinal
      function. The VEP peaks are generated during the passage of electrical signal from the retina
      via the optic pathways to the primary visual cortex, and can also be registered during IONM.
      Measurements of VEP peaks under anesthesia can vary depending on type of anesthetic regimen,
      some producing more interference with the electrical impulses than others.

      The problems encountered during VEP monitoring are numerous: a reusable device must be
      cleaned in between patients, tightly fitting goggles pose a risk of damaging the eyes,
      goggles may fall off or move intraoperatively and be difficult to reposition once the
      procedure is underway. Also, the light emitting diodes tend to be too weak to produce an
      adequate stimulus. This pilot study presents a new different approach from current methods.
      The SightSaverTM visual stimulator design consists of the following key advantages over the
      current technologies: hygienically superior to re-usable goggles, provides physical
      protection to the ocular region, use of higher intensity diodes and adhesive foam padding
      shaped to contours of periocular region.

      This pilot, single center, prospective, randomized, two-arm study will involve 20 subjects at
      The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center who are scheduled to undergo spine surgery
      that requires prone position and at least two hours of general anesthesia or TIVA and
      intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring. Eligible subjects that provide voluntary and
      written informed consent will be included in the study with a 1:1 randomization ratio of two
      arms, n=10 patients per each of two anesthesia regimen groups: general anesthesia and TIVA.
      All patients will wear the SightSaverTM visual stimulator. IONM of VEP with include insertion
      of half-inch needle electrodes placed just under the skin on either side of the eye, at the
      top of the forehead and three along the back of the head. Flashes of light, delivered at
      continuous intervals, will be emitted from diodes mounted in the SightSaverTM visual
      stimulator. After the baseline VEP is established for the patient, monitoring of VEP will
      occur at every 30 minutes during surgery. If during the monitoring process, a significant VEP
      waveform change has occurred, an alert will trigger the surgical staff to check four
      different parameters: technical issues with goggles, anesthetic changes, significant blood
      loss or a blood pressure change. Analysis of data collected will be used to evaluate the
      efficacy of SightSaverTM visual stimulator for intraoperative VEP-based detection of
      significant visual changes during prone spine surgeries.
    
  