
    
      Annual epidemics of influenza A and B cause substantial morbidity and mortality in the US
      with high rates of hospitalizations, emergency department visits, outpatient visits, and
      medical costs. Epidemics cause up to 40,000 deaths/year (mostly elderly) and extensive
      morbidity among children who play a key role in instigating and expanding epidemics. In
      addition, concerns about pandemic influenza heighten the importance of new mechanisms to
      rapidly inform the population about influenza and direct efforts for rapid vaccine delivery.

      Since 2010, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) has recommended influenza
      vaccination for all children >6 months of age. However, vaccination rates remain very low.
      For the 2012-2013 season, only 56% of children 2-17years were vaccinated. Modeling studies
      suggest that as many as 19 million cases of influenza could be prevented if child vaccination
      rates were raised to 70% nationally.

      The most effective strategy recommended by CDC and the Task Force on Community Preventive
      Services for improving childhood influenza vaccination rates is reminder/recall (R/R), sent
      by phone or mail, notifying parents of the need to vaccinate their child. We and others have
      shown that R/R can improve influenza vaccination rates by up to 20%. However, <16% of
      practices use R/R; barriers are practice costs, insufficient staff time and expertise, and
      lack of predictability regarding receipt of vaccine supplies.

      Statewide immunization information systems (IISs) now exist in all states to track childhood
      vaccinations, but they have not been used for influenza vaccine R/R because of lack of
      evidence for their effectiveness and a lack of a template for IIS-based R/R. The
      investigators have united two leading immunization research groups (Denver, CO and Rochester
      (lead by personnel at UCLA), NY) to assess the impact of centralized IIS-based influenza
      vaccine R/R and to evaluate the effect of three types of R/R (autodialer, text message and
      mail R/R) over usual care. The investigators will also develop tools to aid other states in
      creating efficient IIS R/R systems for seasonal and possible pandemic influenza outbreaks.

      For this second R/R trial in New York State, the intent is to evaluate the impact of reminder
      recalls, in the form of 1) autodialers 2) text messages and 3) postcards versus the standard
      of care control group, specifically in relation to raising influenza vaccination rates among
      children 6m-17 years of age.

      The proposed design of this 4-arm RCT:

        1. standard of care control

        2. autodialer R/R -- with brief educational messages, practice name and practice phone
           number

        3. text message R/R-- with brief educational messages, practice name and practice phone
           number

        4. mailed (postcards) R/R-- with brief educational messages, practice name and practice
           phone number

      Hypothesis 1: All IIS-C R/R modalities will be more effective than usual care

      Hypothesis 2: Text messaging will be more cost-effective than other modalities
    
  