
    
      Our hypotheses will be tested in a randomized parallel groups design. Randomization will be
      based on type of treatment assignment: either to SR or CT. After screening and randomization
      in the 2-week baseline phase, subjects will receive SR or CT in the 6-week treatment phase.
      There will be no more treatment after this point. At the end of the 6-week treatment,
      subjects will return to repeat many of the psychological tests administered during baseline
      to determine the short-term benefit. This 4-year proposal will include 100 subjects (2 groups
      of 50 each) with outcome, mediator, and moderator measures collected at appropriate points.

      All subjects will receive education about basic sleep hygiene as well as information about
      the science of sleep including sleep stages and sleep regulation.

      Sleep Restriction Therapy (SR). The initial Time in Bed (TIB) prescription is calculated from
      the average total sleep time (TST) reported in the baseline sleep logs. After one week,
      depending on subject's daily sleep logs and adherence to treatment, the therapist suggests a
      new TIB prescription. Napping is neither prescribed nor proscribed. However, if subjects find
      themselves having difficulty staying awake during the day, they are advised to take a brief
      (15 to 30 minutes) nap to ensure their safety.

      Cognitive Therapy (CT). CT is designed to meet three general goals: 1) identify dysfunctional
      sleep cognitions, 2) challenge the validity of these thoughts, and 3) replace them with more
      adaptive substitutes. Several specific techniques designed to meet these goals are discussed
      in materials distributed to subjects.

      We will continue to monitor progress post-treatment during the follow-up period. The complete
      package of outcome measures will be repeated at the follow-up session. We will tell subjects
      that we expect the benefits of treatment to continue and/or improve with time and we will
      also encourage subjects to continue practicing the treatment instructions to maintain their
      progress after active treatment ends.

      Subjects will be screened for eligibility via a phone interview and an in-person evaluation.

      At the in-person evaluation, informed consent will be received and documented. The evaluation
      will consist of measures of cognitive impairment and depression, sleep disturbance, and
      medical and psychiatric history. Exclusion criteria will be evaluated by the following
      measures: Acute/Unstable Chronic Illness Checklist, Berlin Questionnaire, Columbia Suicide
      Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), the Duke Structured Interview for Sleep Disorders (Duke),
      Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), Life Stressor Checklist, Mini International
      Neuropsychiatric Interview Version 5 (MINI), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA),
      Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire (MEQ), Sleep Related Behavior Questionnaire, and the
      Thought Control Questionnaire Insomnia-Revised (TCQI). At Palo Alto, subjects will
      additionally be provided with and instructed in the use of at-home PSG equipment. A
      24-channel EEG cap will be placed on the participant's head before they leave to ensure
      accurate recordings are obtained. The PSG will be completed in the subject's own home and be
      used to screen for Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) and Periodic Limb Movement Disorder (PLMD).
      Subjects will return to the lab the next morning to have the equipment removed.

      At each visit during Weeks 1-8 and again at Week 32, participants will complete the Anxiety
      and Preoccupation about Sleep Questionnaire (APSQ), Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale
      (DASS-21), Epworth Sleepiness Scale, and the Insomnia Severity Index. Sleep diaries will be
      completed through the treatment phase (Weeks 1-8) and again at follow-up (Week 32).

      The following measures will be completed at weeks 1, 8, and 32:

      American Urological Association-8 (AUA-8) Nocturia Subscale; Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form
      (BPI-SF); Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI); Beck Depression Inventory (BDI); Clinician
      Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS); Dysfunctional Beliefs and Attitudes about Sleep Scale (DBAS);
      Glasgow Content of Thoughts; Glasgow Sleep Effort Scale; Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory;
      Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ); Perceived Stress Scale (PSS); and the SF-36 (RAND).

      Subjects will be evaluated on Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire at weeks 1, 2, 8 and
      32.

      Subjects will be evaluated on the Sleep Associated Monitoring Index (SAMI) at weeks 1 and 8.

      At Palo Alto, subjects will be evaluated on the Trail Making Test, MOCA, Color Word
      Interference Test, and the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status
      (RBANS) at weeks 1 and 32.

      Following the completion of treatment at Week 7, subjects will complete the Treatment
      Adherence Survey, Treatment Satisfaction Survey, and Working Alliance Inventory. The Working
      Alliance Inventory will also be given at the second treatment session (Week 3).

      Blood will be drawn at Baseline and Week 32 to measure levels of C-reactive protein (CRP).
      Urine samples will be collected during each of the 3 study phases to monitor abstinence from
      recreational drugs, with the exception of medical marijuana used less than four times per
      week. Samples will be collected by nurses at the VA Clinical Studies Unit and analyzed by the
      VA laboratory. Remaining blood will be banked for analysis of genetic factors.

      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, participants may complete all study sessions including the
      evaluations through telehealth. The telehealth study will still be available even after
      in-person research has resumed.

      For participants completing the study through telehealth, we will not collect the following
      measures: urine screen, blood draw, overnight PSG, Trail Making Test, or Color Word
      Interference test. For telehealth participants, the MOCA-Blind may replace the MOCA. All
      other measures can feasibly be done through telehealth.
    
  