
    
      Purpose:

        -  Crohn's disease is an inflammatory bowel disease with major symptoms such as diarrhea
           and abdominal pain when the disease is in an active stage.

        -  AIN457 is a protein developed by NOVARTIS that is used to stop the action of
           Interleukin-17 (IL-17), a protein made by the body that contributes to many different
           kinds of inflammatory diseases, including Crohn's disease. AIN457 is being developed for
           the potential treatment of various inflammatory diseases like rheumatoid arthritis and
           psoriasis, but has not been tested for suitability in people with Crohn's disease.

      Objectives:

        -  The main objective of the NIH substudy is to obtain additional blood and gut biopsy
           tissue for monitoring biochemical changes in immune variables in response to study drug
           or placebo.

        -  The main objective of the main multicenter study (sponsored by NOVARTIS) is to determine
           whether AIN457 is safe and effective in the treatment of Crohn's disease, and if
           effective, how long the effect will remain.

      Eligibility:

      - Important eligibility criteria to consider for patients to be enrolled in the AIN457 trial
      include:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Male or female; 18-75 years old

        -  Diagnosis of Crohn's disease for at least 3 months prior to screening

        -  Moderate to severe active Crohn's disease at baseline, defined as: CDAI greater than or
           equal to 220 and less than or equal to 450

        -  Active disease despite prior treatment with stable dose of corticosteroids for 2 weeks,
           or immunosuppressant for at least 3 months (e.g. methotrexate, azathioprine).

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Subjects with symptoms associated with active bowel stricturing disease and pre-stenotic
           dilation on radiography.

        -  Fistulizing disease if complicated by sepsis and/or untreated abscess.

        -  Subjects with multiple bowel surgeries and clinically important short bowel syndrome
           defined as an inability to maintain caloric intake.

        -  Prior therapy with rituximab.

        -  Receiving corticosteroids dose equivalent to a > 40mg dose of prednisone per day.

        -  Subjects demonstrating clinical improvement due to other Crohn's therapy.

        -  Subjects with active or history of clinically significant cardiac abnormalities.

      Design:

        -  For the NIH substudy, additional blood will be drawn and a colonoscopy will be performed
           before the first infusion and after the second infusion.

        -  The multicenter study plans to enroll seventy-two (72) subjects with moderate to severe
           active Crohn's disease that is not controlled by corticosteroids, immunosuppressant
           (e.g. methotrexate or purine metabolites) or anti-inflammatory treatment (e.g. 5-ASA).
           At baseline visit, if the eligibility of the subject is confirmed, the subject will be
           randomized (2:1 ratio) to receive either AIN457 or placebo administered as a 2 hours
           intravenous infusion. A total of two infusions will be given on day 1 and day 22
           respectively.

        -  After infusions there will be a follow-up period of up to 18 weeks.

        -  Once this study is completed, an extension study will be conducted that will offer
           access to AIN457. Patients who complete the current study may be eligible to enter the
           extension study and receive therapy with AIN457.
    
  