
    
      Study population: outpatients in the Outpatient Department at The Psychiatric Hospital

      Target population: clients with two-weekly appointments

      Procedures for recruitment and consent

      Participants will be chosen using available lists of persons who come to clinic on a
      two-weekly basis on four(4) days of the week (every day except the day the Principal
      Investigator is responsible for conducting clinic), for two consecutive weeks. Twenty-six
      will be chosen each day (for eight (8) days) and randomized to intervention and
      treatment-as-usual (Thirteen (13) persons to each group). Participants will be selected based
      on the inclusion and exclusion criteria and consent will be obtained.

      Randomization will be carried out by Stata 14

      Sample size

      Using the means and standard deviations for the Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness
      Inventory (ISMI) used in a randomized controlled trial and Stata 14 for sample size
      calculation, the sample size recommended is eighty-four (84) with forty-two (42) per group.
      This will give a power (for the study) of eighty per cent (80%).

      However, the aim will be two-hundred and eight (208) clients based on the following:

        -  Target population: two-hundred and fifty (250). Approximately twenty-five (25) patients
           come to clinic daily, most of whom come on a two-weekly basis. Therefore, this will
           allow eighty-three per cent (83%) of the population to be part of the study.

        -  Maximum number of persons in a group- thirteen (13)

        -  Maximum number of groups that can be held before clinic begins- one (1)

        -  Time for thesis

        -  Taking into account that persons may not be willing to participate and so aiming to
           include as many persons as possible

      Method

      There will be six (6) sessions covering six (6) topics. One topic will be covered at each
      session. Sessions will last sixty (60) to ninety (90) minutes.

      Data collection

      - Administration of the ISMI, the General self-efficacy scale and World Health Organization
      (WHO)5 Well Being Index and a questionnaire to the intervention and control groups before the
      intervention and after the intervention. This will be done by a health professional not
      related to the study.

      Permission was obtained from producer of ISMI. WHO5 Well-Being Index is free to use and
      General self-efficacy scale does not require permission, once referenced.

      All three scales have been found to be valid and reliable.

        -  A pilot study on 26 persons will be conducted to test the questionnaire and scales.

        -  To ensure accurate completion of questionnaire and scales by each participant, each item
           will be read and explained before participants asked to select answer. Questions on
           clarification will be encouraged.Time will also be given after, for participants to read
           through answers if needed. Additionally, when collecting questionnaires and scales, the
           mental health professional will scan through to ensure all questions answered.

      Questionnaires and scales will be identified using participants' record numbers to facilitate
      verification of information such as whether medications or health care provider changed
      during the course of the intervention.

      Statistical analyses

        -  Summary statistics

        -  Regression analysis of endpoint score adjusting baseline score and looking at the
           difference between the intervention and treatment-as-usual groups.

      Intention to treat analysis will be used.

      - Software to be used: Stata 14 Missing entries will be included in the analysis Data
      handling and record keeping

      Questionnaires kept in secure room for at least five (5) years
    
  