
    
      The renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) is integral to cardiovascular homeostasis and
      involved in the regulation of blood pressure, electrolyte balance and intravascular volume.
      Renin is produced from the renal juxtaglomerular cells and converts angiotensinogen to
      angiotensin. Angiotensin is subsequently converted to angiotensin II by
      angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). Angiotensin II also promotes the release of
      aldosterone.The RAAS has an important role in hypotension to retain water through aldosterone
      and increase systemic vascular resistance mainly through angiotensin II but also through the
      release of vasopressin.

      The RAAS can become dysregulated in critically ill shocked patients. In states such as septic
      shock the effects of the RAAS are antagonized through the production of vasodilators such a
      nitric oxide and both angiotensin I and angiotensin II receptors are down regulated.
      Activation of angiotensin I receptors may furthermore result in the production of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines that results in further vasodilation and contributes to
      cardiovascular compromise.

      While the RAAS has been extensively investigated in cardiovascular patients there is a
      paucity of studies relevant to ICU. A recent study suggested that raised serum renin levels
      in patients with sepsis is associated with acute renal failure. Another study of a small
      heterogeneous cohort of critically ill patients compared renin to lactate as marker of tissue
      perfusion.

      As RAAS is closely related to the volume state, there is a physiological rationale to
      investigate serum renin levels together with variables to monitor the intravascular volume,
      including assessment of the mean systemic filling pressure (Pmsf). An analogue of the Pmsf
      will be calculated in this study based on routine postoperative haemodynamic monitoring (mean
      arterial pressure, MAP, central venous pressure, CVP, cardiac output, CO).

      Furthermore, there is no current research which looks at serum renin as marker of hemodynamic
      normalization or association with outcomes after cardiac surgery which is the main purpose of
      this study.

      Serum renin as a candidate sensitive biomarker of hemodynamic homeostasis will be compared to
      current clinical markers of resuscitation and perfusion including cardiac index, mixed venous
      oxygen saturation, lactate and venoarterial carbon dioxide gradients.

      If the serum renin concentration is found to be a marker of resuscitation and hemodynamic
      status, the study will examine any associations with lack of hemodynamic normalization and
      morbidity in cardiothoracic patients. A pragmatic, composite morbidity outcome at 30 days
      will be used as the primary endpoint. This includes renal impairment, myocardial infarction,
      persistent cardiogenic shock, arrythmia, respiratory failure, delirium and stroke. An
      exploratory, secondary outcome will focus on whether serum renin concentrations are
      associated with acute kidney injury and the need of renal replacement therapy in post cardiac
      surgical patients.
    
  