
    
      This is a mixed-methods formative program evaluation of the adaptations necessitated by the
      pandemic to the 3 Wishes Project. The adaptations will be studied as implemented in 3 acute
      care units at St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton (medical stepdown unit, medical-surgical ICU
      and the COVID-19 unit) during the 2020 SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. End-of-life care for patients
      dying in hospital is profoundly changed during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, affecting the
      experience of everyone involved.

      At this institution, end-of-life care includes 2 interventions designed to humanize the
      experience for patients and families (the 3 Wishes Project and Footprints Project). Both of
      these programs encourage clinicians to learn more about the patient as an individual and to
      find ways to honor them. The 3 Wishes Project is a long-running clinical program at St.
      Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton and has become the usual approach to end of life care, partnered
      with the Footprints Project which involves sharing personal information about patients with
      the clinical staff. In this study, to learn more about each patient, the clinical staff will
      telephone family members to collate personal information about patients to share with staff
      via a whiteboard in the patients' room, and in the patient's electronic medical record,
      reassuring families about interest in their loved one as a person. Building on this
      information about 'what matters most' and respecting and recognizing each dying patient,
      staff will elicit and implement terminal wishes from dying patients (if able), family
      members, and clinicians. During the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, these programs will be adapted to
      accommodate infection prevention and control restrictions and bridge the gap when family
      presence is limited due to visiting restrictions.

      Population: In this single-center mixed-methods formative evaluation study the researchers
      will enroll up to 45 patients in these 3 units, along with 45 corresponding families and 45
      clinicians who cared for these patients (acknowledging that some will care for more than one
      dying patient). N=135 three wards in a single hospital (St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton)

      Data: Data will be both quantitative and qualitative. Quantitative data will include patient
      characteristics, family visits and presence at the time of death, the number, type, and cost
      of terminal wishes implemented. Qualitative data will be from interviews and focus groups
      with clinicians and family members if not prohibited by complex grief provoked by losing a
      loved one during the pandemic.
    
  