
    
      This is a single-center, open-label, single-arm phase II clinical study to exploratory
      observe and evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1 antibody (Camrelizumab for
      Injection) in patients with malignant melanoma of the female genital tract.

      The patients were divided into two cohorts according to their conditions: Cohort 1: patients
      with postoperative recurrence of malignant melanoma of the female genital tract requiring
      adjuvant therapy；Cohort 2: patients with metastatic or unresectable malignant melanoma of the
      female genital tract who were screened eligible and received study treatment after being
      fully informed and signing the informed consent form.

      Camrelizumab will be administered at a fixed dose of 200 mg intravenously (iv) on D1 in a
      14-day cycle. All subjects will be administered until they reach the end of treatment
      standard specified in the protocol.

      Subjects were to have a safety visit 3 days prior to dosing in each treatment cycle after the
      study. Imaging was performed every 8 weeks to assess efficacy until radiographic progression,
      initiation of new antineoplastic therapy, withdrawal of consent, or subject lost to
      follow-up/death.

      After the end of treatment, an end-of-treatment visit and a post-treatment safety visit will
      also be performed. Subjects who have concluded the study treatment for reasons other than
      disease progression will receive imaging assessment at the end of treatment (if imaging
      evaluation is not performed at 4 months) and imaging assessment every 3 months after the end
      of treatment to assess the time to disease progression. After the end of treatment, subjects
      will also be followed up for survival (every 3 months for years 1 to 2, every 4 months for
      years 3, every 6 months for years 4 to 5, and annually from year 6) to collect and record the
      survival status of subjects and subsequent anti-tumor treatment.

      Tumor tissue samples, sections, paraffin blocks or biopsy blocks, and biomarkers, including
      but not limited to PD-L1 expression level and the proportion of positive cells, TMB level and
      MMR status, will be collected from subjects during the screening period after the most recent
      previous treatment.
    
  