
    
      This study aims to evaluate a individual-focused intervention with an integrated focus on
      drug use and HIV prevention, including uptake of and adherence to PrEP. The investigators
      will recruit a sample of 240 partnered individuals.

      Recruitment occurs using a mix of in-person and Internet recruitment. Outreach workers will
      visit bars and events in the New York City area to recruit participants. Also,information on
      our project will be posted on social media sites (e.g.,Facebook, Grindr, Scruff). Interested
      individuals will complete a brief online screener to assess eligibility. A telephone screener
      will be conducted with participants who are preliminarily eligible based upon online screener
      responses. Participants who are eligible based upon telephone screening responses will be
      sent an email. The email contains a link for them to access the baseline online survey. It
      provides information which introduces the study to the recruited partner and a link to the
      baseline survey online. If participants indicate intimate partner violence (IPV) on the
      online baseline survey, participants will be rendered ineligible. Only the participant that
      indicated experiencing IPV will be given a list of local referrals to access IPV-related
      services.

      An in-person baseline assessment appointment will be scheduled after both participants have
      completed the online survey.

      The in-person baseline assessment appointment consists of four components; written consent, a
      computer-assisted self interview (CASI), a timeline follow back interview, and biological
      testing.

      Written consent is obtained prior to the start of any in-person baseline activity.
      Participants additionally complete a computer-assisted self interview (CASI). After this,
      participants will independently complete a TFLB. TLFB is a semi-structured interview to
      collect retrospective event-level data on drug use, sexual behavior and PrEP adherence (for
      those on PrEP) in the past 30 days.

      The final part of the in-person baseline assessment consists of biological testing for STI
      (gonorrhea & chlamydia via urinalysis and rectal swabs), drug testing via 5-panel fingernail
      drug assay via finger or toe nail clippings. Drugs tested are 5 major drugs: Amphetamines,
      Cannabinoids, Cocaine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine (PCP). HIV testing will consist of a finder
      prick test using the Alere Determine HIV-1/2 Ag/Ab Combo test. Participants indicating
      current PrEP use will receive an HIV test via blood draw for a laboratory immunoassay.
      Participants indicating current PrEP give an additional blood sample and fingernail sample to
      examine PrEP adherence using a dried blood spot for western blot analysis and fingernail
      assay.

      After the baseline assessment, participants will be randomized to receive their first PARTNER
      or Education session, of which will occur immediately following their baseline assessment.

      The study will employ a stratified randomization procedure using an algorithm via Qualtrics.
      Participants will be randomized using three couple-level criteria as reported by the
      participant. Participants will be randomized based on relationship length difference (less
      than 2 years versus 2 or more), age difference (less than 3 years versus 3 or more), racial
      difference (both white versus all others combinations), PrEP use (Participant reports current
      PrEP use versus does not report current use).

      Each of the intervention arms consists of 4 sessions that occur once a week for four
      consecutive weeks.

      All participants complete a 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, and 12-month follow ups. At the 3
      month follow up (post baseline assessment), participants complete a survey with a TLFB,
      fingernail specimen collection for drug use. For participants indicating current PrEP use,
      participants and give blood for a dried blood spot analysis and an additional fingernail
      sample to test for PrEP uptake/adherence.

      At the 6 month follow up month follow up (post baseline assessment), participants complete a
      survey with a TLFB, fingernail specimen collection for drug use, biological testing for STI
      (gonorrhea & chlamydia via urinalysis and rectal swabs) and HIV testing using the Alere
      Determine HIV-1/2 Ag/Ab Combo test. Participants indicating current PrEP use will receive an
      HIV test via blood draw for a laboratory immunoassay Also, for participants indicating
      current PrEP use, participants and give blood for a dried blood spot analysis and an
      additional fingernail sample to test for PrEP uptake/adherence.

      At the 9 month follow up (post baseline assessment), participants complete a survey with a
      TLFB, fingernail specimen collection for drug use. For participants indicating current PrEP
      use, participants and give blood for a dried blood spot analysis and an additional fingernail
      sample to test for PrEP uptake/adherence.

      At final assessment (12 month follow up post baseline assessment), participants complete a
      survey with a TLFB, fingernail specimen collection for drug use, biological testing for STI
      (gonorrhea & chlamydia via urinalysis and rectal swabs) and HIV testing using the Alere
      Determine HIV-1/2 Ag/Ab Combo test. Participants indicating current PrEP use will receive an
      HIV test via blood draw for a laboratory immunoassay Also, for participants indicating
      current PrEP use, participants and give blood for a dried blood spot analysis and an
      additional fingernail sample to test for PrEP uptake/adherence.
    
  