
    
      This randomized control trial was conducted from May- July 2014 across National University
      Hospital and Singapore National Eye Centre. All the patients of 10 consultants and senior
      consults and X medical officers were included in the study. A total of 148 participants were
      surveyed, and a total of X saliva samples were collected.

      The inclusion criterion for patients was cataract surgery patients aged 50 years and above,
      with an acceptable hearing level based on CALFRAST hearing and the ability to wear clip-on
      on-ear headphones without discomfort. They were required to be mentally and physically
      capable of informed consent. Patients were also required to be ASA Grade 3 or lower.

      Inclusion criterion for surgeons was surgeons doing phacoemulsification cataract surgeries,
      and for anaesthetists, the inclusion criteria was anaesthetists using only minimal sedation
      for the procedure.

      Exclusion criteria was severe/profound hearing impairments, patients with intellectual
      disabilities, patients on psychotropic medications or drugs affecting mood or hemodynamic
      status, ASA grade 4 and parturients

      Exclusion criterion for surgeons included ECCE procedures. Exclusion criteria for
      anaesthetists was anaesthetists using moderate sedation, or who used non-standard drugs
      including Droperidol.

      Both the NHG Domain-Specific Institutional Review Board and the Singhealth Institutional
      Review Board approved the study in May 2014, and all ethical consideration complied with.
      Written informed consent was sought prior to the questionnaire administration, and
      participants were allowed to withdraw from the study at any time during data collection.

      The study had 3 arms- an experimental group of patients who listened to music via headphones,
      a first control group of patients who wore earphones but did not listen to music, and a
      second control group of patients who neither listened to music nor wore headphones. All
      patients were assigned a study number and no patient identifiers were noted.

      1 hour before the procedure, study participants were approached to do an anonymous survey.
      Patients were then asked to produce a saliva sample by pooling saliva under the tongue for 5
      minutes.

      Finally, patients in the experimental group choose one of 30 playlists; if a patient did not
      find a playlist to their satisfaction, Spotifiy® was used to generate a new playlist.
      Patients were also allowed to listen to their preferred local radio station. Music was played
      using wireless headphones synced with a Jabra® Bluetooth device which was clipped onto the
      patients OT gown.

      Intra-operatively, both the surgeon and anaesthetist were blinded to what arm of the study
      the patient was undergoing. Autonomic parameters (blood pressure, Mean Arterial Pressure,
      Respiratory Rate and Heart Rate) as well as dosages of drugs administered (anxiolytics,
      sedatives, anaesthetics, any other drugs used). The total time for the procedure was noted.
      Post-operatively, the surgeon was surveyed for complexity of the case and ease of
      communication with the patient, whilst the anaesthetist was surveyed for depth of anaesthesia
      and ease of communication with the patient.

      10 minutes post-procedurally, the patient was surveyed again and saliva samples were
      collected.
    
  