
    
      Sickle cell disease is an autosomal recessive disorder and the most common genetic disease
      affecting African-Americans. Approximately 0.15% of African-Americans are homozygous for
      sickle cell disease, and 8% have sickle cell trait. Hemoglobin S polymerization leads to red
      cell rigidity, microvascular obstruction, inflammation, and end-organ ischemic injury. Our
      published data indicate that up to 50% of sickle cell patients have endothelial dysfunction
      due to impaired bioavailability of endogenous nitric oxide. Our studies indicate that this is
      due in large part to scavenging of nitric oxide by cell-free hemoglobin, with additional
      nitric oxide inactivation by superoxide. This suggests that therapies directed at restoring
      NO bioavailability might be beneficial. In patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease,
      the statin family of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG) CoA reductase inhibitors significantly
      reduce stroke and myocardial infarction and restore endothelial-dependent relaxation of
      conducting arteries. Furthermore, statin therapy has now been clearly shown to reduce
      C-reactive protein levels and clinical events in patients with coronary artery disease
      independent of the effects on lipoproteins. The ability of statins to correct vascular
      inflammation and endothelial dysfunction makes this class of agents attractive to attempt to
      reverse these features of sickle cell pathobiology. This trial will aim to 1) establish the
      effects of oral atorvastatin treatment on endothelial-dependent relaxation in patients with
      sickle cell disease and endothelial dysfunction; 2) establish the effect of therapy on
      peripheral blood markers of inflammation and vascular function, and peripheral blood proteome
      and transcriptome profiles; and 3) investigate whether superoxide produced through xanthine
      oxidase limits nitric oxide bioavailability in patients with sickle cell disease.

      In order to control for the possibility that advancing age, gender and ethnicity may
      influence vascular reactivity, we will also enroll age and gender-matched African-American
      controls in the baseline forearm blood flow portion of this study.
    
  