
    
      As many as 60% of Americans do not engage in regular physical activity and 25% are completely
      inactive. The risk of cardiovascular disease is almost doubled among people who are
      physically inactive, comparable to the risks associated with increased systolic blood
      pressure, cigarette smoking, and elevated serum cholesterol. To make an impact on physical
      activity prevalence at the population level requires a research focus at the interface
      between clinical efficacy trials and large-scale dissemination studies. Studies at this
      interface must use proven interventions that are simultaneously effective and cost-efficient.
      Such interventions are the focus of this proposal.

      The objective of this study is to determine the differential effect of intervention delivery
      channel (phone versus print versus wait list control) on physical activity adoption and
      maintenance in previously sedentary adults. Both delivery channels have been found to be
      effective, but telephone-based interventions require more commitment on the part of the
      subjects and are more labor intensive than print-based interventions. Thus, we will conduct a
      randomized controlled clinical trial comparing three groups: 1) telephone-based
      motivationally-tailored individualized feedback; 2) print-based, motivationally-tailored
      individualized feedback; 3) minimal contact waiting list control condition (receive
      intervention after 12 months as controls). Two hundred and twenty-eight healthy, sedentary
      women and men ages 18-65 will be randomly assigned to one of the two interventions or the
      waiting-list control condition. The two intervention arms will be matched with respect to
      frequency and content of contact. Data will be collected at baseline, 6, and 12 months using
      well-established physical activity and physical performance measures, as well as a
      comprehensive set of psychosocial questionnaires. Our primary hypothesis is that individuals
      randomized to either phone or print conditions will exhibit significantly higher levels of
      physical activity participation at 6 and 12 months than individuals in the waiting list
      control condition. And, in addition, that subjects randomized to the telephone condition will
      exhibit significantly higher levels of physical activity participation at 6 and 12 months
      than those in the print condition. Additional questions of interest include evaluation of the
      cost-effectiveness of the two intervention delivery approaches, each in relation to each
      other and to the wait list control group and examination of potential moderators and
      mediators of the intervention-physical activity relationship. This study will contribute
      important information regarding the relative efficacy and cost-effectiveness of two
      interventions, each of which can be utilized for widespread public health dissemination.
    
  