
    
      This is a revision to a project entitled "Prenatal Genetic Diagnosis by Genomic Sequencing: A
      Prospective Evaluation." This study proposes to test the utility and accuracy of a new form
      of cell-based noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT), here called noninvasive Single Fetal Cell
      (SFC) testing. After many years of development work, the researchers published evidence for
      the feasibility of SFC testing in 2016. Extensive recent preliminary data show considerable
      improvements in SFC testing. Current forms of cell-free NIPT testing do not provide reliable
      detection of medium to smaller size deletions and duplications that cause a variety of
      genetic disabilities. Preliminary data indicate that SFC testing using fetal trophoblasts
      from mother's blood can detect aneuploidy and subchromosomal deletions and emphasize the
      importance of analyzing single cells, since some fetal cells are apoptotic and some are in S
      phase of the cell cycle replicating their DNA. Both apoptosis and S phase interfere with copy
      number analysis in differing ways, and pooling cells prior to barcoding individual cells
      results in loss of data quality. Preliminary data from two pilot validation studies
      demonstrate that reliable data can be collected on the large majority of patients, although
      data on this point would be greatly expanded by this project.

      Preliminary data show very robust detection of all aneuploidies and clear definition of
      genomic deletions as small as 1 Mb and duplications as small as 1.5 Mb. The first aim is to
      perform blinded SFC testing on 50 cases per year with congenital anomalies with abnormal
      karyotype or chromosomal microarray (CMA) and 50 cases per year with congenital anomalies and
      normal CMA. This will provide a direct measure of success rate and the false positive and
      false negative rates for SFC testing compared to CMA. The second aim will be to use the WGA
      products and frozen unamplified cells available from aim 1 to further improve SFC testing to
      include targeted detection of inherited or de novo pathogenic point mutations in the cases
      undergoing WGS as part of the parent grant, confirmation of very small CNVs detected by WGS,
      restudy of false positive or false negative results from aim 1, and in the future could
      attempt to perform genome wide detection of de novo mutations. Capitalizing on the resources
      available through the parent grant, there is the opportunity to test whether SFC testing has
      the potential to transform genetic prenatal diagnosis so that all genetic changes, whether
      CNV or point mutation, and whether inherited or de novo, could be detected even in low risk
      pregnancies.
    
  