
    
      The Tritanium® Acetabular Shell, cleared for use under FDA 510(k) K081171, is a hemispherical
      acetabular shell with a 3D surface for biological fixation, fabricated from CP Ti. The shell
      is built upon the design features and clinical history of the existing Trident® Tritanium®,
      Trident® AD, and Trident® HA hemispherical acetabular shells. The device is designed with a
      roughened surface and high coefficient of friction to resist micromotion and promote initial
      fixation. The Tritanium® Acetabular Shell, intended for use in a cementless application, is
      available in sizes from 44 mm through 66 mm and is compatible with Trident® polyethylene
      liners and acetabular screws. This advanced technology is designed to address the need for
      improved initial and biological fixation. Data in support of these marketing claims will be
      collected in the Tritanium® Primary Acetabular Shell Study.

      prospective, post-market, multi-center design will be employed. Radiographs will be assessed
      by an independent reviewer.

      Cases will be enrolled at 7 to 12 centers. The enrollment goal ranges from 20 to 34 cases
      implanted with the Tritanium® Acetabular Shell per center. The enrollment goal range is
      dependent upon the number of participating centers as well as the relative rates of
      enrollment of the two treatment groups. Although a range is presented, there is no maximum
      limit to the number of cases that a center may enroll. In the event that a center far exceeds
      the overall enrollment goal or enrollment into one of the treatment groups is completed,
      Stryker may ask the center to cease enrollment so as not to skew the data. All participating
      centers will comply with the federal regulations regarding patient informed consent and IRB
      approval. Non-compliance of a study center may result in termination of the center's
      participation in the study.
    
  