
    
      Background:

      Patients undergoing both laparoscopic and open hepatic surgery often experience shoulder pain
      in the postoperative period, mostly on the right side.

      The mechanism behind referral of pain from surgical sites to the ipsilateral (same side)
      shoulder is not fully understood. It has been stated, that the sharing of cervical sensory
      roots, leads the brain to an interpretation that the pain as originating from the ipsilateral
      shoulder, when the phrenic nerve is stimulated.

      The phrenic nerve provides both sensory and motor nerves to the diaphragm, and sensory fibers
      to parts of the pleura and peritoneum. Furthermore, one anatomical study indicate, that the
      phrenic nerve on the right side supply the liver capsule with thin sensory nerves. This could
      also, in part, explain the shoulder pain after liver surgery.

      Studies assessing the effect of phrenic block on shoulder pain by surgically applied
      intrathoracic block of the phrenic nerve, have found a pain reduction, without significant
      side effects. There are no available studies on the effect of phrenic nerve block after
      hepatic surgery. Blocking the nerve intraoperatively, as described in thoracic surgery, is
      not possible during these operations.

      Pilot study of the incidence: A recent survey at Rigshospitalet, Denmark, revealed, that 19
      out of 60 patients undergoing various types of hepatic surgery, experienced moderate to
      severe right sided shoulder pain in the post operative care unit. The only semi-effective
      treatment, has been opioids (morphine), often leading to significant side effects (nausea,
      vomiting , dizziness) with a potential for an increase in postoperative morbidity.
      Furthermore, referred shoulder pain affects the respiratory capacity postoperatively.

      The investigators have developed a method for applying ultrasound-guided block at the lateral
      side of the neck, directly at the phrenic nerve where it crosses over the scaleni anterior
      muscle. The block is done with low volume of local anesthetic (only 3 ml very close to the
      nerve) aiming to avoid affection of the brachial plexus.

      The phrenic nerve block have been performed at right sided shoulder pain in the postoperative
      care unit with marked effect within a few minutes (small nerve with little perineural
      insulation).

      Trial endpoints:

      The idea of the study is to perform a precise, low volume, ultrasound guided nerve block in
      the patients who experience a severe right sided shoulder pain (NRS >5 on a 0-10 scale) after
      liver surgery and evaluate the effect of active substance vs. placebo

      Furthermore the investigators wish to stablish an evaluation of the duration of the phrenic
      nerve block when it comes to pain intensity, incidence of referred shoulder pain after liver
      surgery, and need for opioid and to evaluate the effect of the block on the lung function.

      The study results will be described in a primary publication regarding the primary outcome,
      and a secondary publication regarding the incidence of acute respiratory and ventilatory
      affection observed in the PACU in patients undergoing open liver resection.
    
  