
    
      In 2015, Americans provided 18 billion hours of unpaid care for patients with Alzheimer's
      disease (AD) and other dementias, with an economic value of $221 billion. This estimate may
      be even higher among caregivers of AD patients when they have sleep problems. In fact, the
      caregivers' sleep is often disturbed by nighttime sleep disturbance of AD patients, which is
      one of the major reasons why those patients are admitted to institutions. Due to the
      bidirectional nature of sleep disturbance in AD patients and their caregivers, it is critical
      to develop a sleep intervention program for the dyad that addresses sleep disturbance in both
      individuals.

      Nighttime sleep disturbance in AD patients is associated with shorter survival, lower quality
      of life, and decreased social engagement. Poor sleep among their caregivers is associated
      with increased depressive symptoms, higher levels of caregiver role burden, and increased
      inflammation, which is known to increase risk for cardiovascular disease. Such decline in
      caregivers' health may then impact the quality of care for AD patients.

      Behavioral sleep intervention programs for AD patients or caregivers are feasible but
      long-term effects on improving sleep and health remain unclear. No behavioral sleep
      interventions have focused on the patient-caregiver dyad, and only a few behavioral sleep
      intervention studies have targeted community-dwelling AD patients or caregivers. Dyad-based
      sleep interventions may have better effects on sleep and other health outcomes because of the
      influence of AD patients on their caregivers and vice versa.

      The proposed intervention focuses on educating caregivers to improve their own and the
      patients' sleep, using behavioral sleep management techniques. This intervention builds upon
      a previous caregiver focus group study (VA HSR&D LIP 65-154, PI: Song) and the existing sleep
      interventional research studies, which included patients with mild cognitive impairments and
      AD patients. The sleep program involves 4 face-to-face meetings plus 1 telephone session.
      Phase 1 study aims to iteratively refine and finalize the intervention program materials with
      5 AD patient/caregiver dyads. Phase 2 study aims to pilot test the effects of the
      intervention program (n=20 dyads) on sleep, health, and quality of life in both members of
      the group, compared to a non-directive education-only control program (n=20 dyads) in a small
      randomized controlled trial. Primary outcomes will include objective sleep efficiency and
      total wake time measured by actigraphy for AD patients and subjective sleep measured by the
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index for caregivers. A unique aspect of the proposed study is that
      the program is tailored to address sleep problems of both patients and caregivers, and
      includes upstream biomarkers to evaluate a key mechanism of intervention benefits that can be
      further explored in future research.
    
  