
    
      Three decades of research on end-of-life care in the United States indicates that people who
      are dying often spend their final days with a significant burden of pain and other symptoms
      and receive care they would not choose. Patient-clinician communication about end-of-life
      care is an important focus for improving patient-centered end-of-life care for three reasons:
      1) it is an integral component of clinician skill that affects all other aspects of
      end-of-life care; 2) physicians and nurses in practice do not demonstrate adequate skills for
      communicating about end-of-life care; and 3) current training in end-of-life communication is
      inadequate. Studies have shown that clinicians can improve their communication skills with
      experiential training, but no studies to date have shown that an intervention to improve
      clinician communication skill improves patient outcomes. Furthermore, despite widespread
      knowledge that end-of-life care is best delivered in an interdisciplinary context, most
      studies do not incorporate interdisciplinary training that includes physicians and nurses.

      This is a randomized trial of a communication skills workshop for internal medicine residents
      and nurse practitioner (NP) students. A total of 373 residents and 128 NP students from two
      large training programs (UW and MUSC) will be randomized to either the intervention or usual
      education. The study's primary outcome measure will be the QOC scores on the "communication
      about end-of-life care" domain. The QOC will be assessed by patients, family members, and
      nurses before and after the intervention time period for all trainees. Secondary outcome
      measures are patient symptoms and patient-, family - and nurse-assessed QEOLC scores. Outcome
      measures will be collected for 5 patients and family members per trainee before the
      intervention period and 5 patients and family members per trainee after the intervention
      period. Process measures for both residents and NP students will include pre- and
      post-intervention assessment of knowledge, attitudes, and behavior regarding communication
      using standardized patient assessment as well as self-assessment and faculty assessment.
    
  