
    
      PTSD is a chronic, debilitating anxiety disorder associated with disability, functional
      impairment, and a host of co-morbid physical and mental health conditions. Although several
      treatments are successful in treating Veterans with PTSD, many Veterans fail to complete
      these treatments and many others complete treatment without significant relief from symptoms.
      Yoga is one integrative treatment option that has shown promise for a number of physical and
      mental health conditions, including the treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders in
      civilian samples, and chronic pain in Veterans. Yoga is widely offered in Veterans Affairs
      (VA) PTSD Treatment Programs, yet there is a lack of research on its efficacy for PTSD in
      Veterans.

      Mindful Yoga Therapy (MYT)is a 12-week treatment protocol incorporating meditation, breathing
      exercises, mindful movement practice, and guided rest (yoga nidra) that has been developed
      specifically for Veterans with PTSD. This pilot randomized clinical trial with cross-over
      waitlist comparison (RCT) will compare Immediate Mindful Yoga Therapy (MYT) plus Treatment as
      Usual (TAU) with Delayed MYT + TAU. Baseline (week 0), 12-week, and 24-week assessments, in
      addition to 36-week assessments for the delayed MYT treatment group, will include diagnostic,
      neurocognitive, and psychophysiological measures conducted by a research team member blinded
      to treatment condition.

      Primary Aim: The primary aim of the current pilot study is to establish the safety and
      acceptability of Mindful Yoga Therapy as an adjunctive treatment for PTSD among OEF/OIF
      Veterans.

      Specific Aim #1: To establish that MYT is a treatment that can be implemented safely.
      Hypothesis #1: There will be no significant difference in the number of adverse events
      between treatment groups from week 0 to week 12.

      Specific Aim #2: To establish that MYT is a treatment that veterans find helpful and
      accessible. Hypothesis #2. At least 50% of participants completing the MYT treatment will
      report that the treatment was helpful and accessible as reported on self-report measures of
      treatment satisfaction, administered at the completion of the MYT treatment component of the
      study (week 12 for the immediate MYT treatment group; week 24 for the delayed MYT treatment
      group).

      Secondary Aim: To assess the effect of Mindful Yoga Therapy as an adjunctive treatment on
      symptoms of PTSD is OEF/OIF Veterans.

      Specific Aim #3: To examine the efficacy of MYT + TAU in reducing frequency and/or intensity
      of PTSD symptoms. Hypothesis #3. While both groups are expected to show reductions in
      symptoms, compared to participants in the Delayed MYT + TAU group, Veterans in the Immediate
      MYT + TAU group will exhibit significantly greater reductions in the frequency and/or
      intensity of PTSD symptoms as assessed by the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS)
      (baseline to 12-week change). We predict that Immediate MYT+TAU will have a differential
      impact on the three PTSD symptom clusters, with the greatest effect on the hyperarousal
      symptoms.

      Specific Aim #4. To document the durability of MYT treatment effects in the Immediate MYT
      group. Hypothesis #4. PTSD symptom scores will not be significantly different at 24-week
      assessment compared to those at week 12 assessment in the immediate MYT treatment group, and
      not significantly different at 36-week assessment compared to 24-week assessment for the
      delayed treatment group.

      Tertiary Aim: To assess changes in heart rate variability from a resting baseline period and
      a guided meditation period in Veterans with PTSD before and after treatment with Mindful Yoga
      Therapy.

      Specific Aim #5: To examine the predictive value of HRV on outcomes of Immediate MYT+TAU and
      Delayed MYT + TAU. Hypothesis #5. Increases in high frequency HRV (HF-HRV) from resting
      baseline to guided meditation at the pre-treatment assessment (week 0 for the immediate MYT
      treatment group, week 12 for the delayed MYT treatment group) will be associated with greater
      PTSD symptom reduction at post-treatment (week 12 for the immediate MYT treatment group; week
      24 for delayed MYT treatment group).
    
  