
    
      Warm Homes for Elder New Zealanders (WHEZ)

      Background Although there has been considerable recent work on the prevention, management and
      causes of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), the contribution of housing has not
      been well researched. This is despite the socio-economic patterning of COPD (Maori women have
      the highest rate of COPD that has been recorded for any group of women), and the relationship
      between socio-economic deprivation and housing conditions.

      It is likely that improved heating would reduce exacerbations of COPD as:

        -  COPD patients with the most advanced disease tend to be older people who often live on a
           fixed income and may be unable to afford adequate heating

        -  There is a high excess of winter hospitalisations in COPD patients indicating COPD
           exacerbations may be triggered by cold conditions.

        -  About one third of exacerbations of COPD are triggered by respiratory infections.

        -  The Housing, Insulation and Health Study demonstrated a reduction in self-reported
           respiratory disease after houses were insulated. Therefore improving the heating in
           households with a COPD patient may reduce respiratory infections and this in turn would
           reduce the number and severity of exacerbations.

      The percentage of people over 65 in New Zealand will increase from 12% to 22% over the next
      25 years. Therefore it will become increasingly important to find cost-effective ways of
      reducing the morbidity of the older age group. As COPD is a significant cause of morbidity
      amongst older people, this study investigates a potentially cost effective intervention to
      reduce both the likelihood of expensive hospital stays and improve the quality of life for
      older people.

      Aim To evaluate whether fuel subsidies reduce exacerbations of COPD among people aged over
      55, and therefore whether providing such subsidies is a cost-beneficial policy initiative.

      Potential Benefits The potential benefits of the study include reducing the burden of
      disease. The patients and their caregivers may experience improved quality of life. Hospitals
      may experience fewer patients requiring treatment during the winter. A cost-benefit analysis
      will quantify the benefits.
    
  