
    
      Advanced glycation end products (AGE) are irreversible adducts formed from the non-enzymatic
      glycation and oxidation of proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. 1-4 AGE interacts with three
      types of cell receptors for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) namely full-length RAGE,
      N-truncated and C-truncated soluble receptors for AGE (sRAGE). The interaction of full-length
      RAGE with AGE increases the expression of adhesion molecules, including soluble vascular cell
      adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) and the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF- α) activation of
      nuclear factor kappa B (NFκB) which in turn increases the expression of proinflammatory genes
      for adhesion molecules and cytokines, and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS).
      The function of N-truncated RAGE is poorly understood. sRAGE is not membrane bound and
      circulates in the plasma. Acting as a decoy for RAGE ligands (AGE), sRAGE competes with
      full-length RAGE for ligand binding. Consequently, sRAGE plays a protective role by
      preventing activation of full-length RAGE.

      Adhesion molecules, cytokines, and ROS are involved in the development and progression of
      atherosclerosis and lesion instability. The AGE and RAGE axis is involved in the development
      atherosclerosis in diabetes. Balloon injury in carotid artery and endothelial denudation in
      animal models increases the levels of RAGE and AGE in the arterial wall and produce
      neointimal hyperplasia. Treatment with sRAGE in animal models reduces neointimal growth,
      decreases smooth muscle cell proliferation and migration, and expression of extracellular
      matrix. sRAGE reduces the atherosclerotic lesions in Apo-E -/- mice and this effect is
      associated with a decrease in aortic VCAM-1 and tissue factor.

      Recently, we have demonstrated that the levels of serum sRAGE are lower while the serum
      levels of AGE, sVCAM-1 and TNF-α are higher in subjects with NSTEMI as compared to healthy
      controls 31. Furthermore, we have shown that the NSTEMI patients, who underwent PCI with BMS
      implantation and developed post-PCI restenosis after six-months, had lower serum levels of
      sRAGE as compared to those who did not 30. In the proposed study we expect to find that all
      patients with very low levels of serum sRAGE receiving either a BMS develop post-PCI
      restenosis while patients with very low serum levels of sRAGE receiving DES will increased
      rate of post-PCI restenosis. In addition, those patients with high levels of sRAGE who
      receive either BMS or DES will have a reduced rate of restenosis.

      This study has clinical significance because in our previous study (McNair et al, 2010), we
      demonstrated that low serum levels of sRAGE are associated with 100% restenosis following BMS
      implantation. In these situations DES implantation will be highly beneficial.
    
  