
    
      This protocol is a phase IIa study that will prospectively investigate whether minocycline
      (an antibiotic that showed neuroprotective effects in animal models) can decrease the
      cognitive deficits associated with carotid endarterectomy. This trial will be a randomized,
      parallel-group design, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trial conducted at the
      Brigham and Women's Hospital.

      The principal aim of this investigation is to study the effects of minocycline on cognitive
      performance after carotid endarterectomy. To measure cognitive function, we will perform a
      neuropsychological battery of tests (as detailed below). This battery of tests will be
      carried out by a blinded rater (a neurologist) and will be performed according to the
      following timetable:

      Training session: before the baseline, patients will perform the tasks several times until
      they reach a stable plateau (defined as a variation of less than 10% in the last three
      trials) in order to eliminate the confounding effect of learning.

      Baseline evaluation: the baseline evaluation will be performed in the day prior to the
      surgery.

      Post-treatment evaluation: post-treatment evaluation will be performed 24 hours after the
      surgical procedure by the same blinded rater.

      Neuropsychological battery of tests: we based our neuropsychological battery of tests on a
      similar study that evaluated the cognitive deficits associated with CEA and will consist of
      the following tests:

        1. Trail making test - parts A and B (this test evaluates visual concept and visuo-motor
           track)

        2. Controlled Oral Word Association (letters C, F and L) (this test evaluates verbal
           fluency)

        3. The Boston Naming Test (naming of 60 pictures) (this test evaluates left hemisphere
           damage)

        4. Digit Span Forward and Backward (this test evaluates working memory)

        5. Stroop Task (this test evaluates selective attention and mental flexibility)

        6. Mini-mental state examination (this test evaluates an adult patient's level of global
           cognitive functioning)

      Blood sample analysis: As a secondary outcome, we will analyze subjects blood sample in
      respect to two particular substances: S100B and neuron specific enolase. The rationale for
      performing proteomic studies is that past research has shown that subtle cerebral injuries
      after carotid endarterectomy, even in the absence of stroke, might be associated with a
      significant increase in serum S100B (Connolly, 2001 - Neurosurgery, 2001 49 (5)) and also in
      traumatic brain injury (Cotena, 2006, J Neurosurg 2006 104 (6)). In addition, neuron specific
      enolase (NSE) also seems to be valuable to predict brain damage in patients with brain
      traumatic injury (Naeimi, 2006 - Brain Inj 2006 20(5)), thus showing that these two
      substances might be important biomarkers to be investigated in our study.

      After eligibility screening (inclusion and exclusion criteria), consent form, medical history
      and physical exam participants will be randomized to the exposure - minocycline or placebo.
      The pills (minocycline and placebo) will have the same appearance and only one person will
      know whether the treatment is active or placebo.

      Randomization:

      Because our sample size will be relatively small, participants will be randomized to
      minocycline or placebo through a randomization stratification approach. This approach will
      ensure that both groups will have a similar distribution regarding baseline performance in
      the cognitive tests. Participants will be gathered into groups (strata) defined by their
      performance in the neuropsychological tasks (baseline). Participants within each stratum will
      be randomized to one of two treatment groups - minocycline and placebo - according to a block
      randomization of four and using a randomization list generated by a computer that will take
      into account the study entrance order. These groups are defined as follows:

      Minocycline: we will use the dosage of minocycline that is currently used for clinical
      indications and also used in trials employing this drug as an anti-inflammatory agent.
      Minocycline will be administered in the period of 36 hrs before surgery (100 mg twice a day
      and 200 mg in the morning of the surgery - total of 5 doses) and 12 hrs after surgery (single
      dose of 100 mg).

      The two doses of minocycline administered in the morning of the surgery will be taken with a
      small sip of water.

      Placebo: placebo pill will have the same appearance as the real drug (minocycline) and will
      be administered using the same timetable as the active drug.
    
  