
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of brief physician-initiated smoking cessation strategies vs usual
           care in patients with early stage cancer who are undergoing treatment in clinical
           oncology settings.

        -  Compare the sociodemographic, smoking history, and health status correlates of smoking
           cessation in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the feasibility of conducting a cancer prevention and control study in a
           cooperative group setting by monitoring adherence to the smoking-cessation strategies.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive usual care (no special intervention).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive smoking-cessation therapy based on the 4-step intervention plan
           in the "Manual for Physicians" published by the National Cancer Institute. The smoking
           cessation coordinator and physician provide self-quitting advice and support to the
           patient via counseling, self-help materials, and referral to a smoking cessation
           counselor at the Cancer Information Service (CIS). Patients receive nicotine
           replacement, if indicated. Patients who express an interest in more intensive treatment
           are referred to local American Cancer Society or American Lung Association clinics
           and/or advised to call the CIS for additional local program referrals.

      All patients are followed at 6 and 12 months. Patients who report that they are still smoking
      and interested in help to quit smoking at the 12-month follow-up interview are encouraged to
      return to their physicians and contact the CIS for additional help quitting or for a referral
      to more intensive or specialized treatments in their area.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 494 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  