
    
      The standard of care is that health professionals receive their usual education on
      self-management, which ranges from minimal to modest, depending on the training site. They
      will be identified and invited to attend by the program director and/or clinic managers.

      Health professional participants will attend 60-90 minutes teaching sessions with other
      health professionals, either in person or via Web-Ex, once per week for a total of 4 weeks.
      The program director and/or clinic managers overseeing these health professionals will make
      room for these sessions in their clinic schedule, so that you have no clinical or other
      responsibilities during those times.

      During the first session, the Principal Investigator will first read the informed
      consent/fact sheet to the health professionals and ask for any questions. A copy of the
      informed consent/fact sheet will be given to each health professional participant, and they
      will be asked to provide their contact information on a sign up sheet. At that point, they
      will complete their first survey questionnaire.

      Between these group sessions, at the convenience of the participant, the health professional
      will log-on to the online workshop to observe the patients' progress in the online course.
      The health professional will be expected to log on 3 times per week for approximately 10
      minutes at a time. The health professional will have 2 'homework' assignments during the
      entire 4 weeks of learning sessions. These consist of thinking critically about how the
      self-management techniques they observe patients using online might apply to other patients
      the health professionals observe, whether online or in their clinics.

      The health professionals will also be asked to complete voluntary pre- and post-course
      surveys. There will be time set aside during the first and last learning sessions for them to
      complete the surveys.

      The final learning session will primarily be devoted to a focus group discussion of the
      learning sessions. The total time commitment to the observational learning sessions is to
      attend the 4 learning sessions (60-90 minutes apiece once per week), visit the patient online
      workshop site 3 times per week (for at least 10 minutes a time), and do the 'homework'
      assignments (which are expected to take 10-20 minutes apiece to complete).

      The health professionals will not actually participate in the online workshop for patients.
      In fact, if they decide to participate in this project, they are instructed not interact in
      any way with the patients in the online workshop. The health professionals must agree to
      observe only, not to post on the discussion boards, and not to answer any messages that they
      may receive via the online messaging system. The workshops are monitored by Stanford staff,
      and they will take any action necessary if the health professionals alert them to the need to
      respond to a patient.
    
  