
    
      Introduction: Nosocomial and/or healthcare-associated Staphylococcus aureus infections are
      common, serious conditions. S. aureus accounts for about 20% of cases of nosocomial
      bacteremia, and is associated with a mortality of 20-40%. This severity is due to the
      virulence of the bacterium, and the age and comorbidity of the patients in whom the infection
      occurs. First-line therapy is based on vancomycin, because the prevalence of methicillin
      resistance in S. aureus (~20%) is still high in the hospital environment. However the
      bactericidal activity of this drug is slow and it causes dose-dependent nephrotoxicity. The
      persistence of positive blood cultures after 72 hours, a parameter which in itself is
      predictive of the infection having a complicated clinical course, is seen in about 35% of
      patients receiving vancomycin therapy.

      Hypothesis: The use of daptomycin to treat nosocomial or healthcare-associated bacteremia due
      to methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) would increase the proportion of patients whose
      blood cultures are sterilized after 72 hours by 15% relative to vancomycin and would improve
      treatment safety.

      Primary objective: To study the efficacy of daptomycin compared to vancomycin on the
      sterilization of blood cultures after 72 hours of therapy.

      Secondary objectives: Clinical cure at D14 and D28; relapse-free clinical and bacteriological
      cure at D90; mortality at D14, D28 and D90; treatment duration (in days) before sterilization
      of blood cultures; side effects occurrence during treatment, renal insufficiency; peripheral
      vein toxicity requiring placement of a central venous catheter; side effects requiring
      changes to the study treatment ; duration of hospitalization for bacteremia; increase of at
      least 2 dilutions in the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of daptomycin and/or
      vancomycin between the first and last clinical isolates of S. aureus.

      Methodology: A prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label study to compare daptomycin
      monotherapy to vancomycin monotherapy. Patients will be randomized if they have a nosocomial
      or healthcare-associated infection, a blood culture positive for Gram-positive cocci in
      clusters, and a rapid molecular diagnostic test(GENEXPERT) that confirm the presence of
      methicillin-resistant S. aureus. Daptomycin will be given once daily in monotherapy (10 mg/kg
      as a single infusion over 30 minutes into a peripheral vein). Standard therapy is vancomycin
      in monotherapy given by intermittent or continuous infusion so as to obtain trough
      concentrations of 15-20 mg/L or plateau concentrations of 20-25 mg/L, respectively. The
      treatment duration for bacteremia in both arms is 14 days of intravenous therapy for
      uncomplicated bacteremias and 28 days of intravenous therapy for complicated bacteremias,
      defined by persistent fever or positive blood cultures after 72 h of the study treatment,
      secondary septic localizations existing at enrollment, or presence of foreign material
      without signs of infection.

      The duration of the treatment of the study can be reduced if the patients answer the
      following criteria:

      Uncomplicated bacteremia: 10 days of treatment instead of 14 days if:

        -  2 sterilization of blood cultures

        -  Patient clinically cured

        -  Visit J14 realized in the center

      Complicated bacteremia: 21 days of treatment instead of 28 days if:

        -  2 sterilization of blood cultures

        -  Patient clinically cured

        -  Visit J28 realized in the center

      In every case, no oral relay has to substitute itself for the possible reduction of the
      duration of the treatment of the study.

      A blinded study design was not selected because the two treatments are administered very
      differently, due to the invasive nature of continuous infusion pumps, and because the primary
      objective concerns a microbiological outcome.

      Patient management and clinical monitoring will comply with usual good clinical practice for
      these patients. Visits on D14, D28 and D90 will be necessary. Laboratory monitoring will
      comprise daily blood cultures until sterile cultures are obtained on 2 consecutive days; full
      blood count (FBC), serum creatine, CPK before treatment, on D3, D7, D10 and D14 and, for
      patients receiving 28 days of treatment, D21 and D28. Where myalgia with elevation of
      creatine phosphokinase (CPK) > 5 N, or isolated elevation of CPK > 10 N occurs, treatment
      with daptomycin will be discontinued and clinical and laboratory-based monitoring will be
      maintained until normalization.

      Number of subjects required: After 72 hours of vancomycin therapy, blood cultures are still
      positive in about 35% of patients. The objective is to show the superiority of daptomycin in
      the sterilization of blood cultures after 72 hours, by a margin of 15% (80% versus 65%). With
      a power of 80% and a type I error rate of 5%, and addition of 10% to allow for unevaluable
      outcomes and death before 72 hours, the number of subjects required in each arm is 166 (total
      = 332 patients).

      Study logistics: Duration of the study: 2 years; Enrollment period: 21 months; Duration of
      each patient's participation: 3 months; Number of participating study sites: 15. Study sites
      were chosen on the basis of the blood culture system used, of there having been > 10
      methicillin-resistant S. aureus blood cultures in 2009 and the possibility of setting up
      rapid diagnosis for the trial.

      A two-person team consisting of a bacteriologist and a clinician will be responsible for
      [screening], [enrollment] [and] [randomization] at [each] study site.

      Mean number of patients enrolled per month per site: 1-5.
    
  