
    
      This study requires you to have blood drawn twice, record your hot flashes for a total of 3
      weeks, and to take a product every day for 12 weeks. It will also entail 4 visits and up to 4
      telephone contacts. The information you provide will be maintained in a database accessible
      only to the primary investigator and research team. You will be assigned a code number for
      your blood work and all other information. The key to this code will be maintained in this
      database.

      Overall 60-100 women will be recruited for this study locally. During the course of the study
      you will get overall two blood draws amounting to up to a teaspoon for measurement of your
      cholesterol and fat levels.

      This project consists of three phases.

      Phase I

      We will ask you questions about your medical history and your health. You will then be asked
      to provide a urine sample which will be used to confirm your menopausal status with a FSH
      level. You will be requested to keep a record of your hot flashes for one week using a
      symptom diary. Upon completion of the diary, you will return to the study site. If you
      qualify for participation, you will have blood work done to measure your cholesterol and
      other fat levels through a lipid panel. You will be provided with these results free of
      charge at the conclusion of the study.

      Phase 2

      You will receive the study medication. Half of the participants will receive the actual
      product we are investigating and half will receive a placebo (inactive/dummy pill). Neither
      you nor the investigators will not know which one you are given until the end of the study.
      During the 4th and 12th weeks, you will be asked to keep a diary (similar to the first one)
      of your hot flashes.

      Phase 3

      At the end of the 12 week study period, you will return to the study center. The second blood
      draw will be done to monitor any changes. This will conclude your participation. You will be
      sent a copy of your cholesterol profiles and FSH levels approximately 2 weeks after you
      complete the study.
    
  