
    
      Ear, nose and throat barotrauma are the most frequently encountered accidents during diving.
      It has been described that pathologies which may induce chronic or acute tubal
      dyspermeability can result in an increased middle ear or sinus barotrauma risk. But no study
      was realized which objective was to look for an association between these risk factors and
      for the association strength between risk factors and ENT barotrauma occurrence.

      Futhermore, few data on military population exist while operational constraints, stressing
      environment with necessity of realizing performances to validate diving certificate or other
      military diving specificities can lead one to think that military divers have an increased
      risk to be subjected to ENT barotrauma. Therapeutic measures and more particularly
      physicians' attitude concerning a temporary incapacity period to avoid recurrence or clinical
      worsening of barotrauma differ depending on diving centers. But the question to resume diving
      or not is essential for military staff given that temporary incapacity may lead to training
      cessation or can be questioned because of operational constraints requiring anticipated
      diving resumption.

      The aim of this research is then to study middle ear and sinus barotrauma in order to
      identify main risk factors, the characteristics and missions of concerned military divers and
      the impact of those pathologies on this population. Two kind of questionnaires will be used :
      one which will be completed by divers just after their inclusion in the study and one that
      will be filled in case of ENT barotrauma suspicion over a period of two years. The first
      questionnaire will give information about diving level and medical history and the second one
      will allow standardized assessment of barotrauma suspicion . Divers will be followed for two
      years, whether they experience an ENT barotrauma or not.
    
  