
    
      Chronic pain is one of the most prevalent health conditions among Americans, affecting about
      a third of the general population. In Gulf War (1990-1991) veterans, chronic pain is even
      more common, with a prevalence of about 50%. Indeed, the pain-related fibromyalgia diagnosis
      is part of Gulf War Syndrome and is highly comorbid with other common military
      service-related health problems such as Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Moreover, lack
      of effective, integrated, and available alternative treatments for chronic pain contributes
      to the opioid epidemic.

      PTSD is also highly prevalent in Gulf War Veterans, at about 15-25% of Operation Desert
      Shield and Desert Storm Veterans. Moreover, several investigators note that PTSD treatment
      response is poorer for Veterans who experience chronic pain and for Veterans who served in
      the Gulf War.

      The Overall Aim of the present proposal is to integrate, refine and investigate the
      feasibility (e.g., pilot testing, recruitment, attrition, assessment) of tDCS for treating
      chronic pain with a best practices evidence-based treatment for PTSD (i.e., Prolonged
      Exposure: PE) in 15 Gulf War veterans, a group for which both pain (fibromyalgia) and PTSD
      are particularly problematic.

      SA1: Integrate the home-based tDCS+PE Treatment. The investigative team is comprised of Pain,
      PTSD, and salivary biomarker experts who will integrate tDCS into the 12 session PE treatment
      protocol.

      H1: The 12 session PE protocol will yield itself well to tDCS component integration based on
      participant feedback.

      SA2: Test the feasibility of both the integrated intervention and key study design features,
      including translational research features such as biomarker assessment in a non-randomized
      trial with 15 Gulf War Veterans assessed at baseline and post-treatment. Feasibility of the
      home-based tDCS+PE intervention will be measured in terms of recruitment metrics, assessment
      burden, successful biomarker collection, specification of biomarker relationship to
      hypothesized mechanisms of change, treatment attrition, rates of missing data at each
      measurement time point, participant satisfaction, and ratings of treatment face validity.
      Post treatment key informant interviews will be conducted where suggestions for treatment
      enhancement and satisfaction will be systematically collected and analyzed.

      H2 is given in terms of Specific Pre-Defined Milestones for Success, including: 75% of
      Veterans experiencing chronic pain (fibromyalgia) and PTSD who enroll will complete at least
      8 sessions of the integrated treatment, and both completers and dropouts will offer
      actionable suggestions in exit interviews for improving the delivery of the intervention.
      SA2) Feasibility metrics will be acceptable for recruitment rate (two per month), treatment
      completion of 8 sessions (75%), assessment completion (90%), and good to excellent
      satisfaction (95%)
    
  