
    
      Primary endpoint:

      o Assessment of effectiveness of treatment with QRay1 in preventing oral mucositis in
      patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

      Secondary endpoint:

        -  Assessment of mucositis associated- pain relief.

        -  Assessment of safety of treatment with QRay1 (oral adverse events).

        -  Assessment of the patients' acceptance of the device.

      Study design:

      Double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 2 groups (randomization ratio 1:1).

      Duration of treatment:

      Daily treatment. Study-treatment administration began at the initiation of conditioning
      regimen (visit 1) and continued to day 28 or at least until day 21 if the patient had no
      mucositis (WHO or OMAS = "0")

      Light radiation dose:

      60-70mW/cm2 (administered over 3 treatment areas), starting with 45 seconds per surface,
      increasing each day in intervals of 15 seconds, up to a maximum of 90 seconds per surface.

      Evaluation plan:

      Evaluation began before the conditioning regimen was initiated (visit 1) and continued weekly
      until day 28 or until day 21 if the patient had no mucositis. A follow-up evaluation was
      performed a month after discharge the patient. Unusual clinical presentation was addressed
      whenever observed.

      Criteria for evaluation:

      Primary efficacy variable:

      o Rate of absent of mucositis at any of the visits using WHO scale for mucositis and OMAS.

      Secondary efficacy variables:

        -  Severity of oral mucositis at any of the visits using WHO scale for mucositis and OMAS.

        -  Severity of oral pain at any of the visits using WHO scale for mucositis and OMAS.

        -  Safety (oral adverse events)

        -  Patients' acceptance of the study drug on an 11-step ladder. Others

        -  Compliance with standard oral care (chlorhexidine rinse, nystatin readymix, saline
           mouthwash)
    
  