
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1978, a select Review Panel of biomedical and behavioral scientists met under the auspices
      of the NIH to evaluate the data linking the Type A behavior pattern to coronary heart
      disease. Based on the scientific evidence available to them in December, 1978, the members of
      the Panel issued a report in which they concluded that the Type A behavior pattern was an
      independent risk factor for coronary heart disease, of a magnitude similar to that of other
      established risk factors, such as cigarette smoking and serum cholesterol.

      At the time the Panel met, the most impressive evidence linking the Type A behavior pattern
      to coronary heart disease was the prospective Western Collaborative Group Study (WCGS), which
      established a significant risk ratio for Structured Interview-assessed Type A behavior
      pattern for all clinical manifestations of coronary heart disease; and three angiographic
      studies which reported significant associations between Structured Interview-defined Type A
      behavior pattern and severity of coronary artery disease. Supporting evidence was provided by
      prevalence studies employing the Jenkins Activity Survey (JAS) measure of Type A behavior
      pattern, and by incidence and prevalence data from the Framingham study, using a six-item
      scale thought to assess aspects of Type A behavior.

      Subsequent to the conference, studies had begun to emerge which called into question the
      robustness of the association between the Type A behavior pattern and various manifestations
      of coronary heart disease. The most damaging of these was the prospective Type A study
      included in MRFIT. In this study, 3,110 men were given the Structured Interview and Jenkins
      Activity Survey, and followed for an average period of seven years, while receiving annual
      medical examinations. Analysis of the results at the end of the seven years revealed that
      Type A behavior pattern, however assessed, was completely unrelated to either coronary death
      or documented myocardial infarction.

      A major tool was the component scoring system for the Structured Interview to determine which
      of the many attributes comprising the multidimensional Type A behavior pattern were actually
      associated with coronary heart disease. Component scoring had demonstrated that some
      components had consistent associations with coronary heart disease, even when the global Type
      A behavior pattern showed no relationship. Component analysis of the Type A behavior pattern
      in MRFIT revealed that of all the attributes assessed, only Potential for Hostility was
      significantly related to incidence of coronary heart disease. Several other studies were
      conducted under this project. Tape-recorded Structured Interviews from the Western
      Collaborative Group Study were reanalyzed to assess the relationship between components of
      Type A behavior and incidence of coronary heart disease. Rescoring was completed on
      Structured Interviews of over 1,000 subjects who had undergone stress testing while blood
      pressure and heart rate were recorded. An analysis was also conducted on the influence of
      cigarette smoking and situational stress on cardiovascular response in young male subjects.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In Study I, tape-recorded Structured Interviews from MRFIT were re-scored for Potential for
      Hostility. In Study II, Structured Interviews were obtained from a new sample of participants
      in the BLSA. In the BLSA the Structured Interview were expanded to include questions that
      dealt more directly and sampled more fully antagonistic self-descriptions, attitudes, and
      behaviors. Alternative measures of Agreeableness-Antagonism were already available from the
      BLSA sample that were used to validate scores from the expanded Structured Interview, and
      biomedical information on BLSA participants was used to further test the predictive utility
      of Antagonistic Hostility as a risk factor for coronary heart disease. Previous research had
      scored Potential for Hostility from the Structured Interview by examining Content, Intensity,
      and Style as well as a clinical judgement of Total Potential for Hostility. In the present
      study, Antagonistic Hostility was measured in terms of Antagonistic Style and
      Self-Descriptions. A total score was defined as the sum of these two components. Antagonistic
      Style was scored using a 5-point scale when rudeness, condescension, and disagreeableness
      were expressed toward the interviewer. Matched and unmatched logistic regressions were used
      to evaluate Antagonistic Hostility as a risk factor for morbidity and mortality outcomes.
      Multivariate analyses were used to control for other standard risk factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  