
    
      The POLST paradigm, which stands for Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment, was
      developed to address inconsistencies between care received and patient and family wishes for
      treatment, with an aim to increase concordant care. The POLST paradigm is nationally
      recognized and implemented in a number of states under different names. In Indiana, for
      example, it is called "Physician Orders for Scope of Treatment" (POST). Because of this, all
      patient facing materials will refer to POST, however, we use the terms POST and POLST
      interchangeably in this proposal.

      POLST affects delivery of medical interventions and improved concordance between patient
      preferences and care received.

      Our specific aims are:

        1. To test the effect of high quality POLST Facilitation delivered in the home compared to
           attention control on:

           a.discordance between preferences for treatment and treatments received in the
           subsequent 12 months (primary outcome).

        2. To test the effect of POLST Facilitation on intermediate outcomes including:

             1. The proportion of patients with a completed POLST form in the electronic medical
                record within 3 months of POLST Facilitation

             2. Decision quality regarding ACP as measured by the Decisional Conflict Scale, the
                advance care planning (ACP) Engagement Survey,and the POLST knowledge survey

        3. To test the effect of a POLST Facilitation on secondary outcomes of cost and end-of-life
           care including:

             1. Receipt of life-sustaining interventions or hospice within the 30 days prior to
                death, for patients who die during the year after POLST Facilitation

             2. The psychological well-being (anxiety, depression,and post traumatic stress) of
                surrogate decision makers after the patient's death

             3. The cost effectiveness of POLST Facilitation for the prevention of ICU admissions
                and hospitalizations
    
  