
    
      primary objectives

      • To compare the efficacy of morning dose only MoviPrep® ("AM Dosing") where one-half of the
      prep is given 7 hours before colonoscopy and the second half is given 4 hours before
      colonoscopy, versus split dose (PM/AM) MoviPrep® ("PM/AM Dosing") where one-half of the prep
      is given at 6pm the night prior to colonoscopy and the second half is given 4 hours before
      colonoscopy.

      Efficacy will be assessed based on cleansing of the entire colon, with successful cleansing
      defined as a score of excellent or good and unsuccessful cleansing defined as a score of fair
      or poor.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To assess the tolerability of AM Dosing MoviPrep® versus PM/AM Dosing MoviPrep® based on
           percentage of prep completed, sleep quality/quantity, future prep choice (same prep or
           alternative prep described), and incidence and severity (using 11-point Likert scale) of
           any adverse events (i.e. nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, light-headedness).

        -  To evaluate the safety of each dosing administration based on vitals with orthostatic
           measures (BP, pulse) on day of colonoscopy.

        -  To evaluate the effect of colon prep on work and productivity as measured by the degree
           of interference with work/productivity the day prior to colonoscopy.

        -  To assess difference between two dosing arms with respect to analysis of right colon
           cleansing, and overall adenoma detection in terms of number, size, location, histology,
           and morphology.

        -  To determine the effect of purgative dosing on procedure efficiency by measuring (a)
           total procedure time, (b) time from anus to cecum, and (c) withdrawal time (excluding
           time taken for interventions).

        -  To evaluate the effect of purgative dosing regimen on amount of flushing required during
           the procedure (0 = none, 1 = <50 ml, 2 = 50-100 ml, 3 = >100 ml).

        -  To validate a new grading scale for colon cleansing using the de-identified recordings
           of colonoscopies performed during this study.
    
  