
    
      Following screening and informed consent, eligible participants will complete baseline
      questionnaires measuring BID and psychological, social, and emotional wellbeing. Participants
      will then be randomized to BRIGHT (n=24) or AC (n=24) and undergo weekly, tablet-based BRIGHT
      or AC for 5 weeks.

      The BRIGHT intervention consists of 5 weekly, 60-minute, tablet-based, one-one telehealth
      sessions with a licensed therapist. BRIGHT Therapist: A licensed clinical psychologist
      (Consultant: Stacey Maurer, PhD) with extensive experience managing pyscho-oncologic concerns
      in patients with HNC will deliver BRIGHT. Dr. Maurer developed the BRIGHT manual and worked
      with the study team to deliver BRIGHT in our single-arm pilot study.

      The control intervention in this study will be matched to replicate the frequency, intensity,
      and delivery method of BRIGHT. Participants in the AC arm will thus undergo 5 weekly,
      60-minute, tablet-based video sessions in which they undergo non-manualized discussions with
      a non-trained member of the study team.

      Following randomization, patients in each arm will receive a study-issued, cellular-enabled
      iPad loaded with Vidyo, a video teleconference platform that allows the participant to
      connect to the study psychologist (BRIGHT) or AC. Vidyo allows face-face communication for
      tele-CBT for HNC patients who can articulate well, but also includes a within-video text
      message feature for aphonic (due to surgical removal of the larynx) or severely dysarthric
      (due to surgical removal of a significant amount of the tongue) HNC patients who are unable
      to participate in tele-CBT by speaking. The study iPads are locked to prevent downloading of
      additional applications. Participants receive a pictorial instructional booklet for logging
      on to Vidyo. No user names, logins, or URL are necessary to connect to the BRIGHT session.
      The participant simply clicks on the Vidyo application which takes the participant to the
      assigned teleconference room. At the conclusion of the 5-week intervention, participants
      return iPads to the study team in pre-addressed, stamped, padded mailers that are provided to
      the patient.
    
  