
    
      Conventional MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is used to confirm disc herniation of the
      cervical spine. Symptoms of the condition can change before they can be seen by conventional
      MR images. Therefore, very little gross change can be seen by conventional MRI even after 6
      weeks of treatment, either medical or surgical. This study will investigate whether newer MRI
      techniques, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and tractography, are useful in demonstrating
      gross changes or assessing response to treatment.

      Consenting patients referred for clinically indicated cervical spine MRI by their treating
      physicians to confirm cervical disc herniation will receive an additional MRI sequence,
      diffusion tensor imaging. This will provide a baseline. The DTI sequence will add five
      minutes to the procedure. Participants will return at 6 weeks for a follow up MRI of the
      cervical spine to include DTI and tractography. Participants will be asked to complete an
      anonymized questionnaire at enrollment and at follow up to provide information regarding
      their condition.

      MRI is a non-invasive diagnostic study of minimal risk which uses magnets instead of ionizing
      radiation to acquire images. The images are then assembled by computer. Diffusion tensor
      imaging (DTI) uses water diffusion to visualize structures in the brain and nervous system.
      Tractography is performed using DTI and computer post-processing to track the fiber bundles
      which exist in the brain and spinal cord and visualize them as two and three dimensional
      images. Both techniques allow radiologists to detect abnormalities, in this case, cervical
      spine disc herniation.

      The follow up studies will be compared to the baseline studies to determine which
      demonstrates the highest sensitivity and specificity in identifying cervical spine
      abnormalities in general and cervical spine herniation in particular.
    
  