
    
      Study will start with 2 elderly healthy volunteers (one male and one female) with preference
      to those with no computer game experience. The healthy volunteers will each perform usability
      sessions (2 times per week) in the first 2 weeks. They will be instructed to move the arms,
      grasp and extend fingers, so to mimic the assumed functionality during subsequent feasibility
      component.

      The usability subjects will test the game controller movement, the caregiver tablet
      interface, and test all therapeutic games. Each of the games will be tested at all levels of
      difficulty, so to detect any previously unknown bugs. They will further test system wireless
      communication and real-time graphics response to controller input (minimal lag and lack of
      freezing, smooth avatar control). Finally, they will test the set motor and cognitive
      baseline procedures, meant to adapt games to participant. Specifically, this research team
      has developed a relaxing scene to be shown to participants while their biosensors are
      measured. This will help interpret any changes occurring subsequently, during therapeutic
      game interactions so to get an indication of engagement, or lack of, with the game tasks.

      At the end of each session, volunteers will fill in the USE standardized usability
      questionnaire [Lund 2001]. This questionnaire will rate the usefulness, ease of use, ease of
      learning, and satisfaction with the BrightGo system. The USE form will solicit comments on
      games instructions, ergonomic issues with the new hand controllers, and degree of assistance
      needed. Sessions will be inter-spaced with days when the programmer, engineer and our
      Research Therapist will address issues uncovered in the previous session(s).

      The usability evaluation process will be repeated in the subsequent 2 weeks with two
      participants in the early phase of Alzheimer's disease. Their performance will be compared
      with that of the elderly healthy volunteers, so to better gauge the usability of the BrightGo
      system for the targeted population. The Usability study will inform necessary BrightGo system
      improvements prior to feasibility study. Participants with early phase of Alzheimer's disease
      will not test the caregiver tablet. Usability participants will be paid $25/session.
    
  