
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the impact on progression free survival (PFS) of the combination pembrolizumab -
      carboplatin in patients with circulating tumor cells (CTC) positive, HER2 negative metastatic
      breast cancer (MBC) previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes in primary setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the impact on overall survival (OS) of the combination carboplatin -
      pembrolizumab in patients with CTC positive MBC previously treated with anthracyclines and
      taxanes in primary setting.

      II. To assess the overall response rate or objective response rate (ORR) and clinical benefit
      rate (CBR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria in
      patients with carboplatin - pembrolizumab in patients with CTC positive MBC previously
      treated with anthracyclines and taxanes in primary setting.

      III. To assess immune-related response using tumor response by immune-related RECIST
      (irRECIST) as immune-related partial response (irPR) or immune-related complete response
      (irCR).

      IV. Measure the time to new metastases (TTNM). V. Evaluate ORR and clinical benefit in
      relation to PDL-1 expression in tissue and CTCs.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure immune biomarkers (PDL-1) in CTCs (CellSearch) and immune cells such as
      cancer-associated macrophage-like cells (CAMLs) (CellSieve) and correlate with therapeutic
      benefit.

      II. Measure cell-free circulating tumor deoxyribonecleic acid (ctDNA) and T-cell receptor
      sequencing analysis and correlate them with CTC enumeration and therapeutic benefit.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and carboplatin IV
      over 30-60 minutes on day 1 beginning with course 3. Courses repeat every 21 days for 24
      months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days, every 9 weeks
      for 1 year, and then every 12 weeks.
    
  