
    
      The study will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel design comparing
      the efficacy and safety of a flexibly dosed cannabinoid oil preparation versus matching
      placebo for the treatment of adults, aged 21 to 65 years with a primary Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual 5 (DSM-5) anxiety disorder: Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), Social
      Anxiety Disorder (SAD), Panic Disorder (PD), or agoraphobia. A total 50 participants
      (n=25/cell) who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized to receive 1 of 2 treatments
      in a 1:1 ratio: cannabinoid oil preparation or matching placebo, with the possibility of dose
      titration during this 8-week period. The outcomes of this research will make a significant
      contribution to enhance our current understanding of the effects of cannabis in anxiety
      disorders.

      To be involved in this study, the study doctor will first check that the participant is
      qualified. This is called screening, and will involve a clinical assessment, physical exam
      and urine tests. This visit may take up to 3 hours to complete.

      If the participant successfully completes screening the participant will start treatment in
      one of the two assigned treatment groups. Treatment is 8 weeks. Participants will come to the
      study clinic 6 times during the treatment phase of the study. Each visit will last 1 to 2
      hours. Each visit will involve reporting any side effects that the participant may have
      experienced, completing questionnaires about mood and anxiety symptoms, sleep, overall
      functioning and alcohol and drug use. Participants will also be assessed by the study doctor.
      The first and last visits will also involve blood work and completing a number of tasks on
      the computer, which measure focus, attention and memory.

      Each participant will be involved in the study for a maximum of 10 weeks. This includes the
      screening visit and follow-up visit.
    
  