
    
      CEB is routinely used along with general anaesthesia for inguinal and genital surgeries. It
      provides intraoperative and postoperative analgesia, is safe, simple and has success rate of
      more than 90% in children.It decreases the requirement of inhalational anaesthetics and
      narcotics, decreases stress hormone release and facilitates early recovery. Hypospadias is
      the most common congenital anomaly of penis, incidence being 1 in 300 live births.
      Hypospadias repair is a technical procedure that can be associated with significant
      complications such as meatal stenosis, stricture, glans dehiscence and flap necrosis
      Urethrocutaneous fisula formation is the most common complication after primary repair with
      an incidence of upto 20%. There have been controversies regarding the association of CEB with
      urethrocutaneous fistula. Some studies have reported a high incidence of postoperative
      urethrocutaneous fistula in children who received CEB while others have not confirmed any
      such relationship. Association between urethrocutaneous fistula and site of urethral opening,
      age of patient, duration of surgery, surgeon's expertise, use of subcutaneous epinephrine and
      use of preoperative testosterone has been found. Penile engorgement, post inflammatory
      response and tissue oedema may be contributory factors for development of fistula. However
      any association between CEB and fistula formation is not clear. All studies, except one, are
      retrospective, limited by small sample size and presence of various confounding factors. The
      present study is aimed to explore any association between CEB and urethrocutaneous fistula.
      The study will be conducted in children with distal hypospadias only; they will be operated
      by a single surgeon, without the use of subcutaneous epinephrine, so that any association, if
      at all between CEB and urethrocutaneous fistula becomes evident.
    
  