
    
      MDS-004 was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-arm study of 2
      doses of lenalidomide versus placebo administered to RBC transfusion-dependent adults with
      low- or intermediate-1 risk MDS associated with a del 5q[31] cytogentetic abnormality.
      Potential participants that had a del 5q[31] cytogenetic abnormality plus other additional
      cytogenetic abnormalities were also eligible for enrollment. Transfusion-dependent anemia was
      defined as documentation that a participant with anemia due to MDS did not have any
      consecutive 56 days (8 weeks) that were RBC transfusion free during at least the 112 days (16
      weeks) prior to Day 1 of the Pre-Randomization Phase.

      This study was conducted in three phases:

        1. a Pre-Randomization Phase

        2. a Double-Blind Treatment Phase

        3. an Open-Label Extension Phase

      Potentially protocol-eligible participants entered the Pre-Randomization Phase and were
      evaluated for the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the Double-Blind Treatment Phase. The
      Pre-Randomization Phase was not to last for more than 56 days (8 weeks). When the
      participant's baseline RBC transfusion requirement was calculated, and it had been determined
      that all eligibility criteria had been met, the participant could be randomized for treatment
      in the Double-Blind Treatment Phase at the time of their next RBC transfusion. This RBC
      transfusion had to occur within 56 days of the participant's last previous RBC transfusion.

      Participants meeting eligibility criteria were randomized (1:1:1 ratio) to receive either
      lenalidomide 10 mg/day on days 1-21, lenalidomide 5 mg/day on days 1-28, or placebo on days
      1-28; all on a 28-day cycle. Randomization was performed using a validated interactive voice
      response system. Participants were stratified according to karyotype (IPSS karyotype score: 0
      vs > 0; i.e., isolated del 5q[31] vs del 5q[31] plus ≥ 1 additional cytogenetic abnormality).
      A complete blood count (CBC), serum or plasma ferritin, and EPO levels were measured to
      determine baseline levels.

      Participants who achieved at least a minor erythroid response (i.e. 50% decrease in
      transfusion requirements) by week 16 could continue treatment in the Double-Blind phase for
      up to 52 weeks, unless there was evidence of erythroid relapse, disease progression, or
      unacceptable toxicity. Those who did not achieve at least a minor erythroid response by week
      16 were discontinued from the Double-Blind phase for lack of therapeutic efficacy, and
      unblinded and were potentially eligible for Open-Label treatment. All participants who
      completed the double-blind treatment phase (the first 52 weeks of the trial) without disease
      progression or erythroid relapse were unblinded and entered the Open-Label extension phase at
      their current lenalidomide dose. Participants in the placebo or lenalidomide 5 mg arms who
      failed to achieve at least a minor erythroid response by week 16 or who had an erythroid
      relapse could cross over to lenalidomide 5 mg or 10 mg, respectively, in the Open-Label
      Extension phase.

      Lenalidomide treatment could be continued in the Open-label Extension phase for up to 3 years
      (156 weeks) of total study participation. Participants with disease progression at any time
      and participants in the lenalidomide 10 mg group who did not achieve at least a minor
      erythroid response by week 16 were withdrawn from the study and were ineligible for
      Open-Label treatment.

      Serial measurements for efficacy and safety were performed every 28 days. In addition, CBCs
      were monitored weekly for the first 8 weeks, every 2 weeks for the next 8 weeks, and every 4
      weeks thereafter. Bone marrow aspirate (BMA) and standard cytogenetic studies were performed
      at baseline, weeks 12, week 24, and every 24 weeks thereafter and when clinically indicated
      for assessment of disease progression. BMAs were submitted for central pathology review and
      sent to a central cytogenetics laboratory for processing and review. All participants were
      followed for overall survival (OS) and progression to acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      Lenalidomide or placebo dosing was reduced for dose-limiting toxicities according to the
      following dose reduction schedule:

        -  Lenalidomide 5 mg (starting dose)

             -  dose level -1 (5 mg every other day)

             -  dose level -2 (5 mg twice a week)

             -  dose level -3 (5 mg weekly)

        -  Lenalidomide 10 mg (starting dose)

             -  dose level -1 (5 mg daily)

             -  dose level -2 (5 mg every other day)

             -  dose level -3 (5 mg twice a week)

      Participants who could not tolerate dose level -3 discontinued treatment. For grade 4
      neutropenia, lenalidomide was required per protocol to be interrupted and resumed at a
      decreased dose level when the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) recovered to ≥ 500/μL. For
      grade 4 thrombocytopenia, lenalidomide was interrupted and then resumed at a decreased dose
      level when the platelet count recovered to: between ≥ 25,000/μL and < 50,000/μL on at least 2
      occasions for ≥ 7 days; or ≥ 50,000 at any time, respectively. Prophylactic and therapeutic
      use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF) or granulocyte macrophage
      colony-stimulating factors (GM-CSF) was allowed.
    
  