
    
      Nearly half a million children are born each year to single, low-income mothers. Children
      born to socially disadvantaged mothers are more likely to experience chronic health problems,
      encounter child abuse and neglect, and receive insufficient health care. Home visitation by
      nurses during pregnancy and early childhood may prevent a wide range of health and
      developmental problems in children born to women who are either teenagers, unmarried, or of
      low economic status.

      This study is associated with a home nurse visitation program that first began with 400
      socially disadvantaged pregnant women between the years of 1977 and 1980 in an upstate New
      York semi-rural county. Participants in the original study were randomly assigned to
      participate in the home nurse visitation program or receive comparison services from
      pregnancy until the child's second birthday. Participants assigned to receive comparison
      services were provided with free transportation for prenatal and child care, as well as
      sensory and developmental screening for the child. Participants assigned to the home nurse
      visitation program were visited at home by a nurse 9 times during pregnancy and 23 times
      during the child's first 2 years of life. A follow-up study concluded that the home nurse
      visitation program reduced the number subsequent pregnancies, use of welfare, child abuse and
      neglect, and criminal behavior on the part of the socially disadvantaged mothers for up to 15
      years after the birth of their first child.

      This follow-up study will determine whether a home nurse visitation program has continued
      long-term effects on a child's health and development, 27 years later. Specifically, this
      study will evaluate whether the nurse-visited young adult offspring differ from the
      comparison group in their economic productivity; rates of child abuse and neglect; criminal
      behavior; mental health; abuse of substances; use of welfare, foster care, and healthcare in
      relation to government expenditures; and quality of their partnered relationships.
      Participants within the nurse-visited program group will be compared with each other to
      determine whether certain characteristics or factors, such as genetic vulnerabilities,
      environmental risks, or a history of child abuse, make someone less likely to benefit from a
      home nurse visitation program.
    
  