
    
      Postmenopausal osteoporosis is the leading cause of low trauma fractures. At the time of
      menopause there is an uncoupling of bone turnover, with osteoclast mediated bone resorption
      increased more than bone formation, resulting in both loss of bone mass and architecture such
      that bone fractures with very little force.

      Bisphosphonates are commonly used to treat postmenopausal osteoporosis, although the
      mechanisms of their action on bone are not completely understood. Gossiel and colleagues
      recently examined the effects of ibandronate, alendronate and risedronate on osteoclast
      precursor cells in a study of women (n=62) with postmenopausal osteoporosis. Fasting serum
      was collected at baseline and after 1 and 48 weeks of bisphosphonate treatment.
      Fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS)-Calibur was used to extract peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC), and cells were stained for receptors of macrophage colony
      stimulating factor (M-CSFR) and tumor necrosis factor 2 (TNFR2), as well as adhesion
      molecules (CD11b and CD14). These cell surface antigens are important for osteoclast
      differentiation and activity. Osteoclast precursor cells were identified using flow cytometry
      to find cells that were dual positive (CD14+/M-CSFR+, CD14+/CD11b+, CD14+/TNFR2+). Results
      showed a significant (p<0.01) reduction in in expression of M-CSFR (53% decrease) and CD11b
      (49% decrease) after 48 weeks of treatment, suggesting that the action of bisphosphonates on
      mature osteoclasts may be mediated by reduction of osteoclast precursor cells.

      Treatment with denosumab (a monoclonal antibody that blocks the ability of receptor activator
      of NFκB ligand [RANKL] to bind to its receptor RANK on the osteoclast surface and inhibits
      the maturation and activity of osteoclasts) has been found to increase bone mineral density
      (BMD) at the lumbar spine and hip in both postmenopausal women and elderly men with
      osteopenia. However, after denosumab is discontinued there can be a rapid loss of BMD and an
      increased incidence of vertebral fractures. Current data suggests that the incidence of
      vertebral fracrure increases to levels similar to placebo after denosumab discontinuation,
      and only the incidence of multiple vertebral fracture is higher after denosumab
      discontinuation compared with placebo discontinuation, though further research is needed. The
      increase in the observed bone loss may be from increased osteoclast maturation and activity,
      or an change in the number circulating monocytes (the precursors of osteoclasts) during the
      denosumab treatment.
    
  