
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether ketamine hydrochloride given in addition to best standard pain
           management improves malignant neuropathic pain compared to best standard pain management
           alone in patients with cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To compare initial treatment benefit (at day 4 of assessment period of 16 days) using
           the sensory component of the McGill Short-Form Questionnaire.

        -  To compare difference in overall pain between the study arms based on the pain-intensity
           visual-analogue score (VAS).

        -  To compare difference in neuropathic pain between the study arms based on the Leeds
           Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs (LANSS) pain scale.

        -  To assess worst pain score (index neuropathic site) between the two arms.

        -  To compare patient distress between the two arms based on NCCN Distress Thermometer.

        -  To assess the side effects and tolerability of trial drug.

        -  To assess the effect of intervention on quality of life scores (based on Euroqol
           thermometer), anxiety and depression (based on HADS), and opioid requirements.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Stage 1 (Run-in Period): Opioid doses are optimized, under a defined schedule, for up to
           a maximum of 10 days to ensure that all patients are on an optimized and stable regimen*
           prior to randomization. Following the run-in-period, patients undergo reassessment.
           Patients who have improved pain scores (i.e., < 4/10 on the visual-analogue score in the
           past 24 hours or < 5 McGill Sensory Scale Score) are taken off the study. Patients whose
           scores have not improved continue on to Stage 2 of the study.

      NOTE: *Stable regimen is defined as the same dose of controlled release and no more variation
      than 2 breakthrough opioid doses over the normal for that patient for a period of 48 hours.

        -  Stage 2 (Titration Period): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral ketamine hydrochloride 4 times a day. Doses are
                titrated until when analgesia is achieved or individual side effects appear, for up
                to 14 days.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive an oral placebo 4 times a day. Doses are titrated until
                when analgesia is achieved or individual side effects appear, for up to 14 days.

        -  Stage 3 (Assessment Period): Patients receive the trial medication (i.e., ketamine
           hydrochloride or placebo) at the fixed optimum dose (reached during the titration
           period) for 16 days.

      Patients are allowed to receive breakthrough opioids at any time during the study.

      Patients complete quality-of-life and pain-assessment questionnaires periodically. Some
      patients may undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacogenomics studies at a
      later date.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  