
    
      We are proposing a randomized, parallel-groups 5-week study of relapse prevention in
      detoxified opioid-dependent individuals. This trial represents an initial test of the
      feasibility and efficacy of an outpatient opioid detoxification strategy employing induction
      onto long-acting naltrexone (Vivitrol), in combination with the recently adapted version of
      Behavioral Naltrexone Therapy for Depot Naltrexone (Depot-BNT). Participants will be
      randomized into one of two outpatient detoxification strategies: (1) standard 7-day
      buprenorphine induction and taper from 8 mg to 0 mg (N=33), followed on Day 15 by a naloxone
      challenge and a dose of long-acting injectable naltrexone (Vivitrol) (consistent with the
      FDA-approved recommendation of 7 or more days between last opioid dose and Vivitrol
      induction) vs. (2) a modification of our current inpatient naltrexone induction procedure,
      consisting of a single day of buprenorphine followed by a washout day and 4 days of ascending
      oral naltrexone doses, followed by long-acting injectable naltrexone (Vivitrol) 380 mg on Day
      8 (N=67). We are seeking to obtain Vivitrol samples from Alkermes; if we are successful in
      obtaining such samples, we will offer all participants who complete the study a second
      injection 4 weeks after the first, and a third injection will be offered at Week 12. All
      participants will receive an intensive behavioral therapy for five weeks and will be followed
      for up to 24 weeks to assess the long-term outcome of the initial treatment. Study
      assessments will be collected at baseline and at each study visit (twice weekly in Weeks 2-5;
      weekly in Weeks 6-9 for participants who receive a second Vivitrol injection and participate
      in follow-up care). Repeated assessments will also be completed at one and four months
      following the end of treatment. The primary aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that
      an outpatient opioid detoxification strategy using naltrexone will increase the likelihood of
      successful induction onto long-acting injectable naltrexone, compared to a buprenorphine
      taper in opioid-dependent patients. The primary outcome measure will be percentage in each
      treatment group (oral naltrexone vs. buprenorphine taper) receiving the Vivitrol injection at
      Day 8 or 15. Key secondary outcomes will be: two-week opioid abstinence during Weeks 4-5,
      retention in the 8-day detoxification procedure (time to dropout) and severity of opiate
      withdrawal during the first 5 weeks of treatment. We anticipate that the outpatient opioid
      detoxification method developed in this project will be uniquely suited to the needs of the
      rapidly expanding population of prescription opioid-abusing individuals seeking an
      alternative to opioid agonist maintenance. The current proposal will also yield important
      data on how to improve long-term outcomes for the buprenorphine taper method of opioid
      detoxification, through the addition of long-acting naltrexone.
    
  