
    
      Currently, to assess vaccine efficacy against tuberculosis (TB) there is no alternative to
      large randomized controlled trials. These efficacy trials for novel TB vaccines are
      difficult, long and very costly. For this reason there is an urgent need for a valid,
      reliable, and strong correlate of protection which can help distinguish between candidate TB
      vaccines undergoing phase I trials, and thereby allow the vaccine development field to
      advance more quickly, and in a more cost-effective manner.

      This study aims to address the current lack of immunological correlates in the TB vaccine
      field. As an alternative to phase II field trials, human challenge models can provide an
      evaluation of preliminary efficacy of vaccine candidates. Challenge models, with their
      concept of deliberate infectious challenge of human volunteers, have been well established
      for pathogens such as malaria, typhoid and dengue, and these models have greatly facilitated
      vaccine development. At present there is no safe human challenge model of Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis (M. tb) infection to enable proof-of-concept efficacy evaluation of candidate
      vaccines.

      Whilst scientists cannot use M. tb as a challenge agent to evaluate efficacy in a clinical
      trial for safety and ethical reasons, they can use another mycobacterium, attenuated
      Mycobacterium bovis, as a surrogate for M. tb infection. Attenuated Mycobacterium bovis is
      the mycobacterial strain in BCG and is safe to use in humans. An effective vaccine against M.
      tb should also be effective against BCG. After injection into humans, BCG replicates, and an
      effective TB vaccine should reduce this BCG replication. The BCG challenge model is based on
      this premise. In the human BCG challenge model, BCG is administered intradermally and the
      degree of BCG growth suppression is quantified by analysing the tissue obtained in a punch
      biopsy of volunteers' skin over the BCG 'challenge' site.

      This study aims to use two different strains of BCG, each at standard and high dose, to
      optimise this BCG challenge model.
    
  