
    
      Vasovagal syncope (VVS, simple faint) is the most common cause of transient loss of
      consciousness and represents the acute episodic form of orthostatic intolerance (OI).
      Postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is the common chronic form of OI. Both are defined by
      debilitating symptoms and signs while upright relieved by recumbency. Pathophysiological
      mechanisms have remained elusive. Most POTS patients and all VVS patients have normal supine
      resting hemodynamics but excessively redistribute blood flow and blood volume from the
      central pool to the splanchnic vasculature because of defective splanchnic arterial
      vasoconstriction and venoconstriction. While peripheral and splanchnic arterial
      vasoconstriction depend primarily on post-junctional alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, splanchnic
      venoconstriction also depends on post-junctional alpha-2 adrenergic receptors. Consequently,
      selective alpha-1 agonists such as midodrine may not produce sufficient splanchnic
      venoconstriction to compensate for splanchnic pooling in POTS and VVS. Such alpha adrenergic
      subtype restrictions do not apply to Northera (droxidopa) because it is a norepinephrine (NE)
      prodrug and therefore increases the amount of synaptic NE that can then bind to both alpha-2
      and alpha-1 receptors. Northera should therefore improve both sympathetic splanchnic arterial
      vasoconstriction and sympathetic splanchnic venoconstriction in POTS and VVS, and may
      represent an ideal drug to improve the orthostatic response in POTS and VVS. We will test the
      hypothesis that Northera, in appropriate dose, improves the splanchnic adrenergic deficits
      that initiate POTS and postural VVS and in sufficient daily dose improves quality of life in
      these patients. To accomplish this, the investigator will recruit 10 POTS patients aged 18-30
      years, 10 similarly aged patients with 2 or more episodes of VVS in the past year (thus
      defining recurrent VVS) and 10 age and gender matched healthy volunteer control subjects with
      the following specific aims:
    
  