
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative option for most of
      juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). However, persistent disease statute and relapse
      after HSCT severely influence the long-term overall survival (OS). Researches demonstrate
      that JMML is an aggressive myeloproliferative neoplasm occurring in young children. The
      common denominator of these malignant myeloid disorders is a particular responsiveness to
      epigenetic therapy with the DNA-hypomethylating agents 5-azacytidine (azacitidine) or
      decitabine. However, hypomethylating therapy does not eradicate the malignant clone in JMML
      and an emerging concept with intriguing potential is the combination of hypomethylating
      therapy and HSCT. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is severe complication after HSCT. Post
      -transplant cyclophosphamide (PT/Cy) is an effective method to control the occurrence of
      GVHD. Based on these encouraging results, investigators launched a noval method for patients
      diagnosed as JMML and treated in our institution. They modified PT/Cy conditioning regimens.
      Patients all subsequently received modified DCAG regimen as the induction chemotherapy
      including decitabine of 20 mg/m2 intravenously over 4 h for five consecutive days (Day -15 to
      -11) followed by cytarabine of 10 mg/m2 q12 h for 7 days (Day -15 to -9), aclarubicin of 10
      mg/day for 4 days (Day -12 to -9), and G-CSF 5µg/kg per day for priming until white blood
      count was >20 x109/L and immediately followed by myeloablative conditioning regimen (MAC)
      consisted with thymoglobulin (2.5mg/kg/day) which was administered for 3 days （Day -8 to -6),
      iv Bu (4 mg/kg in divided doses daily for 4 days) on days -5, -4, -3, and -2, iv Flu (30
      mg/m2 once daily for 4 days, total dose 120 mg/m2) on days -5, -4, -3, and -2 and iv Melphlan
      (70 mg/m2 once daily for 3 days, total dose210 mg/m2) was performed on days -4 and -2.
    
  