
    
      Patients with ischemic stroke and atrial fibrillation (AF) have a high risk of stroke
      recurrence, which is the highest among all other pathogenetic subtypes of stroke. This risk
      is substantially reduced with anticoagulant treatment. For many decades, vitamin-K
      antagonists (VKA) were the only anticoagulant choice for these patients. However, a number of
      limitations such as narrow therapeutic window, need for frequent INR measurements and
      consequent dose adjustments, risk of haemorrhagic complications, food-drug and drug-drug
      interactions, and others, have undermined the use of anticoagulation by both patients and
      physicians with apparent influence on the risk of stroke recurrence. During the last decade,
      four non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOAC) have been successfully introduced
      and showed superior safety and efficacy profile than VKAs, more convenient dosing schemes
      (i.e. no need for adjustments) and minimum interactions with food and drugs. These advantages
      of NOACs vs. VKAs may have obvious implications to patient adherence to treatment and,
      consequently, to the efficacy of secondary stroke prevention. Nevertheless, there are only
      very scarce data available yet that the adherence and persistence to NOACs is higher than the
      adherence and persistence to VKAs in the specific population of patients with ischemic stroke
      and atrial fibrillation.

      Recently, the SAMe-TT2R2 score has been introduced as a means to identify those AF patients
      who have inadequate quality of anticoagulation with VKAs expressed as Time within Therapeutic
      Range (TTR)5. In specific, VKA-anticoagulated AF patients with a SAMe-TT2R2 score of 0-2 are
      expected to have a TTR >65%, whereas patients with a score of >2 are expected to have lower
      TTR levels. In this context, one could hypothesize that increased SAMe-TT2R2 score may be
      associated with inadequate adherence and persistence to VKAs. Other parameters associated
      with inadequate adherence and persistence in the general AF population include education,
      employment, social status, and cognitive function. However, this is not well investigated in
      the specific population of patients with previous stroke where other conditions such as age
      and functional neurological status may also play an important role in adherence and
      persistence.
    
  