
    
      Primary Endpoint:

      Compare the difference in distress via Distress Thermometer for patients who receive music
      therapy and those who do not.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Compare the difference in patient perception of pain, anxiety, and mood via Numeric Rating
      Scale for patients who receive music therapy and those who do not.

      Compare the difference in quality of life via Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General
      (FACT-G7) for patients who receive music therapy and those who do not.

      Compare the difference in the use of total narcotic medications in those who receive music
      therapy and those who do not (using morphine equivalent doses).

      Study Design:

      Participants randomized in the experimental group will receive a total of three sessions
      prior to stem cell infusion day. The first session will occur within 24 hours of admission to
      the bone marrow transplant (BMT) unit. The second session will occur between 24 - 96 hours
      after the first session, depending on transplant preparation regimen. The third session will
      occur on Day -1. For participants in the control group, assessments will be timed to emulate
      those in the experimental arm.

      A decision tree for music therapy interventions will be employed in this study. Participants
      in the experimental group will be given choices about how to proceed with the session: active
      or passive, improvisation, re-creative or receptive songs, or receptive (relaxation).

      Participants randomized to the standard care group will be asked to rate the same symptoms as
      those in the experimental group. This will mark the beginning of a 45-minute control
      condition period during which the participants may fill the 45-minute time-period in whatever
      ways they choose, however, they will be asked to refrain from listening to recorded music
      during this time. At the conclusion of 45-minutes, post-condition data will be collected.
    
  