
    
      Study volunteers' participation in this study will last for 6 months. Investigators will ask
      participants to examine their own health behaviors. The purpose of the examination is to find
      the areas that need improvement so participants can work on them. Investigators will use
      technology in the form of Health360x to support participant efforts to change health
      behaviors.

      This list below, shows the activities you will perform as part of this research.

      Arm A ='High tech' Arm B='High tech high touch"

        1. Recruitment Phone call: During this call, investigators will do the following:

             -  Collect email address

             -  Phone# that can receive text messages

             -  Contact information for 2 close friends/relatives

        2. Investigators will email participants enrollment and welcome package that contains links
           to the

             -  Online screening form

             -  Consent form Please complete both forms

        3. Investigators will send participants a link to online training videos and Health360x
           user manual that show how to use health360x and the online user manual

           • Participants will show investigative team that they know how to use Health360x by
           completing a proficiency test

        4. Investigators will have Live chat sessions to answer questions about the project by the
           health coach and PI. Participants can access these as needed

        5. Participants will be assigned by chance, to High tech only(Arm A) or high tech and high
           touch(Arm B). Participant will receive an email notification of what study arm they are
           enrolled in

        6. Self- assessment; LS7 score

        7. Participant will receive a sleep/activity tracker; Investigators will work to obtain a
           Blood Pressure monitor through participants' usual health insurance

        8. Weekly goal setting; personal action plan x4 weeks Arm A participants will receive email
           prompts to complete. Arm B participants will complete; 45minute-1 hour meetings with
           health coach (recorded)

        9. Every 2-week goal setting; personal action plans x4 Arm A participants will receive
           email prompts to complete; Arm B participants will complete 45 minute-1 hour long
           meetings with health coach(recorded)

       10. Every 1 monthly goal setting; personal action plan x3 Arm A participants will receive
           email prompts to complete; Arm B participants will complete 45 minute-1 hour long
           meetings with health coach(recorded)
    
  