
    
      Acute ischemic stroke remains one of the leading causes of disability and death in both
      developed and developing countries. Using intravenous thrombolysis combined with
      intra-arterial therapy to recanalize occluded vessels in eligible patients is recommended by
      current guidelines. Five randomized clinical trials showed that modified thrombolysis in
      cerebral ischemia (mTICI) 2b/3 recanalization can be achieved in 59-88% of acute ischemic
      stroke patients with anterior circulation large artery occlusion，but only an average of 46%
      of patients have a favorable outcome (modified Rankin Scale score [mRS] 0-2). Therefore, new
      therapeutic strategies in addition to thrombectomy for acute ischemic stroke are urgently
      needed.

      As early as 1987, Busto et al. found that lowering of the brain temperature by only a few
      degrees during ischemia confers a marked neuroprotective effect. Therapeutic hypothermia has
      been suggested to be the most potent neuroprotective strategy in recent years5，and a number
      of clinical studies in patients with acute cerebral infarction also showed that mild
      hypothermia (33-35 ℃) can increase tolerance to ischemic insults and play a significant
      neuroprotective role after reperfusion. However, adverse events such as pneumonia, affecting
      up to 35% of treated patients occurs with hypothermia. Since selective brain cooling does not
      require a reduction in core body temperature, it is theoretically possible to avoid many
      serious adverse effects caused by whole body hypothermia.

      The investigators have previous shown that short-duration selective brain cooling by the
      intra-arterial infusion of cold saline combined with mechanical thrombectomy in acute
      ischemic stroke is feasible and safe. The efficacy of selective brain cooling in patients
      undergoing mechanical thrombectomy, however, is not established. The investigators therefore
      conducted this RCT study to explore the efficacy of short-duration selective brain cooling in
      patients with acute ischemic stroke who underwent mechanical thrombectomy.
    
  