
    
      Analyzing circulating cardiovascular biomarkers using blood samples should improve
      identification of congenital heart disease in newborns, in particular for those needing
      future cardiac interventions.

      Comparing such biomarker profiles and non-invasive cardiac imaging results over time in
      infants and children should lead to better understanding of the complex cardiovascular
      remodeling processes in common congenital heart lesions such as atrial or ventricular septal
      defects. This in turn should lead to an improved risk factor assessment model to guide
      treatment decisions in children with congenital heart disease in the foreseeable future.

      To test our hypothesis, that cardiovascular biomarker profiling and non-invasive cardiac
      imaging findings in infants and children with congenital heart disease, differs from healthy
      controls, we will assess controls at enrolment and follow cases with predefined congenital
      heart disease lesions over a maximum of three years or up till one year after open heart
      surgery / cardiac catheter intervention to correct such lesions.

      Infants and children resident in designated healthcare regions of Sweden will be invited to
      participate after study advertisement. Written informed consent will be obtained from legal
      guardians and assent will be sought from children who can communicate verbally with the
      dedicated paediatric research team.

      Healthy subjects 0-17 years at enrolment will undergo standard electrocardiogram (ECG),
      echocardiography and blood sampling to evaluate the heart's anatomy and function and to
      obtain samples for subsequent biomarker analyses.

      Additionally, saliva will be sampled and/or neonatal blood samples from national biobank
      storage will be retrieved for comparison with cardiovascular biomarker profiles in these
      controls if available.

      To evaluate these cardiovascular assessments in predefined age groups, a subgroup of these
      participating subjects will be asked to complete additional cardiac magnetic resonance
      imaging based on study protocols.

      Incidental findings will be followed up according to standard care protocols in designated
      paediatric cardiology clinics throughout the participating healthcare regions in Sweden.

      Cases of congenital heart disease that lead to pulmonary over-circulation, such as atrial and
      ventricular septal defects, partial anomalous pulmonary venous drainage, aort-pulmonary
      windows and patent ductus arterious, will be asked to participate if the lesion has not been
      treated by open heart surgery or cardiac catheter interventions at enrolment.

      Subjects with these predefined types of congenital heart disease aged 0-17 years at enrolment
      will undergo standard electrocardiograms (ECG), echocardiography and blood sampling to assess
      biomarkers at baseline and at 6-12 month follow-up intervals in dedicated paediatric
      cardiology clinics over a maximum period of three years.

      Saliva samples and/or cardiovascular tissue obtained during open heart surgery may also be
      analysed for studied cardiovascular biomarkers. Additionally, neonatal blood samples from
      national biobank storage will be retrieved for comparison with current biomarker profiles if
      available.

      For those congenital heart disease cases referred for open heart surgery or cardiac catheter
      intervention to correct the congenital heart lesion based on standard care assessment
      decisions during the study period, follow-up will end one year after such intervention.

      To evaluate these cardiovascular assessments in predefined age groups, a subgroup of
      participating cases will be asked to complete additional cardiac magnetic resonance imaging
      based on study protocols.
    
  