
    
      Study Design: multi-centre randomized open-label, blinded-endpoint trial of two different BP
      management strategies. This study is being conducted in the Emergency Departments and Stroke
      Units of Canadian academic and non-academic centres.

      Overall Aim and Hypothesis: The primary study aim is to assess the rate of ischemic lesion
      development in patients randomized to two different BP treatment strategies. The overall a
      priori hypothesis is that aggressive BP reduction will not be associated with ischemic injury
      after ICH.

      Patients: Male and female patients will be recruited from Emergency Departments of
      participating hospitals. A total of 270 patients will be included over 3 years.

      Baseline Data and Randomization: Demographics, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and National
      Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores (both of which are part of routine stroke
      patient assessment), time of symptom onset and diagnostic CT scan will all be recorded. If
      the CT scan is completed within 6 hours of onset and confirms evidence of a primary ICH,
      patients will be randomized. Where patients are incompetent and surrogate decision makers are
      not immediately available, randomization will occur using a deferred consent procedure.
      Stroke risk factors, past medical history and medications, with emphasis on
      antihypertensives, as well as standard clinical blood work (complete blood count and
      coagulation profile) will be recorded after randomization in order to avoid delays to BP
      treatment.

      Intervention - Blood Pressure Management Protocols:

      "Aggressive" BP Target (<140 mmHg) Treatment Group: Patients randomized to the <140 mmHg
      group (n=135) will immediately receive a 10 mg IV bolus of labetalol, administered over 1
      minute. A protocol designed to achieve and maintain systolic BP <140 mmHg within 60 minutes
      of randomization has been designed (Appendix 5). A key feature of this protocol is the
      utilization of IV enalapril, which can be given regularly (Q. 6 hourly), avoiding BP
      fluctuations, a problem which has been noted previously when using bolus-based protocols.109
      Patients randomized to the <140 mmHg group will be treated with 1.25 mg of IV enalapril
      immediately after labetalol administration. A lower limit of 120 mmHg has been stipulated,
      although given the investigators experience in ICH ADAPT I, this is unlikely to be achieved.
      In the event of systolic BP falling below 120 mmHg, antihypertensive therapy will be held and
      patients will be fluid resuscitated with isotonic saline. Pressor agents will not be used.

      "Conservative" BP Target (<180 mmHg) Treatment Group: Patients randomized to the <180 mmHg
      group (n=135) will be administered parenteral antihypertensive therapy only if systolic BP is
      ≥180 mmHg, consistent with current guidelines.

      All patients will have continuous non-invasive BP and heart rate (HR) monitoring for a
      minimum of 24h. BP and HR will be recorded most intensively during the hyperacute phase, as
      per the NINDS r-tPA protocol for vital signs monitoring. Antihypertensive drug use and
      dosages will be recorded concomitantly with BP and HR. Patients will be monitored regularly
      until study completion. Door-to-needle times will be documented with respect to the
      initiation of antihypertensive medication and the proportion of patients achieving BP targets
      within 1 hour of treatment.

      At completion of the 24h active treatment period, all patients will continue to receive
      standard stroke care and rehabilitation, and treating physicians will manage BP in the manner
      they feel is appropriate. Physicians will be encouraged to start oral antihypertensive
      therapy, administered via nasogastric feeding tube if necessary, on day 2. BP, HR and
      antihypertensive medication doses will continue to be monitored and recorded every 4 h for
      the first 48 h and then twice daily until discharge. Long-term goals for both patient groups
      after the active treatment period are a systolic BP of <140 mmHg, or <130 mmHg in those with
      diabetes, as per current stroke prevention and hypertension guidelines.

      Imaging Procedures:

      Baseline - Immediately prior to randomization and BP reduction, patients will undergo a
      standard non-contrast CT diagnostic brain scan. In the event of early neurological
      deterioration at any point, a repeat CT scan will be obtained immediately.

      24 hour CT - All patients will have a repeat CT brain scan at 24±3 h, in order to assess for
      hematoma expansion and peri-hematoma edema volume.

      48 hour MRI - At 48±12 h, patients will undergo MRI scanning, including a T1-weighted
      sagittal localizer, DWI, Gradient Recalled Echo (GRE)/Susceptibility Weighted Imaging (SWI),
      diffusion-weighted (DWI) and perfusion-weighted images (PWI).

      Day 7 MRI Scan (Secondary Endpoint) - A repeat MRI will be obtained at 7±2 days to assess for
      new DWI lesion development and evolution of those identified at 24 hours.

      Day 30 MRI Scan (Secondary Endpoint) - A repeat MRI will be obtained at 30±5 days to assess
      for new DWI lesion development and evolution of those identified at 24 hours and 7 days.

      Clinical Assessments:

      In Hospital - In addition to BP data, GCS and NIHSS scores will be collected in the event of
      early neurological deterioration. Both of these scores will also be recorded at the time of
      each MRI scan and at hospital discharge or transfer to alternate level of care, i.e.
      rehabilitation or long-term care facility. Discharge modified Rankin Scores (mRS) will also
      be recorded. Cognitive changes will be assessed with the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)
      at the time of each MRI scan.

      Follow-up (Day 30) - A standardized interview aimed at determining mortality and current
      residence of the patient (home/hospital/rehabilitation hospital/long-term care facility) will
      be administered at the time of the day 30 MRI. The NIHSS and MoCA scores will also be
      recorded, as will modified Rankin scale (mRS) scores. Quality of life will be assessed with
      the EQ-5D.

      (Day 90) - This is the standard time point for measuring functional outcomes in stroke
      trials, as the bulk of neurological recovery occurs within that time frame. All neurological,
      functional and cognitive disability tests will be repeated at this time.
    
  