
    
      The Malawi Ministry of Health (MoH) has embarked on a novel and ambitious programme to
      prevent mother to child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) known as "Option B Plus". This programme
      takes a public health approach to promote maternal health and eliminate paediatric HIV
      infections through a "test and treat" model, offering all HIV-infected pregnant and
      breastfeeding women lifelong ART regardless of CD4 count or clinical stage. The overall goal
      is to improve ART uptake and retention, and thus outcomes, of HIV-infected pregnant women and
      their infants in the continuum of ART services.

      Although the Option B Plus strategy offers an attractive rapid ART scale-up alternative to
      the WHO PMTCT recommendations and has the potential to profoundly impact maternal and infant
      outcomes, it has not been implemented in any programme setting. Operational challenges
      throughout the cascade of PMTCT services may affect the uptake and adherence to highly active
      ART treatment (HAART) by pregnant women, the follow-up of HIV-exposed infants and the
      long-term retention of this patient population. Several issues identified at the national
      level are potential threats to the successful implementation and scale up of Option B plus:
      a) potential suboptimal uptake of HAART by asymptomatic pregnant women due to low treatment
      literacy and stigma; b) low adherence to HAART and poor follow-up of HIV exposed infants; and
      c) lack of psycho-social support for long term retention in this relatively asymptomatic
      patient population (Schouten et al. 2011).

      The aim of the overall project (4 years) is to evaluate facility-based and community-based
      support models to strengthen uptake and retention of mothers and families in PMTCT care in
      Malawi. Our hypothesis is that enhanced support for women and their families within
      facilities and/or through community outreach will result in improved retention in the
      continuum of PMTCT care.

      We will conduct a cluster randomized clinical trial evaluating three support models for the
      implementation of the Option B+ program. Each of the 21 clinics will be randomized to one of
      the three adherence and support strategies. Arm 1 is the standard of care arm as outlined by
      the Ministry of Health, Arm 2 is facility level support by a peer educator and Arm 3 is
      community level support by a peer educator.
    
  