
    
      In this study we plan to measure bone and soft tissue sarcoma patients using Diffuse Optical
      Spectroscopic Imaging to determine if analogous markers of response exist for these patients.
      The first aim of this study is to measure normal volunteers using Diffuse Optical
      Spectroscopic Imaging in the anatomic regions where sarcomas typically occur such as the
      extremities. This will provide normal optical properties with which to compare sarcoma
      measurements. The second aim of this study is to determine the feasibility of measuring
      sarcoma patients with Diffuse Optical Spectroscopic Imaging. Since the optical properties of
      sarcoma tissue will likely be different from breast tumor tissue, we will measure a small
      cohort of patients at baseline (before treatment) to determine typical optical properties and
      make any necessary instrument adjustments. The third aim of the study will involve measuring
      sarcoma patients using Diffuse Optical Spectroscopic Imaging at multiple timepoints during
      their treatment including at baseline, during their first week of neoadjuvant chemotherapy,
      at the midpoint of therapy, and before surgical resection. Additionally, some patients may be
      measured during their chemotherapy infusions as this timepoint has shown promising
      preliminary data in breast cancer patients. Diffuse Optical Spectroscopic Imaging
      measurements will be analyzed and compared to overall chemotherapy response determined by
      pathology. Additionally, DOSI measurements will be compared to clinical MRI (or FDG PET/CT)
      measurements performed at baseline and at posttreatment prior to surgery according to
      RECIST/PERCIST criteria. Tumor volume reduction (or tumor metabolic change) during
      chemotherapy will be compared to Diffuse Optical Spectroscopic Imaging measurements. Finally,
      as a fourth study aim, biopsy specimens from patients will be analyzed by
      immunohistochemistry for metabolic, proliferative, and necrotic markers. These markers will
      be correlated with optical markers to help further understand the how DOSI can inform
      physicians about the tumor biology of sarcomas.
    
  