
    
      Malaria, caused by Plasmodium falciparum, is a devastating disease that causes significant
      mortality and morbidity both directly and indirectly in endemic regions. Lower all-cause
      mortality in children under five years of age have resulted from better malaria transmission
      control measures in endemic regions.

      It has been seen in multiple studies that malaria infection, including asymptomatic carriage,
      suppresses or modulates the immune system; how exactly this suppression is achieved is
      unclear. Currently, efforts to develop long-lasting, effective vaccines to combat malaria
      have not been successful. One of the impediments of concern is poor immune response to the
      vaccine candidates. Understanding the immunomodulatory effects of malaria infection to
      vaccine responses and to subsequent malaria infection is thus key in these efforts.

      In order to further understand how the presence of parasitemia may modulate the immune
      system, we propose to study the effects of treating a portion of adult volunteers with a
      treatment course of artemether/lumefantrine (Coartem ) at the beginning of the dry season
      (approximately January) in Ouelessebougou, Mali to clear parasitemia carriage during the dry
      season and following them for the next 10-12 months through an entire dry and wet season. We
      will enroll 50% blood smear or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) positive volunteers and
      distribute them equally into two groups at the beginning of the dry season, those who receive
      or do not receive antimalarial treatment. These subjects will then be followed monthly
      throughout the dry and rainy seasons to determine the effect of this treatment on T cell
      markers of suppression/regulation and the incidence of asymptomatic malaria infection and
      clinical malaria. We hypothesize that markers of T cell suppression/regulation throughout the
      dry season will be lower in adults who receive a single pre-emptive treatment with Coartem .
    
  