
    
      STUDY BACKGROUND

      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a global public health problem and is associated with
      multiple adverse outcomes including reduced survival, especially in people requiring renal
      replacement therapy (peritoneal dialysis (PD), haemodialysis [HD] and transplantation).
      Multiple risk factors lead to the development and/or progression of CKD, such as obesity,
      hyperlipidaemia, glomerulonephritis, intercurrent infections, smoking, type 2 diabetes and
      hypertension, the two latter being considered as leading causes of CKD worldwide.

      People on dialysis develop a variety of complications/abnormalities as a result of loss of
      endocrine or exocrine function of the kidneys, including anaemia, metabolic acidosis, bone
      and mineral disorders, fluid overload, hypertension, electrolyte disturbances and
      dyslipidaemia. In recent years, inflammation, oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction
      (other common abnormalities in people on dialysis) have become areas of interest because of
      their strong relationship with higher rates of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in
      people on dialysis.

      Advanced glycation end-products (AGE) are uremic toxins that are markedly increased in people
      on dialysis. Formation of AGE starts with a non-enzymatic reaction between proteins and
      glucose molecules called the Maillard reaction; however, AGE are also formed more rapidly
      during oxidative stress with the subsequent formation of reactive carbonyl compounds like
      methyl glyoxal. At this point, AGE synthesis is irreversible and AGE will cross-link with
      tissue proteins; it seems that collagen in the skin and vascular basement membranes are
      especially susceptible to AGE accumulation and subsequent injury. AGE also interact with
      specific AGE receptors that will lead to the activation of systemic inflammation by
      increasing the release of cytokines and, consequently, exacerbate tissue damage. Importantly,
      AGE are also formed in food during cooking with dry heat at high temperatures such as in
      frying, grilling or roasting and about 10% of the ingested AGE is absorbed.

      Skin autofluorescence (SAF) is a relatively new technique that measures the skin accumulation
      of AGE. It is a non-invasive, operator independent, quick (less than 5 minutes) and easy to
      perform technique that utilizes the fluorescent properties of AGE, like the extensively used
      collagen linked fluorescence (CLF) method, and has been validated with specific AGE
      measurements and CLF in skin biopsies. It has been reported that SAF is strongly correlated
      with overall and cardiovascular mortality in people with diabetes and undergoing HD. Several
      factors have been associated with higher SAF values in people on dialysis in cross-sectional
      studies, for instance, chronological age in both dialysis modalities, glucose exposure from
      peritoneal dialysis fluid and dialysis vintage only in people on PD and presence of diabetes
      in people on HD.

      AGE accumulation is postulated as the one of the modulating factors that drives visual
      disorders; the increased accumulation secondary to hyperglycaemia in diabetes is thought to
      cause vascular basement membrane thickening and destruction of pericytes from the retinal
      capillary bed in diabetic retinopathy. The accumulation of AGE has also been reported to be a
      mechanism in the deterioration in visual acuity associated with increasing age. Separately,
      the accumulation of AGE in other metabolic diseases (e.g. end stage kidney disease [ESKD])
      has been found to cause nerve and eye dysfunction. Ocular abnormalities and therefore visual
      disturbances are reported in people with ESKD but the mechanism for this has not been fully
      explored or understood. In animal studies, AGE accumulation is seen in the lens, cornea and
      vitreous humour. In humans, systemic AGE levels and visual acuity scoring have not been
      previously investigated.

      Because of the adverse outcomes strongly associated with higher levels of SAF, several
      options focused on reducing the accumulation of AGE have been proposed. One of these
      promising interventions is the reduction of dietary AGE; it has been suggested that cooking
      techniques that avoid very high temperatures such as poaching, steaming, stewing and boiling
      can significantly reduce the AGE content of food when compared to frying, broiling, grilling
      and roasting; nevertheless, most of the evidence regarding dietary modifications to reduce
      exogenous AGE is of low quality and therefore further studies are required.

      Nevertheless, analysis of baseline data from Study 1 has identified strong associations
      between higher SAF and malnutrition whereas no correlations were observed between higher SAF
      and high dietary AGE intake. Correction of malnutrition may therefore represent a more
      important dietary intervention to reduce accumulation of AGE in people receiving dialysis. We
      further reasoned that placing people with malnutrition on a restrictive diet may worsen their
      malnutrition and we have therefore adapted our original research plan to include an
      observational study to assess the impact of correcting malnutrition on SAF by providing a
      dietitian supervised nutritional support intervention, which essentially involves the
      usual/standard dietetic care/advice provided by the NHS with some additional supervision,
      follow-up and approved dietary supplements (also provided by the NHS), rather than a
      randomised trial of dietary AGE restriction.

      The results from the present project will benefit people on dialysis because they may
      demonstrate that the correction of malnutrition decreases the SAF levels in this population.
      Published observational studies suggest that reduction of SAF levels will in turn be
      associated with a reduction in the high morbidity and mortality rates associated with chronic
      dialysis and, consequently, healthcare costs. Improved survival and reduced comorbidity would
      also be expected to improve the quality of life of people on dialysis.

      DURATION OF THE STUDY

      Study 1:

      Participant recruitment will begin on June 2016 with an anticipated recruitment period of 14
      months. Therefore, all baseline data and measurements will be collected and performed between
      June 2016 and August 2017. Once recruited, all participants will be followed-up for up to
      five years; consequently, it is expected that the study will be completed by August 2022.

      Study 2:

      Participant recruitment will begin in December 2017 with an anticipated recruitment period of
      6 months. Therefore, all baseline data and measurements will be collected and performed
      between December 2017 and June 2018. Once recruited, all participants will be followed-up for
      24 months; consequently, it is expected that the study will be completed by June 2020.

      RECRUITMENT

      Potential participants on HD and PD will be recruited from the Renal Unit of the Department
      of Nephrology at the Royal Derby Hospital. The initial details of the study and participant
      information sheet will be provided by the usual care team (which may include the researcher).
      Participants will then be given at least 24 hours to consider whether they wish to
      participate, as well as ask any questions about the study, before being re-contacted by the
      investigators.

      INFORMED CONSENT

      The process for obtaining participant informed consent will be in accordance with the
      Research Ethics Committee (REC) guidance, Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and any other
      regulatory requirements that might be introduced.

      All participants will provide written informed consent. The Informed Consent Form will be
      signed and dated by the participant before they enter the study. The Investigator will
      explain the details of the study and provide a Participant Information Sheet, ensuring that
      the participant has sufficient time to consider participating or not. The Investigator will
      answer any questions that the participant has concerning study participation.

      STATISTICS

      To compare baseline versus final evaluations, Wilcoxon test or paired t-test will be used in
      the case of dimensional variables, and McNemar test in the case of categorical variables.
      Intergroup comparisons will be performed using Mann Whitney test or Student t test for
      continuous variables and χ2 test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables. To
      determine the significance and strength of associations, Pearson's correlation coefficient
      will be used for analyses of associations between continuous variables and Spearman rank for
      nonparametric variables. Linear regression analysis will be used to identify determinants of
      AGE accumulation. Cox proportional hazards models will be used to investigate the prognostic
      value of the accumulation of AGE for predicting mortality. A p-value less than or equal to
      0.05 will be considered to have statistical significance.

      Sample size calculation of Study 1 was performed by using the software nQuery Advisor v.6.0.

      Sample size Study 1:

      The primary outcome for sample size determination is one-year survival in relation to
      increased SAF levels in people on HD and PD. With a power of 80%, a two-sided alpha of 5% and
      an expected hazard ratio of 3.5 and 2.0 in people on PD and HD, respectively, 100 HD and 40
      PD participants will be needed.

      Sample size Study 2 Since this is a proof of principle study, it would be reasonable to
      include 40 dialysis participants (either HD or PD).

      ETHICS COMMITTEE AND REGULATORY APPROVALS

      The study will not be initiated before the protocol, informed consent forms and participant
      information sheets have received approval / favourable opinion from the REC, and the
      respective NHS Research & Development (R&D) department.

      PROCEDURES FOR MISSING DATA AND ADVERSE EVENTS

      All SAF measurements, biochemistry, nutritional and quality of life assessments for Study 1
      and 2 will be used in the statistical analysis, including data from participants who did not
      complete the entire study protocol.

      The occurrence of an adverse event as a result of participation within this study is not
      expected and as such no adverse event data will be collected.

      QUALITY ASSURANCE & AUDIT

      Study conduct may be subject to systems audit of the Trial Master File for inclusion of
      essential documents; permissions to conduct the study; Trial Delegation Log; CVs of study
      staff and training received; local document control procedures; consent procedures and
      recruitment logs; adherence to procedures defined in the protocol (e.g. inclusion / exclusion
      criteria, correct randomisation, timeliness of visits); AE recording and reporting;
      accountability of study materials and equipment calibration logs.

      Monitoring of study data shall include confirmation of informed consent; source data
      verification; data storage and data transfer procedures; local quality control checks and
      procedures, back-up and disaster recovery of any local databases and validation of data
      manipulation.

      Entries on Case Report Forms (CRFs) will be verified by inspection against the source data. A
      sample of CRFs (10% or as per the study risk assessment) will be checked on a regular basis
      for verification of all entries made. In addition the subsequent capture of the data on the
      study database will be checked. Where corrections are required these will carry a full audit
      trail and justification.

      Study data and evidence of monitoring and systems audits will be made available for
      inspection by REC as required.
    
  