
    
      Patient sample:

      Patients with histologically proven marginal zone lymphoma (splenic, nodal and extra-nodal
      subtypes included).

      Other important requirements for recruitment into the study:

        -  Prior treatment with one or more lines rituximab or rituximab-based chemoimmunotherapy
           with failure to achieve at least a partial response (PR) or documented disease
           progression

        -  Age ≥ 21 years of age

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-2

        -  At least 1 measurable disease site on computed tomography (CT) scan that is at least
           1.5cm in the longest dimension.

        -  Patient must have an indication for treatment e.g., symptoms from disease, bulky disease
           (>5cm), threatened end-organ function, or cytopenias requiring transfusion or growth
           factor support

      Dosage and Dose Regimen:

      560mg of Ibrutinib is administered orally once daily. Patients with mild liver impairment
      (Child's-Pugh A), ibrutinib 140mg (1 x 140mg capsule) will be administered instead. The
      patient will continue on treatment until one of the following occurs:

        -  Patient has disease progression (as assessed by the investigator).

        -  Patient has an intercurrent illness or adverse events that prevents further ibrutinib
           administration.

        -  Patient decides to withdraw from the study.

        -  Investigator considers withdrawal to be in the best interest of the patient.

        -  Patient requires continuous therapy on a prohibited concomitant medication and no
           alternative medications or therapies are available as a replacement to the prohibited
           medication.

        -  Patient is lost to follow-up.

        -  Patient is non-compliant.

        -  Patient becomes pregnant.

        -  Study termination by the Sponsor or regulatory authority.

        -  Death

        -  Completed 3 years of ibrutinib treatment

      Assessment:

      CT Neck to pelvis or FDG-PET/CT skull base to mid-thigh to be performed repeated after every
      12 weeks

      Statistical considerations:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of ibrutinib in Asian
      patients with relapsed or refractory MZL. We will consider an ORR of 50% to be desirable.
      Simon's 2-stage minimax design will be used to test the null hypothesis that the overall
      response rate will be less than or equal to 20% (response rate that is considered not
      clinically compelling). Twelve subjects will be included in the first stage, and if there are
      at least 3 responders, a total of 21 subjects will be enrolled. The treatment will be
      declared ineffective if there are less than 8 responders in total. This design has 90% power
      to detect an overall response rate of 50% at a 5% significance level.

      Study Endpoints:

      Primary:

      1. Overall response rates (complete remission [CR] + partial remission [PR])

      Secondary:

        1. Survival parameters

             -  Progression-free survival

             -  Overall survival

        2. Safety

             -  Frequency and severity of adverse events

             -  Frequency of AE requiring discontinuation of study drug or dose reductions

      Total sample size:

      The planned sample size is 21 patients enrolled at multiple centres in Singapore and South
      Korea
    
  