
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Primary Aim - Direct Communication about Age-related Concerns: To determine if providing
      GA summary plus GA-driven recommendations to patients, their caregivers, and oncology
      physicians increases discussions about age-related issues during clinic consultation.
      [Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) specified]

      II. Primary Aim - Patient Satisfaction with Communication about Age-related Concerns: To
      determine if providing geriatric assessment (GA) summary plus GA-driven recommendations to
      patients, their caregivers and oncology physicians improves patient satisfaction with
      communication with the oncology physician regarding age-related concerns. [National Cancer
      Institute (NCI) specified]

      III. Secondary Aim - To determine whether initially providing patients, their caregivers, and
      oncology physicians with GA summary plus GA-driven recommendations prior to their treatment
      influences quality of life of older patients receiving treatment and their caregivers.

      IV. Secondary Aim - To determine whether providing patients, their caregivers, and oncology
      physicians with GA summary plus GA-driven recommendations influences caregiver satisfaction
      with communication about age-related issues.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      Arm I: At the first study visit with their oncologist, patients and their caregivers (if
      participating) complete the GA and receive the GA summary plus GA targeted recommendations
      which is provided to the oncology team to discuss and implement if they so choose.

      Arm II: At the first study visit with their oncologist, patients and their caregivers (if
      participating) complete the GA (no GA summary or recommendations are provided).

      Patients are followed at 4-6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months. Survival data will be collected
      at 1 year after enrollment.
    
  