
    
      Hypotheses ----------------

      We hypothesise that defective DNA damage response is an important aetiological factor in the
      development of CAD, underlying CAD severity and development. If this hypothesis is true, then
      we predict that:

        1. There is differential expression of markers of DNA damage and repair in patients with
           stable angina, a model of stable CAD, and patients with non ST-elevation myocardial
           infarction (NSTEMI), a model of unstable CAD.

        2. Differential expression of markers of DNA damage and repair correlate with plaque
           morphology and stability as defined by FD-OCT,

        3. Markers of DNA damage and repair can serve as distinguishing markers of stable and
           unstable CAD,

           Methodology

           ------------------

           Study Population:

           Patients presenting with stable angina undergoing percutaneous revascularization at
           Ashford and St. Peter's Hospitals Foundation Trust will be prospectively enrolled. Data
           regarding demographic, clinical, and procedural characteristics of patients will be
           collected by the Ashford and St. Peter's Hospitals Foundation Trust research personnel
           and entered into a secure, encrypted, dedicated database.

           Pre-defined clinical and angiographic inclusion and exclusion criteria will be met as
           per the DECODE study protocol.

           FD-OCT (St. Jude Medical ILUMIEN OCT System) will be performed in all the three main
           epicardial coronary arteries prior to target vessel PCI after administration of glyceryl
           trinitrate. Data will be acquired in a designated, secure compute and sent to a corelab
           for analysis. Quantitative measurements will include endoluminal area, plaque area, as
           well as plaque parameters including thin- capped fibroatheromas (TCFA), fibrous tissue,
           lipid core and calcium. TCFA will be defined by lipid-rich plaque with cap thickness ≤
           65μm.

           Culprit lesions will be defined according to electrocardiographic criteria (ST-segment
           shift or T-wave inversion) and angiographic appearances (luminal irregularities
           consistent with lesion ulceration, filling defect(s) consistent with thrombus, or point
           of angiographic maximal stenosis) in patients with NSTEMI and angiographic stenosis ≥
           70% in patients with stable angina not responding to at least two anti-anginal
           medications.

           Blood will be drawn immediately prior to percutaneous coronary intervention. In addition
           to routine haematological and biochemical parameters (complete blood count, white cell
           count, platelet count, creatinine, urea, sodium, potassium, cholesterol, glucose,
           troponine I, creatinine phosphokinase, liver function tests and clotting screen) one
           additional blood sample will be taken and separated into plasma and serum.
           Polymorphonuclear leukocytes will be used for measurements of DNA damage and repair
           proteins.

           Clinical follow-up will occur at 30-day and 12-month from enrolment by telephone
           interview and clinic visits. A repeat blood sample will be taken for analysis of DNA
           damage and repair proteins.

           DNA Damage

           ------------------

           DNA damage will be analysed by measuring DNA strand breaks in cell pellets using the
           comet assay. Serum oxidised purines will also be measured using an ELISA based assay.
           The transcriptional activation of DNA damage proteins will be assessed by real time PCR.
           For this, RNA will be isolated using a Roche High Pure Isolation kit. The RT2 First
           Strand Kit (SABioscience) will be utilised for reverse transcription of total RNA.
           Automated PCR will be set up and the raw data will be normalised using the average cycle
           threshold (ct) value of four housekeeping genes (B2M, RPL13A, GAPDH, and ACTB).

           Whether differential gene expression leads to differential protein expression will be
           determined by Western blotting. Moreover, the phosphorylation status of DNA damage
           proteins will also be assessed.

           DNA repair activity will also be assessed for several DNA repair enzymes important for
           the repair of base damage generated by reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. DNA repair
           activity will be measured by using in-vitro oligonucleotide-based cleavage assays.

           Finally, we will then correlate measures of DNA damage and repair with patient
           presentation (stable angina vs. NSTEMI), MACE, and FD-OCT derived parameters including
           the number of TCFA, plaque volume and percentage of plaque components.

           Statistical analysis

           -------------------------

           Statistical analysis will be performed using SAS version 8.2 (SAS institute Inc., Cary,
           North Carolina). Biomarker parameters will be tested for an association with patient
           presentation (stable angina vs. NSTEMI) and MACE using a log-rank test. OCT derived
           parameters will be tested for an association with biomarkers using univariate Cox
           proportional hazard regression. Parameters with a significance level of ≤0.1 on
           univariate analysis will undergo multivariate Cox proportional hazard analysis. A p
           value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

           The recruitment period is anticipated to last 15-18 months, with data collation and
           interpretation throughout recruitment and analysis anticipated to be complete by 24
           months.
    
  