
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To document the activity of both combination temozolomide plus bevacizumab and
           temozolomide alone in patients with recurrent grade II or grade III glioma without
           1p/19q co-deletion.

      Secondary

        -  To characterize the safety of treatment in these patients.

        -  To document the quality of life and cognitive functioning, as a measure of clinical
           benefit, of these patients.

        -  To explore qualification or occurrence of prognostic and/or predictive biomarkers of
           activity or efficacy in these patients. (exploratory)

        -  To document the discordances between RANO and Macdonald's criteria for the evaluation of
           response and progression. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to institution,
      initial histology (grade II vs grade III), WHO performance status (0-1 vs 2), and prior
      treatment (radiotherapy [RT] alone, temozolomide [TMZ] or procarbazine, lomustine and
      vincristine [PCV] alone vs TMZ/RT). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats
           every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral temozolomide as in arm I and bevacizumab IV over 90
           minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete neurocognitive questionnaires (i.e., the Hopkins Verbal Learning test, the
      Controlled Oral Word Association test, and the Trail Making tests A and B). Quality-of-life
      assessment questionnaires, including EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC-BN20, are completed by both
      patients and caregivers/relatives at baseline and then periodically.

      Frozen tumor biopsies or paraffin blocks and blood specimens are collected for bio-banking
      and translational research.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  