
    
      The proposed study will be a randomized double-blinded controlled trial. 26 stroke patients
      with upper limb impairment who are receiving the outpatient physiotherapy service at the
      Queen Elizabeth Hospital and fulfill the eligibility criteria will be recruited and
      randomized into two interventional groups: (1) rTMS + exercise (rTMS-Ex) group and (2)
      Placebo rTMS +exercise (Placebo-Ex) group. Both rTMS-Ex and placebo-Ex group will receive 10
      consecutive treatment sessions (5 sessions per week), which consists of real rTMS stimulation
      (rTMS-ex group) or placebo rTMS (placebo-Ex group), followed by 30-minute structured upper
      limb strengthening and task-specific motor training program. After 2 weeks of brain
      stimulation and motor training, both groups will continue with the same structured motor
      training program for another 10 weeks (2 sessions/ week).

        1. rTMS-Ex Group 10 consecutive sessions (5 days per week for 2 weeks) of 1 Hz low
           frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over contra-lesional M1 region
           for 1200 pulse (20 minutes) at 90% motor threshold and immediately followed by 75
           minutes structured physiotherapy upper limb training.

           After the 10 sessions of brain stimulation, the 30-minute structured physiotherapy upper
           limb training program will continue for another 12 weeks (2 sessions per week)

        2. Placebo-Ex Group 10 consecutive sessions (5 sessions per week for 2 weeks) of placebo
           stimulation over contra-lesional M1 region and immediately followed by 30 minutes of
           structured physiotherapy upper limb training.

      Then, the structured physiotherapy upper limb training will continue for another 12 weeks (2
      sessions per week).

      Evaluation on impairment level, motor performance, physiological measurements and self
      -perceived disability will be performed at 4 time points: before treatment (T0), immediately
      after treatment (T1), one-month follow-up (T2) and three-month follow-up (T3). 2-way repeated
      measures ANOVA will be used to determine whether the rTMS-ex group leads to better outcomes
      than the placebo-ex group.
    
  