
    
      Leptospirosis is a worldwide zoonotic diseases caused by pathogenic Leptospira spp. Human are
      accidental hosts, who acquired infections after exposition to animal urine, contaminated
      water or soil, infected tissue. During bacteremia, Leptospira spp. may lead to invasive,
      deep-seated leptospirosis with infection of kidney, liver, heart and the central nervous
      system. Although cleaned from blood and most tissue by immune response, Leptospira spp. can
      persists and multiply in the tubuli of kidneys.

      Incidence of invasive leptospirosis disease causing acute kidney injury, acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS), myocarditis, hepatic dysfunction, hemorrhage and multi-organ
      failure, is globally increasing and there have been frequent outbreak situation throughout
      the world. In Europe, invasive leptospirosis disease is less common than in the tropical and
      subtropical countries, however due to climate change incidence is rising, and there are
      worry-some trends concerning chancing species distribution and multiple outbreak situations
      throughout central Europe. Current treatment approaches consist of antibiotic therapies.
      Additionally, salvage supportive treatment approaches of critical ill patients are common in
      invasive leptospirosis disease requiring dialysis, hemodynamic support, mechanical
      ventilation or even extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Furthermore, invasive
      leptospirosis disease is associated with the development of chronic kidney disease.

      Due to increasing outbreak situations and globally chances in species distributions, a
      worldwide surveillance in epidemiology and species distribution is urgently needed.
      Additionally, the examination of attributable mortality and costs analysis of invasive
      leptospirosis disease will need to be studied on a multinational basis and therefore
      LeptoScope will particularly use a matched case control design.

      The objective of the Leptospirosis Registry - LeptoScope is to overcome the lack knowledge on
      epidemiology, clinical course, prognostic factors and molecular characteristics for invasive
      leptospirosis disease. Additionally, LeptoScope serves as a platform for monitoring
      complications of invasive leptospirosis disease and outbreak situations.
    
  