
    
      Osteoporosis is the most common bone disease, caused by a relatively increased rate of bone
      resorption by the osteoclasts that exceeds the rate of bone formation by the osteoblasts,
      resulting in net loss of bone mass. To-date, antiresorptive agents, which inhibit osteoclast
      activity and induce their apoptosis, are considered as the cornerstone of osteoporosis
      prevention and treatment.

      Bisphosphonates currently represent the first line antiresorptive agents for the management
      of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Zoledronic acid is considered to-date the most potent
      bisphosphonate. A once-yearly infusion of intravenous zoledronic acid decreases bone
      turnover, improves bone density and decreases the vertebral and non-vertebral fracture risk.

      Most recently, denosumab (AMG-162) has been launched for the treatment of postmenopausal
      osteoporosis. Denosumab, a fully human monoclonal IgG2 antibody against human RANKL,
      specifically binds and neutralizes the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappaB ligand
      (RANKL) in order to decrease bone resorption and subsequent bone loss. Subcutaneous
      administration of denosumab every six months decreases bone turnover markers, increases bone
      mineral density and reduces the vertebral and non-vertebral fracture risk.

      The role of sclerostin in bone metabolism is emerging. Sclerostin is the secreted expression
      of the SOST gene. In adult human bone, sclerostin is expressed only by osteocytes and
      inhibits bone formation by osteoblasts. It has been proposed that sclerostin expression by
      newly embedded osteocytes at the onset of osteoid mineralization may serve as a negative
      feedback signal on osteoblasts to prevent overfilling of the basic multicellular unit.

      Although zoledronic acid and denosumab are currently regarded as the most potent
      antiresorptive agents, there is no head-to-head comparative study. This study primarily aims
      to the comparative effect of zoledronic acid and denosumab on serum sclerostin levels and
      secondarily on serum dickkopf-1, osteoprotegerin, RANKL and bone turnover markers
      (procollagen type I N-terminal peptide [PINP] and C-terminal cross-linking telopeptide of
      type I collagen [CTX]).
    
  