
    
      -  Since we are looking for the highest dose of pemetrexed that can be given to people
           safely, not everyone who participates in this study will be receiving the same amount of
           the study drug. The dose participants will receive will depend upon the number of people
           that have been enrolled on the study before them and how well they have tolerated their
           doses of the study drug.

        -  Pemetrexed is given into a vein (by IV) over a 10 to 20 minute period once every 14
           days. This 14 day period is called a cycle of study treatment.

        -  Study treatment will be divided into three phases. Induction: Participants will be given
           a maximum of 8 cycles. If the participant does not achieve a complete response after
           eight induction cycles, they will be taken off study. A complete response means there is
           no evidence of disease on MRI or CT scan. Consolidation: If the participant has achieved
           complete response, they will have two additional cycles. Maintenance: Following the
           completion of the consolidation cycles, participants will receive the study drug only
           once per month. They can continue to receive maintenance cycles for up to a year from
           the start of the first induction cycle.

        -  Folic acid and vitamin B12 are two vitamins that have been shown to help lessen the
           severity of some side effects of pemetrexed. Participants will begin taking oral folic
           acid tablets at least 5 days before their first dose of pemetrexed and daily until 3
           weeks after their last dose. Vitamin B12 is given through injections into your muscle.
           Participants will receive their first vitamin B12 injection 1-2 weeks before their first
           dose of pemetrexed. They will receive injections every 9 weeks.

        -  Corticosteroids such as dexamethasone have been shown to help prevent severe skin rashes
           associated with pemetrexed. Participants will receive dexamethasone twice daily starting
           the day before each pemetrexed infusion continuing until the day after each infusion.

        -  On day 1 of each cycle the following will be performed: a physical examination, blood
           work, vital signs, assessment of who well the participant is functioning, and
           mini-mental examination. On day 8 of each cycle blood work will be performed.

        -  Research blood work will be obtained (PKs) over the first four days of cycles 1 and 2
           (or study participation days 1-4 and 15-18).

        -  Participants will come to the clinic once a month during the maintenance cycles for a
           physical examination, blood work, assessment of how well the participant is functioning,
           vital signs and mini-mental examination.

        -  Tumor assessments by MRI will be done after every 2 cycles during the induction and
           consolidation cycles. During the maintenance cycles the MRIs will be repeated every 2
           cycles (once every 2 months).

        -  Collection of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) for research tests will also likely be
           performed, if safe for you, to learn more about how well pemetrexed can cross the
           blood-brain barrier. This will be performed by one of two methods 6 and 24 hours after
           the pemetrexed is infused on days 1 and 2 of the first two cycles.

        -  After Alimta is given you will also receive, a white blood cell recruiting material,
           Neupogen to avoid suppressing your bone marrow.
    
  