
    
      If the patient is eligible, interested, and provides consent, they will complete initial
      preoperative baseline surveys and assessments. These assessments include: Medical History,
      Medications, Neurological Exam, NIH stroke Scale, Questionnaire for Verifying Stroke-Free
      Status (QVSFS), Delirium Screen, Modified Rankin Scale, Barthel Index, Cognitive Assessment:
      The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Depression Scale, and Quality of Life scale.
      General history, risk factor profile and physical examination (H&P) will be performed prior
      to entering the study. Neurological examinations, NIHSS, Modified Rankin Scale and Barthel
      Index will be performed by study neurologist. A Questionnaire for Verifying Stroke-Free
      Status (revised Questionnaire for Verifying Stroke-Free Status (QVSFS)), QOL assessment,
      Delirium and Cognitive assessment will be administered to each potentially eligible patient
      by a research coordinator. Subjects of child bearing age will complete a pregnancy test.

      Baseline surveys and assessments will collected during a pre-operative session, either in
      conjunction with a pre-op clinic visit in-person prior to surgery during their surgical
      admission. This will allow maximum flexibility in timing, without interfering with clinical
      care.

      Clinically collected data will be abstracted from the electronic medical record (EMR) for
      research purposes. We will review the patients preoperative medical records to screen
      patients for the use of intraoperative monitoring. This is currently a standard clinical
      practice. After enrollment, the subject will be randomized into the control or intervention
      group. Subjects will be computer randomized to condition 1:1. It will take approximately a
      half an hour to complete surveys and study procedures. On the day of surgery, EEG and
      somatosensory evoked potentials assessments will be performed preoperatively.

      Procedure: The cardiac surgeons who will be performing surgery will be informed by the
      principal investigator. The medical management of patients before, during, and after the
      procedure will be continued as routine medical care in standard medical therapy group. In the
      intervention group, standard medical therapy with intraoperative monitoring and management
      protocol will be done. Our IMMP will be a) intraoperative monitoring with SSEP and EEG during
      surgery and continued for 4 hours after; b) management protocol will be treating patients
      based on a SSEP and/or EEG changes. In patients with bilateral SSEP and/or EEG changes, we
      will aim for a MAP target of the greater of 20% above the patient's preoperative baseline or
      an absolute threshold of 80 mmHg. In patients with persistent unilateral SSEP and/or EEG
      changes, the higher MAP target will be maintained followed by immediate post-operative
      evaluation for stroke.

      In the control group, the patient will receive standard of care.

      Post-Procedure/Pre-Discharge: Brief history and physical examination daily while patient is
      in hospital. Neurological examination performed by study Neurologist. Delirium screen will be
      performed. NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) performed by study neurologist 18 to 54 hours post
      procedure. MRI will be performed before discharge. The MRI will be completed at the MRI
      Research Center.The Cognitive Assessment: The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) will be
      performed.

      Follow-up: At 30 days post-op: Modified Rankin Scale, Barthel Index, Questionnaire for
      Verifying Stroke-Free Status (QVSFS), Quality of Life Assessment, and Cognitive Assessment:
      The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) will be performed.

      Follow-up: At 1 year: Neurological exam, Modified Rankin Scale, Barthel Index, TIA/Stroke
      Questionnaire, Quality of Life Assessment and cognitive evaluation will be performed.
    
  