
    
      Patients presenting to the emergency department with clinical signs and symptoms of acute
      ischemic stroke will undergo initial evaluation. The patient will be screened for study
      eligibility. A medical history and list of active medications will be documented. A physical
      will be conducted including the patient's temperature, hemodynamic and neurological status
      (NIHSS score), 12-lead ECG, and routine baseline laboratory values including magnesium, CBC,
      BMP, coagulation parameters, CK, CK-MB, and Troponin I. If all inclusion criteria and no
      exclusion criteria are present, a member of the research team will consult the patient's
      attending physician for permission to approach the patient. If he/she agrees, a member of the
      team will inform the patient or guardian about the study's purpose and obtain written
      informed consent. A screening log will be kept of all patients screened for this study and
      the reasons they were not enrolled.

      Prior to initiating hypothermia, Magnesium Sulfate will be administered intravenously to
      control shivering and tPA administered intravenously (if indicated). Induction doses of
      propofol or etomidate will be used to aid in the suppression of patient discomfort.
      Hypothermia will generally be initiated in the ED or ICU, as soon as possible after the
      informed consent has been obtained. However, in cases in which neurothrombectomy is indicated
      and judged by the investigators to be feasible to start within 90 minutes of enrollment,
      cooling will be delayed until its completion, and shall afterward be initiated as soon as
      possible. In all cases the patient will be placed in the LRS ThermoSuit in the supine
      position.

      Cooling will be started as specified in the Operator's Manual for the ThermoSuit device. Core
      temperature will be measured and monitored through a nasopharyngeal or esophageal temperature
      probe.

      Cooling will be initiated by circulating ice-cold water (0-8°C ± 2.0°C) through the
      ThermoSuit, and the start time will be recorded. Patient core and TSS water temperatures will
      be electronically recorded. The patient will be cooled until the core temperature reaches
      between 32°C to 34°C. This will require approximately 5 to 20 minutes of cooling by the
      ThermoSuit device (not expected to be more than 30 minutes). Arterial blood pressure and
      heart rate will be recorded every 5 minutes from the baseline just before the start of
      cooling until 30 minutes after the cooling has started.

      The clinician will be prompted by the automated monitor to purge the fluid from the suit when
      the patient's core temperature reaches approximately 33.5°C. The purging will take
      approximately 2 minutes. Start and stop times of purging will be recorded. The patient's body
      temperature should continue to decrease and then stabilize within the target range. The time
      at which the core temperature reaches 34°C will be recorded.

      The patient will be removed from the ThermoSuit immediately after water finishes draining
      from the suit. The time of removal will be recorded.

      Sedatives and analgesics will be administered for patient comfort as needed. Whether or not
      shivering occurs during cooling will be recorded, as well as start and stop times.

      Body temperature will be maintained in the range of 32°C to 34°C for a period of 24 hours
      following the cooling induction using a cooling blanket system.

      After 24 hours of therapeutic hypothermia, the patient will be re-warmed with the
      cooling/warming blanket until core body temperature reaches 36.5°C. This is anticipated to
      take approximately 8 hours.

      All patients will be admitted to the intensive care unit for close monitoring of
      physiological parameters: blood pressure, heart rate and rhythm, arterial oxygen saturation,
      potassium level, acid-base balance, and indicators of infection. A head CT will be performed
      upon admission and 24-48 hours later. Neurological status over the first 24 hours will be
      closely monitored and accompanied by additional brain imaging if changes in the neurological
      status occur. In ICU level patients, neurological status will be evaluated q1hr with the
      mini-NIHSS (items 1a, 1b, 1c, and motor scores for each limb), Glasgow Coma Scale, and
      pupillary light response. In the case of deterioration, repeat imaging which will include CT
      or MRI will be performed within 48 hours to compare to admission studies. Blood pressure,
      heart rate and rhythm, cell count, electrolytes, magnesium, coagulation profile, cardiac
      enzymes, liver enzymes and serum amylase will be monitored. All neurological, cardiovascular,
      respiratory, digestive, hematological, and metabolic complications will be recorded and
      treated accordingly. Intubated patients (if any) will be extubated upon rewarming if their
      neurological status allows for safe extubation. NIHSS will be recorded daily, and prior to
      discharge.

      Follow-Up on Day 5-7 post-treatment or at discharge (whichever comes first)

      Records to be collected at this time will include those related to physical exam, patient
      temperature, hematology, clinical chemistry, ECG, blood pressure, heart rate, concomitant
      medications, results of any follow-up CT or MRI scans, NIHSS, Glasgow Coma Scale, pupillary
      light response, MRS, Quality of Life (Neuro-QOL), and any adverse events.

      3 Month Follow Up

      NIHSS, MRS, and Quality of Life (Neuro-QOL) will be calculated at 90 days (+/-10 days)
      post-stroke. Any additional adverse events will also be recorded at this time.
    
  