
    
      The study is of an embedded mixed method design using the PMS chart and case studies and will
      take place over 12 weeks at the University of Johannesburg (UJ) Health Centre. Using
      purposive sampling, 10 female participants between the ages of 18 to 40 years will be
      recruited by means of advertisements at the Homoeopathic Health Centre, campus gym and female
      residences on the Doornfontein campus of the University of Johannesburg, as well as various
      health shops, practices and gyms in the Auckland Park and Killarney areas, with the relevant
      permission granted.

      Each potential participant will be required to complete a screening questionnaire in order to
      establish whether they are an appropriate candidate for this study. Once this is confirmed,
      the researcher will explain the study to each participant. The participants will be required
      to read the participant information form and sign the consent and medical photograph consent
      forms. Participants will be informed that their photographs will be used for facial analysis
      to assist in finding the most accurate remedy and will not be published. Each participant's
      facial features will be hand-drawn by the researcher in order to aid participant
      confidentiality.

      Each participant will undergo a full homoeopathic consultation which will focus on her PMS
      symptoms. In addition, 9 photos of their facial features will be taken with a digital camera
      (Panasonic DMC-FZ5) for classification of their dominant miasmatic group. Thereafter, a
      physical examination including vital signs and an abdominal and/or breast examination (if
      indicated) will be conducted.

      After the consultation, the participant will be asked to record their daily PMS symptoms, for
      a period of 1 month, on the PMS chart (provided to them by the researcher) at home. The first
      month will act as a baseline measurement as no treatment will be prescribed. Additionally,
      the researcher will analyse and repertorise the participant's case in this period. The
      participant will be grouped into their dominant miasmatic group and the corresponding remedy
      will be selected, according to the principles of homoeopathy and GBM of prescribing, for use
      in the following consultation. Remedy selections will be supervised by a registered
      homoeopath.

      The follow-up consultations will be conducted at weeks 4, 8 and 12, wherein participants will
      hand in their completed PMS charts and undergo any relevant physical examinations. The
      participant will then receive their individualised remedy, as determined by the researcher,
      along with an explanation as to how to store and take the remedy. They will additionally
      receive another PMS chart to complete over the following 4 weeks. Photographs may be retaken
      to re-analysed the case if necessary as to ensure the correct selection of the remedy using
      the GBM during the study.

      Should the participant want further treatment at the completion of the study, they will be
      appropriately referred to a registered homoeopath or to the UJ Homoeopathic Health Centre.

      A positive result of this research would indicate the viability of the GBM as a useful tool
      to aid in the individualised homoeopathic treatment and therefore aid in successful
      prescribing in the treatment of PMS. Additionally, a positive result would indicate
      homoeopathy as a potential treatment for PMS.
    
  