
    
      While the role of early mobilization in the immediate postinfarction period has been well
      demonstrated, little is known in present about the link between early mobilization and
      reduction of systemic inflammation. At the same time, the impact of early mobilization on
      regression of left ventricular remodeling has not been elucidated so far.

      The study will be a single-center, observational, non-randomized study, which will be carried
      out in the Center of Advanced Research in Multimodal Cardiac Imaging Cardiomed, including 100
      patients with AMI, presenting with either ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction
      (STEMI) or non-ST-segment elevation AMI (NSTEMI). According to the moment of mobilization
      after AMI patients will be distributed in two groups: group 1 - patients with early
      mobilization (<2 days after the onset of symptoms), and group 2 - subjects with delayed
      mobilization after AMI (>2 days after the onset of symptoms).

      Each patient will be evaluated in terms of systemic inflammatory status in the immediate
      postinfarction phase, at baseline and at 7 days after AMI. In order to assess ventricular
      function and remodeling, extent of myocardial scar and transmurality index, late gadolinium
      enhancement CMR will be performed for each patient.

      The study will be conducted over a period of 2 years, in which patients will be examined at
      baseline, and will be followed-up for 1 year for occurrence of MACE.

      All patients will sign an informed written consent prior to study enrollment.

      Study objectives:

      Primary: to evaluate the impact of early mobilization after AMI on the ventricular remodeling
      in the post-infarction period, as assessed by CMR imaging. Secondary: to assess the rate of
      in-hospital mortality and the rate of repeated revascularization or MACE (including
      cardiovascular death or stroke) in patients with early mobilization as compared to those with
      delayed mobilization, and the effect of early mobilization on systemic inflammation in the
      immediate postinfarction phase.

      Study Timeline:

        -  Baseline (day 0):

        -  Achieve written informed consent form all patients

        -  Check all inclusion/exclusion criteria

        -  Record demographic information, medical records, cardiovascular risk factors

        -  Perform and record physical examination and 12-lead ECG

        -  Laboratory analysis (CBC, routine biochemistry, inflammatory biomarkers, acute adhesion
           molecules)

        -  Transthoracic echocardiography / speckle tracking

        -  Visit 1 (day 7 / discharge from the hospital):

        -  hs-CRP assessment

        -  Visit 2 (month 1):

        -  LGE-CMR (myocardial fibrosis/scar, infarct size, transmurality, remodeling)

        -  Visit 3,4,5 (month 3,6,9):

        -  Record results of physical exam, medical records, ECG

        -  Transthoracic echocardiography / speckle tracking

        -  Final study visit (month 12):

        -  Record results of physical exam, medical records, ECG

        -  Transthoracic echocardiography / speckle tracking

        -  End-point assessment

      Study procedures:

        -  Medical records, physical exam;

        -  Laboratory analysis (complete blood count, biochemistry, serum levels of hs-CRP, MMPs,
           IL6, NT-pro-BNP);

        -  Electrocardiography

        -  Transthoracic echocardiography for assessment of left ventricular systolic and diastolic
           performance, speckle tracking echocardiography, Dobutamine viability test

        -  Late gadolinium enhancement CMR for evaluation of ventricular function and remodeling,
           extent of myocardial scar and transmurality index.
    
  