
    
      Subjects will be enrolled for evaluation of platelet recovery and survival. Healthy subjects
      will be consented and enrolled into the study until 8 subjects have completed the recovery
      and survival evaluations at 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 days storage. The order in which storage
      intervals are evaluated will be randomized. Eight subjects will then be evaluated at the
      mid-range interval between longest storage period that meets acceptances criteria and
      shortest storage period that does not meet acceptance criteria. For instance, if at 12 days
      of storage the 95% lower confidence limits for recoveries are NOT ≥50% of fresh and survivals
      are LESS than one day, but at 8 days of storage recoveries are ≥50% of fresh and survivals
      are at least than one day, we will then evaluate 10 days of storage. If the 10 day storage
      does not meet acceptance criteria we will evaluate 9 days. If the 10 day storage does meet
      acceptance criteria we will evaluate 11 days. Eight subjects will be evaluated at each
      storage interval.

      Subjects will donate one unit of whole blood. This unit will be maintained as whole blood in
      CPD (Citrate Phosphate Dextrose anticoagulant) not leukoreduced and not separated into
      components. These WB units will be stored under refrigerated conditions (4°C) for between 4
      and 20 days after collection. Prior to refrigeration samples from the unit will be obtained
      for various in vitro tests.

      In vivo Measurements:

      At the end of each subject's storage period a ~200 mL aliquot of whole blood will be
      withdrawn from the unit. This aliquot will be centrifuged and the platelets extracted. The
      platelets will be radiolabeled with 51-Cr or 111-In. On that day, the subject will return to
      the Blood Center and provide a 43 mL fresh blood sample. Platelets from that sample will be
      harvested and labeled with the other isotope. Radiolabeling will be done by the BEST method.
      These aliquots will be sequentially infused into the subject. The estimated amount of the
      isotope is ≤15 μCi of indium and ≤20 μCi of chromium will be infused. The total radiation
      dose is approximately 40 μCi for a total body absorbed dose of 0.0273 rad (0.273 mSv) and a
      splenic absorbed dose of 3.2 rad (32 mSv). Venous samples (10 mls/draw) will be taken within
      2 hours after reinfusion and on days 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 ± 1, and 10 ± 2. After these visits, the
      subject's participation will end and they will exit the study. Stored and fresh platelet
      recoveries and survivals will be determined and comparisons will be made between each
      subject's fresh and stored platelet recoveries.

      In vitro Assays:

      The following assays will be performed using a 50 ml sample obtained from the whole blood pre
      and post storage:

        -  platelet count

        -  platelet function assays (mean platelet volume, morphology score, hypotonic shock
           response, extent of shape change, pH, PO2, PC02, HC03, glucose and lactate. Platelet
           aggregation response to standard agonists (ADP, collagen, arachidonic acid) will also be
           measured.

        -  platelet activation and apoptotic markers (p-selectin antigen, annexin V, platelet
           microparticles)

        -  thrombelastograph

        -  thrombin generation test

        -  plasma analysis of coagulation, complement, microparticles and fibrinolytic potential
           (thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), plasmin-antiplasmin complex (PAP), soluble cd 40l,
           plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1 ), complement (C3a, C4d, C5b-9)

        -  sterility - bacterial cultures will be submitted after collection and the results
           evaluated 14 days later, or sooner if blood is stored for a shorter time period. A gram
           stain will be performed on the isolated 4° C platelets before reinfusion at the end of
           storage. All sterility tests must be negative before test platelets will be reinfused.
    
  