
    
      3.1 Initial Procedures After reviewing the patient's interest and eligibility, the
      investigators will obtain informed consent and assent as appropriate. The investigators will
      start the clinical process for starting an insulin infusion pump. This typically involves
      attending a pre-pump class (for those patients naïve to insulin pump therapy) and starting
      the process to obtain insurance coverage for the 670G system.

      The investigators plan to track the insurance approval process, typically the number of calls
      and faxes required, as well as the result - approved vs not approved.

      3.2 Pump Run-in (for those patients new to insulin infusion pumps) For patients who are
      insulin pump naïve the investigators will start on 670G insulin pump without the glucose
      sensor activation as per our existing clinical protocol. This may occur at a group visit.

      3.3 Initial Visit

      During at an initial visit, the following procedures will be performed:

        -  A clinically obtained HbA1c assessment, typically done via fingerstick and DCA2000 (but
           any equivalent NGSP-certified point-of-care or laboratory based measurement within 2
           weeks prior to enrollment acceptable)

        -  Collection of medical history information including

             -  Demographics (date of birth, gender, race and ethnicity), diabetes history, medical
                history, concomitant medications

             -  Collect data for diabetes devices (eg meters, sensors, pumps)

             -  Brief clinical physical exam including vital signs and skin assessment

             -  CareLink account creation and sharing of access if this is not already done At this
                visit, patients will be taught how to insert and use the system glucose sensor.

      3.3.1 Initial Week on the 670G System During the following week, the system (with both pump
      and sensor active) will be active with the PLGS on.

      3.4 System Start Visit After the initial PLGS week, patients will be taught, perhaps as a
      group, the closed loop system and the system activated. (Note: multiple days of system data
      are required using the pump and sensor prior to the 670G system being capable of delivering
      additional insulin for hyperglycemia. Therefore, this stage of the start-up is a function of
      the system requirements.)

      3.5 Weekly CareLink Download and Calls For each of the next four weeks, the patient/family
      will upload data into the CareLink system and the data will be reviewed by a member of the
      clinical team. Adjustments to system settings will be suggested to the family as clinically
      appropriate.

      3.6 Routine 3, 6, 9 and 12 Month Clinical visits At a routine clinical visits the
      investigators will obtain an interval medical history, physical examination, collect and
      review of diabetes management data from all diabetes devices with an eye towards improving
      glycemic control. The investigators will collect adverse event information regarding severe
      hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis. Patients will be advised of suggested changes in pump
      settings
    
  