
    
      -  Each cycle of study treatment is 21 days long. Cetuximab will be administered weekly
           intravenously on days 1, 8 and 15 of the 21-day cycle.

        -  Vinorelbine will be administered intravenously on days 1 and 8 of the 21-day cycle. On
           the days when the patient receives both cetuximab and vinorelbine, cetuximab will be
           given first.

        -  For the first cycle only, the first infusion of cetuximab will be in a larger dose and
           over a two-hour period of time. Beginning with the second treatment of cetuximab, the
           patient will receive a smaller dose over a one-hour period of time.

        -  For the first treatment of cetuximab, the patient will have their blood pressure,
           temperature, breathing rate and heart rate (vital signs) taken at the following time
           points: before the infusion, 1/2 hour into the infusion, at the end of infusion, and one
           hour after the infusion.

        -  For each subsequent cetuximab treatment, vital signs will be taken before each infusion
           and one hour after the end of infusion. The patient will be required to remain in the
           infusion room for one hour after the end of each cetuximab treatment for observation.

        -  CT scan(s), MRI(s), and/or x-rays(s) of the site(s) of cancer will be done every six
           weeks (every two cycles) while the patient is on the study to assess the extent of the
           cancer and the response to treatment.

        -  The duration of active participation in this study will depend on how the patients
           non-small cell lung cancer responds to treatment and how well they tolerate the
           treatment. The patient may receive up to six cycles of treatment with vinorelbine and
           cetuximab. After these six cycles the patient may continue on cetuximab alone as long as
           they are tolerating the drug and the cancer doesn't progress.
    
  