
    
      While the fetal benefits of a repeat course of antenatal corticosteroids have been
      demonstrated in several randomized controlled studies, to the investigators' knowledge they
      have not been adequately demonstrated in women with PPROM. Given the potential benefit of a
      repeat course of antenatal corticosteroids in women with PPROM on decreasing neonatal
      morbidity and the reassuring data from various cohorts on its safety, the investigators
      sought to propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with the hypothesis that a repeat
      course of antenatal corticosteroids in women with PPROM decreases neonatal morbidity.

      Objectives

        1. To evaluate the impact of maternal treatment with a second course of betamethasone on
           infant length of stay in the NICU.

        2. To evaluate the impact of maternal treatment with a second course of betamethasone on
           the duration of neonatal need for oxygen supplementation.

        3. To evaluate the impact of maternal treatment with a second course of betamethasone on
           neonatal morbidity overall.

      Hypotheses The investigators hypothesize that treatment of women with PPROM between 24 and 34
      weeks of gestation with a repeat course of antenatal corticosteroids decreases infant length
      of stay in the NICU and neonatal morbidity.

      Aim To describe and compare the neonatal outcomes of PPROM infants exposed to a repeat course
      of antenatal corticosteroids compared to infants in the same antenatal conditions who are
      exposed to only one betamethasone course.

      Subject Safety and Data Monitoring This study does not place subjects at risk of their
      safety. This medication is well studied and known to be safe in pregnancy.

      Data monitoring will be performed and viewed by study personnel only. The data will be
      de-identified and a study number will be assigned to each patient. The patient's identity
      will be secured on a UTMB encrypted laptop device and a hard copy stored in the locked file
      cabinet in the locked office of the principal investigator.

      Procedures to Maintain Confidentiality:

      Data will be viewed by study personnel only. The data will then be de-identified and a study
      number will be assigned to each patient. The patient's identity will then be secured on a
      UTMB encrypted laptop device and a hard copy stored in the locked file cabinet in the locked
      office of the principal investigator.

      Potential Benefits The potential benefits to subjects participating in the study include
      possible decreased neonatal morbidity and length of stay in the NICU.

      Biostatistics Using data from the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) on women with
      PPROM between 24 and 34 weeks, who fit the inclusion criteria, and who received the standard
      one course of betamethasone, the average length of stay in the NICU was 59.3 ± 36.3 days. The
      gestational age at delivery in this cohort was 26.5 ± 3.2 weeks.

      Assuming that a second course of betamethasone reduces the length of stay needed in the NICU
      by 35%, and for a power of 80% and alpha 0.05, it is anticipated that enrollment of 49 women
      in each group will be needed, or 98 women total.

      At UTMB, there are approximately 400 women per year hospitalized with PPROM. Assuming 50% of
      eligible women consent, the investigators estimate to finish recruitment for this study in
      1-2 years.

      Sample Size and Assumptions

        1. Frequency of primary outcome in control group (single course of betamethasone): is 59.3
           days. The investigators assume a 35% reduction in length of NICU stay using two courses
           of betamethasone.

        2. α = 0.05, two sided

        3. β = 0.2

        4. Effect size: 35% reduction in primary outcome
    
  