
    
      Dexamethasone compared to Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the treatment of acute
      pericarditis: a non-inferiority randomized controlled trial (Dexa-P)

      Objectives:

      The investigators hypothesize that therapy with short term, high dose dexamethasone will
      offer better clinical responses to NSAID therapy with less potential side effects compared to
      conventional therapy

      Trial design:

      A randomised, non-blinded trial assessing the use of dexamethasone as an alternative to NSAID
      therapy for use in patients with acute pericarditis.

      Quality Assurance:

      After the first 3 participants have been enrolled and completed a month of follow up, the
      preliminary findings will be forwarded to the quality control committee of the Helsinki
      Ethics Committee of Rabin Medical Center

      Withdrawal of participants:

      Participants are free to discontinue their participation in the study at any time and without
      prejudice to further treatment.

      A participant may withdraw or be withdrawn from the study for the following reasons:

        -  Subject withdrew consent.

        -  Severe Adverse Event (As described below) Reasons for withdrawal will be documented. In
           cases of more than one reason for early withdrawal from the study, the most significant
           reason will be stated.

      Replacement of withdrawn participants:

      Withdrawn randomized participants will not be replaced.

      Discontinuing or modifying allocated interventions:

      If a participant has incessant pericarditis within one month of therapy:

        -  Participants in the dexamethasone arm will be given another cycle of dexamethasone
           therapy of 20mg for 4 days can be given. If there is a further persistence, prednisone
           therapy will then be initiated.

        -  Participants in the NSAID therapy arm will be changes to prednisone therapy

      Definition of incessant pericarditis:

      Recurrence of pleuritic chest pain and one or more of the following signs:

        1. Pericardial friction rub

        2. Electrocardiographic changes specific to pericarditis (concave ST elevation, PR
           depression)

        3. Echocardiographic evidence of pericardial effusion

      3) An elevation in inflammatory markers (white-cell count, or C-reactive protein level)
      without a symptom-free interval of 6 weeks or longer after the first acute event.

      If participant is hospitalized with a possible side effect, the treating physician will be
      notified to assess for modifying the participant allocation.

      Concomitant care:

      There are no prohibited concomitant medications. Participants should continue to take drugs
      for other co-morbidities as usual.

      Participant Timeline:

      The enrollment will be done within 72 hours of initial assessment. Each participant will
      undergo eligibility screen and suitable participants will receive informed consent. The
      allocation will be determined immediately after the participant will be found to be eligible
      and will be made randomly.

      Once participants are identified with an initial episode of acute pericarditis and informed
      consent is given, an initial assessment will be done.

      This will include baseline blood tests - including baseline liver and renal function tests,
      full blood count and C-reactive protein.

      All participants will undergo echocardiographic imaging at baseline. There are two possible
      interventions: dexamethasone therapy or NSAID therapy. Participants will be followed up at 1
      weeks, 1 month, 6 months and 12 months after treatment initiation.

      The follow up will be telephonically at 1 week, 6 months and 12 months. At the 1 month follow
      up, clinical assessment, inflammatory marker and a repeat echocardiogram will be performed. A
      repeat echocardiogram will be performed at 12 months. This follow up will be at the
      pericardial disease clinic at Rabin Medical Center

      Sample size:

      Assuming a success rate 85% in the NSAIDS group and 87% in the Dexamethasone intervention
      group, with a margin of non-inferiority of 10%, the sample size calculated was 208. (Alpha =
      0.05, beta=0.2). Noninferiority would be shown if the upper boundary of the 95% confidence
      interval was 10 percentage points or less. A 10 percentage-point noninferiority margin was
      considered to be an acceptable difference in recurrence rate.

      Recruitment:

      Investigators will include physicians in the emergency room and admission setting to help
      identify and recruit participants.

      Methods: Data Collection, management and analysis

      Enrollment:

      First assessment including baseline variables and suitability of the participant to the study
      will be made during the enrollment, by the study coordinators.

      In addition demographic and clinical characteristics will be recorded. The data will be
      collected during an interview of the participant or with assistance of the computerized
      medical records.

      Furthermore, laboratory tests such as blood count, liver and kidneys functions and C reactive
      protein will be made and be recorded for each participant.

      Interventions:

      The type of intervention will be recorded by the study coordinators for each participant
      according to the allocation group.

      Assessments of outcomes:

      The primary outcome at each follow up, both telephonically and on clinical follow up The
      secondary outcomes will be assessed telephonically and using the medical computerized
      systems.

      Data management:

      All data regarding the participant's hospitalization: Baselines variables, interventions and
      glucose levels will be stored in secured excel documents for each study group.

      Data regarding the participant's outcomes will be stored in a different secured excel
      documents for each study group.

      The coding of the documents and the separation between the hospitalization and follow up
      period data is designated to ensure the investigator blinding.

      Statistical analysis:

      The primary outcome is the occurrence of Recurrent Pericarditis within 12 months. This will
      be calculated by bivariate analysis as relative risk. The secondary outcome of time to
      recurrence will be plotted using Kaplan-Meier curves and compared using the Log-rank test
      (unadjusted analysis), Hazard ratio for the risk of the primary analysis between the control
      and Dexamethasone arm will be calculated using a univariate cox proportional hazards ratio
      model (unadjusted analysis). Further secondary outcomes will be analysed by bivariate
      analysis.

      Methods: monitoring Harms: Side effects will be monitoring during therapy as defined
    
  