
    
      The central objectives of the study at hand are the implementation, evaluation and transfer
      of three evidence-based innovative forms of care (CIMPS-Therapy, CHIMPS-Prevention-Group,
      CHIMPS-Prevention-Single) for children and adolescents (aged 3 to 18 years) with mentally ill
      parents at the 21 participating study cites in 15 federal states of Germany. In addition,
      iCHIMPS, an online intervention based on the CHIMPS concept for the whole family, will be
      developed.

      The four innovative forms of care include diagnostic, prevention and - if needed - therapy in
      order to treat psychological symptoms of children and adolescents as early as possible.
      Thereby, chronification will be prevented and the cycle of transgenerational transmissions of
      psychiatric disorders will be broken. Each of the four interventions will be evaluated in a
      separate prospective, randomized-controlled trial (RCT); overall, four randomized-controlled
      trials will be performed. Each of the four control groups receives treatment as usual (TAU).
      Each of the four studies will include two groups: one intervention group (IG) and one control
      group (KG), i.e. CHIMPS-T vs. KG (TAU), CHIMPS-P-group vs. KG (TAU), CHIMPs-P-single vs. KG
      (TAU), iCHIMPS vs. KG (TAU). Central psychosocial outcomes will be assessed at four time
      points (t1, t2, t3, t4) at baseline as well as after six, 12 and 18 months. Due to a longer
      development period, iCHIMPS will have three times of measurement over a period of nine months
      (baseline, post-intervention after 2 months as well as six-months-followup) within the
      project term. Outcomes will be assessed from the perspectives of the mentally ill parent, the
      partner (if available), every child and adolescent (0 - 9 years only external assessment;
      from 10 years of age additional self-assessment) and the professionals. A special
      characteristic of the study at hand is the comprehensive accompanying evaluation of medical
      biometry, health economics and qualitative evaluation.

      In addition, various sub-projects for systematic implementation will be conducted:

      optimization of pathway to care, Knowledge and skills of professionals, development of a
      screening instrument and external quality assurance. In order to evaluate the effect of these
      three implementation strategies, an implementation study with a cluster-randomized trial was
      designed. Nineteen clinical centers are taking part in the implementation study. Nine of the
      nineteen clinical centers will receive the support of one of the three implementation
      strategies, the other ten clinical centers make up the control group and do not get a
      specific implementation support. The allocation is randomized. With three questionnaires in
      the investigator's implementation study we want to identify factors hindering or promoting
      implementation processes.
    
  