
    
      The link between chronic inflammatory bowel disease and arthritis is well established. IBD is
      associated with 3 patterns of arthritis (1), one of which is spondylarthropathy (2).
      spondylarthropathies is not uncommon, with 3-6% of patients with IBD affected, while
      radiologic sacroileitis is evident in up to 18% of patients. SpA associated with IBD differs
      from that of idiopathic ankylosing spondylitis in that the prevalence of HLA-B27, although
      high (20-40%), is significantly lower than in typical AS, where its prevalence is
      characteristically 90%. Both inflammatory bowel disease and spondylarthropathies show
      familial clustering and may coexist. Idiopathic ankolysing spondylitis and ankolysing
      spondylitis usually occurs without overt signs of intestinal inflammation. However,
      ileocolonoscopy studies have shown a high prevalence (30-44%) of asymptomatic inflammation of
      the terminal ileum. The nature of this inflammation is highly characteristic of Crohn's
      disease. Among spondyloarthropathies patients with subclinical inflammation, only 6% were
      reported to eventually develop clinically apparent inflammatory bowel disease. A more recent
      review of endoscopy-based studies detected Crohn's disease more frequently, in 18-48 % of
      patients with spondyloarthropathies and in 5-11% of ankolysing spondylitis.. However,
      conventional endoscopic and radiological techniques are limited in their capacity to
      investigate the entire small bowel, and could easily miss significant mucosal lesions due to
      Crohn's disease.

      Capsule endoscopy has been shown to be superior to conventional diagnostic techniques for the
      investigation of suspected Crohn's disease. The primary objective of this study is to
      demonstrate that this safe, non-invasive technique will reveal unidentified small bowel
      lesions in asymptomatic subjects with spondylarthropathies or ankolysing spondylitis more
      reliably than ileo-colonoscopy with biopsies.

      Clinical implications: Spondylarthropathies, ankolysing spondylitis and inflammatory bowel
      disease are clinically, genetically and pathologically linked. Anti-tumor necrosis factor
      agents, including Adalimumab, Etanercept and Infliximab, are all efficacious and
      cost-effective in treating spondylarthropathies and ankolysing spondylitis. Since only some
      anti-TNF molecules are highly effective for both Crohn's disease and spondylarthropathies and
      related arthropathies, the present study ideally would lead to a change in general
      therapeutic practice, leading to wider use of molecules with a wide scope of therapeutic
      success.
    
  