
    
      Potentially resectable Stage III or IV squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (HNSCC)
      are treated by operation and adjuvant radiotherapy. The 5-year survival rate is approximating
      30%. Recurrence typically occurs within 3 years, 60-80% in locoregional sites, and 20-30%
      systemically. Patients who are found to have tumors at the margins of surgical specimens far
      particularly poorly.

      Chemotherapy has been added in the hope to improve this situation. Induction and adjuvant
      chemotherapy has resulted in a decrease in the appearance of systemic metastases in most
      trials, but has not improved locoregional control and survival.

      For cases with unresectable head and neck cancers, concurrent chemoradiotherapy appears to
      have improved locoregional control, disease-free survival, and possibly overall survival, as
      compared to radiotherapy alone. Bachaud et al. reported a randomized trial of postoperative
      cisplatin and radiotherapy vs. radiotherapy alone for patients with Stage III or IV head and
      neck cancer. Cisplatin was administered 50 mg weekly during radiotherapy. There was a
      significant improvement in locoregional control (70% vs. 55%) as well as overall survival
      (median 36m vs. 20m) in patients who received concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Al-Sarraf et al.
      also reported a phase II concurrent chemoradiotherapy trial, using cisplatin 100 mg/m2 every
      three weeks. Based on comparison with similar patients treated in a prior RTOG trial, they
      conclude that postoperative radiotherapy with concurrent cisplatin may improve locoregional
      control rates10. The superiority of adjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) to RT alone
      or sequential adjuvant RT and chemotherapy has been further confirmed in an analysis of data
      of RTOG 85-03 and RTOG 88-24. Comparing high-risk patients of RTOG 85-03 with prognostically
      similar patients from RTOG 88-24, the data suggest that sequential surgery, RT, and
      chemotherapy produced better locoregional control than surgery plus RT, but that surgery
      followed by CCRT produced even higher locoregional control. Independent of the differences in
      the amount of RT delivered, the Cox proportional hazards model suggests that the addition of
      CCRT resulted in a 50% decrease in locoregional relapse rates compared with surgery plus
      postoperative RT with no chemotherapy. The reduction in mortality was 18%.

      Although CCRT may be better than RT alone or sequential treatment, the 3 year survival in
      both adjuvant CCRT studies were only around 50%. Is more aggressive treatment warranted?
      Tolerance to CCRT is a major concern. In the French study, severe acute toxicity occurred in
      18% of RT only patients and 41% of patients received CCRT. In the RTOG 88-24 trial, severe
      and life-threatening toxicities occurred in 20% and 12% of patients, respectively; the most
      common drug-related toxicities were leukopenia, anemia, nausea, and vomiting . Theoretically,
      to optimize CCRT, continuous presence of chemotherapeutic drug or drug effect is necessary to
      maximize the effect of radiosensitization. For radiosensitization purpose, daily chemotherapy
      may be better than weekly and weekly may be better than tri-weekly. French study used weekly
      cisplatin with a dose of 30 mg/m2. RTOG 88-24 used different treatment dose and schedule 100
      mg/m2 of cisplatin on radiotherapy days 1, 23 and 43. We choose weekly for convenience and
      hope this can increase the recruitment of patients. In the pilot study, we observed a
      remarkable toxicity with this treatment schedule. Considering the remarkable toxicity
      reported and our preliminary experience, more drugs, higher dosage, or extended schedule may
      not be justified.
    
  