
    
      Infliximab (IFX) is common treatment for refractory inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (5
      mg/kg/8 weeks in maintenance). A large majority of IBD patients treated with IFX are
      currently in long-term clinical remission under maintenance IFX monotherapy or cotherapy with
      azathioprine or methotrexate. There is no recommendation on optimal duration of anti-TNF
      therapy once it is started. A key question is to know if the treatment could be
      stopped/decreased without clinical relapse. Anti-TNF therapy is also a major burden in health
      care costs in France. Identifying an optimal duration of anti-TNF therapy and criteria for
      stopping/decreasing could help in lowering these therapies cost without altering disease
      control. Prospective studies have investigated the withdrawal of IFX in IBD patients showing
      50% of clinical relapse at 1 year in patient in clinical remission, 30% in patients in deep
      remission.

      Another alternative to deescalate anti-TNF treatment would be to increase the infusion
      interval without stopping the drug. Indeed, this infusion interval spacing is strongly
      requested by patients who seek an improvement in their quality of life. This empirical
      spacing corresponded to an increase of the infusion interval to 10 weeks then to 12 weeks
      maximum in patients with persistent clinical remission. In France and in Europe, even if
      there is no recommendation about infliximab de-escalation and increase of the infusion
      interval, many physicians have already performed empirically an infliximab infusion interval
      spacing in IBD patients in longstanding remission while on infliximab maintenance therapy.
      This empirical infusion interval increase in patients in clinical remission leads to a
      clinical relapse in 30% of these patients with a median delay of 12.6 months (IQR: 10.4-
      18.4) (Dufour et al. UEGW 2017).

      Since the last ten years, it was demonstrated that the serum level of infliximab measured
      just before the last infliximab infusion (defined as a trough level) is correlated to the
      clinical activity of the disease1. A serum IFX trough level between 3 and 7 ug/ml has been
      identified as therapeutic with more clinical relapse in patients with IFX < 3 ug/ml and safe
      dose reduction in patients with IFX trough level > 7 ug/ml.

      Thus, we hypothesized that using the determination of serum infliximab trough level could
      decrease the risk of clinical relapse observed in IBD patients who underwent an empirical
      infliximab infusion interval spacing (approximatively 30% of the cases). Indeed, in an
      infliximab trough level-based spacing strategy, only patients with a supratherapeutic
      (>7ug/ml) infliximab trough level would have a spacing of infliximab infusion.

      The aim of our study is to compare an IFX infusion interval spacing strategy based on IFX
      trough level with an IFX infusion interval spacing strategy based on clinical evaluation for
      maintaining clinical and biological remission in IBD patients in deep remission.
    
  