
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the clinical toxicity and tolerability of erlotinib combined with celecoxib in
      patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the tumor response rate of erlotinib combined with celecoxib in patients with
      advanced NSCLC.

      II. To estimate the dose of celecoxib that results in maximal induction of apoptosis, maximal
      inhibition of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in bronchoalveolar (BAL) fluid, and maximal inhibition
      of bronchial cell proliferation when combined with erlotinib.

      III. To estimate the effect of erlotinib and the combination of erlotinib and celecoxib on
      bronchial expression of COX-2.

      IV. To estimate the effect of erlotinib and the combination of erlotinib (and celecoxib on
      autophosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in skin and endobronchial
      biopsies.

      V. To estimate the degree of correlation of autophosphorylation of EGFR in skin and
      endobronchial samples.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the effect of the combination of erlotinib and COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib) on
      the frequency of fractional allelic loss (FAL) in endobronchial biopsies, metaplasia and
      dysplasia in endobronchial biopsies, and endobronchial proliferation.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of celecoxib.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily and oral celecoxib twice daily.
      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive escalating doses of celecoxib until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, up to 6 additional patients
      are treated at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks.
    
  