
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study the risk of grade 3 adverse events that effect vital organ function (such as
      cardiac, hepatic or thromboembolic) or any grade 4 or higher non-hematologic adverse events
      among patients receiving lenalidomide as treatment for high-risk asymptomatic, smoldering
      multiple myeloma. (Phase II) II. To compare progression free survival where failure is
      defined as death or the development of symptomatic myeloma indicating treatment between
      patients receiving lenalidomide versus observation alone in high-risk asymptomatic,
      smoldering multiple myeloma. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the response to therapy of patients treated with lenalidomide as treatment for
      asymptomatic, smoldering multiple myeloma. (Phase II) II. To determine and compare the
      response rate, time to progression, 1-year progression-free survival probability, and overall
      survival between patients randomized to receive lenalidomide or observation in the setting of
      asymptomatic myeloma. (Phase III) III. To estimate the incidence of adverse events in
      patients receiving lenalidomide therapy for early-stage multiple myeloma. (Phase III)

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the cohort in terms of gene expression profiling (GEP) and cytogenetic risk
      classification and evaluate baseline immune and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters.
      (Phase II) II. To evaluate the impact of therapy within GEP-defined risk groups and GEP as a
      prognostic marker. (Phase III) III. To study the effects of lenalidomide on laboratory
      markers of immune function. (Phase III) IV. To study the prognostic value of MRI-detected
      asymptomatic bone disease on clinical outcome. (Phase III) V. To evaluate the prognostic
      effect of baseline high-risk cytogenetic abnormalities on clinical outcome. (Phase III)

      QUALITY OF LIFE ASSESSMENT OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare quality of life (QOL) change between treatment and observation arms based on
      the functional (FWB) and physical (PWB) well-being components of the Functional Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy (FACT)-General (G) patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure from registration
      (prior to initiation of treatment) up to cycle 24.

      II. To examine the impact of differential treatment response (PFS), if observed, on QOL based
      on the FACT FWB+PWB up to cycle 48.

      III. To obtain prospective data on myeloma specific QOL attributes, utilizing and evaluating
      the Multiple Myeloma Subscale (MMS).

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE II: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE III: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients undergo observation until progression to symptomatic myeloma.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  