
    
      Acquisition and transmission of MDROs in healthcare facilities is a major patient safety
      problem, afflicting in particular the antibiotic-exposed and immunodeficient patient
      populations. MDRO-colonized patients require isolation to reduce the risk of transmission to
      other patients, and frequently develop infections from their colonizing organisms.

      Most clinically relevant MDROs are carried in the gastrointestinal tract; thus perirectal
      cultures are frequently the surveillance method used to screen for these pathogens.
      Surveillance to identify MDRO colonization allows for anticipation and timely initiation of
      effective treatment of patients who develop infection.

      The precise modes of transmission within hospitals are not known, but contamination of the
      hands of healthcare personnel, patient care equipment, and the healthcare environment are
      thought to play major roles in transmitting MDRO. Suboptimal hand hygiene can lead to
      transmission on the hands of staff to other patients or colonization of their own
      gastrointestinal tract. Few studies have investigated intestinal colonization of healthcare
      professionals. Transmission of bacteria by healthcare personnel is thought to occur primarily
      via contaminated hands; we wonder whether gastrointestinal carriage by healthcare personnel
      also plays a role in nosocomial spread.

      This study will screen a self-referred convenience sample of 400 healthcare personnel who
      have contact with patients or patient culture specimens for fecal carriage of MDRO at one
      point in time. A control group of 400 NIH employees or contractors who do not have contact
      with patients or patient specimens will also be screened. Samples will be linked to
      questionnaires to assess the exposure of staff members to patients or culture specimens with
      known MDRO colonization or infection. We will use molecular typing techniques to link
      healthcare personnel isolates to patient or environmental isolates. Finally, the study will
      be conducted in such a way as to preserve to the greatest extent possible the anonymity of
      volunteers, using a system of alphanumeric identifiers and unmanned drop boxes for specimen
      collection.
    
  