
    
      Slow-speed traditional resistance training (2-3 seconds for each concentric and eccentric
      phase) protocols for the elderly have involved relatively heavy loads (70-80% of maximum
      force) in order to increase strength and function, and has been demonstrated to be an
      effective strategy to improve biomarkers of health and fitness across a wide range of healthy
      and clinical older populations, but the results regarding the function are inconsistent in
      the current literature. However, several studies indicated that muscle power is a stronger
      predictor than strength for daily motor activities, such as fast walking, stair-climbing, and
      rising from a chair, and that peak muscle power was associated with functional limitations in
      older people. Moreover, muscle power declines earlier and at a higher rate than strength.
      More recently, several authors have designed high-speed resistance training programs, also
      calling power training or explosive-type resistance training to improve muscle power in older
      adults rather than strength. However, the effects of high-speed resistance training versus
      slow-speed traditional resistance training on functional outcomes in older adults are
      inconsistent, with some studies showing enhanced improvements in function, and others showing
      no difference in function perhaps because to the application of different training
      parameters, tests, functional status of the participants or the lengths of the studies.
      Furthermore, the effects of the high-speed training programs on others variables such as
      oxidative stress, bone profile or metabolic function are unknown.

      On the other hand, current recommendations have recognized that a combination of aerobic
      activity, strength training and flexibility exercises is important for maintaining physical
      function in older adults. However, most studies in older individuals have examined the
      isolated effect of strength and endurance training programs and focused on different
      health-related fitness parameters. Also, due to the low rates of physical activity in older
      adults, especially regarding resistance training (11%), it is necessary to study the effects
      of other types of physical activity possibly more dynamics, like the multicomponent training.
      Multicomponent training is defined as a well-rounded program that includes endurance,
      strength, coordination, balance and flexibility exercises and is becoming increasingly
      popular among the older population and appears to be associated with several health benefits
      because has the potential to impact both cardiorespiratory and neuromuscular fitness, which
      both play an important role in maintaining functional fitness and quality of life.

      Currently however, there is no evidence which has examined the effectiveness of high-speed
      resistance training and multicomponent training in older adults (>60 years) in front of
      slow-speed traditional training not only in respect of the physical function, but also in
      terms of oxidative stress, bone profile, metabolic status and quality of life. Developing an
      understanding of novel training strategies can ultimately provide a viable alternative to
      traditional modes of exercise training for a broader range of participants and increase their
      adherence to them.

      This is a randomized clinical trial (RCT) with 4 parallel arms. The subjects will be divided
      in 4 groups with a randomized technique: slow-speed traditional resistance training group
      (TRADITIONAL), high-speed resistance training group (H-SPEED), multicomponent training group
      (MULTICOMPONENT) and control group (CONTROL). The subjects will be submitted to a 4-session
      familiarization period and then a 20-week of training program will be performed twice a week.

      The TRADITIONAL group will perform 6 submaximal repetitions equivalent to 85% of the
      one-repetition maximum (1RM) per exercise (high intensity training sessions). The perceived
      exertion level on the OMNI-RES scale progressed from 6-7 (somewhat hard) in the first 4 weeks
      to 8-9 (hard) in the remaining 16 weeks. Control of the intensity by this method (which takes
      into account the grip width, band color, and number of bands) has been previously validated
      in young adults, middle aged adults, and older adults, and will be the first time that it
      will be used the validate scale for older adults in the intervention training. The number of
      sets per exercise progressed from 3 in the first 8 weeks to 4 in the remaining 12 weeks in
      both groups, with 120s of active recovery (slow rhythmic swinging of the extremities without
      the use of elastic bands) between sets and 90s of rest between exercises. The speed of
      execution of the exercises was controlled using a metronome marking the cadence (2s of
      concentric contraction and 2s of eccentric contraction). The training session will consist in
      a general warm-up, 6 resistance exercises, including 2 upper limb exercises (elbow curl and
      chest press), 2 lower limb exercises (lunge and standing hip abduction), and 2 exercises
      combining both upper and lower limbs at the same time (squat plus upright rowing and squat
      plus shoulder press) and finally the cooldown routine. Primarily multijoint exercises were
      chosen to emphasize both major and minor muscle groups.

      The H-SPEED group will perform the same routine than the TRADICIONAL group (the same general
      warm-up, the same 6 resistance exercises and the same cooldown routine) with the difference
      that this group will perform the concentric phase of each repetition in the resistance
      exercises ''as fast as possible'', will pause for 1 second, and will perform the eccentric
      phase in 2-3 seconds (the speed of execution of the exercises was controlled using a
      metronome). This group will perform 12 submaximal repetitions with very low perceived
      exertion (3 of 10) and ''rapid´´ in the qualitative perceived exertion scale for power
      training, equivalent to 40-50% 1RM (low-intensity). The number of sets per exercise
      progressed from 3 in the first 8 weeks to 4 in the remaining 12 weeks, with 90s of active
      recovery between sets (slow rhythmic swinging of the extremities without the use of elastic
      bands) and 60s of rest between exercises.

      The MULTICOMPONENT group sessions will include a resistance training component, but will
      combine it with additional exercise regimens including balance, aerobic, flexibility and
      coordination. Participants will perform, in this order, balance exercises followed by
      resistance/coordination, aerobic/coordination and flexibility exercises in each session. The
      balance training will consist in static, dynamic and proactive balance exercises. In the
      resistance training block, the participants will perform 15 submaximal repetitions with a
      perceived exertion level on the OMNI-RES Scale 6-7 (somewhat hard) in the first 8 weeks and
      8-9 (hard) in the remaining 12 weeks. Participants will perform 2 resistance exercises (squat
      plus upright rowing and lunge) at traditional slow-speed (2s of concentric contraction and 2s
      of eccentric contraction). The number of sets per exercise will progress from 3 in the first
      8 weeks to 4 in the remaining 12 weeks, with 90s of active recovery between sets and 60s of
      rest between exercises. Given the demonstrated importance of reproducing the different
      challenges encountered in daily life, will be proposed in the aerobic part of the session
      exercises that will require moving through space using walking progressively at faster speeds
      to light skipping, jogging, or with longer steps, and while adding the use of the arms. The
      heart rate will be monitored by the polar team system, which allows monitoring the heart rate
      of different people at the same time. The intensity of this part will progress from 65 to 85%
      of the maximum heart rate over the training weeks. The flexibility block will consist in
      static stretching exercises of upper and lower limbs. Finally, the coordination exercises
      will be performed in the rests periods of resistance and aerobic blocks, and will consist of
      psychomotor (reaction time) exercises, dance movements and obstacle exercises. Specific
      cognitive challenges were integrated also into this block (coordination) to engage executive
      function, and to specifically stimulate the inhibition of habitual responses and cognitive
      flexibility. For instance, participants will have to perform task sequences while reversing
      or ''scattering'' a learned order, or to learn different stimulus-response associations and
      then switch between them according to external cues. The difficulty of balance and
      coordination exercises will increase progressively to generate adaptations.

      The subjects will perform four sessions of pre-intervention familiarization to (a) select the
      color, grip width, and number of bands; (b) adapt the rate of perceived exertion; and (c)
      learn the correct technique for the exercises. The loads will be adjusted every week to
      maintain the appropriate training intensities by adapting the color and number of elastic
      bands along with the grip width. Training attendance will be recorded at every session. All
      the training sessions will be performed in two Municipal Activity Centers for Older People
      located in Valencia (Campanar and Nou Benicalap centers), under the supervision of a
      qualified and experienced sports scientist and physiotherapists to ensure safety and
      compliance.

      All the supervised programs will include 2 weekly sessions will perform on nonconsecutive
      days (separated by 48-72 hr) for 20 weeks. Each session will be performed in groups, and each
      participant always will perform the exercises in the same order, alternating between the
      upper and lower limbs. Elastic bands (TheraBand®, Akron, OH, USA) and chairs will be used as
      the equipment.
    
  