
    
      After randomisation to a study arm, eligible participants will consume either one pomegranate
      extract or placebo capsule (identical in appearance) daily, for a period of 4 weeks. The
      pomegranate capsule contains 650mg of pomegranate extract (240 mg punicalagins and 350mg
      total biophenols) and the placebo, maltodextrin.

      Participants will be required to attend the university clinic lab twice, having fasted
      overnight, with all measurements being taken pre and post study at 4 weeks. Blood, saliva and
      24 hr urine samples will be provided. Body weight and composition, dietary habits and quality
      of life will also be measured. The well validated health related Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (Rand 36) will be administered pre- and post-intervention. This series of
      questions covers eight spheres of health. The physical health component considers physical
      functioning, physical role, bodily pain and general health. The mental health aspect examines
      vitality, social functioning, emotional role and general mental health. Anthropometric
      measurements recorded will be height, weight, waist, mid upper arm circumference.
      Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA), which measures conductivity from hand to foot,
      calculating both body fat and fat free mass, will also be performed.

      Pre and post study comparison of the amount of polyphenols in 24 hr urine samples provided,
      alongside capsule consumption checks, will measure compliance. A 3 day diet diary record,
      will be used for recording energy intake and to highlight any fluctuations in dietary intake
      over the study period.

      The data will be analysed using Statistical Programme for Social Sciences (SPSS) for Windows
      software version 19. Differences in baseline characteristics will be examined using
      independent t- tests with extract and placebo groups as independent variables and outcome
      measures as dependent variables. Paired t-tests will determine any individual differences
      between pre and post biochemical markers and anthropometric measurements. ANCOVAs will
      determine the overall differences between the independent groups.

      This exploratory study will provide a foundation for and refine the outcome measures required
      for a larger future trial.
    
  