
    
      Pancreatic cancer has a very high mortality with a 5-year survival rate of less than 10 %.
      Even though pancreatic cancer accounts for only 2-3 % of all cancer cases, it is the 4th
      leading cause of cancer death. The best prognosis is observed in patients, where tumor is
      confined to pancreas, and where curative resection is feasible. This accounts for 5-12% of
      patients. After complete surgical resection, these patients have a median survival of 15-25
      months and a 5-year survival rate of 8-15%. Approximately 40% of patients with pancreatic
      cancer have metastatic disease at time of diagnosis, a significantly worse prognosis with a
      median survival of 6-12 months and very low long-term survival (less than 1%). The remaining
      40-50% of patients have locally advanced disease (LAPC) without metastases. It is not
      possible to do complete surgical resection of LAPC because the tumor is infiltrating the
      surrounding tissue or blood vessel. These patients also have a severe prognosis with a poor
      long-term survival and median survival time of approximately 12 months.

      The majority of patients with LAPC are offered palliative chemotherapy as standard treatment.
      Few patients are offered downstaging with chemo-radiotherapy. In rare cases downstaging
      results in extensively tumor shrink which enables subsequently surgical resection. However,
      the majority of patients remain none-resectable and only candidates for
      palliative/symptomatic treatment.

      Electroporation is a new local treatment of tumors. Tumor cells are exposed to series of
      direct current impulses with high voltage (1500 V / cm) of milliseconds duration.
      Electroporation was originally used to enhance the sensitivity of tumor cells to certain
      cytotoxic agents by increasing the permeability of the cell membrane. Later it was found that
      direct current at sufficiently high voltage can destroy the cell membrane of cancer cells
      without damaging surrounding connective tissue or blood vessels. By modulating the length of
      the impulses and voltage, this cell-killing effect is achieved without any significant
      heating of the tissue, which reduces the risk of thermal damage. Electroporation differs in
      this way from other forms of local treatment such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA), which
      acts through the heating and coagulation of tissue.

      The aim for this study is to implement electroporation therapy (NanoKnife) treatment for
      patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Electroporation therapy (NanoKnife) will be
      given in addition to standard chemotherapy.
    
  