
    
      This study protocol will assess pyloric sphincter pressure and geometry in patients with
      gastroparesis and control subjects without symptoms of gastroparesis.

      Aims: To determine if there is a subgroup of patients with gastroparesis who have pressure
      and/or geometric configuration abnormalities of the pyloric sphincter. We will determine this
      by assessing the pressure, diameter, length, and distensibility of the pyloric sphincter in
      patients with gastroparesis and in subjects without gastroparesis undergoing upper endoscopy
      for their clinical evaluation.

      Hypothesis:The pylorus of patients with gastroparesis has a higher pressure, smaller
      diameter, and is less distensible than the pylorus of control patients without gastroparesis

      Methods: The commercially available FDA approved endoscopic functional luminal imaging probe
      (EndoFLIP) catheter will be used, which measures diameter, pressure, length, and
      distensibility of gastrointestinal sphincter muscles along the balloon distance. It is used
      to measure the pressure characteristics of the lower esophageal sphincter during bariatric
      surgery for obesity, during Heller myotomy for achalasia, and during Nissen fundoplication
      for gastroesophageal reflux disease. In this study, during upper endoscopy, which is
      routinely performed under sedation, patients with gastroparesis and controls without
      gastroparesis symptoms will have their pyloric sphincter assessed with EndoFLIP. After
      passage of the endoscope into the stomach, the EndoFLIP catheter will be introduced alongside
      the endoscope and advanced through the pyloric sphincter as visualized endoscopically. The
      investigators will measure the pressure and contour of the pyloric sphincter using three
      successive volume distensions of the EndoFLIP balloon (20 ml, 30 ml, 40 ml). The assessment
      of the pylorus will be done during the upper endoscopy which will take approximately 60
      minutes. We will compare the pyloric pressure measurements in patients with gastroparesis to
      the control patients. This is an observational study, with no intervention.

      Analysis: The investigators will compare the results between the gastroparesis patients and
      the control patients without gastroparesis.

      Through this study, the investigators will better understand the abnormalities of the pyloric
      sphincter in patients with gastroparesis.
    
  