
    
      Pediatric patients will be recruited through clinical practice at the designated study sites.
      Participants with known anterior segment or posterior segment pathology will be eligible for
      inclusion. Patients who have a history of disease, treatments and/or surgical procedures
      affecting the ability for normal pupillary reaction are excluded. An equal number of age
      matched participants with a normal anterior and posterior segment exam will be recruited from
      routine outpatient ophthalmology clinic appointments. Informed consent will be obtained and
      will include an option to be considered for medical photography. Participants may opt out of
      photography and still be included in the study. For Spanish speaking participants, an
      interpreter will be used for study recruitment and informed consent. A Spanish informed
      consent (developed by a Spanish medical translator from our English written consent) will be
      provided. Current estimated number of subjects required for the study is 200 total including
      100 controls. Patient charts will be accessed from date of birth to patient's current age
      using either Cerner or Epic depending on the study site location. Examiners will include
      ophthalmology residents with one completed year of ophthalmology training. They will be
      blinded to participants' ophthalmologic history.

      Pupil size will be recorded under ambient lighting conditions and the red reflex test (RRT)
      performed at 18 cm using a direct ophthalmoscope (Welch Allyn 11710 or similar). Each eye
      will then be inspected individually at 1 cm. Examiner description of the pupillary reflex in
      terms of color, brightness, and the presence or absence of potential anterior/posterior
      segment abnormality will be recorded using a standardized survey tool. The exam room lights
      will then be turned off and the pupils examined again with the direct ophthalmoscope
      according to the standard RRT procedure and results recorded.

      Next, pharmacological dilation will be achieved according to standard practices. For all
      patients, one drop of proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution will be instilled in
      each eye to achieve anesthesia. For patients under 1 year old, one drop of Cyclomydril will
      then be instilled in each eye and followed second drop in each eye 5 minutes later. For
      children over 1 year of age, pharmacologic dilation will be achieved with 1 drop of
      Cyclopentolate 1% and 1 drop of Phenylephrine 2.5% in each eye. The RRT will be repeated by
      the same examiner, including the lights on and lights off portions of the exam, and the
      results recorded.

      Subjects will be de-identified and results will be stored on a password protected Children's
      National Hospital computer and pertinent statistical analyses will be perform to asses our
      hypothesis. All statistical tests will be performed at the 5% level of significance unless
      otherwise stated.
    
  