
    
      This effectiveness trial leverages an existing partnership between Power of Two, a non-profit
      organization in New York City (NYC) that delivers the ABC intervention to infants with child
      welfare involvement; NYC's Administration for Children Services (ACS) that oversees the child
      welfare system; and ACS-contracted preventive agencies that refer families to Power of Two.
      We will assess the effectiveness of the ABC intervention in engaging parental sensitivity,
      the intervention mechanism, using a multi-method approach (behavioral observation, neural
      activity via event-related potentials [ERP]), and in enhancing child outcomes; we will assess
      whether the purported intervention mechanism mediates the association between the
      intervention and child outcomes; and we will examine moderators of treatment effectiveness
      that could allow personalizing the intervention to individual needs. Participants will
      include 360 parents and their 6- to 24-month-old infants with indicated reports of
      maltreatment. Parents will be randomized to one of three conditions: an evidence-based
      screen-and-refer intervention (Safe Environment for Every Child [SEEK]16), SEEK plus the
      first three sessions of ABC (ABC 3), or SEEK plus the standard ABC protocol (ABC 10). Parents
      and their young children will be assessed at intake, after ABC session 3 (or equivalent for
      SEEK only condition), and at 6 and 12 months post-intake. Parental sensitivity and child
      functioning will be assessed at each time-point, and parental neural activity will be
      assessed at intake and 6 months post-intake.

      The proposed research will address the following aims:

      Aim 1: Examine effectiveness of the ABC intervention in a community context.

      1a. Examine whether the ABC intervention engages the treatment mechanism. Parents randomized
      to ABC 10 are expected to show greater gains in observed sensitivity than parents randomized
      to SEEK.

      1b. Examine whether ABC enhances parental neural activity. Parents randomized to ABC 10 are
      expected to show greater gains in neural activity associated with sensitivity than parents
      randomized to SEEK.

        1. c. Examine whether the ABC intervention affects child outcomes. Children of parents
           randomized to ABC 10 are expected to show lower rates of disorganized attachment, more
           normative cortisol production, and less behavioral dysregulation than children of
           parents randomized to SEEK.

           Aim 2: Examine mediation effects.

        2. a. Examine the extent to which target engagement leads to changes in child outcomes.
           Changes in parental sensitivity are expected to mediate the association between
           intervention participation and child outcomes.

      2b. Examine whether changes in parental neural activity are key for sustained change in
      parental sensitivity. Changes in parental neural activity are expected to mediate the
      association between intervention participation and parental sensitivity.

      Aim 3 (Exploratory): Examine moderation effects. Examine whether cumulative risk moderates
      intervention effects. More specifically, we will explore whether parents with lower
      cumulative risk indices respond more favorably to ABC 3 than parents with higher cumulative
      risk indices, whereas those with higher cumulative risk indices require the full ABC 10
      protocol. We will also examine other variables, such as child sex, as possible moderators.
    
  