
    
      Problem definition.

      In Europe, each day more than 1000 patients suffer from cardiac arrest. Despite improvement
      of medical technologies mortality is still very high, around 75 - 80%. Of the patients who
      initially survive to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission, more than 50% still dies or remains
      severely disabled due to the post cardiac arrest syndrome (PCAS). Crucial in this syndrome is
      the overwhelming oxidative stress, which is caused by systemic ischemia/reperfusion injury
      and leads to destruction of endothelial function with cardiovascular failure and brain
      damage. Besides targeted temperature management, we have no effective therapy to improve
      prognosis. The levels of our primary circulating antioxidant, vitamin C, are markedly
      depressed after cardiac arrest. Early, high dose intravenous (iv) vitamin C administration
      can boost the body's antioxidant defence, and could be a new promising therapeutic
      intervention to improve clinical outcome by limiting oxidative damage.

      Rationale high dose vitamin C.

      Vitamin C administration is often wrongly considered as complementary or even alternative
      medicine, which does not do justice to the strong scientific base of the pleiotropic
      antioxidative effects of high-dose iv (not enteral!) vitamin C administration as demonstrated
      in multiple preclinical and clinical studies. With enteral supplementation maximally
      tolerated dosages cannot achieve plasma levels of > 250 µmol/l due to limited absorption. In
      critically ill patients, enteral supplementation even cannot restore deficiency due to the
      acutely increased requirements. Iv vitamin C administration generates much higher plasma
      levels, thus yielding more and more potent antioxidative effects. The underlying
      pathophysiological mechanisms are well elucidated. High plasma levels of vitamin C not only
      limit the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), repair other oxidized scavengers such
      as glutathione and modulate numerous enzyme reactions, but can also act as a direct radical
      scavenger. In addition, vitamin C maintains nitric oxide mediated endothelial integrity and
      vasomotor control. Furthermore, vitamin C is a cofactor in several biosynthetic pathways,
      such as collagen, catecholamines and peptide hormones. Deficiency will decrease there
      formation. Vitamin C can thereby recover endogenous vasopressor synthesis and improve wound
      healing.

      Post cardiac arrest huge amounts of ROS are generated by various pathways. The main source of
      ROS are the mitochondria due to uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. In addition, ROS are
      produced by upregulated enzymes such as NADPH oxidase or during oxidation of catecholamines.
      When unopposed these ROS can damage virtually every biomolecule and cause severe endothelial
      dysfunction. This has been demonstrated in vitro: plasma derived from patients after cardiac
      arrest induced massive cell death of cultured endothelial cells due to pro-oxidant stress and
      deterioration of anti-oxidant defenses. Cell death was highest immediately after admission to
      the ICU.

      Vitamin C depletion.

      This overpowering oxidative stress during PCAS can quickly exhaust body stores of vitamin C
      due to massive cellular consumption and reduced regeneration. We have shown that vitamin C
      plasma concentrations were decreased by more than 50% compared to healthy volunteers already
      on the first day after cardiac arrest. After 3 days plasma concentrations further declined
      and more than half the patients were deficient. Low vitamin C levels were associated with
      multiple organ dysfunction (higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) scores) and
      mortality. Other studies, though investigating septic and not post cardiac arrest patients,
      also show markedly depressed vitamin C levels on the day of admittance (~ 10 and 6 µmol/l)
      and an association between low vitamin C levels and multiple organ failure.

      However, these deficient vitamin C levels in critically ill patients often will go unnoticed.
      Due to the complexity and cost of its laboratory measurement plasma levels are not available
      in daily practice. In addition, the vitamin C content of enteral nutrition is assumed to be
      sufficient. However, current nutrition protocols (even with immune enhanced nutrition) fail
      to normalise vitamin C levels. These low plasma levels are likely to reflect real deficiency,
      since they are accompanied by scorbutic intracellular leucocyte vitamin C levels as well.
      Even with iv vitamin C dosages up to 1 g per day vitamin C depletion persists.

      (Pre) clinical studies.

      Multiple preclinical experiments support the potential beneficial effect of high-dose iv
      vitamin C post cardiac arrest. In a rat cardiac arrest model vitamin C administration
      immediately after return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) improved survival rate and
      neurological outcome and decreased myocardial damage. In organ-specific ischemia-reperfusion
      models of kidney, liver and skeletal muscle iv vitamin C ameliorated respectively renal
      structure and function, bile flow and cholate secretion and muscle function.

      Up to now no clinical study specifically addressed the post cardiac arrest population, but
      several controlled studies in critically ill patients showed favourable results. In
      critically ill surgical patients 3 g iv vitamin C per day reduced pulmonary morbidity, new
      organ failure, duration of ICU/hospital stay and mortality. In burn patients very high dose
      iv vitamin (66 mg/kg/hr) reduced fluid requirements, body weight gain and respiratory
      dysfunction. In a recent pilot trial of patients with severe sepsis vitamin C both 50
      mg/kg/day and 200 mg/kg/day caused earlier recovery from organ failure with reduction of the
      pro-inflammatory biomarkers. In a before and after study of patients with septic shock high
      dose iv vitamin C combined with iv thiamine and stress dose steroids substantially
      accelerated shock reversal and improved survival. Two studies in critically ill patients
      administering respectively 2.7 g/day and 1.5 g/day showed no clinical benefit. These
      different results might be explained by difference in timing (relatively late) and route of
      administration (enteral). None of the clinical studies reported negative results of vitamin C
      .

      Safety of high dose vitamin C.

      Up to now, no adverse events due to high-dose vitamin C have been reported even with
      extremely high dosing schedules. Theoretical risks comprise acidosis, a paradoxal
      pro-oxidative effect in case of iron overload, and oxalate kidney stones. In critically ill
      patients with sepsis 200 mg/kg/day and in cancer patients even megadoses up to 1500 mg/kg iv
      vitamin C three times weekly were tolerated without significant side effects. Neither these
      studies, nor studies in healthy volunteers reported acidosis. Vitamin C can reduce catalytic
      metals such as Fe2+ and Cu2+ with adverse, pro-oxidative effects in patients with
      hemochromatosis. These patients are excluded in most studies and will also be excluded in our
      study. High dose vitamin C increases urinary oxalate excretion. However, oxalate
      nephrocalcinosis and calcium oxalate stones take months to years to develop and none of the
      studies with short-term vitamin C administration reported kidney stone formation.

      The investigators hypothesize that vitamin C reduces organ damage, especially cerebral
      injury, if administered for a short period as a high iv dose during the very early phase of
      reperfusion after cardiac arrest.

      Primary Objective:

      - To determine whether an early high dose i.v. vitamin C can improve organ function,
      especially neurological outcome, in patients after cardiac arrest.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To explore the optimal dosing regimen for high dose i.v. vitamin C.

        -  To investigate in vitro the difference in effect of plasma obtained from post cardiac
           arrest patients treated with placebo, 3 gr/day or 10 gr/day vitamin C on endothelial
           cell viability and underlying oxidative pathways.
    
  