
    
      The standard test to diagnose PE is the Pulmonary Computed Tomography Angiogram (CTA). This
      can be prohibitive with some patients due to the amount of radiation exposure as well as the
      complications associated with the need to use intravenous (IV) contrast. CTA can detect acute
      PE with a sensitivity of 99 percent and specificity of 95 percent when combined with CT
      venography. In patients not medically eligible for CTA, the other option for diagnosis is a
      ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan. Though
      this is often prohibitive due to transport to Nuclear Medicine dept., prolonged test time, no
      test during off hours, etc. In this study the investigators are looking at an alternative
      method of diagnosing PE's in the Emergency Department where the investigators look at
      ventilation and perfusion images thru respiratory gated non-contrast CT (commonly called
      4DCT).

      Technetium-99 m macroaggregated albumin (99mTc-MAA) imaged with single photon emission
      computed tomography (SPECT) is considered the standard method for the quantitative
      determination of pulmonary perfusion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with contrast agents
      have been utilized experimentally to image the pulmonary vasculature and tissue perfusion.
      Quantification of SPECT images requires correction of the acquired data for attenuation and
      attenuation correction, which has lead to the development of SPECT/CT scanners. The low-dose
      CT can be utilized to evaluate the lung airway architecture, lung parenchyma, and pleural
      space in conjunction with the registered perfusion images rivaling CTA in sensitivity and
      specificity.

      In a study comparing CT attenuation with SPECT perfusion defects, patients were found to have
      hypo-attenuated pulmonary regions corresponding to regions with decreased perfusion in 57
      percent of acute pulmonary emboli and 88 percent of chronic emboli cases. In the same study,
      hyper-attenuated regions were found to correspond to regions with hyperperfusion. A method to
      measure pulmonary perfusion based on subtraction digital fluoroscopy without contrast has
      been reported. In that study, subtraction images were generated between chest projection
      images at systole and diastole generating an image representing the perfusion difference.
      These perfusion projection images were correlate with 99mTc-MAA scintigraphy. Thus, changes
      in the amount and distribution of pulmonary perfusion throughout the respiratory cycle can be
      expected and these changes may be apparent on dynamic CT.

      Simon described a technique to calculate the change in fractional content of air within
      pulmonary tissue between anatomically matched CT regions based on a simple model that assumes
      the density changes were solely due to air content. The investigators successfully applied
      that model to inhale and exhale breath-hold CT image pairs as well as 4DCT images to create
      ventilation images. However, the amount of blood in the thorax and lungs varies with the
      respiratory cycle, thus violating the assumption of this model. The investigators found a
      cyclic variation in the apparent weight of the lung on 4DCT and others have reported
      respiratory induced variations in pulmonary perfusion of the lung on MRI. The pulmonary
      density changes found on 4DCT thus result from both changes in air and blood content.

      4DCT derived ventilation images can also be inferred from the respiratory motion induced
      local tissue volume changes independent of the 4DCT density values. The Jacobian determinant
      of the deformation field, calculated from the result of images depicting different
      respiratory phases of the lungs, is used to estimate the local volume changes or ventilation.
      There is a discrepancy between the density based and the Jacobian based ventilation images
      suggesting a method to extract respiratory induced blood mass change from 4DCT images. The
      investigators hypothesize the respiratory induced blood mass changed (RIBMC) will only occur
      within perfused lung regions. Each image set will contain information representing the
      density change resulting from both ventilation and RIBMC. Extracting both ventilation and
      perfusion-like image from the 4DCT image intensities, referred to as Hounsfield Units (HU) is
      our goal.

      The investigators found a cyclic variation in the apparent mass of the pulmonary parenchyma.
      The investigators hypothesize this variation is due to changes in pulmonary perfusion from
      respiratory-induced variation in cardiac output. The investigators hypothesize this
      respiratory induced blood mass change (RIBMC) will allow the identification of hypoperfused
      lung regions. The investigators did a preliminary study by creating 4DCT RIBMC images from
      cases with hypoxia induced vasoconstriction, patients with malignant airway constriction. The
      resulting images compare well with 99mTc-MAA SPECT images. It is unknown, however, if this
      process works to detect perfusion defects due to PE where the perfusion is obstructed and
      breathing normal.

      In this study patients found to have new segmental, lobar or greater perfusion defects, will
      be imaged with 99mTc-MAA SPECT/CT and 4DCT to compare perfusion with RIBMC defects. This is a
      prospective imaging trial of 20 subjects diagnosed by CTA.

      An anticipated 15 subjects will be enrolled into Cohort 1 and each will receive 99mTc-MAA
      SPECT/CT and two (2) 4DCT imaging scans (back-to-back) on the same day. This data will be
      analyzed for objectives 1, 4 and 5.

      An anticipated 5 subjects will be enrolled into Cohort 2 and they will also receive 99mTc-MAA
      SPECT/CT and two (2) 4DCT imaging scans (back-to-back) on the same day, with the first one
      being obtained with normal breathing as previously done and the second one being obtained
      with positive pressure breathing via BiPAP. Cohort 2 results will be analyzed for objective 6
      only. Respiratory induced blood mass change (RIBMC) images will be derived from the 4DCT
      images and quantitatively compared with the SPECT perfusion images.

      Cohort 3. The objective of this cohort of the study is to collect and process the image data
      necessary to assess the sensitivity and specificity of our 4DCT. We will conduct a
      prospective imaging study of an anticipated 124 patients who present with symptoms leading to
      a clinical concern for PE and who subsequently undergo chest CTA for further evaluation. One
      4DCT before or after the CTA is the only study imaging in this cohort. Data from this cohort
      will be analyzed for objectives 2 and 3.

      Subjects will be followed for a period of 48 hours after imaging for any adverse effects to
      the 99mTc-MAA.

      The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0) will be used to
      grade all treatment-related adverse events. All Adverse Event (AE) effects will be reported
      to the Principal Investigator, who will determine the course of action for the study
      participant and will determine whether the AE affects the study and requires changes to the
      protocol and/or informed consent form.
    
  