
    
      Effective interventions to support patients' diabetes management are urgently needed to
      curtail the growing financial and human cost of diabetes. However, sustainable solutions to
      this health challenge have been elusive due to the intrinsic and extrinsic barriers patients
      face when attempting to incorporate necessary health behaviors into their daily routines
      (e.g., dietary changes, physical activity, medication management, blood glucose monitoring,
      and stress management). The focus of occupational therapy (OT) is to work with patients
      within the context of their daily lives. OTs identify current patient roles (work, family,
      community), habits, and routines, then work with the patient to identify and address barriers
      to diabetes self-management within these aspects of their daily lives. Within OT, an
      intervention approach informed by Lifestyle Redesign (LR) has been shown to be effective at
      improving diabetes-related health outcomes among people with diabetes. This study proposes to
      introduce an OT- led diabetes intervention program into an outpatient OT clinic. The
      intervention is an interdisciplinary team approach as the intervention is informed and
      monitored by the interdisciplinary team members, who are part of the planning process, and
      who will participate in regular review of the intervention and the patient needs. With OT
      leading the team to address barriers to lifestyle modification, the primary care medical team
      will continue to oversee the overall health care of the patient. The OT will communicate
      regularly with the primary care team.

      OTs with training in diabetes education will deliver the intervention to patients in the
      study within the course of their typical work day at the OT clinic. Treatment activities and
      materials will be delivered in English or Spanish, per patient preference as one of the OT
      interventionists is fluent in Spanish. Patients receiving OT services for development of
      diabetes self-management skills will be seen for approximately 8 forty five-minute to
      one-hour sessions over 6 months. OT notes will be maintained within the Electronic Health
      Record (EHR) as is standard practice at this clinic; the therapist will communicate with
      other interdisciplinary care team members using EHR messaging, phone calls, and in-person
      communication as needed. There will be at minimum a monthly consult meeting with a doctor of
      psychology (Psy D), registered dietitian (RD), social worker (SW), and pharmacist (PharmD),
      and the primary care medical team will be provided with monthly progress notes.

      The intervention will be offered in a one-on-one direct therapy format. The intervention will
      focus on lifestyle modification strategies that will improve the patient's diabetes
      self-management skills. The intervention is organized into five modules that address:

        -  living with diabetes,

        -  strategies to communicate with healthcare providers to ensure patient needs are met,

        -  analyzing and modifying patient habits and routines to determine what changes they must
           make to manage their diabetes,

        -  identify and use social supports to help manage diabetes

        -  strategies to reduce stress and depression, improve emotional well-being, and minimize
           risk of diabetes burn-out (patient frustration with living with the disease)

      Each patient receives an individually tailored combination of modules, and treatment
      activities within each module as established through collaborative goal setting between the
      patient and OT during the initial evaluation.

      The investigators will analyze outcomes using descriptive analytics and paired t-tests to
      test our hypotheses. The investigators will collect EHR data on HbA1c and compare pre/post
      measures of the clinically relevant self-report surveys on diabetes self care, and barriers
      to self-care and management (Diabetes Empowerment Scale, Medication Adherence Assessment
      Scale, and the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure), physical, mental, and social
      health (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System® PROMIS-29). Changes in
      HbA1c levels will be tracked by obtaining recent levels from the patient's primary care team.
      With patients referred to the OT intervention who have not had an HbA1c within ≤4 weeks of
      the initial referral date, the OT will consult with the primary care physician and determine
      if an HbA1c level can be obtained as a part of their normal care. The investigators will
      collect EHR data on follow-up HbA1c testing scores that are available within 12 weeks of the
      8th OT visit and self-report surveys the day of 8th OT visit. If a patient has completed the
      full intervention, the study staff will follow-up biweekly for no more than 3 months after
      their initial visit, and attempt to collect self-report data up to 6 months after the final
      visit to determine the sustainability of outcomes.
    
  