
    
      The most commonly used measurement of vitamin D status is serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D
      (25(OH)D). However there is no clear consensus on the level of 25(OH)D required to protect
      against adverse effects of deficiency.

      One approach is to define deficiency is the level of 25(OH)D at which there is a secondary
      physiological response, such as a rise in parathyroid hormone. However, this approach has not
      yielded a clear answer. Total 25(OH)D below 30nmol/l is not always associated with an
      increased parathyroid hormone (PTH) response, and total 25(OH)D and PTH do not always respond
      to vitamin D supplementation. This suggests that total 25(OH)D measurement may not be the
      best biological marker of vitamin D status.

      Vitamin D and its metabolites are bound to proteins in the circulation: around 85-90% of
      25(OH)D is bound to vitamin D binding protein (DBP), 10-15% is bound to albumin, and less
      than 1% is in the free form. DBP protects 25(OH)D from degradation and allows a circulating
      store to accumulate.

      The free hormone hypothesis suggests that only the unbound 'free' portion of protein bound
      hormones is biologically active, and that this should be measured for the accurate assessment
      of hormone availability. Calculated free 25(OH)D concentrations have been shown to be better
      correlated to bone mineral density (BMD) than total 25(OH)D in a healthy population and to be
      more closely related to PTH in patients with end stage renal disease.

      The binding capacity of DBP may be overwhelmed in some situations. In female participants
      treated with an oral dose of 500,000 IU annually for 3 years there was an increase in the
      risk of falls and fractures that was particularly marked in the three month period after each
      dose. It has been proposed that there was vitamin D toxicity and possible hypercalcaemia
      during this period due to the binding capacity of DBP being overwhelmed by the large increase
      in 25(OH)D with a relatively greater increase in free 25(OH)D. However, free vitamin D and
      calcium were not measured in the study, so there is not yet evidence to support this
      hypothesis.

      The investigators will study changes in total and free 25(OH)D, and clinical response to
      three different bolus doses of vitamin D (50,000 units, 150,000 units and 500,000 units) in
      84 vitamin D deficient (<30nmol/l) postmenopausal women over three months. This will allow
      the investigators to determine how free and total 25(OH)D change with bolus dosing and
      whether there is a disproportionately high rise in free 25(OH)D with higher doses. This will
      also generate a better understanding of what the optimum bolus dose for treatment of vitamin
      D deficiency is and whether free 25(OH)D may be a better marker of vitamin D status in some
      situations.

      Aims of the study:

        -  To determine the effect of three different vitamin D bolus doses on free 25(OH)D and
           total 25(OH)D in vitamin D deficient post-menopausal women.

        -  To determine the effect of different vitamin D bolus doses on parameters of calcium
           metabolism, bone turnover markers and physical function in vitamin D deficient
           post-menopausal women.
    
  