
    
      This is a single-center, single-arm pilot study to assess the impact of inhaled silver
      nanoparticles (nanosilver or nAg) on immune responses in the lung. Non-smoking, healthy
      adults (no lung or cardiovascular conditions), age 18-60 will be recruited to participate;
      pregnant or breastfeeding women will be excluded.

      Potential participants will be prescreened by telephone and scheduled for a final eligibility
      visit that will include vital signs/anthropometry, medical/medication history review,
      physical exam, urine tests, blood draw, urine collection, and pulmonary function tests (PFTs;
      i.e., spirometry and methacholine challenge test). After eligibility is confirmed, the
      participant will be scheduled for a baseline visit, which includes vital signs/anthropometry,
      medical/medication history review, physical exam, blood draw, urine collection, and
      bronchoscopy (with lavage and brushing). Participants will return 14-40 days between the
      baseline visit and study treatment visit, which includes vital signs/anthropometry, blood
      draw, urine collection, spirometry, one-time administration of ionic silver via nebulizer,
      and instructions to collect urine for 24 hours. The next day after the study treatment visit,
      the participant will return for a visit that includes vital signs/anthropometry, blood draw,
      providing the 24-hour urine sample, spirometry, and bronchoscopy. During each bronchoscopy
      procedure, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and tissue from bronchial brushings will be
      collected from the participant to obtain alveolar macrophages and bronchial epithelial cells.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine whether exposure to nanosilver alters the
      immune responses of lung cells. The primary laboratory analysis will determine whether
      exposure to nanosilver mediates a change from baseline in the response of
      bronchoscopy-derived, cultured macrophages or epithelial cells to challenge with a toll-like
      receptor (TLR) agonist. Additional analyses will assess changes in cytokine levels in BAL
      fluid, changes in the lung microbiome, silver penetration into the blood stream, silver
      excretion in the urine, and changes in PFT measures.
    
  