
    
      Dyslexia is a specific learning difficulty which mainly affects the development of literacy
      and language related skills. It is characterized by difficulties with phonological
      processing, rapid naming, working memory, processing speed and the automatic development of
      skills that may not match up to an individual's other cognitive abilities. Phonological
      processing deficit is well established as one of the main causes of dyslexia. Working memory
      (WM) is today considered to be a cognitive system that strongly relates to a person's ability
      to think and learn. Over the last decade an increasing body of evidence indicates that WM
      deficits may cause particular problems for individuals with dyslexia. This is consistent with
      many of the every day problems reported by dyslexics and those around them. WM deficits are
      frequent in children with reading deficits. A major question is whether the WM impairment is
      secondary to phonological core deficit affecting the phonological loop only, or caused by an
      additional deficit involving central executive. Exploratory findings from fMRI studies
      indicates that impaired WM processes in dyslexia have a unique neuronal signature which may
      be associated with central executive processes. However there are conflicting findings and
      further studies are needed.

      The children in the study, all diagnosed with dyslexia, will be divided into two subgroups
      (16/16 children). They are randomly allocated to either the adaptive training group or the
      treatment as usual control group after the baseline assessment. Both groups will meet for
      baseline testing and re-testing 4 weeks after completed training. Those that serve as
      non-trained controls will be offered to participate in training after completion of the
      study.

      The intervention in this study aim to increase WM of children with dyslexia. We hypothesise
      that intensive computerized working memory training will improve reading fluency, speed and
      comprehension for children with dyslexia.
    
  