
    
      In Mexico DM2 is the main complication of patients with TB (22.2%), more so than HIV,
      malnutrition and chronic pulmonary obstructive disease (COPD).

      The World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed a framework for the joint management of TB
      and DM2 and one of the key points is the need for studies that evaluate the viability and
      efficacy of programs that manage both diseases jointly. There are social and clinical
      determinants that are associated to a higher mortality in patients with DM2 and TB such as
      poor glucose level control (glycosylated hemoglobin >7mg/dl) and immunosuppression which in
      turn increases the risk of developing a recurrent episode of TB, being multi drug resistant
      (MDR) and/or failing TB treatment. The determinants associated to TB are the lack of
      awareness of the disease, drug toxicity and interaction with DM2 medication and treatment
      default. Social determinants are low income level, living in a crowded household, living in
      rural areas, not having access to health care, having been in prison and living with people
      with TB.

      The strategy consists of interventions on patients, health personnel, community health
      workers and directors of health services. Researchers will train patients in the use of
      glucometers, health personnel in management of comorbidities of DM2 and TB, health workers in
      how to support patients and increase treatment adherence. Bidirectional screening in patients
      with TB or DM2 using bacilloscopies and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c). During the 6 months
      of directly observed treatment (DOTS) study nurses will monitor levels of glucose weekly with
      capillary glucose, monthly with fasting glucose, in months 1, 3 and 6 with HbA1c. Patients
      with high glucose levels will be referred to metabolic control which will be assessed by
      experts. Regarding DOTs, first line TB drugs will be available and study nurses will
      supervise that they are taken correctly. A nutritionist will carry out home visits to guide
      dietary intake.
    
  