
    
      Shock is a syndrome characterized by acute circulatory failure resulting in impaired
      peripheral tissue perfusion. Distributive shock is the most common type of shock and is
      usually caused by severe sepsis. Distributive shock is characterized by profound
      vasodilatation leading to decreased arterial blood pressure and impaired organ perfusion
      despite high cardiac output.

      The use of vasopressors is an essential management line for distributive sock. Two groups of
      vasopressors are usually used for management of shock: catecholamines and vasopressin-like
      peptides. There is a continuous need for other vasopressors because:

      1- Available vasopressors have narrow therapeutic window. 2- Patients with severe hypotension
      refractory to the currently available classes usually die.

      A third system is usually engaged in the physiology of shock which is
      Renin-Angiotensin-aldosterone system. Angiotensin II is a natural hormone which is a potent
      vasopressor; moreover, angiotensin II stimulates the production of both antidiuretic hormone
      and adrenocorticotropin hormone.

      In a pilot study, angiotensin II was reported as an effective rescue vasopressor in septic
      shock patients on multiple vasopressors. Angiotensin II improved mean arterial pressure and
      helped in reduction of the doses of catecholamines. In a recent large randomized controlled
      trial, angiotensin II improved blood pressure in catecholamine-resistant distributive shock
      patients.

      Microcirculation is the primary site of oxygen and nutrient exchange. Maintenance of
      microcirculatory perfusion is a prerequisite for preservation of organ function. Multiple
      organ failure is common in patients with distributive shock despite maintenance of parameters
      of global perfusion due to disrupted microcirculatory perfusion. Furthermore, restoration of
      microcirculatory perfusion was correlated with improvement in survival. This study aims to
      investigate the effect of angiotensin II on peripheral microcirculation in patients with
      septic shock.
    
  