
    
      This is a non-interventional, observational, open-label, multicountry, multicenter
      post-marketing study in which Tarka is prescribed in the usual manner in accordance with the
      terms of the local market authorization with regards to dose, population and indication.
      Patients with a high risk of developing diabetes mellitus treated by secondary care
      specialists (such as internal medicine specialists, nephrologists, endocrinologists, etc.),
      whose hypertension is not controlled on single-drug therapy will be included.

      The assignment of the patient to the treatment with Tarka is not decided in advance by this
      protocol but falls within current practice. The prescription of Tarka is clearly separated
      from the decision to include the patient in this study. No additional procedures (other than
      standard of care) shall be applied to the patients.

      Each patient will be treated at the physician's discretion. Dosing schedule should be in the
      accordance with the locally approved Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). Physicians
      will be provided with a study kit that includes a protocol, Tarka's locally approved SmPC,
      and case reports forms for each patient to be enrolled.

      The patient's demographic data, height, weight and waist circumference will be reported in
      the Inclusion visit. The previous antihypertensive therapy should be noted (generic name of
      the drug and total daily dose). All other drugs the patient currently receives for
      cardiovascular disease treatment should be recorded as well.

      The patient will then be followed via regular office visits as determined by the physician.
      As this study is observational in nature, patient follow-up is not interventional and is left
      to the judgment of each physician within the 6-month period, which defines the survey for
      each patient. For indicative purposes, follow-up of participant should enable 3 patient
      visits during this period. For these reasons, the most likely visits are defined as
      "Inclusion visit" at which treatment with Tarka is to be commenced, and then "Follow-up visit
      Month 3 " and "Follow-up visit Month 6", although dates will depend only on the decision of
      the physician. As a result, failure to meet these suggested dates will not constitute a
      breach of the protocol.
    
  