
    
      The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends screening all children for autism spectrum
      disorder (ASD) at 18 and 24 months because research indicates that earlier intervention
      maximizes children's outcomes. The earliest signs of ASD are delays in social communication
      milestones that appear in the first 2 years and yet most children are not diagnosed until 4-5
      years of age. Underserved families are identified even later and significantly
      underrepresented in intervention research. It is vitally important to mobilize community
      service systems to impact family engagement throughout the process of screening, evaluation,
      and early intervention (EI) and to support linkages to public community-based EI in order to
      address health disparities. This collaborative investigation of 4 universities aims to
      document the effectiveness of an online automated universal screen for communication delay
      and autism initially at 18 months of age and decision rule for referral to an ASD evaluation,
      and to study an evidence-based intervention to increase family engagement and expedite
      receipt of screening, diagnosis, eligibility for EI, and EI services. The study will focus on
      the youngest age when ASD can be detected reliably, which is 18 months, and compare the
      effectiveness of screening and referral by 3 different community service systems: 1) primary
      care including private and public health care agencies and federally qualified health
      centers; 2) federal programs such as Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Food and Nutrition
      Service and Early Head Start; and 3) the National Black Church Initiative (NBCI). Using the
      Autism Navigator web-based platform the investigators will expand their capacity for
      universal ASD screening and referral for diagnosis and determining eligibility by EI
      providers through the public Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Part C system
      for children birth to 3 years of age. Innovative web-based technology will be integrated at
      multiple levels- as the basis for an interactive professional development course to enable
      these community service systems to efficiently learn about autism and implement a universal
      broadband and autism-specific screening with seamless automation that links to electronic
      health records and provides families with web-based tools about autism. This
      multidisciplinary research team will conduct a multisite pragmatic randomized clinical trial
      to test the effectiveness of an evidence-based Family Engagement Intervention plus Autism
      Navigator compared to Autism Navigator Enhanced Practice alone. The investigators will also
      conduct an exploratory study to test strategies to improve uptake of evidence-based
      intervention by community-based EI providers through the Part C system. This protocol has the
      potential to lower the age of screening for ASD to 18 months, which will have important
      implications for earlier access to intervention and improving ASD service systems and be
      ready for immediate and rapid implementation in community settings across the US. Findings
      will advance science by providing researchers with a method for recruiting a population-based
      sample, allowing for research at younger ages, which could accelerate genetic, neuroscience,
      and intervention research, and lead to transformative changes to community healthcare
      delivery.
    
  