
    
      In the past few decades, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) have rapidly
      developed as effective, and probably the most cost-effective tools to connect most, if not
      all, aspects of family lives. In Hong Kong, as of March 2016, the number of mobile service
      subscribers was 16.72 million, representing one of the highest penetration rates in the world
      at about 228.3 per cent; amongst these subscribers, 14.69 million were 3G/ 4G service
      customers and there is a surge to 20,557 Terabytes (or an average of 1,358 Megabytes per
      2.5G/3G/4G mobile user) recorded for local mobile data usage, representing a growth of 1.18
      times and 1.58 times over the same period in 2015 and 2014 respectively.

      While alongside the growth in popularity of ICTs and its role in promoting family well-being,
      there is also an increasing appreciation that ICTs such as internet-enabled devices and
      web-based applications can offer many advantages compared to traditional face-to-face
      approaches when delivering behaviour change programmes. It is believed that ICT helps
      facilitate access to interventions from a large variety of settings at all times, bringing
      the intervention to participants at times convenient to them and diminishing the influence of
      the situational constraints on intervention participation rates. The rise of ICT has created
      promising and potential new avenues and demand for implementing interventions related to
      mental health and parenting.

      The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has initiated the Jockey Club SMART Family-Link
      Project in collaboration with The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and NGOs, making effective
      use of information and communications technology (ICT) and data analytics, aimed at helping
      26 NGO-operated Integrated Family Service Centres and Integrated Service Centres (Centres),
      to enhance the quality and efficiency of their family service. The project also aims at
      building the capabilities of front-line workers so as to achieve the goal of enhancing family
      well-being by building an online training platform.

      The i-Training, Learning, and Sharing (i-TLS) platform will provide staff training and skills
      enhancing through carefully selected materials in one convenient location, forums for wisdom,
      experience, and information sharing between staff.

        1. i-Training: Using a variety of computerized formats, the i-Training platform may bring
           professional training content to social workers at their convenience.

        2. i-Learning: It provides a co-learning area for social and related service workers from
           different service centers to learn from and support each other, such as the NGO-shared
           best practice and the updated ICT information in relation to family services and
           activities. This may enhance service effectiveness.

        3. i-Sharing: It provides social and service-related workers with an instant online means
           to share experiences and have discussions

      The Platform will benefit social workers or service-related workers in terms of knowledge
      transfer, experience sharing, and wisdom practice.

      The goal of the study is to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of using online i-TLS
      platform to provide training and encourage a co-learning and sharing culture amongst social
      work professionals.

      A process evaluation will be performed to evaluate the process of each component of the
      program. Qualitative and quantitative assessments will be used to evaluate the effectiveness
      of the activities
    
  