1388. optic agnosia  semeiological and pathogenetic aspectsthe authors discuss the classical concept of agnosia and make a survey ofpathogenetical factors which determine its phenomenology.  the original andtraditional concept of such a term implied the loss of the capacity torecognize objects, when the functions of sense organs are undamaged.  thepsychological studies on perception and the modern physiology ofvision allow to avoid the dichotomy between sensation and perception andto affirm their identity.  cortex and recptors are closely bound andfunction in unison.every cortical alteration is thus reflected in sensorial functions; it istherefore that on practical semeiological grounds it is possible to obtain acongruous information of the corresponding cortical functionality through anexploration of sense organs carried out by suitable means.  since we areconfronted with functional changes, exploration methods must be fit to evaluatedynamic aspects of perception in connection with the temporalization andspatialization of stimuli.  such methods are now quite numerous and oftencomplex  a particular stress is laid on local adaptation, flicker fusion, andtachistoscopy on account of their significance and suitability.  by suchmethods it is possible to show those functional deficits or pathologicaldisturbances of sensorial functions which are also behind the pathology ofvisual recognition.  fluctuation, extinction, alteration in the perception ofmovement, both real and apparent, changes in adaptation to light anddarkness are all phenomena which can be detected instrumentally and which,at the same time, may be of determinant importance for the onset of 'agnosic'behaviour.  the complexity of the latter, on the other hand, cannot alwaysbe explained by sensorial disturbances only  other mechanisms, with a functioncomplementary but not less indispensable to the dynamics of perceptiveprocesses, may intervene and interfere in it.  on the basis of the latestneurophysiological data the attention is called to ocular motility andproprioceptivity, centrifugal innervation of sensorial receptors, andvestibular afferences.  a particular clinico-pathogenetical significance isattached by the authors to the association of lateral visual disturbances withaltered proprioceptive and kinesthetic information from the correspondinghalf-body  such association in fact is nearly always present among the factorsresponsible for the most strictly 'spatial' errors of 'agnosic' pathology.  inthe light of these pathogenetical considerations as well as of suitablesemeiological findings, the authors deem it convenient to divide their casesinto 3 categories with distinct clinical features  (a) cases in which alteredvisual behaviour may be related to changes of the visual function and of itscomplementary mechanisms; (b) cases in which hemianopia is associated witha homolateral deficit of somatic proprioceptivity; (c) cases in which thechanges in behaviour are chiefly, but not only, due to a dissolutionof the symbolic sphere.