3927. studies on growth and cytomorphosisin the thymo-lympha-tic systems - with specialreference to the influence ofthe thymus and the thyroidin guinea-pigsmigratory streams of lymphocytes betweendifferent parts of the thymo-lymphaticsystem were evaluated by comparisons betweenlymphocyte populations in thoracic-duct lymph and arterial and venous blood,especially thymic venous blood.  by re-cording organ weights in sham-operated andthymectomized guinea-pigs, treatedwith thyroxin or untreated, the importanceof the thymus and the thyroid for growthand regeneration in the thymo-lymphaticsystem was studied.  the main results areas follows.  there is a considerable venousoutput of lymphocytes with low mito-chondrial content (small lymphocytes) fromthe thymus in normal young guinea-pigs.this explains the much higher incidence ofsmall lymphocytes in blood than in tho-racic-duct lymph.  neonatal thymectomycauses lymphatic hypotrophy with defi-ciency of lymphocytes and pyroninophiliccells in relation to reticular ones.  bodygrowth and survival of the animals are notaffected.  in the thymus, exogenousthyroxin most probably promotes differentiationof large basophilic cells to smalllymphocytes, resulting in an increased output ofsmall lymphocytes.  in the lymphnodes, thyroxin promotes differentiation of largepyroninophilic cells ('transitionalcells') into immature and mature plasma cells.the effects of thyroxin on dif-ferentiation are followed by an increased growthof the thymo-lymphatic organs,characterized by an increased incidence of largebasophilic cells and increased weightof the lymphatic organs.  growth of the thymus andlymph nodes precedes that ofthe red splenic pulp.  this delayed splenic responseis not due to a transformationof an increased number of immigrated thymiclymphocytes, as neonatal thymectomydoes not prevent the thyroxin-stimulatedoccurrence of large basophilic cells in thered splenic pulp.  the thyroxin-stimulatedgrowth of the lymphatic system is ac-companied by an increased output of largerlymphocytes through the thoracicduct, resulting in an increased number oflarger lymphocytes in the blood.  inpostnatally thymectomized animals, having anormal (or above normal) amount ofcirculating small lymphocytes, thyroxin producesa drastic decrease in the number ofsmall blood lymphocytes, indicating a decreaseddelivery and/or increased disappear-ance of these cells to and from the blood, respectively.this decrease in number of smalllymphocytes is not seen in sham-operated animals.as judged by studies of organweights, the thyroxin-stimulated growth andregeneration of the lymphatic tissueare influenced antagonistically by thymectomyand synergistically by local factorsin involuted tissue.