insulin and protein metabolismthe present status of protein synthesis within cells hasbeen outlined.  protein is formed in the absence of insulin;the net formation of protein is accelerated by insulin.  theeffects of insulin on protein metabolism take place independentlyof the transport of glucose or amino acids into thecell; of glycogen synthesis; and of the stimulation of highenergy phosphate formation.  in the case of protein metabolism,as in certain studies on the pathways of glucose andfat metabolism, these observations reveal striking intracellulareffects of insulin in many tissues.  within mosttissues the effect of insulin appears to find expression predominantlyat the microsomal level.  incidentally, otherhormones which affect protein metabolism such as growthor sex hormones appear to act at the microsomes.  the factthat insulin exerts effects on protein metabolism at otherintracellular sites as well as the above independent effectsleads one to agree that its action consists of a stimulationof multiple, seemingly unrelated, metabolic events.the fact that an immediate effect of insulin on proteinsynthesis is independent of the immediate need for extracellularglucose or amino acids does not mean that thesustained functioning of cells is likewise independent.  thebiochemist is fully aware of metabolic defects in diabeteswhich are not altered by insulin in vitro, but which demandvarying periods of pretreatment of the animal.  it isalso known that in diabetes some proteins (enzymes) maybe deficient while others may be produced in excess in theabsence of insulin.it is suggested that the physician desires at least twokinds of relation between these fundamental studies and hispatients.  one is the possible relation of a deficiency of insulinaction to pathological processes in tissues which havenot as yet been examined by the methods described.  theother is the need for more accurate measurements of themetabolic disorder and its control than such things asurinary and blood glucose.  in developing such future improvements,the place of insulin in protein biosynthesismust be kept in mind.