
    
      To study the design of the mining experiment, the healthy full-term newborn and mother who
      gave birth by vaginal production in the delivery room of a teaching hospital in a northern
      region, and the maternal skin joints in the birth of the newborn, calculate the time to start
      execution, and According to the Infant Breastfeeding Assessment Tool (IBFAT), the time spent
      on spontaneous sucking behavior of newborns is estimated. The sample is estimated to take 20%
      sample loss rate. The number of cases received is 52 pairs. For 104 pairs, the researchers
      first filled 52 pairs of the control group and then received 52 pairs of the experimental
      group. The control group maintained routine treatment. The experimental group immediately
      contacted the mother and baby skin within 5 minutes of the birth of the newborn. The maternal
      and child skin contact process was carried out without forced or non-intervention, 48-72
      hours after delivery.

      The questionnaire was used to evaluate the mother's breastfeeding self-efficacy,
      breastfeeding social support, and maternal and child dependence relationships to estimate the
      difference. The results of the study will be based on the Generalized Estimating Equation
      (GEE) method to analyze the starting time of different groups of postpartum maternal and
      child skin contact, different time points for neonatal sucking ability, breastfeeding
      self-efficacy, breastfeeding social support, maternal and child Dependency changes.

      On May 23, 2018, the researcher entered and left with the unit nursing director's promotion
      and consent, from June 1 to June 11.

      In order to avoid interference with the interrogation of the subjects, the control group was
      first received and the experimental group was received. The control group of the pre-existing
      study was routine care, and no problems were found. The results of this experimental group
      showed that after the newborn was born, after 45 minutes of contact with the mother and baby,
      the milk-seeking reflex could occur and after 5 minutes. As a result of effective sucking,
      the mother expressed her happiness because of the sucking behavior of the newborn, and was
      willing to cooperate with the completion of the study to have the reference and basis before
      the study.
    
  