
    
      Overall survival of patients after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (*OHCA*) is less than 10%
      worldwide and in Taiwan. Interventions provided by the emergency medical system (*EMS*)
      before hospital care is of paramount importance to patient outcomes after OHCA. Among those
      interventions, the pros and cons of different vascular accesses, including intraosseous
      (*IO*) access or intravenous (*IV*) access, recently became the focus under debate.

      Theoretically, IO access provides a rapidly established way to administrate medication and
      fluid to patients (Reference 1) and has been adopted in many acute care societies and
      organizations including current resuscitation guidelines (Reference 2). However, some of the
      recent publications questioned the outcomes of OHCA patients receiving the IO route comparing
      to the IV route (References 3-5). Studies showed non-different or negative outcomes of
      patients receiving the IO route has been severely biased through the inherent inadequacy of
      retrospective design (References 3-5). The three major problems of those studies were:

        1. . Time to vascular access cannot be adjusted. In many EMS, IO access was allowed only
           after one or two failed attempts of IV route. This led to a significant selection bias.

        2. . The location of vascular access was not accurately reported. As we know, medications
           through upper limbs arrive at the heart sooner than the lower limbs. Many paramedics
           tend to insert the IO needle in tibia but to inset IV catheters in the forearm vein.

        3. . Post-hoc analysis with old data over 5 to 10 years. Two of the three studies were the
           post-hoc analysis from the data of previous studies which was conducted from 2007 to
           2010 when cardiopulmonary resuscitation quality and teamwork (i.e. important confounding
           factors to OHCA survival) were not that emphasized and recorded.

      Hence, the investigators designed the study to determine the comparative effectiveness of IO
      access vs IV access in patients with OHCA by a randomized controlled trial (*RCT*) in Taipei
      EMS. In this 2-year research plan, we will conduct a prehospital RCT to address the following
      question: In adult patients with non-traumatic cause of OHCA resuscitated by emergency
      medical technician paramedic in the prehospital setting, will receiving IO access cause a
      better chance of survival to discharge, sustained recovery of spontaneous circulation, and
      other survival outcomes like neurologically favorable status, comparing to those who
      receiving IV access.

      To name in short, the investigators called it a "*VICTOR* trial" standing for "Venous
      Injection Compared To intraOsseous injection during Resuscitation of patients with
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest".
    
  