
    
      Depression in pregnancy ("antenatal depression") is common and associated with acute and
      long-lasting adverse consequences for women and offspring. Insomnia is a risk factor for
      depression in general populations, and poor sleep quality is linked to increased depression
      among antenatal women. There have been no randomized control trials investigating
      nonpharmacological insomnia treatment on antenatal insomnia and depression outcomes. Many
      pregnant women use the Internet to seek pregnancy-related information, and report a
      preference for mental health care within the home or obstetrics clinic. The overarching goal
      is to utilize a randomized control design to examine efficacy of web-based cognitive behavior
      therapy for insomnia and depression outcomes (CBT-I) compared to treatment as usual (TAU)
      among pregnant women at risk for depression (n=208). Participants will be recruited
      nationally to complete study questionnaires at five timepoints through pregnancy and 6 months
      postpartum. Participants randomized to CBT-I will receive access to 6 weekly CBT-I
      web-sessions and treatment as usual. Participants randomized to treatment as usual will
      receive usual care and will be given access to Sleepio upon study completion. Our specific
      aims are:

        1. To evaluate feasibility and acceptability of CBT-I for pregnant women.

        2. To test whether participants receiving CBT-I show improvement in sleep compared to TAU
           participants.

        3. To examine whether participants randomized to CBT-I will experience improved depressive
           outcomes compared to TAU.

        4. To explore the impact of CBT-I on birth outcomes.

      There is strong conceptual basis to predict the potential benefit of this approach for
      pregnant women. Targeting risk factors for antenatal depression may have significant public
      health benefits.
    
  