
    
      Primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most malignant tumor in the world. In
      2015, 466,000 people had been diagnosed as HCC in China, accounting more than half of the
      total incidence in the world; and 422,000 people died, making the HCC as the second reason
      for cancer related deaths in this country. Although many advances have been made in recent
      years in treatments such as Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) and transarterial chemoembolization
      (TACE), the prognosis of patients with HCC is still poor. As a result, the prevention and
      treatments of HCC in China are still urgently needed to improve.

      Being one of the three major treatments of cancer, radiotherapy has been used for HCC in very
      early times. In the pioneering days, however; whole-liver radiation was impossible to give
      lethal dose for cancer tissue due to the high risk of radiation induced liver disease (RILD)
      and even liver failure, which might lead to death of patients. Consequently, radiotherapy has
      long failed to play a major role in the treatment of liver cancer. But things are likely to
      be changed. In recent years, many research teams have applied precise external radiotherapy,
      such as intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and stereotactic body radiation therapy
      (SBRT), to the treatment of liver cancer, and has achieved good results. Despite of this,
      many guidelines still do not recommend radiotherapy as a first-line treatment for early and
      mid-term liver cancer due to the lack of high level of evidence from good clinical trials
      proving the effectiveness of SBRT/IMRT and other new radiotherapy techniques in the treatment
      of HCC.

      In the investigator's previous clinical work, the investigators found that precise external
      radiotherapy such as SBRT and IMRT is effective in treating primary liver cancer. For
      example, patients with early stage HCC could achieve complete response (CR) after SBRT, and
      patients with local advanced HCC could be observed a significant reduction in the size of
      lesions and obvious improvement in the symptoms. Considering the poor prognosis of HCC and
      the shortcomings of surgery, RFA and TACE, the investigators then decided to carry out this
      multi-centered clinical trial of radiotherapy in HCC with the purpose of obtaining true and
      reliable clinical data and evidence, and focused on the following two questions: (1) whether
      radiotherapy, combined or not combined with TACE, could be a radical and first-line treatment
      for inoperable patients with early stage HCC; (2) what is the optimal sequence and timing of
      the combination of radiotherapy and TACE for patients with lesions adjacent to organs at risk
      and radical doses cannot be given. It is foreseeable that this clinical trial will change
      clinicians' understanding of the value of radiotherapy in the treatment of liver cancer,
      improve its status and even lead to revision of related guidelines/norms, and exert a
      far-reaching impact on the prognosis of patients with HCC.

      The subjects who were pathologically or clinically diagnosed as primary liver cancer were
      grouped according to physical status, size/location/number of tumor, vascular invasion,
      extrahepatic metastasis, the relationship with organ at risk (OAR), and liver function. Then
      the subjects received IMRT, SBRT, TACE or surgery, and were followed up until the completion
      of treatment, the emergence of intolerance of toxicity, or the withdrawal of the trial.

      Treatment methods:

      1. Group A (surgery): surgical treatment (radical resection); 2. Group B (radiotherapy group
      1):

        1. Group B1 (SBRT): stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT), 40-55Gy (Gray)/5-6F(Fractions), once
           daily.

        2. Group B2a (IMRT+TACE): the subject firstly received IMRT, 50Gy/25F/5W (Weeks), once
           daily, and then TACE for 2-4 times at 4 weeks after radiotherapy.

        3. Group B2b (TACE+IMRT): the subject firstly received TACE for 2-4 times, and then IMRT,
           50Gy/25F/5W, once daily at 4 weeks after TACE.

      3. Group C (radiotherapy group 2):

        1. Group C1 (SBRT): stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT), 40-55Gy/5-6F, once daily.

        2. Group C2a (IMRT+TACE): the subject firstly received IMRT, 50Gy/25F/5W, once daily, and
           then TACE for 2-4 times at 4 weeks after radiotherapy.

        3. Group C2b(TACE+IMRT): the subject firstly received TACE for 2-4 times, and then IMRT,
           50Gy/25F/5W, once daily at 4 weeks after TACE.

      During each scheduled visit in the treatment period, physical examination/weight, vital
      signs, hematology, coagulation, biochemistry, urine analysis, stool routine (occult blood)
      and other adverse events (AEs) and concomitant medication were evaluated.

      Withdrawal Conditions:

        1. subjects withdrew the informed consent;

        2. treatment failure requiring additional emergency treatment (i.e. tumor progression or
           severe side effects caused by tumor emergencies);

        3. AEs, if researchers and / or subjects hope or think it necessary to terminate treatment;

        4. pregnancy;

        5. Subject did not cooperate with the experimental treatment.

        6. solid evidence of progression of the disease.

      Termination conditions:

        1. Evidence of ineffective treatment;

        2. Security discovery preventing the continuation of the trial;

        3. The applicant think that continuation of the trial is not in line with scientific or
           ethical principles.

        4. The difficulty in the enrollment of subjects that makes it impossible for the
           completeness of the trial within an acceptable period of time.

        5. The health authorities and the independent ethics committee (IECs) /institutional review
           board (IRBs) terminate the trial according to applicable regulations;

        6. The health authorities require the suspension or termination of the trial.

      Combined treatment

        1. permissible treatment during the period of treatment; 1) Best supportive treatment; 2)
           Unconventional therapies including herbs or acupuncture and vitamins/ minerals; 3)
           Bisphosphonates can be used to treat bone metastases during treatment; 4) Active
           treatment for the combined diseases and all kinds of AE.

        2. the prohibition of treatment during the treatment period 1) other local treatments for
           liver tumors including but not limited to any local ablation therapy or radioactive seed
           implantation; 2) systemic chemotherapy.
    
  