
    
      This project will develop and test a set of patient self-report measurement tools to assess
      the perceived contextual factors, such as patient attitudes and expectations, patient
      provider relationship factors, and environmental factors that contribute to healing. This
      project is synergistic with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Roadmap initiative,
      Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), and will use the rigorous
      instrument development and validation methodology of PROMIS. The overall objective of this
      study is to develop efficient self-report instruments to measure CAM-relevant contextual
      factors important in healing, hereafter referred to as the Healing Encounters and Attitudes
      Lists (HEAL), and conduct initial validation in persons seeking CAM and conventional
      treatment for pain. Specific Aim 1: Develop item banks. The investigators will employ several
      iterative steps used successfully in PROMIS to identify items that assess contextual factors
      of healing relevant to CAM. Initial steps in developing item banks include: a) compilation
      and evaluation of existing instruments and relevant questions, b) consultation with experts,
      and c) focus groups with individuals who participate in CAM and conventional medicine
      interventions, and d) item editing. During the initial phase of this study, the investigators
      expect to identify conceptual areas of potential importance to CAM interventions and
      patients, and identify and edit items to create item banks assessing these conceptual areas.
      Specific Aim 2: Calibrate items. The investigators will use item response theory (IRT) and
      classical test theory (CTT) to calibrate the items from Aim 1 on three samples: 1) an
      internet-based sample (n= 1400), 2) 125 outpatients participating in CAM interventions at the
      Center for Integrative Medicine (CIM), and 3) 125 outpatients at a General Internal Medicine
      clinic. During year 3-4 the investigators will administer the items in the item banks to the
      1650 persons, conduct IRT and CTT analyses and refine the item banks to only those items that
      best assess the constructs. Specific aim 2 will result in Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT)
      versions of the HEAL, which maximizes information while minimizing patient time burden.
      Static short forms of the HEAL item banks will be derived from the HEAL CATs in Aim 2.
      Specific Aim 3: Conduct initial validation studies. The investigators will evaluate
      convergent, discriminant, and predictive validity of the Healing Encounters and Attitudes
      List (HEAL) in a sample of chronic low back pain (CLBP) or neck pain patients receiving CAM
      and conventional medicine treatments. The validity studies will use two samples of adults
      with CLBP: 100 persons receiving CAM treatments: chiropractic manipulation (CM), acupuncture,
      or mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) at the CIM, and 100 persons receiving
      conventional care (physical therapy or medical management) at the University of Pittsburgh
      Medical Center (UPMC). The investigators will administer the CAT version of the HEAL
      questionnaire developed in aims 1 and 2 as well as conventional measures of treatment
      expectancy, confidence in treatment provider, psychosocial functioning, and pain and
      disability treatment outcome measures for CLBP and neck pain. • Hypothesis 3a: Scores on the
      HEAL measures will display moderate to large correlations (r's > .50) with similar
      self-report measures, supporting convergent validity. • Hypothesis 3b: Scores on the HEAL
      measures will correlate modestly (r's = .20-.35) with self-report measures of general
      psychosocial functioning, supporting discriminant validity. • Hypothesis 3c: HEAL scores will
      account for a significant proportion of variance in treatment outcome in both samples. In
      addition, the investigators predict that HEAL scores will demonstrate incremental validity,
      i.e., the scores will account for significant incremental variance in outcome beyond that
      accounted for by existing measures of treatment expectancy and related constructs.
    
  