
    
      A large-scale, multi-informant, two-wave longitudinal study is proposed to investigate our
      three different research objectives, using complementary methods and multiple sources for
      data collection. Such a longitudinal design allows for examining developmental trajectories
      of our core identity variables, as well as examining how these identity variables are related
      to other variables over time. As such, we will investigate integrative pathways linking
      contextual factors to identity development and broader psychosocial functioning, enabling us
      to forward important information for clinical practice. Before the start of the study, an
      approval from the ethical commission will be obtained. All data will be coded anonymously and
      stored in a confidential database. We aim to recruit 200 adolescents and emerging adults with
      a neuromuscular disease, like DMD patients (Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy), SMA patients
      (Spinal Muscular Atrophy), CMT patients (Charcot Marie Tooth) and MD1 patients (Myotonic
      Dystrophy, type 1). Patients will be included in this study if they meet the following
      criteria: confirmed diagnoses of a neuromuscular disorder; aged 12-25 years at baseline; last
      neuromuscular consult at our NMRC is 5 or less years ago; able to read and write Dutch; and
      valid contact details available in the clinical database or the hospital information system.
      Given the complex data-analyses, it is difficult to perform an exact power analysis, but the
      anticipated sample size is suited for the planned analyses (Kline, 2005). To make a useful
      comparison, we will include a control sample of age- and gender-matched healthy adolescents
      and a group of age- and gender-matched adolescents diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. Those
      control participants will be recruited in secondary schools and universities, while we are
      able to use the data of an ongoing research project in patients with diabetes. To achieve
      these aims, this project, as noted, will be in cooperation with the research team from the
      Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences at KU Leuven.

      To investigate our objectives, data will be systematically collected during two years on two
      different occasions (T1 and T2), with one year between subsequent time-points. All
      neuromuscular patients are supposed to consult their multidisciplinary team every 6 months in
      the context of a general control and this gives us the opportunity to ask both adolescents
      and parents to complete questionnaires once a year. Depending on the date of the appointment,
      patients will start in this survey on different moments, but we will use the same time
      interval between time-points for every single patient. For inclusion, adolescents and parents
      will be asked to sign informed consents, where after demographic and clinical data can be
      obtained anonymously from the patients' medical records. Additional demographic and
      socio-economic information will be gathered using a demographic questionnaire at T1. Other
      data will be collected using instruments with well-established psychometric characteristics
      that mostly include self-reports on all two time-points (T1 and T2). Parents will also be
      asked to report on youth functioning as well. Figure 2 shows an overview of our research
      design and estimated timeline.

      In order to investigate objective 1, adolescents will be asked to complete following
      questionnaires on the two different time-points: Dimensions of Identity Development Scale (25
      items), Illness Identity Resolution Scale (27 items) and Brief Illness Perception
      Questionnaire (8 items). In addition, to examine reciprocal associations between identity
      development and the variables forwarded under objectives 2 en 3, adolescents will be asked to
      complete self-report questionnaires on psychosocial functioning and perceived support, using
      the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CESD) (20 items) to screen for
      depressive symptoms, the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Emotional Disorders (SCARED-NL),
      the PedsQLTM Neuromuscular Module to measure quality of life and the Inventory of Peer and
      Parent Attachment: subscales Trust, Communication and Alienation (12 items). At the same
      time-points parents will be asked to complete the Illness Intrusive Scale (13 items), a scale
      about different factors of their parenting: responsiveness (7 items), psychological control
      (8 items), behavioral control (7 items) and overprotection/anxious parenting (8 items)
      (Parenting Questionnaire) and about the physical dependence of their child (Activ-Lim). To
      report about the psychosocial functioning of their child, parents will be asked to fulfill
      the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Emotional Disorders (SCARED-NL) and the PedsQLTM
      Neuromuscular Module to measure perceived quality of life in the youngster. For evaluating
      their own psychosocial functioning, they will be asked to complete the Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (20 items) and a LAS-scale to evaluate their own
      quality of life. Necessary measures will be taken to minimize dropout: all participants
      receive a reward and Dillman's approach will be used to minimize non-response. Occasional
      missing data will be dealt with using appropriate methods (Enders, 2010). State-of-the-art
      longitudinal techniques will be used. Cross-lagged analysis will be used to examine
      directionality of effect, with appropriate controls for all within-time associations and
      stability coefficients. Hence, we can investigate, for instance, whether parents actually
      predict illness identity resolutions over time or whether reciprocal effects emerge with, for
      instance, illness acceptance also leading to more support. Further, mediation will be tested
      from a longitudinal perspective, allowing us to examine, for instance, whether illness
      identity resolutions mediate the associations between parental support and outcomes. To chart
      developmental trajectories over time, latent growth curve modeling estimates both linear and
      non-linear growth and uses information collected at all different time points to derive
      parameters of change (i.e., intercept and slope). Finally, latent class growth analysis will
      be used to identify distinct developmental trajectory classes in terms of personal and
      illness identity resolutions.
    
  