
    
      Background and Significance

      Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women. Despite improvements in
      survival, women of low socioeconomic status (SES) diagnosed with early stage breast cancer:

        -  Continue to experience poorer doctor-patient communication, lower satisfaction with
           surgery and decision making, and higher decision regret compared to women of higher SES;

        -  Often play a passive role in decision making;

        -  Are less likely to undergo breast-conserving surgery (BCS);

        -  Are less likely to receive optimal care.

      Those differences are disparities that predominantly affect women of low SES with early stage
      breast cancer, irrespective of race or ethnicity. For early stage breast cancer, low SES is a
      stronger predictor of poorer outcomes, treatment received and death, than race or ethnicity.
      The investigators define low SES as a lower income, lower educational attainment, and
      uninsured or state-insured status

      Although BCS is the recommended treatment for early stage breast cancer (stages I to IIIA),
      research confirms equivalent survival between mastectomy and BCS. Both options are offered
      yet have distinct harms and benefits, valued differently by patients. The patient and
      stakeholder partners involved in this study have emphasized the critical importance of
      supporting women in making high quality breast cancer surgery decisions (good knowledge and
      alignment between the patient's choice, values and priorities) irrespective of SES and health
      literacy. Yet, research shows that women of low SES are not usually involved in an informed,
      patient-centered dialogue about surgery choice. There is no evidence that women of low SES
      have distinct preferences that explain a lower uptake of BCS and limited engagement in
      decision making. Further, communication strategies are not typically adapted to women of low
      SES and low health literacy. Most decision aids for breast cancer have been designed for
      highly literate audiences, with poor accessibility and readability. Simpler, shorter decision
      aids delivered in the clinical encounter (encounter decision aids) may be more beneficial to
      underserved patients, and could reduce disparities. It is critical to determine how to
      effectively support women of low SES in making informed breast cancer surgery choices.

      Study Aims

      First, the investigators will assess the comparative effectiveness of two effective encounter
      decision aids (Option Grid and Picture Option Grid) against usual care on decision quality
      (primary outcome), shared decision making, treatment choice and other secondary outcomes
      across socioeconomic strata (Aim 1). Second, the investigators aim to explore the effect of
      the Picture Option Grid on disparities in decision making (decision quality, knowledge, and
      shared decision making), treatment choice, as well as mediation and moderation effects (Aim
      2). Third, in order to maximize the implementation potential, the investigators will explore
      strategies that promote the encounter decision aids' sustained use and dissemination using a
      theoretical implementation model (Aim 3).

      Study Description

      The investigators will conduct a three-arm, multi-site randomized controlled superiority
      trial with stratification by SES (Aims 1 and 2) and randomization at the clinician level. One
      thousand, one hundred patients (half of higher SES and half of lower SES) will be recruited
      from five large cancer centers. In preparation for the trial (Year 01), the investigators
      will conduct semi-structured interviews with women of low SES who have completed treatment
      for early stage breast cancer to adapt the "What Matters Most to You" subscale of the
      Decision Quality Instrument (DQI) for women of low SES. Lastly, the investigators will use
      interviews, field-notes, and observations to explore strategies that promote the
      interventions' sustained use and dissemination using the Normalization Process Theory (Aim
      3). Community-Based Participatory Research will be used throughout the trial (with continuous
      patient and stakeholder involvement).

      Women 18 years and older with a confirmed diagnosis of early stage breast cancer (I to IIIA)
      from both higher and lower SES will be included in the trial, provided they have a basic
      command of English, Spanish, or Mandarin. About 367 patients will be recruited per arm.

      Both interventions have been developed, tested, and shown to be effective. The Option Grid
      (intervention 1) is a one-page evidence-based summary of available options presented in a
      tabular format, listing the trade-offs that patients normally consider when making breast
      cancer surgery decisions. The Picture Option Grid (intervention 2) uses the same evidence and
      tabular layout, but it is tailored to women of lower SES and low health literacy and includes
      simple text and images. Because decision aids are not routinely available in real world
      settings, usual care is a coherent and legitimate comparator. It will include the provision
      of usual information resources about breast cancer but will exclude the provision of other
      decision aids.

      Secondary outcome measures will include treatment choice, the validated 3-item CollaboRATE
      measure of shared decision-making (SDM), Chew's validated one-item health literacy screening
      question, PROMIS, an 8-item validated anxiety short form, EQ-5D-5L, a validated, standardized
      6-item quality of life measure, and four items from COST, a validated financial toxicity
      measure. Participants will also be asked to estimate their out-of-pocket expenses over the
      past month. All measures will be available in English, Spanish, and Mandarin. Observer
      OPTION5 will be used to rate the level of shared decision making in the clinical encounter.

      A regression framework (logistic regression, linear regression, mixed effect regression
      models, generalized estimating equations) and mediation analyses will be used in the
      analysis. The investigators will also use multiple informants analysis to measure and examine
      SES and multiple imputation to manage missing data. Heterogeneity of treatment effects
      analyses for SES, age, ethnicity, race, literacy, language, and study site will be performed.
      The investigators will also use the recordings of surgical consultations to analyze the
      conversations about costs and treatment recommendations made by providers.
    
  