
    
      Blunt chest trauma accounts for a significant proportion of debilitating and life-threatening
      injuries. Rib fractures are notoriously painful and can lead to prolonged
      hospitalization,contribute to the development of pneumonia and respiratory failure, and delay
      outpatient recovery significantly.Flail chest, along with chest wall deformity, the most
      severe of chest wall injuries, is associated with significant acute morbidity and
      mortality.Flail chest injury has been associated with a high mortality rates historically and
      up to 16 % more recently. In-patients with physiologic flail visibly apparent paradoxical
      chest wall motion leads to inefficient respiratory effort and compression of the lung and
      diminishes the negative intra thoracic pressure essential for the passive movement of air
      into the bronchial tree. Atelectasis leads to increased lung resistance and decreased
      compliance, making the work of breathing much more difficult. Loss of the ability to generate
      negative intra thoracic pressure with breathing also impairs venous return, a passive process
      dependent on the negative intra thoracic pressure generated with each breath. In patients
      without a visible flail segment, i.e., an anatomic or radiologic flail,the physiologic
      derangements can be similarly destructive.There is mounting evidence that a patient's
      perception of pain in the early post-injury period is associated with chronic pain
      development . A recent prospective study of rib fracture patients found that pain and
      disability at 8 weeks post injury could be predicted by the pain intensity within the first
      few days after injury . Interestingly, the number of fractures and the bilaterality of
      fractures were not predictive. Thus, pain management in the early post-injury setting is
      likely paramount to obtaining a more favorable recovery. Opioids, are traditional first-line
      therapy for acute rib fracture pain. But because of chronic misuse potential and central
      desensitization concerns, pain researchers and clinicians are increasingly recommending that
      opioids be used only in combination with other analgesic modalities such acetaminophen,
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication(NSAID), the anticonvulsants gabapentin and
      pregabalin,and the topical lidocaine patch
    
  