
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There are two general hypotheses about the nature of the genetic component of hypertension. A
      single gene hypothesis visualizes hypertension as a specific disease entity determined by an
      autosomal dominant or incompletely dominant allele with little environmental effect. A
      polygenic hypothesis views hypertension as determined by a large number of genetic and
      environmental factors operating independently with roughly equal contributions. The evidence
      supporting the single gene hypothesis is based primarily on bimodal and trimodal
      distributions of blood pressure in the population. It has been suggested that the bimodal or
      trimodal distributions are the result of ascertainment bias. The evidence supporting the
      polygenic model is based on several studies where the distribution of blood pressure is
      unimodal and often skewed toward higher values in both the population and in first degree
      relatives of hypertensive individuals. These skewed distributions can be approximately
      normalized using log transformations.

      In this study, a particular effort was made to detect major genes. A major gene is said to
      exist in a particular sample if an appreciable amount of the variability of a trait in that
      sample is due to segregation of alleles at a single locus. The presence of a major gene does
      not preclude the existence of other genetic or environmental effects. In the last decade
      three general models have been proposed to detect the presence of a major gene. The
      transmission probability model is a general model for the genetic analysis of pedigree data
      which tests for Mendelian segregation ratios and is a generalization of the traditional
      methods of segregation analysis. This model has little power to differentiate between single
      gene and polygenic inheritance although it may be able to detect some kinds of non-single
      gene transmission. This method has been extended to allow analysis of multivariate traits,
      testing of a wide variety of hypotheses concerning modes of transmission and various
      ascertainment corrections. Major genes identified with this model include
      hypercholesterolemia, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, and catechol-o-methytransferase.

      The mixed model includes both a single locus and a multi-locus component and is designed to
      distinguish between the two. The model assumes that all transmission from one generation to
      the next that cannot be accounted for by classical polygenic inheritance is due to
      segregation of alleles at a single locus. It is ideal for detecting a major gene in the
      presence of polygenic inheritance provided that no other type of transmission is occurring.
      This model has been extended to include an environmental correlation among sibs. Major loci
      identified with this model include PTC, IgE and congenital glaucoma. The unified model is a
      mixed model with the single locus component parameterized in terms of transmission
      probabilities, and is a combination of the two previous models. Several research groups have
      developed methodologies to overcome the computational difficulties presented by this combined
      model.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was divided into two parts, the analysis of the methodologies and the application
      of the methodologies in the genetic analysis of hypertension. In the first part of the study,
      the power, robustness, and validity of three genetic models of segregation and linkage
      analysis were considered: the transmission probability model; the mixed model; and the
      unified model which was also a mixed model with the single locus component parameterized in
      terms of transmission probabilities. The methods of segregation and linkage analysis found to
      be most satisfactory were then applied to the analysis of data on five large pedigrees in
      collaboration with Wright State University and to the analysis of ten large pedigrees
      ascertained as part of the Bogalusa Heart Study. A determination was made of the effects of
      partitioning large families into nuclear families and performing segregation and linkage on
      these nuclear families.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  