
    
      Background and Rationale: Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a chronic and progressive
      disease which can evolve to advanced fibrosis, cirrhosis, liver failure or liver cancer and
      is associated to a higher risk of death related mainly to cardiovascular events. Weight loss
      affects positively histological and metabolic features of NASH. Similarly, bariatric surgery
      improves NASH and fibrosis in morbidly obese patients. New medical devices have been
      developed to perform endoscopic sutured gastroplasty (ESG) in obese patients. Those affected
      with coexisting NASH might constitute a good indication for such procedure.

      Objective: To determine whether ESG improves liver histology, defined as resolution of NASH
      without worsening of fibrosis at 48 weeks (primary outcome) after ESG.

      Design, setting and participants: The ENDONASH trial is an investigator-initiated,
      randomized, controlled, European multicenter study with centrally blinded assessment of the
      primary outcome. Biopsy proven NASH patients will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either ESG
      associated to lifestyle intervention (LSI) or LSI alone using a computer-generated, centrally
      administered allocation, stratified by diabetes status, gender and fibrosis stage. Main
      inclusion criteria are: biopsy-proven NASH (i.e. Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Score ≥4),
      fibrosis stage ≥1, BMI between 27-40, controlled type 2 diabetes.

      Sample size calculation: The study is powered to establish a 50% response rate of NASH
      resolution without worsening of fibrosis in the ESG group and a 10% response rate in the
      control group (according to our previous study1 and a study2 which has evaluated the impact
      of weight loss on NASH). Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 (bilateral), a beta risk of 0.2 and
      a loss rate of 20%, a sample size of 100 patients is needed to achieve statistical
      significance. Analysis will be carried out by intention-to-treat analysis, which includes all
      patients who will undergo end-of treatment liver biopsy.

      Procedures: Eligible patients will be allocated to one arm of the study by means of an online
      platform (ViedocTM). Demographics, anthropometric measurements, medical history, blood
      samples and transient elastography will be performed at baseline and at different time points
      after the randomization during the 48 weeks of follow-up. Finally, all patients will undergo
      an end-of treatment liver biopsy 48 weeks after randomization.

      Conclusion: The expected conclusion will allow to demonstrate if ESG, as an add on to LSI,
      may increases the number of patients with resolution of NASH without worsening of fibrosis at
      one year.
    
  