
    
      This was an eight-week double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled intervention study
      involving 55 idiopathic PD patients attending tertiary hospital. This study was conducted in
      accordance with good clinical practice as per Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the
      institution's Research and Ethics Committee (FF-2018-387). Written informed consent was
      obtained from all particpants prior to enrollment.

      Participants were included if they were aged 18 or older; were diagnosed with idiopathic PD
      in Hoehn and Yahr stages 1-4, and fulfilled the Rome III criteria for functional constipation
      which requires the presence of recurrent abdominal pain 3 days per month in the last 3
      months, and symptom onset 6 months prior to diagnosis, with additional criteria below to be
      fulfilled, as adapted from Longstreth, et al12.

        1. Must include two or more of the following:

             1. Straining during at least 25% of defecations

             2. Lumpy or hard stools in at least 25% of defecations

             3. Sensation of incomplete evacuation for at least 25% of defecations d. Sensation of
                anorectal obstruction/blockage for at least 25% of defecations

           e. Manual maneuvers to facilitate at least 25% of defecations (e.g, digital evacuation,
           support of the pelvic floor) f. Fewer than 3 defecations per week

        2. Loose stools are rarely present without the use of laxatives

        3. There are insufficient criteria for IBS

      Participants were excluded if they had: a MMSE score of ≤ 21/30; a positive stool occult
      blood screening; a diagnosis of secondary parkinsonism; previous history of small and large
      bowel disease; prior history of gastrointestinal tract surgery; use of probiotics or
      antibiotics two weeks prior to baseline visit; been on medications such as antidepressants or
      anticholinergics; history of lactose intolerance; concomitant diagnosis of hypothyroidism and
      diabetes mellitus.

      All participants were assessed at baseline and at 8 weeks following intervention for all
      outcome assessments. At baseline, additional data on demographics (age, sex, educational
      level), duration of PD, dopaminergic medication, Hoehn & Yahr Scoring during ON period, and
      the level of physical activity were recorded at baseline. A sedentary behaviour was defined
      as being physically active < 4 hours /week.
    
  