
    
      The specific aims (SA) of the CDMRP study are:

      SA-1: To determine presence, direction and sustainability of rTMS induced neurobehavioral
      effects using the DRS (lower scores indicate more function).

      SA-2: To determine presence, direction and sustainability of rTMS-induced changes in
      functional neural activation and whether these changes correlate with improving
      neurobehavioral function.

      SA-3: To determine the rTMS effect on white fiber tracts and whether rTMS-related effects
      correlate with neurobehavioral gains. White fiber tracts will be examined according to
      changes in Fractional Anisotropy (FA), Mean Diffusivity (MD), Radial Diffusivity (RD), and
      Axial Diffusivity (AD).

      SA-4: To confirm rTMS safety for severe TBI. The investigators hypothesize that there will be
      no difference between active and placebo groups according to average number of research
      related adverse events (AE) during treatment.

      To accomplish these aims, the investigators will conduct a double blind, randomized, placebo
      controlled clinical trial where 58 persons remaining in states of disordered consciousness
      for 3 to 24 months after TBI are randomized to the active rTMS group or the placebo rTMS
      group.

      The primary outcome is neurobehavioral recovery slope as measured by the total Disability
      Rating Scale (DRS), which will be collected at bedside at Baseline, Midpoint (15th rTMS
      Session) and Endpoint (30th rTMS Session). The DRS-PI will be collected weekly via telephone
      interview for the three weeks between Endpoint and Follow up (3 weeks after 30th rTMS
      session). Secondary outcomes include four measures of functional neural activation: task
      related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI),
      EEG-Rest and EEG-Task. The functional neural activation measures will be collected at
      baseline, endpoint and follow up. Motor Threshold Testing and Neurobehavioral measures in
      addition to the DRS and physical measures will also be collected as secondary outcomes. Motor
      Threshold testing, neurobehavioral and physical measures will be collected at baseline,
      midpoint, endpoint and follow up. The additional Neurobehavioral and physical measures are
      the Disorders of Consciousness Scale-25 (DOCS-25), Coma Recovery Scale Revised (CRS-R), Coma
      Near Coma Scale (CNC), Modified Tardieu Scale, Modified Ashworth Scale, Spaulding Limb
      Movement Protocol and the Consciousness Screening Algorithm.
    
  