
    
      Numerous studies have shown that telephone-based collaborative care programs may be an
      effective way to monitor the quality of life of individuals with mental health issues such as
      anxiety disorders. With regular monitoring through telephone conversations, health care
      providers can gain information from their patients in a convenient forum. This study will
      determine whether a telephone-based care management program can improve anxiety symptoms,
      alcohol abuse, employment patterns, use of health care services, and health-related quality
      of life for individuals with panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either usual care or a telephone-based
      collaborative care program for 12 months. Usual care may include one or more of several
      different treatments such as pharmacotherapy and cognitive behavioral therapy; the treatments
      will be chosen by participants' physicians. Participants assigned to the telephone-based
      program will have a choice of what type of treatment they will receive; the choices will
      include pharmacotherapy, workbook training designed to help participants improve their coping
      skills, referral to a community mental health specialist, or some combination of these
      treatments.

      Participants receiving usual care will continue their treatment for 12 months. After 12
      months, these participants will undergo interviews and complete self-report scales for
      assessment of their anxiety symptoms, health care use, alcohol use, and quality of life.
      Their participation in the trial will end after 12 months.

      Participants in the telephone intervention group will receive telephone calls 1 to 2 times
      every month for 12 months. During the calls, participants will be asked about their attitude
      toward and adherence to their treatment regimen. They will also be asked about recent
      episodes of anxiety they have experienced and what coping techniques they have used. Monthly
      follow-up calls will continue for an additional 12 months after the first year of the study;
      this will help determine the long-term effectiveness of the telephone-based intervention.
    
  