
    
      The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome (MS) is increasing worldwide, due to the progression
      of its different components (central obesity, elevated blood pressure, impaired glucose
      tolerance and dyslipidemia), as well as the often associated liver steatosis. One way to
      tackle the obesity epidemic is to intervene early at the onset in childhood and teenage years
      - before cardio-metabolic complications have occurred. However, lifestyle programs targeting
      this age group had limited success in the current obesogenic environment. In particular,
      weight loss is a key factor in controlling all MS components, yet it is difficult to maintain
      over time.

      Time restricted feeding (TRF) is an approach that emphasizes energy intake limited to certain
      windows of time within the 24-hour cycle without restrictions on calories or macronutrients.
      This has emerged as an appealing approach to reduce body weight while improving lipid profile
      and glucose metabolism. However, TRF has been mostly studied in animals and long-term
      prospective data on its efficacy and mechanisms in humans is lacking.

      Prior to the intervention, the investigators will assess the eating patterns of participants
      with an innovative smartphone application ('app') which is less intrusive and more reliable
      than food diaries/questionnaires to assess eating behavior and patterns.

      In this project, the investigators will assess eating patterns among teenagers and adults,
      and investigate whether a controlled TRF intervention leads to beneficial changes in MS
      components. Study Part 1 uses an epidemiological approach to establish baseline daily eating
      behavior, physical activity patterns and sleeping habits over 2 weeks (teenagers) and 4 weeks
      (adults) using the smartphone app. Those individuals meeting criteria for at least one
      component of MS and who have eaten for >14 hours per 24-hour cycle will be recruited for
      Study Part 2. In Part 2, participants will be assigned to TRF or active control groups, and
      followed in this pragmatic randomized controlled trial for 6 weeks (teenagers) and 6 months
      (adults) to assess the change in their weight and MS components, as well as liver fat
      deposits. Study Part 3 will investigate the underlying mechanisms of improved metabolic
      profile with TRF.
    
  