
    
      Pediatric HTN causes appreciable morbidity in pediatric patients and errors in diagnosis and
      management are frequent and understudied, jeopardizing pediatric safety in ambulatory
      settings. Additionally, the gap between the number of pediatric subspecialist providers and
      the number needed for patient care continues to widen, and it is unclear how to best reduce
      burden on subspecialists, improve PCP and subspecialist communication, and improve patient
      outcomes. This research team, with significant experience researching ambulatory pediatric
      safety, conducting QICs and HTN interventions, identified six large pediatric practice groups
      in rural, suburban and urban locations that are committed to reducing preventable HTN patient
      harm, to testing the effectiveness of a QIC to improve PCP HTN diagnosis and management, and
      to a hub and spoke HTN co-diagnosis and co-management model. The effect demonstrated by this
      project using a rigorous research design and the new 2017 pediatric HTN guidelines, will
      motivate pediatric clinics across the country to adopt these newly-identified best practices
      to improve pediatric HTN care. Primary care pediatricians have an imperative to diagnose and
      manage HTN and elevated BP (EBP) more accurately and earlier, and to improve interactions
      with subspecialists to reduce the lifelong preventable harm that results from these chronic
      conditions. This proposal, will identify a clear implementation strategy for rigorous,
      evidenced-based pediatric HTN diagnosis and management, and highlight a model to increase
      primary and subspecialty care integration that can be reproduced across other chronic
      conditions.

      The primary human subjects of this work are the physicians and staff within the primary care
      pediatric practices and their associated pediatric hypertension subspecialists whose behavior
      the QIC is attempting to change. In order to know if these practices and subspecialists have
      changed their behaviors, we will look at patient data. To be included in the data cohort,
      patients must have a blood pressure (BP) measurement that is elevated (>= 90th percentile for
      patient's sex, age, and height, or >=120/80 (regardless of sex/age/ height) at a healthcare
      maintenance visit or non-acute care visit (e.g. chronic disease follow-up visit). The
      following patients would be excluded from the data cohort:

        -  Prior hypertension or elevated BP diagnosis. Patient can have prior elevated BP
           measurements as long as no diagnosis has been made

        -  BP>95th percentile + 30mm or >180/120 or symptomatic patient

        -  Prior diagnosis of congenital heart disease, chronic kidney disease, urologic disease
           (e.g. posterior urethral valve, vesicoureteral reflux) or organ transplant,

        -  Previously included in BP-CATCH data entry

        -  Acute care visit (e.g., fever, viral illness, asthma attack, pain in any body part,
           etc.)
    
  