
    
      Study Design: Randomized, double-blind, personalized clinical trial with 200 subjects with
      subjective cognitive decline (SCD) of both genders, with 4 arms of treatment Duration of the
      Study:The total duration of the study is expected to be 24 months (subject recruitment,
      baseline period, treatment period, follow-up, data analysis and study report).

      Primary Objective(s):To evaluate the efficacy of a multimodal intervention (dietary, physical
      activity and cognition) combined with epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) in slowing down
      cognitive decline.

      Secondary Objective(s): To evaluate several underlying mechanisms that could explain the
      efficacy of the intervention in preventing the progression of cognitive decline: (i) changes
      in gut microbiota composition and in the metabolome derived by the action of microorganisms,
      (ii) changes in AD biomarkers (iii) changes in biomarkers of oxidation/inflammation Target
      Population: Subjects (approximately 200) diagnosed of Subjective Cognitive Decline (SCD),
      carriers of the Apolopoprotein E4 allele, fulfilling at least 3 additional SCD plus score (at
      least 5 criteria) recruited either from Hospital del Mar and its primary care provider or
      from Barcelona Beta Brain Research Centre.

      Preselection criteria i.Adults aged 60-80 years with a BMI ≥18.5 and <32 kg/m2. ii.Subjective
      Cognitive Decline Questionnaire (SCD-Q) items 1 and 3 positive. (BBRC) iii.Subjects willing
      to participate and to perform all study procedures, including Apolipoprotein E4 genotyping
      iv.Subject has one informant partner who, in the investigator's judgment has frequent and
      sufficient contact with the subject as to be able to provide accurate information about
      subject's cognitive and functional abilities.

      Study Arm(s): 1. Arm I: EGCG and a multimodal intervention (n=50) 2. Arm II: Placebo EGCG and
      a multimodal intervention (n=50) 3. Arm III: EGCG and healthy lifestyle recommendations
      (n=50) 4. Arm IV: Placebo EGCG and healthy lifestyle recommendations (n=50) Duration of
      Patient Participation: The total duration of the patient participation is expected to be 16
      months. Run-in period (1 month): Basal assessment of cognitive performance (cognitive
      battery), diet and physical activity, daily living activities (self-reported tests) and mood
      (self-reported tests at basal assessment and EMA's). Interventions will last 12 months.
      Follow-up after intervention discontinuation: at least 3 months Treatment EGCG (Font-UP,
      laboratories Grand Fontaine), a daily dose of approximately 5-6 mg/kg up to 520 mg/day will
      be administered to subjects for 12 months or matched placebo Multimodal intervention (12
      months): 1) Cognitive stimulation, guided group activities once per month; 2) Cognitive
      training, twice per week 30-45min sessions; 3) Psychoeducational support groups, 10 sessions,
      4) personalized diet 8 sessions, 5) personalized physical activity.

      End point The preclinical Alzheimer cognitive composite ADCS-PACC-Plus-exe
    
  