
    
      The objectives of this study are: to assess the reliability of a method fatigue resistance
      assessment with elastic tube in two areas, inter and intra-examiner; check test
      reproducibility at different times with the same participant and compare this method with the
      gold standard of evaluation, the isokinetic dynamometer and compare the strength gains and
      endurance after the application of specific training in the elastic tube and an isokinetic
      dynamometer. It is a study of reproducibility, followed by application of a training protocol
      featuring a clinical trial.

      Data collection will be held at the Center for Studies and Assistance in Physical Therapy and
      Rehabilitation (CEAFIR) FCT / UNESP, respecting the hours of 17:00 to 22:00. The study will
      be conducted in two stages: Reliability and reproducibility, and Training.

      In the first stage of the study, the procedures will be conducted in six sessions. In the
      first, participants will be submitted to anthropometric measurements, questionnaires on
      physical activity level (IPAQ and Baecke) Contraction Maximum Voluntary (CVM) in isokinetic
      dynamometer test familiarization in the first analysis tool (elastic tube or isokinetic
      dynamometer) previously randomized. Randomization will be made by lot in Excel. It will be
      given interval of two days between the familiar and the first test.

      In the second session, participants will perform the same test twice, with standardized
      interval of five minutes. In each test there will be a different supervisory therapist order
      to check whether or not the correlation between therapists.

      In the third session, seven days after the initial tests, retests will be carried out by the
      same therapists who oversaw the previous session, aimed at finding or non-compliance of the
      information recorded in each of the therapists. In fitness tests, a seven-day period of
      separation is commonly used. For both the test will be played on two occasions separated by
      seven days.

      In order to control possible biases, the order of application of the assessors in the test
      and retest will be crossed, and the first evaluating the test, shall be according reviewer on
      retest and vice versa. Furthermore, in all test sessions, it is inserted after the
      application of the first evaluator, a five minute rest and after, application of a Likert
      scale recovery Perception before the second evaluator start the test. If the participant
      reports of less than seven, it is understood that is not yet recovered and in these cases the
      scale is reapplied at intervals of one minute until the reported value exceeds seven. The
      choice of value is based on a priori knowledge acquired by pilot and respects the biological
      individuality of the participant. Although this age group and the sample health conditions
      non-recovery situations are exceptions, it is understood that the disposal of information is
      not adequate as far as the individual profile of each participant recovery. As the central
      object in this case is the test, it is the option for ensuring the inclusion of eligible
      study and use of the information with greater control of background levels of the
      participants. Such information is logged for further discussion. Tests conducted in both
      tools will be preceded by a warming of ten repetitions of knee flexion-extension of the
      dominant limb without charge.

      Finalized the procedures in the first tool, the participants will undergo cross, starting in
      the fourth, fifth and sixth session procedures identical to the first three sessions,
      differing only the tool. This stage of the study will be cross over In the second stage of
      the study, the sample is again randomized and allocated to two groups (G1 and G2). The
      periodization of the groups will be identical, differing from the instrument and its
      features, which will be outlined in procedures.
    
  