
    
      This study will comprise of a three-arm, parallel, comparative, randomized treatment of
      children aged 3 to 11 years presenting with acute odontogenic infection. The three arms of
      the study includes 1) Odontopaste® as a one time intra-canal placement, 2) Calcium hydroxide
      (gold standard) as a one time intra-canal placement and 3) a course of amoxicillin three
      times daily for 5 days administered orally with meal. Patients will not receive additional
      medical therapy such as analgesics or anti-inflammatory drugs. The participants will be
      selected for the treatment based on a block randomization in groups of three. On Day 1 after
      confirming the eligibility based on clinical examination and radiographic finding, informed
      consent will be obtained. At baseline (Day 1), clinical parameters including pain,swelling,
      regional lymphadenitis, percussion of the tooth, trismus, fistula and pus discharge will be
      recorded. Participant will undergo an intervention whereby the tooth will be opened from the
      clinical crown followed by microbiological sampling, drainage and irrigation of the tooth,
      intra-canal medicament placed in the canals according to randomization and the cavity sealed
      with a Glass ionomer cement. Participants in the oral antibiotic group will have no
      intra-canal medicament placed and instead a sterile cotton pellet placed. Simultaneously, the
      Malay-ECOHIS will be given to the parent/guardian of the participant. The microbiological
      sampling will be stored in an appropriate transport medium and sent to the central laboratory
      for quantitative assessment via quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) using SYBR®
      Green. Participants will be assessed on Day 3 for clinical parameters and the integrity of
      restoration. The next and final assessment will be done at Day 5/7, where clinical parameters
      will be recorded along with microbiological sampling as in Day 1. The Malay-ECOHIS survey
      will be repeated. The primary objective of the study is to assess the resolution of the
      infection based on 1) clinical parameters, 2) microbiological sampling and 3) oral health
      quality of life. The treatment will be carried out by five operators who are calibrated and
      the individual sub components such as recording clinical parameters, microbiological sampling
      and assessing the OHRQoL questionnaire will be carried out by the same operator respectively.
    
  