
    
      Objective: The investigators aim to conduct a prospective cohort study using
      state-of-the-art, noninvasive measurement of sedentary behavior in n=130 pregnant women
      during each trimester of their first pregnancy. We will link sedentary behavior to
      gestational weight gain, blood pressure, and potential determinants such as demographics,
      health conditions and behaviors, psychosocial factors, perceptions/beliefs, and the
      environment.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: Objectively measure sedentary behavior across pregnancy trimesters Aim 2: Relate
      objectively-measured sedentary behavior to blood pressure and gestational weight gain across
      pregnancy Aim 3: Characterize correlates and determinants of sedentary behavior during
      pregnancy

      1.3 Background: Cardiovacular disease (CVD) remains the leading cause of death in women with
      minimal declines over the past 30 years among women <55 years old. Stagnant rates of CVD
      mortality in younger women have occurred alongside notable declines in men and older adults
      and are thought to be due, in part, to high rates of obesity and elevated blood pressure
      (BP). Related to this, the American Heart Association (AHA) recently identified primordial
      prevention, a population-level approach that targets preventing rather than treating CVD risk
      factors, as a necessary strategy to reduce the CVD burden. To achieve primordial prevention,
      the target must be populations at risk for developing CVD risk factors (vs. those with
      existing risk factors), such as younger women.

      Pregnancy is a biologically unique period for young women during which CVD risk factors such
      as obesity and high blood pressure (BP) can develop or worsen, contributing to future CVD.
      Pregnant women also spend most of their time in sedentary behavior (SED). SED is any behavior
      that occurs in a seated/reclining position with low energy expenditure and is now recognized
      as a behavior that is distinct from inactivity, or a lack of moderate-vigorous physical
      activity (MVPA). Though MVPA has known benefits, SED is an emerging, independent risk factor
      for obesity, CVD, and mortality. Importantly, prolonged bouts of SED (accumulated in bouts
      lasting 30 min or more) in non-pregnant persons are more strongly related to obesity and
      induce unfavorable hemodynamic responses, such as increased BP. We hypothesize that too much
      SED across pregnancy is an important contributor to excess gestational weight gain (GWG) and
      elevated BP, two important CVD risk factors in young women.

      Remarkably, a dearth of studies evaluates SED across pregnancy. In cross-sectional studies,
      pregnant women spend 50-60% of their day in SED and SED is highest in the 3rd trimester. Yet,
      no study has evaluated if SED increases across pregnancy (repeated measurements) using best
      practice SED assessment methodology (objective device capable of capturing posture and
      intensity). Moreover, no study has evaluated whether greater SED is associated with increased
      GWG and BP in pregnant women, which in turn are known to impact pregnancy health and later
      maternal CVD risk. Current guidelines only advise MVPA for pregnant women with no
      recommendations about SED, highlighting the research gaps about SED and its consequences
      during pregnancy. Moreover, clarifying the role of SED in pregnancy is important because
      lowering SED might be a feasible strategy for pregnant women, who have low participation in9
      and unique barriers to MVPA. Lastly, little is known about correlates and determinants of SED
      in pregnancy. Such data are critical for identifying women at risk for high SED during
      pregnancy and for developing effective interventions.

      1.4 Significance: Sedentary behavior is a novel risk factor for weight gain, high BP, and
      CVD, yet patterns, correlates, determinants and consequences of sedentary behavior are poorly
      understood in pregnant women. Sedentary behavior is the most common behavior in pregnant
      women, but the dearth of research studies applying state-of-the-art sedentary behavior
      assessment methods and with repeated measures across pregnancy is a major research gap that
      we intend to address with this proposal. To the investigators' knowledge, no studies with
      optimal sedentary behavior measurement, assessing both posture and intensity while awake
      (i.e., activPAL), have been conducted in pregnant women. Beyond this, few studies have
      evaluated temporal trends in sedentary time across gestation. There is no research examining
      bouts of extended, uninterrupted sedentary time which have particularly deleterious effects
      on BP and are more strongly related to high BMI. Lastly, correlates and determinants of
      sedentary behavior are poorly understood overall and, in particular, among pregnant women.
      Before effective interventions can be designed to reduce sedentary behavior in pregnancy,
      nonmodifiable and modifiable factors associated with sedentary behavior must be better
      understood. Thus, the objective, longitudinal measurement of sedentary behavior in pregnancy
      proposed in this application will determine patterns, correlates, determinants, and
      consequences of sedentary behavior in pregnancy to move toward future goals of 1) clarifying
      risks and whether sedentary behavior recommendations are appropriate for pregnant women, 2)
      identifying groups at risk for high sedentary behavior, and 3) informing intervention
      targets. Further, this research addresses the AHA's mission to reduce the burden of CVD by
      investigating a novel strategy for primordial prevention of cardiovascular disease in young
      women.
    
  