
    
      Background: VA's highest-utilizing patients generally have complicated health care
      needs-including complex and multiple chronic conditions, comorbid mental health conditions,
      and social stressors-that contribute to high rates of hospitalization, emergency services,
      and specialty care use. Inspired by emerging intensive primary care models for
      high-utilizers, VA Palo Alto launched a quality improvement program to augment existing VA
      primary care (provided by Patient Aligned Care Teams, PACT) with intensive care delivered by
      a multidisciplinary team. The Intensive management PACT (ImPACT) intervention encompasses a
      number of evidence-based strategies, including a comprehensive intake process, coordination
      of specialty care, chronic condition case management, provision of social services, rapid
      response to deteriorations in health, and facilitation of transitions after high-acuity
      events.

      The ImPACT program was designated as quality improvement (non-research) by the Palo Alto VA.
      A retrospective evaluation using deidentified data was approved by the Stanford University
      IRB.

      Objectives: The objectives of this evaluation are to assess ImPACT's feasibility,
      implementation, and effectiveness, and lay the groundwork for future larger-scale efforts and
      evaluations within the VA system.

      Methods: We will partner with the implementation team of VA Palo Alto's ImPACT clinic to
      conduct a Hybrid Type 1 evaluation of the program's feasibility, implementation, and
      effectiveness. Specifically, the evaluation will aim to:

        1. Evaluate the feasibility and implementation of the pilot ImPACT intervention. Using
           semi-structured interviews with ImPACT and PACT team members and leadership, we will
           evaluate the success of intervention delivery, including patient identification,
           recruitment, and retention; provision and uptake of planned services; and monitoring of
           patient participation and key outcomes.

        2. Evaluate ImPACT's effect on utilization and costs of care. We will use a
           difference-in-differences approach, wherein we compare changes in VA health care costs
           (total, as well as inpatient, outpatient, and fee-basis) and utilization (including
           hospitalizations, emergency department visits, and specialty care) among ImPACT patients
           and high-utilizing patients who are receiving usual PACT care.

        3. Examine the association between ImPACT participation and patient-centered outcomes.
           Using data from surveys administered in the ImPACT clinic, we will assess patient
           satisfaction with the ImPACT intervention and overall care, as well as changes in
           patient-reported outcomes, including health status, symptom burden, and function.
    
  