
    
      Objective: the main objective of this study is to determine the effect of inpatient
      self-administration of medication on the number of medication administration errors during
      hospitalization. The secondary objectives of this study are to determine:

        1. The effect of inpatient self-administration of medication on the severity of medication
           administration errors during hospitalization

        2. The effect of inpatient self-administration on medication adherence after
           hospitalization

        3. The effect of inpatient self-administration of medication on patient satisfaction during
           hospitalization

        4. The effect of inpatient self-administration of medication on staff satisfaction during
           hospitalization

      Study design: multicentre prospective quasi-experimental study with a pre-post design

      Study population: hospitalized ≥ 16 years old patients

      Intervention: the implementation of self-administration of medication by hospitalized
      patients. SAM will be compared to standard care.

      Main study parameters: The primary outcome measure of the study is the proportion of
      medication administrations with one or more medication administration errors (MAEs).
      Secondary outcome measures will be: severity of MAEs, medication adherence after
      hospitalization, patient satisfaction during hospitalization, and staff satisfaction. For all
      outcome measures the effect of SAM will be compared to standard care.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: all subjects have to fulfil two questionnaires, one during hospitalization and
      one approximately three months after leaving the studied ward, e.g. hospital discharge or
      transfer. The subjects that are included in de post study period have to self-administrate
      medication that's suitable for SAM. The risk of SAM during hospitalization is estimated as
      the risk patients are at home when using medication. The burden of SAM is classified as low
      because results of a recent questionnaire shows that admitted patients have the urge to act
      in SAM schemes.
    
  