
    
      Insufficient sleep and excess weight status contribute to adverse health outcomes across the
      lifespan, including risk for cardiometabolic disease. Cross-sectional data suggest that
      children with overweight/obesity are more likely to experience sleep disturbances than their
      non-overweight peers. Although the nature of this association may be bidirectional,
      prospective studies indicate that sleep impacts body weight regulation through multiple
      physiological and psychological pathways. In particular, insufficient sleep is related to
      greater energy intake and reduced diet quality in children. Although mechanisms explaining
      the association between sleep and eating behavior are poorly understood, sleep restriction
      has been found to impact brain processes related to reward valuation of food and
      self-regulation, the behavioral manifestations of which may increase susceptibility to
      suboptimal dietary behaviors and subsequent weight gain. A limitation of prior research on
      mechanisms is that much of it has been conducted in adults and in laboratory settings,
      thereby calling into question the ecological validity of the findings. Alternatively, studies
      on sleep restriction/extension in children's natural environments have relied on
      retrospective reporting of eating behavior, included children across the weight spectrum, and
      had limited focus on underlying mechanisms, particularly neural substrates. A clearer
      understanding of momentary mechanisms involved in the sleep/eating association could improve
      development and/or refinement of sleep-related interventions, particularly those delivered in
      real time when risk for engaging in maladaptive eating is highest. The proposed R01 study
      will examine prospective associations among sleep, eating-related self-regulation, and eating
      behavior in the natural environment. Community-based children with overweight or obesity
      (n=120) will undergo a naturalistic protocol involving assessment of typical sleep and eating
      patterns (week 1), followed by sleep restriction or extension (weeks 2 and 3, separated by a
      7-day wash-out), the latter occurring within a randomized crossover design. Assessment
      throughout the study period will involve daily actigraphy measurement of sleep patterns;
      repeated daily self-reports on eating behavior and behavioral assessment of eating-related
      self-regulation; and intermittent 24-hour dietary recalls informed by daily real-time food
      photography. Participants will complete fMRI-based assessment of neural activation during an
      eating-related self-regulation task after each week-long period of sleep restriction and
      extension. Overall aims are to assess short-term effects of sleep extension versus
      restriction on eating-related self-regulation (including behavioral and neural performance)
      and naturalistic eating behavior. These data will clarify timing and trajectory of changes in
      eating behavior and self-regulatory mechanisms as a consequence of sleep patterns. The
      proposed study has clear potential to advance scientific and clinical understanding of
      mechanisms involved in the prospective associations between inadequate sleep and maladaptive
      eating in youth and inform interventions to alleviate their cumulative personal and societal
      burden.
    
  