
    
      The potential therapeutic effect of diagnostic tubal patency testing has been debated for
      over 40 years. Tubal flushing might involve water- or oil-soluble media. Current practice
      usually involves water-soluble media when tubal flushing is performed at laparoscopy. A
      systematic review showed a significant increase in pregnancy rates with tubal flushing using
      oil-soluble contrast media when compared with no treatment. Tubal flushing with oil soluble
      contrast media was associated with an increase in the odds of live birth when compared with
      tubal flushing with water-soluble media. There were no trials assessing tubal flushing with
      water-soluble media versus no treatment. The potential consequences of extravasations of
      oil-soluble contrast media into the pelvic cavity and fallopian tubes may be associated with
      anaphylaxis and lipogranuloma. It has been reported that Further randomised controlled trials
      are needed to evaluate the potentially therapeutic effects of tubal flushing with
      water-soluble media.

      All patients attending the subfertility clinic with infertility, normal semen analysis and
      evidence of ovulation will be invited to participate in the study. The nature of the study
      and its expected values will be explained and only women who provide written consents will be
      included in the study.

      Three hundred women will be divided into 2 equal groups using computer generated random
      numbers: Group 1 will have tubal flushing with HSG using water soluble media and group 2 will
      be the control group receiving no intervention.

      Women undergoing HSG will be given 50 mg of diclofenac (Voltaren® Novartis) 1 hour before the
      procedure. The HSG will be performed in the same room, on the same table and with the same
      technique to maintain consistency and limit confounding variables.

      The HSG procedure will performed in a lithotomy position. A sterile metal speculum was used
      to visualize the uterine cervix. Antiseptic solution will be used to wash the vagina and
      cervix. A single-toothed tenaculum will be placed on the anterior lip of the cervix. A metal
      cannula will be gently inserted into the external cervical os, the cannula and tenaculum will
      be secured together, and the speculum will be removed. Gentle traction will be placed on the
      tenaculum, and 15 mL to 20 mL of water-soluble media (Sodium Amidotrizoate; urografin®,
      Bayer, Germany) will be instilled slowly via the cannula to prevent pain while the necessary
      images were obtained. After the procedure, the instruments will be removed and the patient
      will be observed for 30 minutes.

      Women will be followed up monthly for up to 1 year.
    
  