
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder with an incidence of 5-8% in
      reproductive aged women. PCOS is characterized by a collection of signs and symptoms, and as
      defined by the 2003 Rotterdam criteria must include two out of the following three
      characteristics: oligo-ovulation or anovulation, polycystic-appearing ovaries, and clinical
      or biochemical evidence of elevated androgens.

      Women with PCOS are also known to have an increased risk of metabolic disorders, including
      insulin resistance, obesity, cardiovascular disease, and hyperlipidemia. It is has been shown
      that many of the sequelae of PCOS can be improved by interventions that reduce insulin
      levels. Previous research has demonstrated that weight reduction and metformin are beneficial
      in restoring normal ovulation patterns and fertility and can improve hyperandrogenemia and
      hyperlipidemia. Studies of the effect of lifestyle modifications in women with PCOS have
      shown that exercise, alone or in combination with changes in diet, can improve ovulation
      rates and metabolic parameters, and is associated with reduced incidence of insulin
      resistance. As such, the care of PCOS patients often includes counseling regarding reducing
      dietary intake and improvement in physical fitness. However, the type of exercise evaluated
      was inconsistent between many of these studies and varied in intensity, frequency and
      duration. Therefore, the exercise needed to achieve health benefits in PCOS is not well
      defined. The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) recommends that all Americans get
      at least 150 minutes per week of moderate aerobic exercise or at least 75 minutes per week of
      vigorous aerobic activity to maintain health and fitness for all Americans. A critical
      unanswered question is whether one of these options (moderate versus vigorous) provides
      superior benefits to women with PCOS.

      High-intensity interval training (HIIT) is a form of exercise that combines short intervals
      of vigorous exercise with lower intensity recovery periods. HIIT has been used as a training
      modality for high-performance athletes for over a decade. More recently, it has been studied
      for therapeutic purposes in adults with cardiovascular disease, obesity, and metabolic
      syndrome. These data suggest that when compared to moderate exercise, HIIT shows greater
      improvement in aerobic capacity, maximal oxygen consumption, indices of insulin resistance,
      hyperglycemia, and lipid profiles. HIIT has also been compared with moderate-intensity
      exercise in patients with type 2 diabetes and has shown a reduction in hyperglycemia, though
      the data have been controversial. HIIT has not been studied specifically in patients with
      PCOS.

      Studies employing structured exercise programs often have a high drop-out rate and poor
      post-study continuation rate. An exercise program that requires a fitness facility or other
      equipment may create a barrier to patient compliance. Additionally, time constraints are
      often cited as a reason for patient drop-out. Our goal is to create an effective exercise
      program that can be completed in or around the home, requiring only 15-30 minutes per day.

      Participants will be randomized to either 15 minutes of vigorous exercise (HIIT) or 30
      minutes of moderate exercise (brisk walking) to be performed 5 days per week for 8 weeks.
      Exercise training will be performed by an exercise physiologist and participants will then
      complete their exercise programs independently, using heart rate monitoring and exercise
      diaries to record exercise intensity. This study will evaluate the feasibility of these
      exercise plans in terms of patient compliance and safety. We will also evaluate the effect of
      short-duration, vigorous exercise versus longer-duration, moderate exercise on secondary
      outcomes such as insulin resistance and metabolic parameters.
    
  