
    
      Selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) is a new alternative to anti-glaucoma medications for
      the treatment of primary open angle glaucoma. After SLT, many patients experience mild to
      moderate inflammation inside the eye - specifically in the front chamber of the eye (the part
      in front of the colored part of the eye). This mild front chamber reaction is typically
      treated with anti-inflammatory agents such as corticosteroids and nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Some physicians do not use these agents as they feel they
      may interfere with the way the laser works to treat glaucoma. Topical (applied to the
      surface) corticosteroids can cause an increase in the pressure of the eye (intraocular
      pressure or IOP), cataract formation, or a possible increase in infection with long-term use.
      These side effects have not been reported to occur with NSAIDs, which are effective in
      controlling pain after SLT and reducing signs of inflammation such as irritation, swelling,
      tenderness, and soreness.

      This research study will compare an NSAID, ketorolac tromethamine 0.4% (Acular LS), with a
      corticosteroid, prednisolone acetate 1% (Pred Forte), and with a placebo, which contains no
      active medicine (Refresh Tears). Ketorolac tromethamine 0.4%, prednisolone acetate 1%, and
      Refresh Tears are all FDA (Food and Drug Administration) approved for use in inflammation
      after surgery.

      To date, there is no study that proves that any one of the three study medications is better
      than the others for care after SLT. We plan to compare the effect of these anti-inflammatory
      drops in participants after selective laser trabeculoplasty to see if one works better at
      helping lower the pressure inside the eye after SLT or whether participants would do just as
      well with non-medicated eye drops. We will also see how well these drops reduce any potential
      discomfort and swelling that arise.
    
  