
    
      Background: Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality. There
      are 2 main categories of lung cancer: non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung
      cancer (SCLC). NSCLC accounts for approximately 85% of lung cancer diagnoses, almost 70% of
      NSCLC cases are diagnosed in the advanced/metastatic stages (IIIB-IV) of the disease. Pleural
      mesothelioma is another rare form of lung cancer, the average incidence across European
      countries is 20 cases per million people. Historically, patients with NSCLC were treated with
      the same algorithm, without consideration of their histological sub-type or their molecular
      profile. More recently, personalised therapies based on histology and/or molecular pathology
      have become the standard of care. The stage of NSCLC determines treatment options, with
      surgery being the mainstay of treatment for patients in early stages of the disease (stages
      I-IIIA). Additionally, those with localised disease spread (stages II and IIIA) may receive
      adjuvant therapy [11]. In patients with advanced/metastatic disease (stages IIIB-IV) and a
      performance status (PS) score of 0-2, the first line treatment options include chemotherapy
      regimens with or without immunotherapy or targeted biological therapy.

      Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) encompass data self-reported by patients about how
      they feel and function and include symptoms, physical function, emotional distress and
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL). PROMs are becoming important for patient care, as
      they provide the means of recording the experience of the patient in a structured format
      readily available to relevant clinical staff. Recently a randomised control trial (RCT) in
      advanced lung cancer using web-mediated follow-up showed overall survival benefit of 7-9
      months compared to usual care, whilst maintaining cost-effectiveness. The relapses were
      detected earlier in patients in the intervention arm facilitating earlier and appropriate
      treatment initiation compared to patients in the control arm.

      Study aims: This study will systematically capture patient reported disease-related symptoms,
      treatment-related side effects and HRQoL in a cohort of patients treated with systemic
      anti-cancer therapy (SACT) for thoracic cancer. The objectives are:

        1. To compare disease-related symptoms and HRQoL across groups of patients stratified by
           patient and clinical characteristics.

        2. To compare treatment-related side effects of patients prescribed chemotherapy, tyrosine
           kinase inhibitors (TKIs) or checkpoint inhibitors.

        3. To compare outcomes, such as healthcare resource utilisation (HCRU), in patients
           systematically self-reporting symptoms

        4. To examine patient acceptance, feasibility of this approach and optimal means of
           engaging with patients in the systematic PROMs reporting in a real world setting.

        5. To assess the utility of PROMs reported by patients to their healthcare professionals.

      Study design: This is an interventional, prospective study conducted at a single cancer
      centre. Patients with a diagnosis of thoracic cancer prescribed SACT will be enrolled in the
      study at oncology clinic visits. The intervention is an electronic patient self-report of
      disease-related symptoms, treatment-related side effects and HRQoL. This design allows the
      assessment of the utility to clinicians of PROMs reporting in the real world setting and
      provides an opportunity to study customised patient interventions based on PROMs reporting.

      There will be two cohorts of patients. Cohort 1: Patients with online access at home, able to
      report PROMs from a location of their choice, using their own devices (laptop, tablet, smart
      phone). They will be requested to report weekly.

      1. Cohort 2: Patients without online access who will complete PROMs on a tablet before their
      scheduled clinic appointment in a private space at Leeds Cancer Centre (LCC). Reporting
      frequency will be governed by frequency of routine clinical visits.

      Table 1: SACT prescribed for enrollment in the study Diagnosis Treatment description

      NSCLC Platinum-based chemotherapy:

        -  Carboplatin-based

        -  Cisplatin-based Non-platinum-based chemotherapy

        -  Pemetrexed TKIs Immune-checkpoint inhibitors (inc. anti-PDL1)

      SCLC Platinum-based chemotherapy:

        -  Carboplatin-based

        -  Cisplatin-based Non-platinum-based chemotherapy

      Pleural mesothelioma Platinum-based chemotherapy:

        -  Carboplatin-based

        -  Cisplatin-based Non-platinum-based chemotherapy

        -  Pemetrexed

      Number of patients: All patients meeting patient selection criteria during the recruitment
      period will be invited to participate. Approximately 100 patients are expected to be enrolled
      (70 patients with a diagnosis of NSCLC, 20 patients with a diagnosis of SCLC, and 10 patients
      with a diagnosis of pleural mesothelioma). This estimation is based on the number of thoracic
      cancer patients receiving SACT at LCC, the proportion who relapse, and 75% of eligible
      patients enrolling.

      Recruitment and study duration: Index date is defined in both cohorts as the initiation of a
      line of SACT within the study period. For patients newly diagnosed within the study period,
      this will be the initiation of their 1st line of therapy (LoT). For patients diagnosed prior
      to the study period, the index date will be initiation of 1st or subsequent LoT. Collecting
      baseline PROMs at the start of a LoT allows the analysis of change from baseline in disease-
      and treatment-related side effects with each new LoT. If the patient wishes to be enrolled,
      they will be trained how to use the system. The formal consent will be completed
      electronically and then participant complete baseline questionnaires on the electronic
      platform. Recruitment will occur over 12-months with 12-month follow-up. There will be an
      interim study review to assess the number of patients enrolled, description of patients
      enrolled, systematic PROMs reporting compliance, and interim participant feedback.

      Instruments' reporting frequency: Three instruments will be used:

        1. eRAPID Patient reported adverse events (PRAE) CTCAE adapted symptom questionnaire for
           lung cancer, including disease-related symptoms and treatment-related side effects

        2. EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30)

        3. EuroQol General Quality of Life questionnaire Cohort 1 Patients (Online access) symptom
           questionnaire is to be completed weekly, and the quality of life questionnaires at
           baseline and then every 12 weeks over the year.

      Cohort 2 Patients' (In clinic access) symptom questionnaire to be completed online before
      routine clinic appointment. Type of treatment and frequency of clinics will determine the
      frequency of questionnaire completion.

      Software: eRAPID uses a web-based questionnaire builder system (QTool) to support the
      collection and clinical integration of patients' reports. Algorithmic questionnaire scoring
      generates severity-dependent management advice to patients and staff when patients
      self-reports using the PRAE CTCAE:

        -  Patients login to QTool using a unique user name and password, complete the
           questionnaires remotely on computers/mobile phones/tablets or on a tablet provided in
           clinic at LCC.

        -  Immediate, tailored advice derived from a series of algorithms is generated in response
           to reported symptoms and toxicities.

        -  If severe symptoms are reported, patients are advised to contact the hospital
           immediately and an alert is sent to a member of the clinical team.

        -  For mild/moderate complications, information about self-managing these issues are
           provided in QTool and hyperlinks to more detailed advice on the eRAPID patient websites.

        -  PROMs are available for patients to view in their QTool login and for clinicians to
           review in the individuals' electronic medical record.

      Healthcare professionals' and patient feedback: Interviews will be conducted with healthcare
      professionals and patients about their views of using the eRAPID system. Five members of
      staff will be interviewed (n=3 oncologists, n=2 nurses) twice during the study period to gain
      feedback on the usefulness of the eRAPID system in lung cancer care. Approximately 12
      patients will be interviewed at different stages of using the system from home or from
      clinic.

      Clinical variables: Patient characteristics, clinical characteristics, treatment variables
      will be captured either prospectively in a study case report form (CRF) or retrospectively by
      extracting the data from hospital electronic systems.

      Data analysis Baseline demographic and clinical data will be tabulated using frequencies and
      summary by age, gender, cancer pathology type, stage and treatments.

      Recruitment strategy feasibility will be evaluated by summarising the eligibility and consent
      processes. The proportion of patients who meet the eligibility criteria in terms of cancer
      site, treatment type and timescale will be reported using information from the electronic
      health record. The number of patients completing the adverse events (AE) online vs those in
      clinic will be summarised. Where available, reasons for ineligibility and non-participation
      in the study will be summarised. Retention during the study, including the number of
      participants withdrawing from the study and the timing of and reasons for withdrawal will
      also be presented. The number of participants involved at each stage will be summarised
      (patients identified, approached, consented, completed symptoms and side effects).

      The integrity of systems will be assessed by exploring any technical issues encountered
      during the study, summarising the rates of questionnaires not being fully completed (assessed
      by incomplete calls or time-outs depending on the system used). Reasons for patients
      completing symptoms and side effects in clinic rather than from home will be presented. Time
      taken to complete the questionnaires will be summarised using time stamps of start and end of
      calls/online sessions.

      The numbers of expected and additional AE reports and severe AE alerts generated will be
      summarised overall, by cancer type, treatment and completion modality (online vs clinic). The
      number of telephone calls to hospital staff, acute admissions, ward stays, contacts with
      general practitioner and/or community services (where available) and number of deaths will be
      summarised overall and by treatment modality. Changes to supportive medication, treatment
      (chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted therapies) doses and treatment plans and the
      percentage of planned therapy received will be summarised overall and by treatment
      modalities. Differences between treatments may be explored using logistic or linear
      regression (as appropriate) adjusted for stratification factors. Clinician/staff
      acceptability will be explored by content analysis of the interviews and field notes.
    
  