
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse is a common problem affecting many women and there is a 12.6% lifetime
      risk of undergoing reconstructive pelvic surgery. There are several surgical options
      available to patients undergoing reconstruction for pelvic organ prolapse, however addressing
      the apex is recommended to achieve the most durable outcomes. Two of the most commonly
      performed procedures for apical prolapse repair are uterosacral ligament suspension and
      robotic sacrocolpopexy.

      High uterosacral ligament suspension is a native tissue repair which is performed by affixing
      the vaginal apex to the bilateral uterosacral ligaments using permanent or delayed-absorbable
      sutures. This is performed typically in a vaginal approach. Sacrocolpopexy is a performed by
      attaching the anterior and posterior vaginal walls to the sacral promontory using synthetic
      mesh, typically polypropylene. This procedure can be performed by an abdominal approach, a
      laparoscopic approach or with the assistance of the da Vinci robotic system. In recent years,
      robotic sacrocolpopexy has largely replaced the abdominal approach, and become the procedure
      of choice for minimally invasive surgeons.

      Most studies evaluating sacrocolpopexy outcomes were performed prior to the popularity of
      robotics and therefore concentrate on abdominal sacrocolpopexy.

      This cross sectional, two cohort study will compare outcomes of uterosacral ligament
      suspension versus robotic sacrocolpopexy and will give pelvic surgeons a better understanding
      about the durability of these procedures, and possible longer term complication rates.

      Subjects will be contacted and asked to come to the office for a visit and completion of
      questionnaires. If they cannot come to the office, an Informed Consent Form (ICF) and
      questionnaires will be mailed to them to complete and return separately.
    
  