
    
      With rapid technological advancement, the increased use of vascular catheters has not only
      improved patient care strategies, but also contributed to the risk of infection.
      Unfortunately, catheter related blood stream infections still remain one of the major causes
      of morbidity in VLBW infants. In the United States, approximately 850,000 infections are
      attributed to catheters annually, occurring primarily in intensive care unit patients. The
      National Institute of Child Health and Human Development stated that 20% of infants less than
      1500 grams will have at least one positive blood culture delaying their stay in the neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU).

      One approach to reducing the incidence of infection could be utilizing the antimicrobial
      properties of silver. Silver alginate has been proven safe and beneficial in the adult
      population in preventing catheter related infections. Studies done in mice and rats suggest
      acute toxicity occurring when the animals were given 23 mg of silver acetate/kg of body
      weight and chronic toxicity noticed when animals were given 1.5 mg/kg/day (5) Chronic
      toxicity in humans was shown with ingestion of 13 mg/kg/day (3) In our recently concluded
      pilot randomized controlled trial done in VLBW infants, safety of silver alginate was
      demonstrated by lack of skin reactions to the patches and mild increase in serum silver level
      ( Khattak et al; Pediatrics research March 2008, clinicaltrials.gov id: NCT00593684 ).
      However, there is no clinical evidence of efficacy in VLBW neonatal population. Based on the
      data from our pilot safety study, we hypothesize that using silver alginate dressing in this
      population will be efficacious in the prevention of blood stream infections. Although initial
      studies suggest that absorbed silver is not in a range toxic to human infants, we will
      continue to monitor silver levels in certain infants.
    
  