
    
      VAP is the most frequent nosocomial infection in critically ill patients and affects length
      of stay and cost in Intensive Care Unit. The increased incidence of nosocomial infections
      caused by MDR bacteria becomes a major health problem worldwide.

      Nowadays, few antimicrobials are available to treat Gram negative MDR VAP. Colimycin often
      remains the only active antibiotic. Treating VAP by intravenous (IV) colimycin has two main
      limitations: risk of renal toxicity and low tissue penetration. Nebulization of colimycin
      offers the possibility of generating high lung tissue concentrations, rapid bactericidal
      effects and low systemic accumulation in experimental models. To date however, there is no
      study comparing clinical effectiveness of nebulized and intravenous colimycin.

      We make the hypothesis that nebulized colimycin increases the clinical cure rate of VAP
      caused by Gram negative MDR bacteria compared to IV colimycin.

      Primary Objective: To demonstrate the superiority of nebulized colimycin over intravenous
      colimycin for treating VAP caused by Gram-negative MDR bacteria.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To compare the microbiological cure rate at end of treatment

        2. To compare the VAP recurrence rate after end of treatment

        3. To compare the lung superinfection rate after end of treatment

        4. To compare 28 day- and 90 day-mortality

        5. To compare duration of mechanical ventilation

        6. To compare length of ICU stay

        7. To compare renal function during colimycin administration

        8. To compare side effects resulting from colimycin nebulization and intravenous
           administration

      Ancillary study:

      In some centers, blood samples will be performed to measure colistin peak and trough plasma
      concentrations

      Study design:

      This is a randomized, multicenter, double-blind and phase III study

        1. Randomization:

           Patients are randomly assigned to experimental group or control group:

           Control group: patients receive simultaneously intravenous colimycin and nebulized
           placebo.

           Experimental group: patients receive simultaneously nebulized colimycin and intravenous
           infusion of placebo.

           Dosing adjustment is according to renal function for intravenous infusion of colimycin
           or placebo.

        2. Aerosol generation: Nebulization is performed with a vibrating plate nebulizer (Aeroneb®
           Solo) with following ventilator settings:

             -  Constant flow and volume-controlled mode

             -  Inspiratory/expiratory ratio of 1

             -  Tidal volume of 6-8 ml/kg

             -  Respiratory frequency of 12-18/min

             -  End-inspiratory pause of 20% To standardize nebulization procedure, a checklist
                form is completed by the nurse in charge of the patient.

        3. Duration of treatment:

             -  10 days in each group

             -  In intubated patients, weaning test is authorized after 4 days of treatment. If
                patient is extubated, aerosols are discontinued whereas intravenous infusions are
                continued (placebo or antibiotic) until day 10

             -  In tracheostomized patients: 10-day treatment for nebulized and intravenous therapy

        4. Combined intravenous administration of other antimicrobials are authorized

        5. Serum and microbiological samples

             -  Serum creatinine measured daily from baseline to day 11

             -  Lower respiratory tract specimens at day 5 and day 11 in intubated patients

        6. Survival follow-up at day 28 and 90 days

      Study population: Adult mechanical ventilated patients with VAP caused by Gram-negative MDR
      bacteria.

      Sample size and Power consideration: Data will be analyzed with triangular test. Assuming a
      clinical cure rate at day 11 of 65% in the group treated with nebulized colimycin and of 45%
      in the group treated with intravenous colimycin, a mean sample size of 134 patients is
      required to provide 80% power, with a two-sided type I error rate of 5%. The 90th percentile
      of the number of patients to include is 196.
    
  