
    
      The increase in elderly patients undergoing surgery, the change in the invasiveness of some
      surgical interventions, limitations in the methodology and generalizability of previous
      research, and the VISION Pilot Study results highlight uncertainty about the current
      incidence of major vascular events and the optimal clinical risk estimation model to predict
      these events in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. There is promising but inconclusive
      preliminary evidence that troponin measurements after surgery may allow physicians to avoid
      missing perioperative myocardial infarctions and may predict mortality and major vascular
      events in the first year following surgery. These considerations provide the impetus for the
      large, adequately powered, multicentre, international, prospective cohort study.

      We will determine the incidence of major vascular events, the optimal clinical model to
      predict major perioperative vascular events, and the extent to which troponin measurements
      post surgery can identify myocardial infarctions that are likely to go unrecognized and
      predict vascular death at 1 year. We call this study the Vascular events In noncardiac
      Surgery patIents cOhort evaluatioN (VISION) Study.

      The VISION Study is a prospective cohort study of 40,000 patients who are > 45 years of age,
      undergoing noncardiac surgery requiring overnight hospital admission, and receiving a general
      or regional anesthetic. Hospitals (including both university and non-university hospitals) in
      several countries around the world will recruit patients, over a 2 year period. Study
      personnel will evaluate patients prior to surgery, follow patients throughout their
      hospitalization, and contact patients at 30 days and 1 year after surgery. All patients will
      have troponin T measured post surgery and on the first, second, and third days after surgery.
      Outcome adjudicators will adjudicate all major vascular events without knowledge of a
      patient's vascular risk factors.

      We will also determine if there are associations between any preoperative or postoperative
      medications and major perioperative vascular events. We will also determine if there are
      associations between any medications started after a major perioperative vascular event and
      vascular mortality 1 year after surgery. We will evaluate the 1 year risk of stroke in
      patients who do and do not develop atrial fibrillation after surgery and if there is an
      association with antiplatelet or warfarin therapy. We will measure N-terminal prohormone
      brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) in 8,000 - 10,000 patients prior to surgery and
      determine if NT-proBNP is an independent predictor of major perioperative vascular events. We
      will determine the incidence of perioperative new acute renal failure requiring dialysis and
      pneumonia and develop models to predict these events.
    
  