
    
      COPD affects millions worldwide. The high prevalence, morbidity, mortality and economic
      burdens of COPD are increasing steadily. Although many therapies exist and are being
      developed to relieve symptoms and reduce mortality in COPD, most have only been studied in
      placebo-controlled efficacy studies in highly selected populations. There are few clinical
      trials to compare therapeutic alternatives in real world. Much of the comparative research
      evidence in COPD has been based on observational studies. Furthermore, studies in real world
      populations of COPD that received different therapies that do have efficacy evidence was
      found wide variations in care delivery. These considerations highlight the need to identify
      the most effective therapies in real world COPD patients and to design and test efforts to
      translate this evidence into healthcare for the millions of COPD patients. In short, there is
      a need for comparative effectiveness research (CER) in COPD.

      CER has received growing attention worldwide. The direct comparisons of treatment
      alternatives provided by CER can help patients and providers make best informed treatment
      decisions where such evidence was previously lacking. Some randomized controlled trials on
      comprehensive Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) interventions, especially based on the TCM
      patterns, have been the certain evidence for showing definite effect for stable COPD
      patients. When facing many treatment approaches, how to choose the most suitable treatment is
      difficult to identify. Hence, the aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness and
      economic evaluation of three treatments for COPD patients and then determine which treatment
      is the most suitable for COPD patients. conventional medicine, TCM treatment and Combination
      of both conventional medicine and TCM treatment.

      This is a multi-center, pragmatic, randomized, controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness
      of three treatments in COPD subjects. Following a 14 day run-in period, approximately 360
      subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the three treatments (conventional medicine,
      Traditional Chinese medicine, and combination of both conventional medicine and TCM
      treatment) for 26 weeks. After the 26 weeks treatment period, subjects in three treatments
      arms will follow-up 26 weeks. The primary outcome measure is the frequency of exacerbations.
      and. Secondary efficacy measures include FEV1, Dyspnea (MMRC), Exercise Capacity( 6MWD),
      Quality of life (CAT) and economic evaluation(CEA, CUA). Safety will be assessed through the
      collection of adverse events. There will be a total of 5 study visits (baseline, the 13, 26
      weeks of the treatment, 13 and 26 weeks of follow-up). A follow-up contact for collection of
      effect and economic evaluation will be conducted approximately 26 weeks following the last
      study visit.
    
  