
    
      This study proposes to test the hypothesis that the medication refractory experiential
      (anhedonia and amotivation) and expressive deficits named 'negative symptoms' are mediated by
      network pathophysiology and the functional connectivity of a cerebellar-prefrontal cortical
      network mediates the severity of these deficits. To accomplish this participants will be
      recruited who are diagnosed with schizophrenia who demonstrate negative symptoms despite
      stable outpatient treatment.

      Participants will undergo an initial screening session to complete informed consent and
      undergo baseline assessments of negative symptom severity. These assessments include
      reporter-based measures such as the Positive And Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) as well as
      quantitative tests of amotivation/anhedonia and diminished expressivity.

      Participants will then undergo an MRI scan that includes structural and resting state
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI). These rsfMRI images will be used to isolate
      individual resting-state networks for targeting of rTMS modulation.

      Participants will then undergo five days of twice daily rTMS sessions in one of the four arms
      of this study.

      One week after the last rTMS session, Participants will undergo follow-up MRI imaging and the
      same assessments described above.

      Aims:

      Aim 1: To determine if network dysconnectivity is causally linked to negative symptom
      severity and if amelioration of this dysconnectivity results in reduced symptom severity.
      Symptom severity will be measured via both reporter-based and quantitative measures.

      Aim 2: To determine if the relationship between functional connectivity and symptom severity
      arises from interactions between specific nodes of the default mode network (DMN): the
      cerebellum and DLPFC, or is the result of interactions between multiple nodes in the DMN
      (both cerebral and cerebellar).

      Exploratory Aim: As an exploratory aim, additional genetic data will be collected which may
      be related to TMS efficacy. Hypothesis: Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) homozygous
      val-allele carriers of the val66met BDNF gene will show greater response than met-carriers.
    
  