
    
      A prospective study using multiple surgeons at multiple centers (Community Regional Medical
      Center and Sierra Pacific Orthopaedic Center) investigating post-operative management of
      extra and intra articular distal radius fractures treated with volar locking plates.
      Post-operative management for 2 weeks immediately following surgery will consist of placing
      1/3 of patients in a short arm, custom-made, plaster splint, 1/3 with a removable Velcro
      wrist splint, and 1/3 with a soft dressing. The Velcro wrist brace group will be asked to
      wear the brace as much as possible during the two weeks and the soft dressing may be removed
      by the patient on the third day after surgery.

        -  The custom plaster splint is the historical standard. The surgical incision is dressed
           with non-stick gauze, 4x4 gauze pads, cotton padding, a plaster splint applied to the
           palmar surface of the palm and forearm, and then a cloth wrap to keep it all in place.

        -  The Velcro wrist brace is a commercially available over-the-counter splint which will
           initially be fitted over a thin layer of non-stick gauze, 4x4 gauze, and cotton padding.

        -  Patients in the soft dressing group will have non-stick gauze, 4x4 gauze, cotton
           padding, and a cloth wrap. It will be the same dressing as the custom splint without the
           plaster slab.

      Patients will be randomized using REDCap Randomization module after being consented to
      participate in the study by the primary investigator or sub-investigator. Each investigator
      will have the option during and/or after surgery to remove the patient from the group they
      have been randomized into and treat them as they see appropriate. These patients would be
      documented but removed from the study follow up.

      Patient satisfaction will be evaluated subjectively with the PRWE (Patient-Rated Wrist
      Evaluation) as well as the Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (Quick-DASH)
      score. Radiographs will be taken at 2, 6, 12, and 24 weeks postoperatively to measure
      fracture alignment and healing. Patient reported pain level, range of motion, grip, and pinch
      strength will be recorded at each visit as well as at a final 1 year follow-up visit. Any
      complication will be noted. All of these visits are part of the standard of care. The only
      additional part of their visit would be the brief survey including the QuickDASH and PRWE
      that they complete with an orthopaedic surgery resident during their visit. In addition at
      the first follow up appointment at 2 weeks post-surgery, patients will be asked about their
      satisfaction with the mobility of their wrist and those in the Velcro brace will be asked how
      often they wore the brace. All data will be collected on a data collection sheet and then
      entered into a database
    
  