
    
      Psychosocial, cultural and relational factors, frequently influenced by a rigid education,
      have been related to the etiology of sexual difficulties. Women with stable partners who
      maintain an no consummated pattern of sexual intercourse (vaginismus) reveal a history of
      sexual life affected by these factors.

      Vaginismus is a female sexual dysfunction that affects the quality of sexual and psychosocial
      lives of women. It may influence both the quality of the couple's relationship and the
      overall emotional and motivational state of people in their daily activities.

      There is a concordance in the scientific literature that physiotherapy is of high importance
      in the treatment of vaginismus. The scientific literature presents some studies confirming
      its importance and highlighting the satisfactory results obtained at posttreatment of these
      dysfunctions.

      Considering the impact of vaginismus in the sexual life of couples, as well as the relevance
      of the development of wide-ranging intervention models in the treatment of this disorder, it
      is appropriate to conduct this study in order to identify and recognize parameters of muscle
      tonus of women with and without a diagnosis of vaginismus and also to study the effectiveness
      of physiotherapy resources applied in the treatment of vaginismus.

      Objectives

        1. Evaluate and compare the pelvic floor musculature of women with and without a diagnosis
           of vaginismus, by algometry and perineal electromyographic biofeedback;

        2. Evaluate and compare the parameters of muscle tonus of the pelvic floor by perineal
           electromyographic biofeedback in women with and without a diagnosis of vaginismus;

        3. Evaluate the pelvic floor musculature of women diagnosed with vaginismus, through
           algometry and electromyographic biofeedback, after the physiotherapeutic treatment;

        4. Evaluate the quality of sexual life and sexual function of women with and without a
           diagnosis of vaginismus;

        5. Evaluate the quality of sexual life and sexual function of women diagnosed with
           vaginismus, after physiotherapeutic treatment.
    
  