
    
      HIV/AIDS is one of the main health challenges of our time, with a global burden of disease
      higher than any other infectious disease. The widespread use of antiretroviral drugs has
      changed its face from a fatal fate to a chronic disease. However, there are still many
      differences in the standard of care globally. Drug resistance testing is routinely performed
      in high income countries, but is often not available in resource limited settings. Instead,
      treatment consists of standardized therapy regimes, chosen from a limited amount of
      antiretroviral drugs. This may contribute to the high rates of virological failure seen in
      patients, and especially children and adolescents, on therapy. Virological failure persisting
      despite intensified enhanced adherence-counselling result in poor treatment success in HIV
      infected adults, children and adolescents on treatment and therefore early deaths. If therapy
      failure occurs, and HIV drug resistance is the likely reason, physician in Tanzania need to
      blindly choose a second-line therapy regimen, without knowledge of the exact resistance
      profile. However, multiple studies have discovered high rates of HIV drug resistance in
      patients with first line treatment failure, and even in therapy-naïve patients. To obtain
      information about presence of resistance mutations HIV genotypic resistance testing is
      required. This test is used to detect HIV genomic mutations that confer resistance to
      specific types of antiretroviral drugs as an aid in monitoring and treating HIV-infection.
      The test identifies mutation on the protease and reverse transcriptase gene, which are
      responsible for very crucial steps in the viral replication process. Results from this test
      can identify the medication for whom the virus is still susceptible and for whom it is
      already resistant. With this, it can be avoid switching to second-line regimen without the
      knowledge of the presence or absence of antiretroviral drug resistance. An individualized
      therapy can follow making sure that medication works best and the clinical outcome can
      increase.

      While the positive impact of HIV resistance testing on treatment outcomes in high-income
      countries is well established, no prospective data has been published about the effect in
      resource-limited settings. This absence of data poses a hole in clinical knowledge, because
      the results from high-income countries are not readily transferable to low-income settings.

      The proposed study aims to evaluate the impact of HIV drug resistance testing, and subsequent
      change to an individualized (second-line) therapy based on the resistance profile, compared
      to standardized second-line therapy. The study is designed as a randomised controlled trial.
      The study participants, Tanzanian patients (children, adolescents and adults) with
      virological failure of their first-line therapy, will be recruited at several study sites.
      All patients will first receive enhanced adherence counselling. The patients that still show
      virological failure three months after the counselling will be eligible for resistance
      testing. The regimen will be switched to individualized (second-line) ART or standardized
      second-line ART, and clinical, immunological and virological outcome parameters will be
      collected in a 6 month and 12 month follow up visit (Group I,II,III IV). In addition to the
      outcome of individualized therapy, the proposed study would yield insights about the
      prevalence and patterns of HIV drug resistance in patients with failure of their first-line
      therapy, and also about the effectiveness of enhanced adherence counselling.

      For ethical reasons also 250 seconnd line treatment failure patients (Group V) with fast
      clinical progress will be included and transfered directly to the individualized therapy arm.
      With that we hope to bring them back to a working treatment.

      The main diagnostic method of this study, HIV genomic sequencing, will be implemented and
      performed at the National Institute for Medical Research in Mwanza, Tanzania. This will
      contribute directly to the HIV-related diagnostic capacities of Tanzanian laboratories.
    
  