
    
      The pre-surgical assessment of a cortectomy in patient suffering from a refractory epilepsy
      includes several examinations aiming both, to specify the epileptogenic zone (EZ) which must
      be resected and to evaluate functional and cognitive risks of surgery.

      Nevertheless, in some patients, non-invasive evaluation does not give formal answer. In these
      subjects, it is then necessary to carry out a second step, consisting of an invasive
      exploration by implantation of intracerebral electrodes during a Stereoelectroencephalography
      (SEEG).

      Due to its temporal and spatial resolution, the SEEG allows, besides the precise
      determination of the EZ, to carry out a functional mapping of the cortical regions likely to
      be included in cortectomy. Conventionally, this mapping is carried out on the basis of the
      cortical electrical stimulations applied to the implanted electrodes. If this approach is
      very robust for exploring primary functions such as motor skills or language, it cannot be
      used to evaluate more complex cognitive tasks such as face recognition or attention.
      Essential cognitive tasks on a daily basis.

      This has led to the development in recent years, in Grenoble, of a complementary approach to
      cerebral stimulation: Dynamic Spectral Imaging (ISD). Numerous experimental paradigms have
      demonstrated that the realization of a cognitive task associates with the generation within
      the cortical regions involved in its treatment of a particular cortical activity. This
      activity is characterized by oscillations of the cortical rhythm in high frequencies (> 40
      Hz), called gamma activities. The ISD thus consists in mapping this gamma activity during
      various cognitive tasks, thus making it possible to study more widely the complexity of the
      cognitive functions.

      MAPCOG_SEEG aims to collect the cerebral recording of the patients who have performed this
      cognitive exploration to be able to in fine propose an Atlas of human cognition which takes
      advantage of the very rich information in terms of spatial and temporal resolution of the
      SEEG. Furthermore, it will exactly allow more to understand the impact of the epilepsy and
      the surgery of the epilepsy on the cognition.
    
  