
    
      On admission, the patient pain score will be measured using a numerical scale (NRS-11) to
      verify the eligibility of the patient in the study (NRS ≥ 4).

      At the time of randomisation, the patient's pain score will be measured using a VAS in order
      to verify the patient's eligibility for randomisation (VAS ≥ 40).

      Admissible patients will be randomised by IWRS (Interactive Web Response System) to receive:

        -  Either Penthrox® + SoC

        -  Or placebo + SoC (Figure 1). Randomisation will be stratified by sex, site and according
           to the baseline pain score (NRS 4-5 for a moderate-intensity pain versus NS 6-10 for a
           severe-intensity pain).

      The IWRS system will be based on the fact of including 50% patients with moderate pain and
      50% patients with severe pain.

      Close weekly monitoring of this ratio will be set up. The decision to no longer include
      patients in one of the study subgroups according to pain, if necessary, or to change this
      ratio, will be made by the Study Sponsor and in agreement with the study
      investigator-coordinator and the study scientific committee. A minimum of 150 patients will
      be included in the severe pain subgroup (EN 6-10).

      The treatment (preparation of two inhalers, the second only being given to the patient on
      request) will only be administered once intermittently or continuously to patients on
      admission to the study (D0, T0).

      The pain score will be assessed using the VAS every 5 minutes up to 20 minutes, then at 30,
      60, 90, and 120 minutes after the start of study treatment (T0). Patients will be assessed
      until their discharge from the emergency departments (hospitalization, transfer home,
      transfer to the operating room) or up to 120 minutes after the initial administration.

      A telephone interview will take place 14 (± 2) days after the first treatment administration
      to assess the medium-term safety of the product.
    
  