
    
      The primary purpose of this study was to examine the influence of cardiorespiratory fitness
      on the acute release of SCD biomarkers and other cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors at
      rest and in response to a bout of maximal physical exertion among 21 firefighters from a
      local fire department in Connecticut. The study investigators hypothesized that firefighters
      that are aerobically fit will have lower levels of biomarkers of SCD and a more favorable CVD
      risk factor profile at rest and in response to a maximal physical effort than firefighters
      that are not aerobically fit.

      FIT and FIRED UP is based on the theoretical foundation of the health belief and social
      cognitive models of health behavior change which have been shown effective in improving diet
      and exercise behaviors in firefighters. Specifically, the investigators sought to identify
      job-specific risk factors for SCD and CVD in firefighters in order to better tailor an
      intervention that focuses on providing information, reducing barriers to changing unhealthy
      behaviors, reducing stress, and increasing firefighter efficacy to engage in healthier
      behaviors.

      All eligible members of the fire department were invited to participate in the study. Visit 1
      included an orientation health education session at the fire department in which the study
      investigators delivered a lecture on physical activity and "heart healthy" habits. Interested
      subjects were able to review the informed consent and questionnaires.

      Subjects completed and signed the informed consent at the beginning of Visit 2. This visit
      consisted of 4 health-related fitness assessments, including sit-up, push-up, flexibility and
      handgrip tests. Visits 3 and 4 consisted of measures of cardiovascular health at Hartford
      Hospital and the control visit. The cardiovascular health measures included body mass index
      (BMI), waist circumference, exhaled carbon monoxide (CO), vascular health (i.e., carotid
      intimal medial thickness and arterial stiffness), heart rate variability (HRV), resting BP,
      the maximum graded cardiopulmonary exercise stress test (GEST), and blood draws pre- and
      post-GEST to obtain SCD and CVD biomarkers. Firefighters were then attached to an ambulatory
      blood pressure (ABP) monitor and heart rate monitor for 24hr to assess ambulatory BP and HRV,
      respectively. Of note is that Visits 3 and 4 were conducted in random order so that study
      investigators could isolate the influence of the GEST on the ambulatory BP response to
      exercise from the control rest day. Randomization was performed using www.randomization.com.
      The control visit included measures of resting and ambulatory BP. In addition, subjects
      completed paper and pencil questionnaires on the topics of physical activity, nutrition,
      sleep, and mental health at this visit.
    
  