
    
      Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or stenting and coronary artery bypass surgery
      are effective therapies for relief of angina caused by coronary artery disease (CAD). However
      many patients with CAD have failed attempts at conventional revascularization or remain
      symptomatic despite optimized anti-ischemic medical therapy. For this growing number of
      patients, there is a need for novel therapeutic approaches. Experimental studies in animal
      models indicate that primitive pluripotential cells (or 'stem' cells) from bone marrow may
      localize to ischemic myocardium, differentiate along endothelial, smooth muscle, and
      cardiomyocyte lineages, and improve cardiac performance. A recent report has suggested that
      granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor, which mobilizes stem cells from bone marrow
      into the circulation, may improve collateral blood flow to ischemic myocardium in patients
      with CAD. The purpose of this protocol is to test the effectiveness of a related cytokine,
      granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), that more potently mobilizes stem cells from
      bone marrow, for the relief of myocardial ischemia and improvement in myocardial
      contractility during stress in patients with CAD who are not good candidates for conventional
      revascularization, or who do not want further attempts at conventional revascularization, and
      who remain symptomatic on medical therapy.

      Our hypothesis is that G-CSF will improve blood flow to the myocardium and the left
      ventricular contractile response to stress by mobilizing pluripotential cells from bone
      marrow with localization to ischemic regions of the heart, resulting in development of new
      arteries and regeneration of contractile cardiomyocytes. The primary end-point of the Phase I
      (safety) component of this study is absence of cardiovascular adverse events associated with
      increased white blood cell counts following G-CSF administration in patients with CAD. The
      secondary end-point for Phase I is determination of platelet aggregation and coagulation
      activation before and during G-CSF administration. The primary endpoint of the Phase II
      (efficacy) component of this study is improvement in magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI)-determined regional left ventricular contractility and gadolinium distribution (as an
      index of blood flow) during stress at 1 month following G-CSF administration compared with
      pretreatment baseline measurements. Secondary Phase II end-points will include determinations
      of 1) efficacy of stem and endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) mobilization by G-CSF, and 2)
      changes in treadmill exercise duration associated with G-CSF treatment. Demonstration of safe
      and effective cytokine-induced mobilization of stem cells with cardiac benefit could result
      in an important therapeutic option for CAD patients who have few alternatives for the relief
      of myocardial ischemia and angina pectoris.
    
  