
    
      BACKGROUND: Prospective randomized trials have shown that near-normoglycemic blood glucose
      control using insulin infusions achieves a significant reduction in mortality of severely ill
      patients in intensive care units, of patients with acute myocardial infarction and with
      stroke. This implies that most severely ill patients with hyperglycemia should be treated
      with insulin to reach near-normoglycemia. However, this is not common practice today in
      emergency room admissions outside the intensive care unit, and strategies to achieve
      near-normoglycemia safely outside the ICU setting with s.c. injections (insulin infusions are
      too risky outside the ICU) have not been established.

      AIM: To evaluate an insulin therapy algorithm using s.c. injections which permits effective
      and safe glycemic management of emergency room patients with hyperglycemia.

      DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial with an open intervention. Patients presenting with
      hyperglycemia on admission to the emergency room are randomized 1:1 either to conventional
      treatment (conventional insulin group) or to intensive treatment (intensive insulin group).

      METHODS: 140 patients admitted to the medical emergency rooms of the University Hospital
      Basel and the Regional Hospital of Solothurn will be included and randomized as described
      above. All patients with plasma glucose levels exceeding 8.0 mmol/l will be included.

      Exclusion criteria include severely immunocompromised patients, patients in shock, patients
      with terminal illnesses on palliative care, type 1 diabetes with or without ketoacidosis and
      patients which require intensive care unit (ICU) or cardial care unit (CCU) therapy.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT: Time in the glycaemic target range (5.5-7.0 mmol/l) during the period of
      observation of 48 hours (expected to be longer in the intensive insulin group)

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS: Time to reach the target range. Frequency of hypoglycaemia (plasma
      glucose < 3.8 mmol/l). Frequency of severe hypoglycaemia (plasma glucose < 2.5 mmol/l.
      Frequency of hypokalaemia.
    
  