
    
      Diet is a modifiable exposure that can positively or negatively impact health. More than half
      of adults and one-third of children use dietary supplements that contain nutrients critical
      to human health. Currently no metric exists to measure overall total nutrient exposures from
      all sources. Without measuring the contribution of dietary supplements, exposure
      classification is incomplete both for nutrient inadequacy and nutrient excess. Our highly
      qualified team proposes to develop the first comprehensive total nutrient index using a
      data-driven strategy with the nationally-representative National Health and Nutrition
      Examination Survey (NHANES). Indexes and scores are the preferred metric for use in nutrition
      because this method provides a standardized framework to compare across studies. In fact, the
      2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans Advisory Committee report, building on systematic
      reviews from the USDA Nutrition Evidence Library, were able to conclude that only diet
      classified by indexes and scores were useful for informing nutrition policy. The synthesis of
      the data in report yielded strong and consistent evidence for dietary patterns classified by
      indexes and scores and cardiovascular disease and weight status, and moderate evidence for
      dietary patterns and type 2 diabetes. However, no index or score is available that accounts
      for nutrients derived from dietary supplements and medications. In Aim 1, the investigators
      will develop a usual intake model that captures habitual intakes from food, beverages,
      dietary supplements, and medication, mitigiating the measurement error to the extent possible
      with self-reported dietary intakes. In Aim 2, the investigators will characterize the
      patterns of nutrients intake using data reduction techniques to create the most salient items
      to include in the index. The patterns will be carefully examined with regard to biomarkers,
      health behaviors, and measures of bone and body composition to create a scoring algorithm for
      the total nutrient index. In Aim 3, the investigators will test the reliability and the
      validity of the total nutrient index. The purpose of the total nutrient index is to provide a
      tool that can be used for research, monitoring, and policy purposes. Improving measures of
      dietary exposure will improve our ability to show causal links to health, ultimately enabling
      successful intervention strategies, and the use of the NHANES data to develop the total
      nutrient index greatly enhances its external validity.
    
  