
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of high levels of morbidity and long-term functional disability
      in adults. Stroke is a clinical syndrome characterized by rapidly developing symptoms and/or
      signs of focal and at times global (for patients in Coma) loss of cerebral functions, with
      symptoms lasting more than 24 hours or leading to death with no apparent cause other than
      that of vascular origin. The incident of stroke is rising steadily, According to estimates by
      the WHO, stroke accounted for 5.7 million deaths and 16 million first-time events in 2005 and
      these numbers may reach 7.8 million and 23 million by 2030, respectively. Stroke is the
      second leading cause of preventable death worldwide and the fourth leading cause of lost
      productivity, as measured by disability-adjusted life years. World Health Organization
      reported that total mortality due to stroke in Pakistan was 78512.2 WHO estimate for the year
      2020 predict that stroke will remain the second leading cause of death after ischemic heart
      disease, both in developing and developed countries. Annually, fifteen millions people
      worldwide suffer a stroke. Of these, five million dies and another five million are left
      permanently disabled, placing a burden on family and community. When balance impairment is
      affected early after stroke, performance of simple and complex tasks become difficult which
      results in their functional mobility. Impaired balance has also been identified as the
      strongest predictor of falling, which in turn is related to fear of falling, limited activity
      and quality of life. Thus, this vicious cycle of balance disability is continued, resulting
      in delaying the recovery process of stroke rehabilitation. Sensory impairment reduces sensory
      processing ability, thereby reducing motor and balance responses. Muscle weakness causes a
      muscular imbalance between the paretic and non-paretic sides, resulting in weight-bearing
      imbalance and an asymmetric posture during standing. As a result, functional activities such
      as sit-to-stand, standing, walking, and balance control are limited. Different interventions
      were used for the restoration of functional activities mobility and balance in post-stroke
      patients. A task-oriented approach is one method used to overcome limited functional
      activities. Previous studies have reported that the application of this approach was
      effective in improving functional activities in stroke patients. Shumway-Cook and Woollacott
      reported that movements are generated by the interaction of various systems in the brain,
      organized with a focus on goals, and limited by the environment. Because the task-oriented
      approach focuses on goals and the environment, it may be a suitable method for overcoming
      limited functional activities. The effective integration of visual, somatosensory, and
      vestibular information is necessary to maintain balance ability during functional activities.
      Stroke patients rely highly on visual information due to a lack of somatic and vestibular
      senses. Therefore, it is necessary to restore sensory integration in stroke patients through
      the manipulation of somatic, visual and vestibular senses. Task-oriented balance training is
      proved to be effective for improvement of balance in stroke patients. Sensory balance
      training has also shown a beneficial effect on balance and mobility of stroke patients. There
      is limited evidence on the effects gained by task-oriented balance training with altered
      sensory input This study aims to determine the effects gained by combining the task-oriented
      balance training with sensory integration.
    
  