
    
      Advances during the last decade provided relevant information on the regulation of
      Sost/sclerostin and its mechanism(s) of action. Several stimuli have been reported to
      regulate Sost/Sclerostin expression, however how these factors interplay to regulate the
      expression of this gene in a spatiotemporal manner is unknown. Animal studies demonstrate
      that sclerostin is key for skeletal homeostasis, and required for the bone anabolic response
      to mechanical loading although appears dispensable for PTH-induced bone gain. The knowledge
      provided by preclinical investigations resulted in clinical trials based on the
      neutralization of sclerostin activity as a novel osteoanabolic therapeutic approach. It is
      now clear that sclerostin is capable of uncoupling bone formation and bone resorption, by
      inhibiting osteoblast function while stimulating osteoclast function, as the bone gain
      achieved by pharmacologic inhibition of sclerostin results from stimulation of osteoblast
      activity and inhibition of bone resorption. Furthermore, the recent observations show that
      activation of βcatenin in osteocytes increases bone resorption and Rankl production in a
      sclerostin-dependent manner. Anti-sclerostin therapy has shown beneficial skeletal outcomes
      in osteoporotic patients, however more recent evidence shows that the anabolic effects of
      this therapy attenuate with time and that after discontinuation BMD returns to pretreatment
      levels over time. The new evidence showing increased levels of Sost/sclerostin (and Dkk1)
      after activation of Wnt-βcatenin signaling suggest that sclerostin (and Dkk1) act as a
      negative feedback limiting bone formation stimulated by this pathway.

      In this study is there any alterations in sclerostin levels in serum response to periodontal
      therapy was checked. Periodontal therapy alters the inflammation pathway is a proven fact.
    
  