
    
      The incidence of postoperative sore throat (POST) has been reported up to 62% following
      general anaesthesia with varying severity from mild to severe. It is among the top
      undesirable events experienced by patients after anaesthesia. The supraglottic airway device
      (SAD) is commonly used as an airway device during the delivery of general anaesthesia. The
      incidence of POST after SAD use has been documented of up to 49% and is comparable with the
      incidence of up to 45% when using an endotracheal tube (ETT).

      Many studies have been evaluating the occurrence of POST with the use of an ETT but studies
      investigating POST and the use of SAD are limited. A recent study comparing sore throat
      following three SADs (LMA™ Unique, LMA™ Supreme and I-gel®) found that the incidence of POST
      was not significantly different between any of them.

      There are various drugs being extensively investigated to reduce the incidence and severity
      of POST such as Lignocaine, Dexamethasone, NSAIDs, Liquorice and NMDA receptor antagonists
      [1]. A Cochrane review on the use of Lignocaine for endotracheal intubation concluded that
      Lignocaine applied topically or administered systemically resulted in reduced risk and
      severity of POST.

      Amylmetacresol and Dichlorobenzyl Alcohol, the active ingredient in the standard preparation
      of Strepsils® lozenges has been shown to reduce the intensity of sore throat in
      non-anaesthetised subjects, including one study involving Strepsils® Max Plus lozenges which
      additionally contains Lignocaine, a local anaesthetic agent. Currently studies that evaluated
      POST after endotracheal intubation using the standard preparation of Strepsils® (without
      Lignocaine) have reported a reduction in the incidence and severity of POST.

      The effect of Strepsils® Max Plus (with Lignocaine) lozenges on POST and particularly due to
      SAD is not known and is the basis of this study. It is the investigator's hypothesis that
      Strepsils® with added Lignocaine will reduce the incidence and severity of POST based on
      existing studies that showed the individual and combined beneficial effect of both
      substances.

      The goal of this study is to identify a simple, safe, and inexpensive perioperative
      intervention to reduce the incidence and severity of post operative sore throat due to
      supraglottic airway devices.

      Eligible participants include adult patients scheduled to undergo elective surgery under
      general anaesthesia using a supraglottic airway device. This study is a prospective,
      randomised, double-blinded study involving 60 subjects and they will assessed on the
      incidence and severity of sore throat, dysphagia and dysphonia at 30 minutes and 24 hours
      after removal of the supraglottic airway device using an interview format.

      Outcomes from this study can be extended to patients who will be receiving general
      anaesthesia using a supraglottic airway device in the future.
    
  