
    
      RECRUITMENT AND CONSENT:

      Patients will be recruited from Victoria Hospital, London Health Sciences Centre or Parkwood
      Mental Health, St. Joseph's Health Care London. Patients will be screened and recruited after
      giving valid consent.

      STUDY INTERVENTION (Sudarshan Kriya Yoga, SKY):

      The 30 recruited TR-LLD participants will be invited to attend training sessions on SKY. The
      SKY program is a highly structured and standardized mind-body resilience building program.
      Through SKY breathing, interactive discussions, journaling, yoga and guided meditations, the
      workshop builds a framework for resilience and empowerment, and develops self-awareness,
      connectedness and community, and a positive outlook. This is a minimally invasive treatment
      and is not routinely available as standard of care. SKY involves rhythmic, cyclical forms of
      breathing in which there are no pauses between inhalation and exhalation. The breathing
      practices of this program include: (a) a three-stage Pranayama with Ujjayi, also called
      Victory Breath or Ocean Breath (b) Bhastrika or Bellow's Breath and (c) Sudarshan Kriya (SK)
      or the Rhythmic Breath Technique.

      SKY will be consistently taught to the participants by two instructors from The Art of Living
      Foundation, an international humanitarian and charitable organization. SKY training will take
      place in a group-format with group sizes varying between 4-6 participants. The investigators
      will conduct these training sessions in an appropriately sized and accessible community hall
      in London, Ontario. SKY training involves attending a 5-day course that teaches the basic
      principles of SKY over 2.5-3 hour daily sessions. These will be followed by once weekly
      follow up sessions (90 min/wk) for 3 weeks and then bimonthly sessions (every 2 weeks) for
      the next 8 weeks. In addition, participants will be asked to practice SKY at home daily (25
      min/day) throughout the duration of the study period and log practice frequency and any other
      noteworthy observations in a log sheet that will be provided to them.

      MENTAL HEALTH ASSESSMENTS:

      Participants will be screened for eligibility using criteria described below , the
      Anti-Depressant Treatment History Form, and if applicable an MRI pre-screening checklist.
      Prior to the start of the intervention, trained raters will meet with eligible participants
      to obtain demographic information. Participants will complete baseline measures of
      depression, comorbid anxiety, quality of life and caregiver burden. Specifically, the
      following scales will be administered: Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D 17 item
      version), Geriatric Anxiety Inventory, European Quality of Life (EQ-5D-5L) and the Zaritz
      Caregiver burden. The abovementioned scales will be administered again at three other time
      points, weeks 4, 8 and 12.

      MRI:

      Seven healthy control participants will be recruited by advertising via flyers in waiting
      areas of the clinic. In addition, spouses and other family members accompanying the patient,
      who appear to be of eligible age, will be offered a letter of information about this research
      study. All thirty recruited TR-LLD participants will also be offered the option of
      participating in the MRI portion of the study in addition to the study activities described
      above. Our goal is to recruit 13 TR-LLD to complete MRI scans.

      All MRI participants will complete the MRI screening questionnaire. Control participants will
      additionally be asked to complete a Mini Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) to confirm an
      absence of any mental health diagnosis. Both control and TR-LLD participants who are eligible
      to take part in the MRI portion of the study will be asked to attend a one-hour appointment
      at the Western Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping at University Hospital campus of
      LHSC. Control participants will attend only one such appointment, while TR-LLD participants
      will be asked to attend one MRI visit pre-intervention and one MRI visit post-intervention.
      The Research Coordinator or Research Assistant will accompany participants to the MRI visit,
      while the MRI analysis itself will be completed by an in-house MRI technician at the Western
      Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping.

      The investigators will conduct semi-structured interviews by trained raters on study
      completers as well as drop outs. If a participant consented to be part of the study but then
      decided against participation at any point, he/she will be offered the opportunity to
      identify any problems with our approach by participating in a short interview conducted by a
      trained research assistant.
    
  