
    
      The study has two aims: The primary aim (A1) is to examine differences across the three
      groups (attention control, SM-need, and SM-preference) on caregiver health (health risks and
      mental and physical health) over time. The investigators hypothesize that the caregivers who
      receive a self-management intervention based on need (SM-need) or preference (SM-preference)
      will have better health outcomes than those in the attention control.

      Secondary aims are to: A2) explore whether caregiver baseline need or preference for
      intervention (i.e. choice) is associated with: a) care recipient's symptoms; b) caregiver
      reactions; and c) caregiving involvement, and A3) build caregiver profiles from demographic/
      contextual factors that are associated with their needs and preferences for the
      self-management interventions.

      All caregivers will complete assessment measures and measures of health risks, and physical
      and mental health at baseline (T1), about 6 months (T2) and about 12 months (T3). Caregivers
      will randomly assigned to one of three groups. The attention control group will receive
      information on diversional activities. The SM-need group will receive a self-management
      intervention for biofeedback training or resourcefulness training, as determined by baseline
      cut scores. Caregivers in the SM-preference group will choose one of the two self-management
      intervention according to their personal preference.

      Both self-management interventions (biofeedback training, resourcefulness training) and the
      diversional activities, are delivered over four weeks (between T1 and T2). Caregivers may use
      the intervention whenever and as often as they wish (i.e. self-tailoring) for the remainder
      of the study period. These resourcefulness training includes teaching self-help
      (stress-management, problem-solving) and help-seeking skills, respectively. Biofeedback
      training consists of use of a hand-held device that shows the participant their changes in
      heart rate based on changes in their breathing pattern (as they relax); caregivers who need
      or prefer the biofeedback will be given a device to use for 28 days. All study participants
      receiving the intervention will also be asked to keep a journal to record their experience
      with the intervention.
    
  