
    
      This study is designed as a prospective trial of the effects of probiotic on inflammatory and
      stool profiles in patients with NAFLD. These patients are actively followed by the Division
      of Hepatology. They will have confirmed normal liver function tests and absence of hepatitis
      C virus in order to be eligible for this study. Eligible subjects will be identified within
      the outpatient setting of the Division of Hepatology of the Northwell Health System.

      Division of Hepatology 400 Community Drive Manhasset, NY 11030 516-562-4281

      Candidate subjects will be identified by investigators as a part of their typical work flow.
      Subjects will be evaluated according to inclusion and exclusion criteria presented. Eligible
      patients will be provided with a packet containing study information and informed consent
      documents. Should a patient remain interested in study participation, informed consent will
      be obtained. Financial compensation will not be provided to subjects.

      Forty patients with NAFLD will be enrolled.

      Following enrollment and informed consent, subjects will undergo the following assessments:

        1. Medical History Questionnaire

        2. Current Medication List

      Blood and stool samples will be obtained prior to study initiation and again after 8 weeks of
      exposure.

      Protocol for biological sample collection:

      Whole Blood Collection - Venipuncture will be performed under standard conditions. Three
      heparinized tubes will be obtained which each tube containing approximately 10 cc of whole
      blood Samples will be de-identified. Peripheral Blood Cells will be isolated from whole blood
      samples according to standard protocols.

      Serum cytokine levels, including IL-10 and IL-17, will be assessed.

      Stool Collection - Patients will be provided with stool collection kits. Samples will be
      de-identified. Stool samples will be preserved in a -20 degree freezer in the Division of
      Infectious Diseases.
    
  