
    
      Pakistan has the 4th highest burden of child mortality in the world with over 60% of all
      deaths due to infectious diseases, many of them vaccine-preventable. Vaccines are one of the
      best public health tools available to achieve the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) # 4 of
      decreasing child mortality. The immunization coverage in Pakistan is still well below the
      desired level, leading to continued polio transmission, large measles outbreaks and thousands
      of deaths from vaccine-preventable illnesses. Mobile phone use has seen a tremendous rise in
      Pakistan in this decade. There are greater than100 million mobile phones subscribers in
      Pakistan. Short message service (SMS) as a reminder tool can be extremely effective in health
      care settings at public health scale. Customized SMS messages can be designed as personally
      tailored messages with text and/or pictures, and used to remind and inquire parents regarding
      vaccination for their children according to the EPI schedule. A major advantage of SMS as a
      communication tool is that automated messages can be generated at specific times through
      computer programming, hence minimizing the need for valuable human resources. Messages are
      delivered directly with minimal intrusiveness, while maintaining privacy of the household
      members. Most importantly, the cost of sending automated SMS messages is extremely low, once
      the original infrastructure is established. We plan to test the effectiveness of reminders to
      parents/guardians on cell phones through short messaging system (SMS) in improving the
      on-time routine immunization for children in Pakistan. This study will be conducted in an
      urban- squatter settlement area, in Karachi where the Aga Khan University's Department of
      Paediatrics and Child Health is conducting an active demographic surveillance on maternal and
      child health. Our experimental plan has three components: First, we will conduct baseline
      survey of parents at our study sites to explore their preferences for text for immunization
      reminders. Simultaneously, we will develop a computerized application for reminders
      scheduling. This application will contain the phone number, message information, language
      preferences and date on which the message will be sent. It will be interfaced with the
      gateway to send the message. Lastly, we will conduct a randomized controlled trial to
      determine the effectiveness of automated SMS reminders to parents in improving the on-time
      vaccination rates in children. If the result shows that the vaccines compliance can be
      increased through the SMS reminders, this program can be incorporated with the existing
      systems to collect the cell phone numbers of parents at the time of child's first contact
      with the health system and sending auto generated reminders for vaccine compliance at
      national level.
    
  