
    
      Following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction, many patients experience weakness
      of the quadriceps (thigh muscles) and loss of muscle mass due to inactivity following
      surgery. Recent research has demonstrated that blood flow restriction (BFR) training can help
      reduce the loss of muscle mass and strength after surgery. Blood flow restriction training
      uses an inflatable cuff that prevents blood from flowing out of the leg while patients
      perform physical therapy exercises. This allows patients to use lighter weights while
      reducing muscle loss and building strength.

      This will be a prospective, randomized controlled trial of patients undergoing ACL
      reconstruction with bone-patellar tendon-bone (BTB) autograft. Half the subjects will be
      randomly assigned to the BFR group and half will undergo sham BFR therapy after surgery.

      Statistical Assumptions: To sufficiently power (80%) the investigation to detect a difference
      (alpha = 0.05) in quadriceps muscle strength (isokinetic contraction) following the
      completion of the BFR rehabilitation program, 19 subjects per group (38 total) would be
      required. However, accounting for a 20% attrition rate and an additional 20% potentially
      screened out at the time of surgery due to other pathology (i.e. repairable meniscus tears,
      cartilage defects, etc.) that alters the prescribed physical therapy protocol, this study
      will aim to recruit and enroll 54 subjects (27 per group).

      Following ACL reconstruction surgery, subjects will complete a standardized postoperative
      rehabilitation program with or without BFR. The rehabilitation program will be broken into 4
      phases including (1) protection, range of motion, and proprioception; (2) strength and
      endurance; (3) power and agility; and (4) return to sport training. Physical therapy will
      occur 2 times per week for 20 weeks. Subjects will attend follow-up visits at 1, 3, 6, and 12
      months. Physical exam and muscle mass measurements will be performed at all visits, while
      strength testing will be performed at 3, 6, and 12 months.

      The goal of this study is to determine the efficacy of BFR therapy in improving muscle
      strength and reducing loss of muscle mass following ACL reconstruction, in addition to
      determining the effect of BFR on patient reported outcomes and return to sport. It is
      anticipated that BFR will significantly reduce the loss of muscle mass and improve muscular
      strength compared to standard therapy. It is also expected that these subjects will have
      improved patient reported outcomes and greater rates of return to sport.
    
  