
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Main objective: To assess if six months of treatment with CPAP, associated with conventional
      treatment, improves the lipid profile of patients with dyslipidemia and mild-moderate
      apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSA).

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Determine the additional effect of CPAP on insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in
           patients with mild-moderate OSA.

        -  Assess the impact of CPAP treatment in reducing cardiovascular risk in patients with
           dyslipidemia and mild-moderate OSA.

        -  Analyze the impact of supplemental CPAP treatment on glycemic control and the
           concentration of hsCRP in patients with dyslipidemia and mild-moderate OSA.

        -  Establish the impact of supplemental CPAP treatment on quality of life related to health
           of patients with dyslipidemia and mild-moderate OSA.

        -  Evaluate the effect of CPAP on inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress biomarkers,
           sympathetic tone and regulating hormones intake in patients with dyslipidemia and
           mild-moderate OSA.

        -  Correlate CPAP induced changes in lipid levels with the changes produced in the basal
           inflammatory response, oxidative stress, sympathetic activity and intake regulating
           hormones.

        -  Compare the effect of CPAP with promotion of daily physical activity on lipid profile in
           patients with dyslipidemia and mild-moderate OSA.

        -  Identify the subgroup of patients with uncontrolled dyslipidemia and mild-moderate OSA
           in wich six months of treatment with CPAP achieve a more pronounced reduction in blood
           lipids.

      DESIGN Randomized, parallel group, non-blind, controlled clinical trial with conventional
      treatment.

      STUDY POPULATION 35-75 year old subjects, diagnosed with dyslipidemia in last six months and
      in stable treatment during the last month with diet, cholesterol lowering drug, and
      cholesterol LDL levels> 100 mg / dl in the last two successive visits clinics.

      Sample size. 38 patients who completed the test in each treatment arm.

      TREATMENT

      Patients will be randomized to one of the following treatment arms form:

        1. hygiene and dietary recommendations.

        2. lifestyle intervention (more strict and promotion of daily physical activity and dietary
           control).

        3. Treatment with positive airway pressure (CPAP).

      ENDPOINTS Efficacy endpoints.

        -  Primary endpoint: LDL-cholesterol.

        -  Total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides and C-reactive protein high
           sensitivity (hsCRP).

        -  Systemic Biomarkers: inflammatory (IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α), oxidative stress
           (8-isoprostane), endothelial damage (endothelin, VCAM-1 and ICAM-1), sympathetic
           activity (neuropeptide Y) and appetite-regulating hormones (leptin, orexin A /
           hypocretin-1 and ghrelin).

        -  Fasting glucose, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), fasting insulin and HOMA and QUICKI
           indexes, TSH.

        -  Clinical questionnaires: SF-12, EuroQoL, FOSQ and IPAQ.

      Security endpoints.

        -  Notification of clinical adverse events.

        -  Compliance with CPAP (average hours use per day).

        -  Epworth Sleepiness Questionnaire.

        -  Development of cardiovascular events.

      STATISTICAL PROCEDURES Data will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation, median
      (interquartile range) or percent, depending on type and distribution. For comparison between
      groups, or t-Student test, or the Mann-Whitney U-test or chi-square test will be used, as
      appropriate. The relationships between variables will be analyzed by Pearson correlation and
      multiple linear regression.

      The treatment effect will be evaluated by analysis of variance for repeated measures with
      post-hoc multiple comparisons, using the Bonferroni test. A model of multiple logistic
      regression will be applied to determine the variables associated with treatment response. P
      values will be considered statistically significant <0.05.
    
  