
    
      1. Background Major treatments for cancer include surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy
           improve patient's survival but also can exert a significant psychosocial and physical
           impact on patients by producing a variety of unpleasant symptoms. Applying the concept
           of identification symptom cluster by the correlation between symptoms, different
           sleep-related symptom clusters among cancer patient have been identified across studies
           such as: fatigue, depression and insomnia; pain, fatigue and or pain, depression, and
           insomnia. However, the correlation between insomnia and other symptoms was not fully
           explored. Therefore, to identify current evidence of sleep-related symptom cluster, we
           have conducted a cross-sectional survey among 213 cancer patients undergoing
           chemotherapy in Vietnam. The results indicated that among participants, a symptom
           cluster of insomnia, depression, and anxiety was evident.

           Based on the literature review, acupressure can potentially reduce insomnia as well as
           other symptoms in cancer patients. However, the use of acupressure in specific
           self-acupressure in managing symptom cluster of insomnia, depression, and anxiety is
           unknown but worthy for further research.

        2. Methodologies of the study 2.1. The development of the self-acupressure protocols for
           managing insomnia, depression, and anxiety To distinguish the specific treatment (true)
           effects of acupressure treatment from the nonspecific treatment (placebo) effects, a
           true self-acupressure protocol and a sham self-acupressure protocol were being developed
           accordingly. The true acupressure protocol was developed based on the theory of
           Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), available systematic reviews are used for selecting
           acupoints and choosing treatment dose, and World Health Organization (WHO) standard
           acupuncture point location guidelines were used to locate the acupoint and technique for
           self-acupressure.

      True and sham acupressure protocol These acupoints are being selected for the true
      acupressure protocol Baihui (GV20), Yintang (EX-HN3), Fengchi (GB20), Neiguan (PC6), Shenmen
      (HT7), Taichong (LR3) These points are being selected for the sham acupressure protocol SA 1:
      Base of metacarpal bone of the right middle finger SA 2 2 cm superior to the end of the right
      eyebrow SA 3 Mastoid bone SA 4 Head of ulnar styloid SA 5 Base of metacarpal bone of the
      index finger SA 6 Medial malleolus Duration of each section (true and sham acupressure): 24
      minutes (3 mins per point) Duration of whole treatment (true and sham acupressure): 4 weeks
      (28 days) Time for practice self-acupressure: Before bedtime (final activities of the day,
      after practicing acupressure the participants should attempt to sleep) The suitability of
      true and sham self-acupressure protocols had been validated by a panel of six TCM experts
      from Hong Kong and Vietnam.

      2.2. Methods of the feasibility study 2.2.1. The study design A feasibility study with
      three-arms randomized sham-controlled trial will be set up. The three arms are the true
      acupressure group, the sham acupressure group, and the enhanced standard care group.

      2.2.2. Sample size Applying the rule of thumb, 30 subjects will be recruited for each study
      groups. The potential drop-out rate of 20% is used to calculate the total sample size for the
      feasibility study. Therefore, the sample size will be set at 114 patients with 38 patients
      per group.

      2.2.3. Settings The study will be conducted in the Vietnam National Cancer Institute and
      Hanoi Oncology Hospital. All of them are located in Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam.

      2.2.4. Randomization, allocation concealment, and blinding 2.2.4.1. Randomization and
      allocation concealment. Block randomization will be. 114 participants will be randomized into
      three study groups in a block of six participants. A randomization table will be computer
      generated by using the online randomizer. It will be prepared and kept by a researcher who
      does not involve in any research process. After recruiting enough participants for a block,
      the main researcher will send the list of participants' name to the randomization table
      keeper. The randomization table keeper will then randomly assign participants into trial
      groups based on the prepared randomization table and email the group assignments to the main
      researcher.

      2.2.4.2. Blinding Participants randomized in the standard care group will know their group
      assignment, but participants randomize to the true and sham self-acupressure group will not
      know whether they receive true or sham self-acupressure treatment. Nevertheless, the outcomes
      of the study are all self-reported instruments, so the participants themselves could be
      viewed as "outcome assessors". Therefore, participants and "outcome assessors" located in the
      true or sham self-acupressure group will be blinded on the treatment allocation.

      2.2.5. Study procedures Participants from five chemotherapy units will be recruited to the
      study (two chemotherapy units in hospital A, and three from hospital B). On the first day
      patients admitted to the hospital, during the health assessment, nurses will ask the patients
      to rate the severity of insomnia, depression and anxiety that they experience during the
      previous month. Each of the symptoms will be measured by separate Numerical Analog Scales
      (NAS). NAS is an 11-point scales with 0 means "not present" and 10 means "worst possible". If
      the patients rate 4 or above for their insomnia, depression, and anxiety nurses will inform
      the main researcher and introduce the potential patient to the main researcher. The main
      researcher will introduce the study in detail to potential participants and give them the
      information sheet and inform consent form. After signing the consent form, researchers will
      collect the demographic data of participants and instruct participants to complete the
      baseline assessment. After the participants complete the baseline assessment, the main
      researcher will summarize the result and if the participants eligible for the trial they will
      be instructed how to complete the seven days sleep diary after they discharge from the
      hospital. Afterward, participants will be randomly assigned to one of the following groups:
      the true self-acupressure group (TSA), the sham self-acupressure group (SSA) and enhanced
      standard care group (ESC).

      Participants in the true self-acupressure group or sham self-acupressure group Participants
      in these group will either receive a true self-acupressure or sham acupressure training
      section based on their group assignment. Participants will be requested to practice
      acupressure at home for four weeks after they complete the sleep diary baseline assessment (a
      telephone reminder will be made). During the four weeks treatment, participants will receive
      a weekly phone call from researchers for encouraging to practice acupressure and answer
      inquiries may have. During this period, participant will be requested to complete
      Self-acupressure record form every day. After four weeks treatment, participants will be
      asked to complete and send back all the post-intervention assessing questionnaire to research
      by express service. A short-term follow up will be then carried out in four weeks to assess
      the persistence effect of acupressure on the symptoms outcome. During this time, the patient
      will not practice acupressure at home. By the end of follow up time, researchers will make a
      telephone reminder to participants and ask them to complete and send back all the follow-up
      assessment questionnaire to the main research by express service. 200,000 Vietnam dong (vnd)
      will be given to participants for the express service charge by the end of the follow-up
      time.

      Participants in the enhanced standard control group Participants in the enhanced standard
      control group will receive the leaflet with tips to manage insomnia, depression, and anxiety.
      Weekly telephone reminder will also be made in four weeks. By the end of week fourth,
      participants in this group will be requested to complete post-intervention assessment and
      send back to research by post. A short-term follow up will be then carried out in 4 weeks.
      During the follow-up period, participants receive no weekly telephone reminder. By the end of
      follow up time, researchers will make a telephone reminder to participants and ask them to
      complete and send back all the follow-up assessment questionnaire to research by express
      service. 200,000 vnd will be given to participants for the express service charge by the end
      of the follow-up time.

      2.2.5.1. Training of Subject recruitment Five nurses will be recruited for subject
      recruitment. Nurses who work in potential chemotherapy units with at least one year of
      experience in working with cancer patients will be recruited. They will receive a training
      section conducted by the main researcher on how to recruite participants.

      2.2.5.2. Training of the interventionists Four nurses will be trained to become
      interventionists for the study (2 nurses/hospital). Nurses who work in potential hospitals
      with at least two years of experience in working with cancer patients will be recruited as
      interventionists of the study. A one hours training section (TOT section) will be delivered
      by the main researcher and a TCM professional.

      2.2.5.3. Training of the participants in the true self-acupressure group and sham
      self-acupressure group: Participants locate in these groups will receive education section.
      The training will be conducted in a group of two to four participants in 45 minutes. The
      self-acupressure training section will take place in the consultation room in the
      chemotherapy unit. In the education section, interventionists will instruct the participants
      how to locate and stimulate acupoint following the acupressure protocols. After giving
      instruction and time for participants to practice, interventionists checksthe patient's
      mastery of self-acupressure technique by using the Acupressure Skill Check form for
      participants. If the participant fails to identify the acupoint or stimulate the acupoint
      wrongly, the interventionist will then correct them. By the end of the education section, a
      patient booklet includes step by step guideline with images-illustrating acupressure protocol
      will be given to participants.

      2.3. Ethical consideration The study had gained ethical approval from The Hong Kong
      Polytechnic University and Vietnamese Ministry of Health. This study has followed the ethical
      principles for research that involves human subjects which are: autonomy, beneficence,
      non-maleficence, and confidentiality).

      2.4. Data Analysis Data will be checked for normality, outliers, and missing data. Intention
      to treat principle is adapted for analyzing the result of the pilot study which use the "last
      value carried out forward" approach to replace missing data. Descriptive statistics will be
      used to analyze the sample characteristics, demographics, and data related to the
      intervention feasibility, acceptability and adverse event of acupressure. Baseline
      differences among the three groups will be compared by chi-square test and repeated measure
      ANOVA. In case the chi-square test is not appropriated because of low cell counts (≤ 5), it
      will be replaced by Fisher's exact test. The effect size will be calculated by Cohen d based
      on the mean difference between baseline and end of the treatment period for each symptom and
      the cluster of insomnia, depression, and anxiety in the true self-acupressure group and sham
      acupressure group. The significance level is set at 0.05. IBM SPSS 20.0 software will be used
      for data analysis.
    
  