
    
      Overview.

      This four-year longitudinal project will enroll a total of 425 women who spontaneously quit
      smoking during pregnancy. The recruitment will take place during the delivery hospital stay
      in two of the largest obstetric-gynecology hospitals in Cluj-Napoca, Romania. The
      investigators will design, pre-test (Objective 1), apply, and evaluate a postpartum smoking
      relapse preventive randomized intervention among the first 250 recruited women and their
      husbands (Objective 2): 125 couples in the intervention group and 125 couples in the control
      group, comparing the women's relapse rates at 6 months postpartum. The project will continue
      to enroll and follow-up 175 additional women for a total of 300 not subjected to the
      intervention (125+175) to assess the extent of postpartum smoking relapse and associated risk
      factors in a prospective cohort study (Objective 3).

      The work plan.

      The first 6 months of the project consisted of a preparatory phase. Objective 1 was completed
      in the first 9 months of the project, and milestones included focus groups, interviews with
      women, their husbands, and medical staff, the design of the intervention and pre-testing its
      acceptability. Objective 2 is completed between months 10-24 of the project. Milestones
      include: recruiting 250 couples (months 10-30), applying the intervention (months 10-33), the
      follow-up assessment (months 16-36), and preliminary analyses (months 13-36). Objective 3 is
      completed between months 19-45 of the project. Milestones include: recruiting 175 additional
      women (months 19-39), the follow-up assessment (months 25-45), and preliminary analyses
      (months 22-45). The last 12 months (months 37-48) of the project will be used to conclude the
      project, including finalizing the database and analyses, preparing a final report, and
      preparing articles for publication.

      Objective 1: Design, pre-test, and refine an innovative intervention for preventing smoking
      relapse after pregnancy to maximize feasibility and potential impact.

      This objective represented the qualitative developmental phase of the postpartum relapse
      intervention in order to tailor the intervention to the needs of the target population. The
      focus-groups and interviews aimed to qualitatively explore the issues related to the women's
      motivation and self-efficacy, the two key components of the planned intervention. To develop
      the postpartum smoking relapse intervention strategy the Motivation and Problem Solving
      (MAPS) strategy of Reitzel and colleagues was followed, the newest approach in the relapse
      prevention field, incorporating both motivational and self-efficacy components into the
      intervention, adapted to local attitudes and preferences. MAPS was successful in preventing
      relapse. The intervention is based on Motivational Interviewing and the seminal relapse
      prevention model, probably the most prominent theory of smoking cessation and relapse.
      Self-efficacy is viewed as the principal causal determinant of successful abstinence, among
      other individual and contextual factors, is hypothesized to increase. The model also
      specifies that the individual needs to be sufficiently motivated to avoid relapse. Briefly,
      the phone counseling sessions consist of information about the benefits of abstinence to
      increase motivation, and helping women identify and manage high-risk relapse situations,
      therefore enhancing their self-efficacy. The aim is to deliver consistent repeated advice by
      a trained professional over the phone in the postpartum period. Following the newest
      approaches in the field, the smoking husbands/partners are also targeted with brief
      motivational advice using the birth as a teachable moment to quit. Two psychologists were
      trained to deliver the phone motivational advice. Self help materials were also created and
      are distributed to all 250 women participating in the trial. A randomization algorithm was
      set up to assign patients into the intervention or control groups.

      Objective 2: Implement and evaluate an intervention to prevent maternal smoking relapse after
      pregnancy in a randomized controlled trial setting.

      Participants. The aim is to recruit 250 pre-randomized (125 intervention vs. 125 control
      group) mothers at birth who quit smoking in the 2 months before pregnancy or no later than
      the end of 1st pregnancy trimester and remained abstinent until delivery, biochemically
      confirmed through expired carbon monoxide. The mothers are approached during the delivery
      hospital stay in two of the largest obstetrics-gynecology clinics in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
      Enrollment criteria include willingness and ability to participate in the study, age 18 or
      older, married or living with a stable partner, with a mobile phone, and willing to provide
      mobile phone contact for their husband or partner. Their husband or life partner is also
      approached and invited into the study at recruitment, if present, or by phone in the first
      weeks after birth.

      Procedures. At enrollment, all 250 participants are given self-help materials and 5-10 min of
      brief advice offered by the trained research personnel consisting of encouragement to remain
      quit, and a review of the smoking risks and the benefits of abstinence. The mothers in the
      intervention group additionally receive three telephone-based counseling sessions delivered
      by trained professionals over the phone at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months after birth. All
      smoking husbands or partners of the mothers in the intervention group are contacted in the
      first weeks after birth and are offered one phone motivational session to quit and support
      their wife's abstinence. To incentivize the couples to remain in the study and to appreciate
      their time and effort, gift certificates are mailed for baby-related merchandise around the
      1-month and 6-month follow-up contacts.

      Outcomes. The project follows-up with the couples at 6 months postpartum. Postpartum maternal
      abstinence is the main outcome, defined as maintaining smoke-free status continuously until
      the 6-month follow-up. The postpartum maternal abstinence is biochemically verified through
      expired carbon monoxide (CO) at 6-months postpartum (CO) <10 ppm. Secondary outcomes of
      interest are the maternal number of cigarettes smoked, self-efficacy, and motivation. The
      self-reported smoke status of the husband/partner is another outcome of interest.

      Maternal characteristics. An extended prenatal questionnaire is used at recruitment and at
      the 6-month follow-up. Based on the prior literature on the predictors of postpartum relapse,
      the questionnaire includes demographics (such as age, education, and ethnicity), health
      history (prior pregnancies history, contraception use and feelings about the pregnancy),
      mental health (depressive symptoms, stress, anxiety), nicotine dependence before quitting, an
      extensive section on smoking knowledge and attitudes, other substance use, breast feeding,
      and having a life partner who smokes (as reported by the new mother).

      Analytical plan. The required sample (100 intervention vs. 100 control at final follow-up)
      was calculated assuming abstinence rates of 0.3-0.4 (70% or 60% relapse) in the control group
      compared to anticipated 0.5-0.6 in intervention group, in order to attain 80% statistical
      power to detect the difference in two-tailed comparisons, alpha 0.05. Beginning with 125
      couples in the intervention vs. 125 in the control group at enrollment, consistent with prior
      projects in Romania, 20% attrition is assumed by the final follow-up at 6 months after birth
      (100 vs. 100). To evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention, initially unadjusted
      comparisons of the outcomes in intervention vs. the control groups will be performed.
      Regression analyses will be used to adjust for group dissimilarities when differences have
      p-values less than 0.10. A cost-benefit analysis of the intervention will also be performed.
      The intervention costs will be compared to the health benefits derived from increased mother
      abstinence rates, increased father quit rates, and reduced family exposure to tobacco smoke.
      The health benefits will be monetized using estimates available in the research literature.
      In addition, economic analyses will be presented for various scenarios in which the proposed
      intervention can be integrated and sustained in the existing Romanian health system.

      Objective 3. Assess the extent of postpartum smoking relapse and associated risk factors
      among women who spontaneously quit smoking during pregnancy.

      Participants. To assemble a larger sample of women who quit smoking during pregnancy, 175
      additional women are recruited during the delivery hospital stay, for a total of 300 (125
      from Objective 2 + 175) women not subjected to the intervention. For consistency, they are
      offered the same self-help materials, brief advice, and gift certificate incentives (see
      Objective 2).

      Outcomes and maternal characteristics. Postpartum maternal abstinence at 6 months postpartum
      are the main outcome of interest. A secondary outcome of interest is the maternal number of
      cigarettes smoked postpartum. Associations with all the maternal characteristics described
      above will be explored(see Objective 2), with a particular focus on the mental health, the
      nicotine dependence before quitting, breast feeding, and having a partner who smokes.

      Analytical plan. Descriptive and multivariate analyses will be used to compare the women who
      relapse to the ones who remain abstinent. Descriptive analyses (counts and percentages) will
      assess the extent of postpartum smoking relapse and explore unadjusted associations between
      various characteristics and risk factors of the women and their postpartum smoking status:
      abstinent vs. relapsed. Multivariate logistic analyses will uncover the independent,
      adjusted, effects of individual and interacted factors, statistically adjusting for the
      effects of all other variables included in the analysis.
    
  