
    
      Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a common neuropsychiatric complication of liver cirrhosis
      manifested by mild confusion, sleep disturbance or obtundation. Lactulose treatment has long
      been the standard of care, which presumably acidifies stool and eradicates toxic metabolites.
      However a third of these patients with hepatic encephalopathy do not respond to this standard
      treatment and have refractory HE. Hence newer drugs with effective improvement in HE and
      better side effect profile are still being tested.

      Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is in a class of medications called osmotic laxatives which works
      by causing water to be retained with the stool. PEG and lactulose, when used together, result
      in rapid overt HE resolution within 24 hours compared to the standard-of-care lactulose,
      suggesting that PEG may be superior to standard lactulose therapy in patients with cirrhosis
      hospitalized for acute HE.

      Rationale Non-absorbable disaccharides like lactulose are associated with non-serious (mainly
      gastrointestinal) adverse events like diarrhea and bloating, hence, due to the side effect
      profile, newer drugs continue to be tested for treatment of HE.

      Hypothesis and Aim The aim of this research project is to compare the effect of PEG with
      Lactulose for treatment of Hepatic Encephalopathy in patients with liver cirrhosis. The
      investigators want to compare the resolution of HE as the main outcome. In addition, they
      would compare length of stay, non-serious (mainly gastrointestinal) adverse events, and 3
      months outcome. The investigators hypothesize that rapid purgation of the gut using PEG may
      resolve HE more effectively than lactulose.

      These aims are original in that the investigators aim to test this hypothesis on a different
      patient population (South Asian), where the predominant cause of cirrhosis is due to viral
      hepatitis C and B. In addition,the investigators will also look at the effect of PEG v
      lactulose on 3 months outcome in this study.

      Significance The significance of this proposal is that if the investigators can prove the
      hypothesis, it will add to the currently limited evidence on use of PEG in treatment of HE in
      the world. PEG might have a better side effect profile when compared to lactulose. Based on
      current market pricing of lactulose, if PEG is found to have favorable outcome then it might
      be more cost effective as well. Hence PEG might be a useful alternative in 30% of those who
      don't respond to lactulose, if PEG shows favorable outcome.

      Objective Primary: To determine the effect of PEG versus Lactulose on resolution of HE in
      patients with liver cirrhosis during inpatient stay at 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours .

      Secondary: To determine the effect of Lactulose versus PEG on length of stay, and 3 months
      outcome in patients with liver cirrhosis.
    
  