
    
      How effortful a task feels is an integral aspect of human decision-making that shapes
      motivation. If a task feels very effortful one may be unwilling to perform the work required,
      whereas if a task feels less effortful one may be more likely to persevere. Despite the
      importance of these perceptions for decision-making, the behavioral and neural mechanisms of
      subjective effort valuation are not well understood. Furthermore, the National Institutes of
      Mental Health (NIMH) Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) has identified "Effort Valuation /
      Willingness to Work" as a key subconstruct for understanding deficits in motivated
      performance in mental disorders. The goal of this proposal is to understand the mechanisms of
      subjective valuation of physical and cognitive effort, and the common and distinct systems
      that underlie these representations. To this end, a combination of experiments in healthy
      human participants, computational modeling of behavior, and functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI) will be used. Aim 1 will identify common and distinct physical and cognitive
      effort valuation mechanisms. Computational models will be used to characterize participants'
      subjective valuation of physical and cognitive effort, and to test if there are similarities
      in subjective preferences for these different types of effort. Model-based fMRI will be used
      to examine the common and distinct brain regions that encode the subjective valuation of
      physical and cognitive effort, and the network of brain regions that incorporate such
      preferences to motivate effortful engagement. Aim 2 will investigate the behavioral and
      neural mechanisms by which physical and cognitive fatigue effect effort valuation.
      Participants will be fatigued with sustained physical or cognitive exertion to examine how
      being in a fatigued state influences subjective valuation of physical and cognitive effort;
      and associated signals in the brain's valuation network. Aim 3 will explore how motivational
      state modulates decisions to exert physical and cognitive effort. Choices for physical and
      cognitive effort will be paired with motivational cues (i.e., cues that formerly predicted
      reward) in order to modulate participants' motivational state. This manipulation will allow
      for behavioral and neural dissociations between motivation and effort valuation in order to
      understand how these processes interact to give rise to motivated physical and cognitive
      engagement. In sum, the proposed studies will have a broad impact on the field of
      decision-making by dissecting the behavioral and neural mechanisms responsible for physical
      and cognitive effort valuation. In the long term, these studies may reveal novel behavioral
      and neural markers to aid in the study, classification, and treatment of amotivation.
    
  