
    
      Patients will be recruited from the patient population followed at the Texas Children's
      Cancer and Hematology Centers (TCC/HC)/Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) and the University of
      Texas Houston Hematology Center. To be eligible to participate in this study, patients must
      have HbSC disease, have experienced a sickle cell disease related complication, or have a
      score of 80 or lower on the AdultQLTM Sickle Cell Disease Module 3.0. This questionnaire will
      be offered to all patients with HbSC seen in our clinic that consent to this study. Patients
      must also agree to clinic visits every two months, and to phlebotomy, or blood removal after
      6 months on the study if they meet criteria for phlebotomy.

      If the patient is a sexually active female, they will be offered birth control. If the
      patient chooses not to initiate effective birth control, they will be tested at their
      scheduled visit with a urine pregnancy test. If the patient becomes pregnant they will be
      removed from the study.

      Patients will be assessed in clinic every two months after starting treatment. Hydroxyurea
      will be started at 10 mg/kg/day, and increased by 5 mg/kg/day if needed to a maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) of 35/mg/day. The most common side effect of the drug is a drop in
      infection fighting cells, or white blood cells, so the medication will be started at a low
      dose and the dose will be increased only if it is safe to do so. After 6 months at MTD on the
      study, patients will be evaluated for their response to hydroxyurea. If they have not reached
      their MTD after 6 months their time on the study will be increased to allow for 6 months
      observation at MTD. The minimum time the patients will be on the study is 12 months after
      starting hydroxyurea therapy with an option to participate in a 2 year observation study
      following the end of the study.

      If the patients have had minimal or no benefit from the medication, monthly phlebotomy will
      be added to their treatment regimen, at 7-10 ml/kg. The first phlebotomy volume will be 7
      ml/kg, but may be increased to 10 ml/kg to obtain the target Hb of 9-10 g/dL. Patients will
      remain on hydroxyurea and phlebotomy for six months. If their Hb is less than or equal to 9.0
      g/dL on their phlebotomy visit, phlebotomy will not be performed and their phlebotomy visits
      will be spaced every 2 months. Patients time on the study will be increased to allow for 6
      months observation to ensure that there is no late harmful effects. The minimum time patients
      will be on the study is 18 months after starting phlebotomy with an option to participate in
      a 2 year observation study following the end of the study.

      Patients will be asked to allow the investigators to review information from their medical
      records at the start of the study, and throughout the study. If the patient would like to
      participate in the two year follow-up, their records will be reviewed during that period as
      well.
    
  