
    
      In cancer randomized controlled trials (RCT), the validated and most objectively defined
      evaluation criterion is overall survival (OS - delay between randomization and death).
      Therapeutic progress, the current context of strategic trials, and the multiplication of
      lines of treatment have resulted in the necessity to identify evaluation criteria other than
      OS, which can be observed more frequently and sooner. Endpoints such as progression-free
      survival (PFS) or disease-free survival (DFS) are commonly used instead of OS in RCT. The
      priority for patients, however, is to live longer or better, and ideally both, which raises
      the question as to the suitability of these tumor-specific endpoints to assess the
      benefit/risk balance associated to a new therapy in elderly patients with cancer. Older
      patients may die from causes other than cancer, and relapse does not necessarily shorten
      survival. Instead, cancer therapy can sometimes cause severe acute or chronic toxicities and
      affect functional status or health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and as such these
      patient-centered outcomes (e.g. autonomy, quality of life) should be given more attention. On
      the basis of these considerations, OS may not be the most appropriate outcome to measure
      treatment benefit in the elderly cancer population.

      Geriatric oncology experts and task forces including the International Society of Geriatric
      Oncology, the European Organization for Research and Treatment Cancer (EORTC) and the DIALOG
      research group (Dialogue Intergroupe pour la personnALisation de la prise en charge en
      OncoGériatrie), have acknowledged the heterogeneity of primary endpoints used in RCT
      conducted in elderly cancer patients. This heterogeneity, in terms of dimension
      (tumor-centered outcomes, patient-centered outcomes including autonomy, nutrition, etc.) and
      definitions limits the comparison of results across trials. In addition, this can make the
      design of trials particularly complex since estimation of sample size is usually based on
      results from past trials. Acknowledging the specificities of the elderly population, the
      DATECAN-Elderly project is aimed at providing guidelines for the definition of efficacy
      endpoints that will permit to assess new treatments/interventions in this population.

      The DATECAN-Elderly project is a continuation of the development of guidelines within the
      DATECAN initiative (Definition for the Assessment of Time-to-event Endpoints in CANcer
      trials). This international initiative was launched in 2009 to elaborate standardized
      definitions for survival endpoints in RCT, based on a rigorous and validated consensus
      methodology. This work has resulted in the publication of guidelines to define time-to-event
      endpoints to be used in randomized trials for specific cancer sites: sarcomas, pancreas,
      breast, and other. These guidelines however were not developed for the elderly cancer
      patients. Events specifically accounted for included exclusively tumor-oriented events (e.g.
      local, regional, metastatic progressions, or deaths due to various causes).

      Based on our past experience and expertise within the DATECAN initiative, we will rely on the
      same methodology to develop guidelines for the definitions of endpoints to assess treatment
      efficacy in elderly cancer RCT. The development of the definitions of the endpoints will be
      based on a rigorous and validated consensus methodology (formal modified Delphi consensus
      process). We will focus on (i) the dimensions to be accounted for when assessing treatment
      efficacy (OS, HRQoL, autonomy, etc), (ii) the quantification of dimensions (selection of the
      questionnaires), and (iii) the incorporation of these dimensions into trial design.
      DATECAN-Elderly guidelines will be developed in cooperation with many experts (30 to 50) in
      the field of geriatric oncology and clinical trials from different scientific backgrounds
      (medical oncologists, geriatricians, biostatisticians, etc.) and groups/societies (DIALOG,
      SIOG, EORTC, etc.), favouring the acceptability of the resulting recommendations.
      Recommendations developed through international collaborations and through a formal and
      validated consensus process can increase chances of becoming widely adopted through a
      democratic process to reach consensus, and, as such, help in the standardization process of
      the definitions.

      Results of the DATECAN-Elderly project are expected to address the heterogeneity regarding
      efficacy endpoints used as primary endpoints in elderly cancer trials. Providing definitions
      for endpoints should lead to the evaluation of treatment more consistent with patient's
      experiences and expectations about treatment outcome. Overall, the project should help
      provide trials' results which are more relevant for the elderly patients, improves the
      recruitment of elderly patient in RCT, and finally enhance trials' comparison and design.
    
  