
    
      This RCT was implemented from May 2016 to April 2017 in Shenzhen, China. Shenzhen is the
      fourth-biggest city in China, with a rapidly expanding population of 12 million people and
      the highest GDP in the country. Most DM patients in China are managed at Endocrine Specialist
      hospital clinics, while the more stable patients are treated in the community. Therefore, we
      chose an endocrine specialist outpatient clinic and a family medicine clinic at the
      University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital (HKU-SZH), as well as three community health
      centers in the Luohu district as the sampling frame. DM patients were recruited by doctors at
      consultations. This is because health education lectures are one of the routine diabetes
      management strategies used by healthcare providers in China and patients are normally invited
      by their doctors to attend these lectures.

      Sample size estimation was calculated based on the previous published research conducted
      elsewhere in which the DM patients were given MI-guided behavior change counselling. The
      "Problem Areas in Diabetes" (PAID) score in that study was 29±22.64 in the intervention group
      vs. 29±24.32 in the control group. Therefore, 192 participants were needed to detect 10%
      effect size with an alpha of 0.05 and a power of 80.0%. With 15% of loss to follow-up
      anticipated, a total of 225 participants were targeted.

      Descriptive statistics were used to summarize characteristics of the participants. We
      analyzed the baseline data of the intervention and control groups to determine the
      consistency of the characteristics across the two groups of patients. The t-test was used for
      continuous variables such as waist circumference, body weight, and BMI, whereas chi-squared
      test was used for categorical variables in stages of change such as smoking, drinking, and
      exercise. Changes in PAID and PEI in post-intervention and follow-ups between the two groups
      were calculated and tested.

      When analyzing the two sets of variables in the intervention and control groups, we followed
      the principle of intent-to-treat analysis i.e. if the participant failed to participate in
      all four modules, the first questionnaire results would be assumed and analyzed as the final
      data, using the mixed design analysis of variance. In detecting the relationship between the
      continuity variable and categorical variable, we used bivariate correlation analyses. All
      analyses were performed in SPSS 20.0. We used p value<0.05 as the cut-off point of
      statistical significance.
    
  