
    
      Conventional fixed orthodontic treatment with metal brackets has been rejected by some adult
      patients because of esthetic and social concerns, but the demand for orthodontic treatment is
      currently increasing. To satisfy the demands and needs of these patients, the emphasis has
      shifted toward esthetic orthodontic appliance system. Less noticeable appliances such as
      ceramic, resin, and lingual brackets, or removable clear appliances such as the Essix and
      Invisalign (Align Technology, Santa Clara, Calif) provide esthetic orthodontic appliance
      alternatives.

      Since the introduction of clear aligners to the public in 1999, it has become a popular
      treatment choice for clinicians because of the aesthetics and comfort of the removable clear
      aligners compared with traditional appliances. Several studies have shown significant
      limitations of this technique, especially in treating complex malocclusions, whereas other
      studies have reported successfully treated cases with this removable appliance. A systematic
      review conducted to determine the treatment effects of clear aligners showed that no strong
      conclusions could be made regarding the treatment effects of aligners . Therefore, clinical
      trials were still required to investigate the effectiveness of the Invisalign system.

      When using the aligners to correct severe crowding, root positions must be carefully
      controlled during extraction space closure, and clear aligners must be properly grip all
      teeth to be moved, Tipping was a common problem in premolar extraction cases during the early
      years of aligners use. Several previous reports have also discussed the limited ability of
      thermoplastic appliances to control root-tipping movements and to establish root control
      comparable to that provided by fixed appliances. The investigators describe the extraction
      treatment of a patient with moderate to severe tooth crowding using mini screws and clear
      appliances, thus eliminating the need for conventional brackets.
    
  