
    
      Study design This study, which was planned as a prospective, descriptive, cross-sectional
      survey study, had online-based questions. The participants answered the questions via the
      internet between April-July 2020. Ethical approval of the study was obtained from the
      Non-Interventional Clinical Research Ethics Committee of Afyonkarahisar Health Science
      University (Date/issue:2020/318) and the study follows the principles of the Declaration of
      Helsinki. All individuals were informed through written online documents and they were
      permitted to answer the questions after the informed consent approval button was clicked.

      Participants Communication with the participants of the study was conducted via online survey
      software (Google Forms) and social media communication application (WhatsApp). The inclusion
      criteria for the participants were as follows; to be between the age of 18-65, healthy
      (physically, psychologically and cognitively) and to live in Turkey. Individuals with
      pregnancy, with a history of any surgery in the last 6 months, and with the presence of any
      acute or chronic diseases (infection-related, neurological, rheumatological, cardiovascular,
      orthopedic… etc.) were excluded from the study.

      Outcome measures The demographic data of the participants and the International Physical
      Activity Questionnaires-Short Form (IPAQ-SF) were recorded using the internet. Participants
      needed approximately 10 minutes to answer the questions.

      International Physical Activity Questionnaires-Short Form (IPAQ-SF): In our study, we used
      IPAQ-SF which was developed for international screening studies with the support of the WHO.
      The validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the questionnaire were performed by
      Sağlam et al. (2010). The short form of the questionnaire (7 questions) provides information
      about walking, moderate and vigorous activities and time spent sitting. Total score
      calculation of the short form included the sum of frequency (days) and duration (minutes) of
      walking, moderate and vigorous activities. The energy required for the activities was
      calculated with the Metabolic Equivalent of Task (MET)-minute score. The sitting score
      (sedentary behavior level) was calculated separately. A score as "MET-minute / week" was
      obtained by multiplying the minute, day and MET value (multiples of resting oxygen
      consumption). Walking time (minutes) was multiplied by 3.3 MET for the calculation of the
      walking score. During the calculation, 4 MET values for a moderate activities, and 8 MET
      values for vigorous activities were used. Following the calculation, a MET score under 600
      was regarded as physically inactive; a score between 600 and 3000 was regarded as minimally
      active and a score of over 3000 was regarded as sufficiently active or Health-Enhancing
      Physical Activity.
    
  