
    
      The use of nerve ultrasound for the diagnosis and monitoring of neuromuscular diseases is a
      promising growing field (1). Non-invasive and painless, ultrasound provides additional data
      electroneuromyography (EMG), with a spatial resolution at least as good as MRI, while being
      easily accessible and inexpensive.The polyradiculoneuritis Inflammatory Demyelinating
      Chronicles (IPDC), Neuropathies Motrices in Multifocal Conduction Blocks (NMMBC) and
      neuropathy associated with anti-MAG antibodies are among the major chronic inflammatory
      neuropathies with an autoimmune etiology. The diagnosis of these pathologies is based on the
      clinic, diagnostic tests and EMG. The interest not only in the diagnosis, but also for
      monitoring these pathologies using ultrasound analysis nerves has been demonstrated recently
      in several studies. However the limited resolution of current ultrasound images do not allow
      detailed study of the internal structure of the nerves which could later help deepen
      knowledge in this innovative field and can better understand the pathophysiological mechanism
      of the evolution of these pathologies .

      To do this, the investigators have available a UHF ultrasound in the ultrasound department of
      the Nice University Hospital Pasteur Hospital 2 The investigators realize a descriptive
      analysis study, pilot, mono-centric, multi and prospective on patients followed in the center
      with a diagnosis of IPDC, a NMMBC or neuropathy with anti-MAG antibodies and control subjects
      matched by age and sex. All the patients and controls in this study will receive a briefing
      and must sign an informed consent.

      They realize an ultrasound study of the nerve, using an ultra high frequency ultrasound
      system that will allow the assessment of anatomical structures of nerve (size, structure,
      vascularisation and assessment booklets). Ultrasound data will, in a second stage, compared
      with the data obtained with the EMG and clinical scores obtained using clinical rating
      scales. 40 subjects will be included, divided into four subgroups: 10 subjects with a
      diagnosis of IPDC (1), 10 subjects with a diagnosis of NMMBC (2), 10 subjects with a
      diagnosis of neuropathy antibody-anti MAG (3) and 10 control subjects with no signs of
      neuropathy at the EMG examination.

      The main objective of this pilot study is to provide a descriptive analysis of the morphology
      of the nerves with an ultra high frequency ultrasound in subgroups of CIDP patients, anti-MAG
      antibodies and neuropathy NMMBC and controls. The thickness of the epineurium, the hallmarks
      of fascicular organization, Doppler vascularity, the nerve-sectional area, the specification
      of the section surface, nerve hypertrophy, the thickness of the perineurium and
      ultrastructural characterization of the different fascicular organization typologies will be
      well analyzed in order to better understand the specific sonographic characteristics of each
      disease compared with controls, no data exist at present in the literature with such image
      resolution.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Compare the morphological characteristics obtained by ultra high frequency ultrasound
           between different subjects subgroups according to the morphological data collected and
           sonographic scores: evaluation of nerve hypertrophy (intra- and inter-ratio nerve nerve)
           (4 ) and intra-fascicular nerve and nerve cross-ratio.

        2. To study the correlation between sonographic and clinical scores scores in different
           subjects subgroups using functional assessment scales: MRC score, R-ODS score, INCAT,
           ONLS, ataxia Score and a torque rating of grip strength.

        3. To study the correlation between sonographic scores and electrophysiological scores by
           making a électroneurogramme (ENG) in the different subjects of subgroups: the amplitude
           and distal motor latency for distal motor conduction, the motor conduction velocities,
           the presence of time dispersion or of a conduction block to the stepped motor
           conduction, the latency of the waveform F to the proximal motor conduction and the
           amplitude of the sensory potential for sensory conduction.
    
  