
    
      It is a descriptive study that proposes to evaluate the feasibility of the transnasal
      endoscopy to screen for gastroesophageal varices in patients with portal hypertension,
      cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic. The rupture of gastroesophageal varices is the principal cause
      of death among cirrhotics, responsible for high rates of morbidity and mortality. Current
      medical literature recommends that the cirrhotic and the carriers of non-cirrhotic portal
      hypertension screen for gastric-esophageal varices in order to establish prophylactic and
      therapeutic measures, when recommended. Usually, the conventional peroral
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy is used for such purpose but the need for sedation reduces
      productivity, increases costs and introduces a small but not insignificant risk concerning
      complications, especially in decompensated cirrhotic. For this reason, a transnasal endoscopy
      would be an interesting option for these patients because it does not require sedation.

      The patients will be referred to endoscopy unit from general hepatology and viral hepatitis
      ambulatory settings. All of those who were asked to undergo esophagogastroduodenoscopy to
      screen for gastroesophageal varices will be invited to participate in the study, as long as
      they fulfill the inclusion criteria and agree to participate and sign Consent Form.

      After the endoscopy, a questionnaire will be filled out with information about the exam,
      tolerance, incidence of adverse effects and alterations that were found. This questionnaire
      will have information about the liver disease cause, the cirrhosis staging to evaluate the
      patient's disease gravity and the patient's perception of the exam. The endoscopy will
      register the alterations that were found and the data about the patient's monitoring.
      Besides, the alterations related to the portal hypertension and afterwards the images
      analyzed by another endoscopist will be photographed for the matched calculation.

      The results will be submitted to analysis. Statistical differences will be calculated using
      test "t" of student or Chi-square and significant values (p) under 0.05 considered.
    
  