
    
      Atrioventricular (A-V) conduction disorders are common after Transcatheter Aortic Valve
      Implantation (TAVI) and the average of a pacemaker implantation after TAVI is 15% to 17%.

      The European Society of Cardiology recommends to implant a permanent pacemaker (PM) in case
      of persistant high-grade A-V block (AVB) within 7 days of a TAVI procedure (class I
      recommendation, level of evidence C).

      Some conduction disturbances are transient and might not need a definitive indication for
      pacemaker implantation. A recent study, based on dependency of patients to pacing, estimate
      that in half the patients, conduction disturbances that led to the implantation of a
      pacemaker after TAVI procedure would have disappear 30 days after the procedure.

      Many studies tried to better define the indications of these devices. However, their
      evaluation criteria do not allow to prove these pacemakers were useful, because these studies
      are mainly based on the rate of implantation of pacemakers, or on the percentage of
      ventricular pacing. These studies may overestimate the usefulness of the pacemaker because of
      unnecessary ventricular pacing, or underestimate it in patients with high grade paroxysmal
      AVB, that could have been responsible for syncope or death.

      Today some pacemakers allow a better occurrence of spontaneous A-V conduction and monitor
      precisely the atrioventricular conduction.

      The AAI SafeR® mode from Sorin® allows the pacemaker to switch from a single to a dual
      chamber mode in case of AVB; these switches are stored in the memories of PM as endocardial
      electrogram (EGM) which can be validated afterwards. The use of this algorithm could allow an
      accurate assessment of the persistence of high level conduction disturbances in patients
      implanted with a pacemaker after a TAVI procedure. A study published in late 2014 using this
      tool in monitoring post TAVI conduction disorders on a small number of patients, other
      studies used the same tool in other cardiac pathologies.
    
  