
    
      The introduction of propofol and short acting opioids has allowed intubation without the use
      of NMBA to become routine practice. The combination of an opioid and propofol reduces
      laryngeal reflexes and decreases pressor response to intubation. Identification of the
      optimum dose combination and sequence of remifentanil-propofol for intubation would allow
      clinicians to abandon the use of non depolarizing muscle relaxants.Younger children may need
      higher doses of Remifentanil to facilitate intubation as they are more tolerant to the
      respiratory depressant effect of Remifentanil. The Remifentanil dose will be prepared in a
      standard fashion by an anesthesiologist not directly involved in the study from the data
      given to them by a research assistant. The anesthesiologists performing laryngoscopy will be
      one of the four investigators. There will be a standard starting dose, which must be as close
      to the population mean as possible. All subjects will receive a minimum dose of 1µg/kg
      remifentanil which has been shown to produce acceptable intubating conditions.

      The dose of remifentanil for the following subject in each group will be determined from the
      dose used in the previous subject and response to intubation using an" up and down"
      sequential-allocation technique described by Dixon.

      The mean remifentanil intubation dose will be obtained by calculating the midpoint
      concentration of all independent pairs of patients involving a crossover (ie. Intubation
      scores all1 to intubation scores not all 1). Mean remifentanil intubation dose would be the
      average of the crossover midpoints in each subgroup. In addition the standard deviation of
      remifentanil dose will be the standard deviation of the crossover midpoints in each group.
      Patient demographics (age/sex/weight), and time to return of spontaneous ventilation will be
      expressed as mean +/- standard deviation. The inter-group comparisons will be performed using
      analysis of variance with a difference of 0.5 µg/kg considered to be significant and a p<0.05
      considered statistically significant.
    
  