
    
      After initial diagnosis patients will be treated with a standard platinum/etoposide regimen.
      This standard first-line chemotherapy may/will be administered to patients under the
      direction of their primary medical oncologist inside or outside of the Moffitt Cancer Center.
      Patients will receive the platinum drug on day 1 and etoposide on days 1-3 of each 21-day
      cycle for 4-6 cycles. Patients who have progressive disease (PD) at this point are changed to
      second line chemotherapy, and will not be eligible to participate in this clinical trial.
      Patients who achieve a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD)
      after standard first-line chemotherapy will be enrolled. Radiographic studies and tumor
      measurements are repeated 3-6 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy (+/- PCI) and may be
      repeated after prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) at the discretion of the principal
      investigator (PI) and treating physician.

      PCI will be permitted at the discretion of the treating oncologist(s). The initial radiation
      consultation and simulation should occur as soon as the final staging has occurred. Ideally,
      treatment should commence 1-2 weeks after final staging has been confirmed and will be
      administered in 10-15 fractions over a 2-3 week period, as recommended by the treating
      radiation oncologist. Although steroid use is not prohibited, it is recommended and preferred
      that they not be used during PCI (steroids will have to be discontinued ≥ 2 weeks before
      first vaccination). PCI can also be considered between vaccines #4 and #5 or vaccine #5 and
      #6 in those patients eligible for the second course of vaccinations. Systemic dose of
      steroids will NOT be allowed in these cases unless strictly necessary and after discussion
      with the PI.

      Patients who achieve CR, PR or SD after the completion of first line chemotherapy +/- PCI
      will be screened for initial registration. Screening tests and procedures will be performed
      approximately 4-6 weeks after the completion of first line chemotherapy or 6-9 weeks after
      completion of PCI. Ideally, screening should be completed 1-2 weeks prior to leukopheresis.

      Patients who successfully complete the screening exams for initial registration will be
      randomized into one of three study arms.
    
  