
    
      We propose to conduct the first pharmacotherapy relapse prevention study in body dysmorphic
      disorder (BDD). BDD, an often-delusional preoccupation with a nonexistent or slight defect in
      appearance, is a distressing, impairing, and common body image disorder. It is associated
      with high rates of functional impairment and markedly poor quality of life. It appears that
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) are often--and selectively--efficacious for BDD and that
      many BDD patients receive SRIs. It also appears that most patients discontinue an efficacious
      SRI at some point, as the alternative is life-long treatment. However, no relapse prevention
      studies have been done. Such a study is important from a clinical and public health
      perspective, because BDD appears to often be chronic and require long-term treatment. It is
      therefore critically important to investigate the risk of relapse with SRI discontinuation,
      and whether continuation SRI treatment decreases relapse risk.

      Subjects will be enrolled and first treated openly for 14 weeks with escitalopram; 58
      escitalopram responders will then be randomized to double-blind continuation treatment with
      escitalopram or placebo for 6 additional months. Our primary aim is to compare time to
      relapse and relapse rates in responders to acute escitalopram who are then randomized to
      placebo versus continuation treatment with escitalopram. Secondary/exploratory aims will
      explore 1) Whether subjects who receive continuation escitalopram perform better on secondary
      outcome measures (e.g., quality of life) than those on placebo; 2) Change in symptoms with
      continuation of escitalopram during the continuation phase; and 3) Acute treatment response.

      In summary, this study will be the first relapse prevention study in BDD and the first study
      of continuation pharmacotherapy in BDD. It will provide critically important information on
      relapse with continuation versus discontinuation of an SRI, whether continuation treatment
      protects against relapse, and change in symptoms with continuation treatment. This study will
      yield unique and clinically important data, and will fill gaps in knowledge about this
      common, severe, and understudied illness.
    
  