
    
      Effective large bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy is still not achieved in all cases that
      undergo the procedure. The use of balanced electrolyte-polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution
      have improved the cleansing results and shortened the time needed for preparing the bowel.
      The problem with using PEG solution alone is the relatively large volume of the solution that
      the patients need to drink. The recommendation is to drink the solution until diarrhea fluid
      is clear and often 4 L or more is needed. Many patients refuse to drink the sufficient volume
      needed to get a clean colon. The large volume load can be a risk to patients suffering from
      renal and/or heart insufficiency.

      Good results of bowel cleansing have also been reported with sodium phosphate solution or
      tablets. The fluid volume needed to drink along with sodium phosphate is generally no problem
      but this regimen causes electrolyte disturbances that usually are subclinical and of no
      significance but in patients with renal or heart insufficiency the sodium phosphate is
      contraindicated due to the risk of serious electrolyte disturbances.

      Several combinations of stimulant laxatives with PEG solution have been tested before and the
      actual combination has been compared in one randomized study(1). Low-volume PEG plus
      sennosides preparation was better tolerated but it was not as effective as standard
      large-volume PEG.

      PEG solution (Laxabon®) 4L is used for large bowel cleansing in many centers in Sweden and is
      the standard regimen used in our colonoscopy unit. In this study we compare this standard
      regimen with senna glycoside (Pursennid® Ex-Lax) 36mg (tablets) taken orally in the night
      before the colonoscopy and 2L Laxabon® solution orally starting to drink the solution four
      hours prior to the colonoscopy.

      The result of large bowel cleansing is evaluated during the colonoscopy according to two
      separate validated scoring methods (Aronchick and Ottawa scores). Abdominal symptoms,
      discomfort, subjective grading of how hard/easy it was to complete the cleansing program and
      extra costs are evaluated with questionnaires.
    
  