
    
      It is believed that the body's immune system protects the body by attacking and killing tumor
      cells. T-lymphocytes (T-cells) are part of the immune system and can attack when they
      recognize special proteins on the surface of tumors. But in most patients with advanced
      cancer, T-cells are not stimulated enough to kill the tumor. In this research study, we will
      use your tumor to make a vaccine which we hope will stimulate your T-cells to kill tumor
      cells and leave your normal cells alone.

      High grade gliomas (HGGs) are very aggressive and difficult for the body's immune system to
      attack. Before T-cells can become active against tumor cells, they require strong stimulation
      by special "stimulator" cells in the body called Dendritic Cells (DCs) which are also part of
      the immune system. DCs can recognize the cancer cells and then activate the T lymphocytes,
      and create this strong stimulation.

      The purpose of this research study is to learn whether anti-tumor T-cells and anti-tumor DC
      vaccines can be given safely. Most importantly, this study is also to determine whether the
      T-cells and DC vaccines can stimulate your immune system to fight off the tumor cells in your
      brain. When the vaccine for this study is made, dendritic cells will be loaded with genetic
      material called RNA (ribonucleic acid) from your tumor to stimulate the dendritic cells. The
      vaccine has two components given at different times after chemoradiation and throughout
      chemotherapy cycles. The first part, the DC vaccine, involves RNA loaded dendritic cells that
      are given under the skin at several time points in the study and the second part, xALT
      vaccine, is a single infusion of tumor-specific T cells delivered through one of two
      peripheral IV catheters that are placed prior to infusion. This vaccine is investigational
      which means that it is not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and is being
      tested in research studies.

      It is hoped that by injecting the DC vaccine into your skin and infusing the T-cells into
      your blood, your immune system will be activated against the tumor. Once it is activated
      against the tumor, your immune system may recognize and attack the tumor cells in your brain
      and not attack normal cells. Use of a vaccine that stimulates your immune system is called
      immunotherapy.
    
  