
    
      LAS are not benign injuries. As many as 4 in 10 individuals will develop chronic ankle
      instability (CAI) after a first-time sprain, More than half of patients with osteoarthritis
      (OA) of the ankle report a history of a sport-related ankle injury, and 85% of those are LAS.
      There is also evidence of a reduction in physical activity long after an ankle sprain injury.
      Given the deleterious effects of inactivity and health-related quality-of-life deficits
      associated with CAI and OA.

      The high potential for lateral ankle sprain injury recurrence during gait is likely due to
      the inappropriate positioning of the lower extremity joints in the loading-unloading
      transitions between stance and swing. One of the most commonly reported biomechanic
      alterations during walking observed in patients with LAS consists of increased inversion at
      initial contact, increased inversion during gait has been speculated to be a risk factor for
      recurrent sprain and episodes of instability as the inverted position places patients closer
      to the mechanism of injury.

      Following lateral ankle sprains, individuals demonstrated a more inverted rearfoot of the
      pivot leg (affected side) during the midstance of gait compared to healthy controls. Patients
      have diminished gait velocity, step length, time in single support, more plantar flexion, and
      a more inverted rearfoot pre and post initial contact compared to healthy controls.

      Following lateral ankle sprains a high score indicates substantial movement away from the
      participant COG, which indicates poor balance. A Biodex balance system is a form of testing
      used to assess balance. This testing apparatus is a tilting platform allowing an examiner to
      objectively measure a subjects balance on an unstable platform. The platform allows for
      varying levels of balance difficulty. It is used as a dynamic postural control assessment and
      also a training system.

      The BBS is a reliable and reproducible method for evaluating postural limits, and
      visual-stability and fall risk from the posture center of mass that can be made while
      maintaining postural stability.
    
  