
    
      In nasogastric tube (NG tube) feeding, a tube is used to transport enteral nutrition to the
      stomach through the nose (Mosby's Medical Dictionary, 2009). This feeding modality is widely
      used in the geriatric population, especially for patients with cognitive impairment and oral
      feeding problems in a residential care home settings (Rowat, 2015). Approximately 3.5% of
      residents in a Hong Kong residential care home for elders (RCHE) were reported to use NG
      tubes for long-term feeding (Leung et al., 2000). Contamination of the NG tube hub, defined
      as the connection port between the NG tube and enteral feeding administration set, is
      considered a risk factor for the acquisition and transmission of microorganisms (Matlow et
      al., 2005). NG tube hubs can serve as reservoirs for microorganismal colonisation. For
      example, enteral milk contamination results from bacterial spread in contaminated tube hubs
      (Matlow et al., 2005; Donskey, 2004). Accordingly, NG tube feeding contamination occurs when
      the total bacterial count in enteral milk exceeds 10 to the power 4 colony-forming units per
      millilitre (cfu/ml) (Borges, Campos, Cardoso, Andre, & Serafini, 2010). NG tube feeding
      contamination is a serious issue, with potential complications including mortality,
      septicaemia, bacteraemia, diarrhoea, and pneumonia (Leanne, 2014 & Anderton, 2000).

      Previous research indicates that insufficient knowledge about infection control and poor NG
      tube feeding skills among RCHE staff would result in the passive transport of bacteria from
      contaminated tube hubs to enteral feed (Ho et al., 2012; National Institute for Health &
      Clinical Excellence, 2012; Duckro, Blom, Lyle, Weintein, & Hayden, 2009; Bankhead, Boullata,
      & Brantley, 2009). Additionally, Ho et al. (2012) demonstrated a strong relationship between
      the number of total bacterial counts on the fingertips of RCHE staff, NG tube hubs of the
      residents, and enteral milk. In Hong Kong, registered nurses (RNs), enrolled nurses (ENs),
      health workers (HWs), and personal care workers (PCWs) provide daily nursing care services to
      residents of RCHEs. Specifically, HWs and PCWs provide direct care, such as NG tube feeding,
      to residents under the supervision of RNs and ENs. However, PCWs and HWs hold low levels of
      knowledge and skills related to NG tube feeding (Ho et al., 2012; Annette, Bourgault, Weaver,
      Swartz, & O'Dea, 2007; Howell, 2002) and receive minimal education on infection control
      during the care of residents with NG tubes (Hong Kong St. John Ambulance, 2016). Accordingly,
      the inadequate skills of RCHE staff in terms of NG tube feeding could lead to bacterial
      contamination (Leanne, 2014; Anderton, 2000).

      Despite the above evidence, no previous study has described NG tube feeding practices used at
      local RCHEs in Hong Kong. Some international studies have revealed that RCHE staff members do
      not use non-touch techniques when connecting administration sets to the residents' NG tube
      hubs (Beattie & Anderton, 1998). Annette et al. (2007) reported that RCHE staff members
      unnecessarily disconnected NG tube feeding systems while repositioning residents and changing
      linens. Moreover, although 60-ml syringes are widely recommended for the prevention of
      multi-decanting procedures when administrating milk and medications (Roberts et al., 2007;
      Bowers, 2000), a previous study found that RCHE staff members repeatedly used 20-ml syringes
      during milk and medication decanting procedures (Annette et al., 2007). NICE (2012) advised
      the use of sterile water to flush all feeding tubes. However, in one study, RCHE staff used
      non-boiled water during NG tube feeding in elderly residents (Allen, 2015). These poor skills
      increase the risk of bacterial growth in NG tube feeding systems (NICE, 2012 & Ho et al.,
      2102).

      A previous study reported a relationship among NG tube hub contamination, NG tube feeding
      contamination, and insufficient NG tube feeding knowledge and skills held by RCHE staff
      members (Ho et al., 2012). Therefore, a comprehensive literature search was conducted to
      explore the effects of an infection control education programme on NG tube feeding
      contamination in RCHEs. Four studies conducted at RCHEs in the United States (Michigan),
      Europe (Northern Ireland and France) and Hong Kong satisfied the literature search objectives
      (Mody, Krein, Saint, Min, Montoya & Lansing, 2015; Ho et al., 2012; Kathleen, Gavazzi,
      Bar-Hen, Carrat, de Wazieres, & Lejeune, 2012; Baldwin, Gilpin, Tunney, Kearney, Crymble, &
      Cardwell, 2010). These four studies featured several common characteristics of teaching
      contents, including the provision of a multimodal infection control programme (ICP) regarding
      hand hygiene education, the proper use of personal protective equipment, and medical device
      (NG tube) care to RCHE staff. The studies utilised a combination of multimodal strategies
      with varied multimodal ICP contents. Here, 'multimodal' is defined as the involvement of
      several modes of activities, whereas 'strategy' is defined as a plan of action intended to
      accomplish a specific goal (Free Dictionary Oxford, 2016). Therefore, a multimodal strategy
      is needed to improve infection control practice (Pittet et al., 2000).

      The proposed multimodal ICP will have a duration of 12 weeks to ensure the sustainability of
      knowledge and skills. Six 45-minute sessions will be provided at 2-week intervals.

      In this study, the investigator would explore the effectiveness of the multimodal ICP in the
      reduction of the total bacterial counts on the NG tube hubs, enteral millk of the residents
      and the 10 fingertips of the RCHEs staff by increasing the knowledge and skills of the NG
      tube feeding among RCHEs staff with the multimodal ICP.
    
  