
    
      The aim of the present clinical study was directed to evaluate the effectiveness of
      micro-osteoperforations on the rate of canine retraction; in addition, the potential risk for
      root resorption during maxillary canine retraction.

      This study was conducted on a total sample of 24 canines of 12 patients, 8 females and 4
      males, with mean age was 16.17 ± 2.29 years old who required therapeutic extraction of
      maxillary 1st premolars and canine retraction. They were selected randomly from the
      Outpatient Clinic, Department of Orthodontics, Faculty of Dental Medicine (Boys), Al-Azhar
      University, Cairo, Egypt.

      Both maxillary canines, in each patient, were randomly assigned to either an experimental
      side or the control side in a simple split-mouth design. In the experimental side,
      micro-osteoperforations was performed distal to the maxillary canine before starting
      retraction, while the canines in the contralateral control side were retracted without
      micro-osteoperforations.

      Extraction was done at the start of the treatment, and before fitting of the orthodontic
      appliance. Then upper dental arches were leveled and aligned using conventional sequences of
      wires.

      Three flapless micro-osteoperforations was performed by using orthodontic miniscrews distal
      to the maxillary canines in the experimental side before starting retraction. Each
      perforation was 1.6 mm in diameter and 3-4 mm depth into the bone. Canines were completely
      retracted on 0.016 × 0.022 ̋ stainless steel wires by using closed coil spring delivered 150
      gm force.

      Patients were followed up every 28 days until complete canine retraction. Routine orthodontic
      records were obtained for each patient before treatment.

      Additionally, a full skull CBCT images were taken before treatment and immediately after
      canine retraction.

      The rate of canine retraction was assessed clinically; in addition, cone beam CT (CBCT) scans
      were used to assess the amount of canine retraction root length changes. Also anchorage loss
      of first permanent molars were assessed.

      The treatment results were compared clinically and radiographically (CBCT).
    
  