
    
      This is a 2-arm, multi-site, physician-randomized pragmatic trial to evaluate the impact and
      scalability of the EMC2 strategy to promote safe medication use and adherence.

      Treatment Arms and Duration:

      Usual Care. Usual care includes 1) variable provider counseling with limited or variable EHR
      notifications or counseling support; 2) no distribution of print medication information
      materials, including FDA Medication Guides in clinics and variable distribution in
      pharmacies; and 3) limited or no active surveillance of medication use post-visits.

      Intervention: EMC2 Strategy.

      In brief, there are several components to this strategy that will be embedded into the
      workflow via EHR/patient portal platforms, mostly automating their implementation. Following
      patient movement through a provider visit, the following activities will occur for a select
      list of pre-specified medications:

        1. Physician Medication Alert: If a prescribing physician attempts to place a new order or
           change to an existing study medication prescription, an EHR-generated alert will notify
           the provider that the medication requires patient counseling. Physicians can opt to
           ignore this alert.

        2. Provider Counseling Support: Content from the 1-page, Med Guide Summary will appear on
           the screen, if selected by the provider, to orient and inform provider-patient
           discussion.

        3. Automated Delivery of Med Guide + Summary: When patients leave an encounter, the
           medication order in Epic will automatically cue printing of both the 1-page, health
           literate Med Guide Summary for study medications and a full Med Guide, if applicable
           (latter is required by FDA for certain medications only, the former designed to enhance
           comprehension).

        4. Follow-Up Portal Questionnaire: Within 1 week post-visit, patients will receive an
           automated email prompting them to log on to the patient portal. Patients' will be asked
           to fill out a short set of questions related to medication adherence, and other
           medication-related concerns (i.e. cost, side effects). If patients have not completed
           the questionnaire within 2 days, another email reminder will be sent. The information
           submitted back by the patient will be stored in the EHR. A second questionnaire will be
           sent 1 month later.

           The addition of the patient portal will provide opportunities to have ongoing
           communications with their clinic, access to regimen-specific medication information, and
           to provide a feedback loop informing healthcare providers of safety and
           adherence-related behaviors and concerns.

        5. EHR Inbox Message to Clinic: The results of the patient portal questionnaire will be
           sent back to the EHR, populating an inbox message notifying the nurse/clinic staff
           and/or physician if a patient has a medication risk alert, detailing the nature of the
           issue (i.e. education needed, adherence problem, side effect concerns, etc.). The system
           will be flexible and allow the clinic to specify actions to be taken according to their
           workflow preferences; the default plan is that patient contact will be undertaken by
           nurses/clinic staff involved with care management.

        6. Clinic Counseling: If a problem/concern is flagged during the review of the portal
           questionnaire, there will be an expectation for a clinic staff member to respond to the
           concern by calling the patient. A general orientation to staff at the clinic will
           provide guidance on how to perform brief counseling based on each specific clinic
           protocol.

      Number of Patients:

      While the expected sample size for this pragmatic study is 300, the investigators will
      recruit 330 patients (n=165 per site, the investigators anticipate 90% retention among the
      recruited sample by 3 months (n=297). The investigators therefore will over sample to
      accommodate some attrition.
    
  