
    
      Because Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) grows by forming new blood vessels liver transplant
      (OLT) offers the best chance for long term survival. However, with the growing number of
      patients who require OLT, prolonged wait list times often lead to drop out from the
      transplant list due to tumor progression. Some patients are granted an "upgrade",within the
      generally accepted guidelines for transplant eligibility, in order to expedite the access of
      patients with early HCC to transplantation before tumor progression. The use of therapies
      like radioembolization also known as Yttrium-90 ([Y-90] a procedure where very small beads
      coated with radiation are injected directly into the tumor through an artery in your groin)
      while awaiting OLT has become common at most transplant centers, including Northwestern, to
      help patients reach transplant. Additionally, these treatments are being used to move
      patients to a status eligible for transplant. We are studying whether a combination approach
      with systemic therapy and therapy applied directly to the liver, will be more successful than
      a single therapy . Angiogenesis (a process involving the growth of new blood vessels from
      pre-existing vessels) plays an important role in the early stages of HCC. A decrease in
      angiogenesis both locally within the treated tumor as well as in any existing tumor cells,
      not yet detected, would hopefully decrease the incidence of post transplant recurrence of
      HCC. All subjects enrolled in this study will be treated with the use of Therasphere, Y-90,
      which is composed of nonbiodegradable glass microspheres coated with the radioactive compound
      Y-90 which are injected into the hepatic artery. The concentrated radioactive microspheres
      within the tumor lead to "inside-out" radiation. Half of the subjects will be treated with
      sorafenib (NEXAVAR®) in conjunction with Y-90. The determination of which subjects will
      receive sorafenib will be made randomly, like the flip of a coin. Sorafenib works by slowing
      the growth of the tumor cell , attacking the tumor from the outside. Researchers hope to
      determine whether the subjects treated with sorafenib have an overall improved response to
      liver directed therapy with Y-90 Therasphere.
    
  