
    
      Diaphyseal femoral and tibial fractures are a important challenge faced by the orthopedic
      surgeon, due to their high incidence and high social and economic impact. Currently, the
      observed increases in the rates of injuries secondary to traffic, work and firearms-related
      accidents, and also those related to sports practice, have led to significant growth of the
      incidence of these fractures, especially among young and economically active individuals .

      Although standardized criteria for indications of conservative treatment exist, surgery is
      often recommended due to its better functional results and shorter rehabilitation period.
      Intramedullary nailing (IMN) was introduced by Küntscher in 1939 and remains the method of
      choice for treating these fractures, both closed and open ones, especially because the
      surgical technique is considered to be simple, standardized and replicable; does not cause
      major soft tissue damage and allows early loading. This technique is associated with a higher
      consolidation rate and lower incidence of complications, among which infections are included.

      Surgical site infection (SSI) after internal fracture fixation is considered to be a severe,
      hard-to-treat complication, and it is important to remember that the presence of the implant
      itself favors bacterial invasion and alters local immunity, thus hampering the action of
      granulocytes. In addition, injury to the soft tissues adjacent to the fracture focus also
      hampers this immunity and favors occurrence of infections.

      Although complications are less frequent than in other internal fracture fixation methods,
      they can occur during the postoperative period, relating to the use of IMN, and these may
      include SSI. Its occurrence significantly increases recovery time and treatment costs, and it
      compromises the long-term functional results and rehabilitation.

      SSIs, including those related to IMN, are defined internationally in accordance with the
      criteria established in the United States (USA) by the National Healthcare Safety Network
      (NHSN), an agency belonging to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 8 This
      body is responsible for healthcare-related infection surveillance actions in that country. In
      Brazil, as in other countries, adaptations made by the local health and epidemiological
      surveillance authorities are followed.

      In January 2015, the NHSN made available a document with new definitions of SSI, which came
      into force in the USA from that moment onwards, with important changes. The period for
      defining infections relating to fracture fixation procedures, regardless of the type of
      synthesis material used, became only 90 days, instead of one year from the data of the
      surgery. For better evaluation, however, for the present study, the surveillance period
      remains one year for defining SSIs relating to IMN.

      Different incidences of SSI after fixation of lower-limb fractures through IMN have been
      reported in the literature. Most of these have come from retrospective studies and as part of
      the description of series of cases of patients who underwent this procedure, with little
      detail about the criteria used for defining and searching for SSI cases. Only two prospective
      studies have so far reported the occurrence of this complication: these studies were not
      specifically designed for evaluating SSI and only describe its occurrence superficially,
      among other complications . Until recently, only Gaebler et al., in 2000, had described this
      complication with greater methodological rigor. In 2015, however, because of the gap in
      knowledge that existed, three authors published the results from retrospective studies that
      had been specifically designed for evaluating SSIs relating to IMN for correcting lower-limb
      fractures. Despite this recent interest in this subject among researchers, there continue to
      be no prospective studies specifically designed for investigating the incidence of this
      complication, or its risk factors. In Latin America, in particular, there are no studies of
      any kind evaluating the incidence of SSI after fixation of lower-limb fractures using IMN.

      Risk factors for occurrences of surgical site infections are generally divided into those
      relating to the host, the surgical environment and the microbiota. For occurrences of SSI
      after fracture fixation procedures, the following are considered also to be risk factors:
      degree of energy of the associated trauma, degree of injury of the adjacent soft tissues,
      degree of local contamination, duration of osteosynthesis surgery and immunological status of
      the patient.

      However, specifically with regard to risk factors relating to occurrences of SSI after
      fixation of lower-limb fractures through IMN, information is scarce, given that the majority
      of the studies that analyzed the incidence of this complication did not allow for analysis of
      the risk factors relating to their occurrence. Until 2015, only Gaebler et al. had published
      results from an analysis on these risk factors. They concluded from their retrospective study
      that the risk of acquiring SSI after implantation of IMNs was 22.4 times higher among
      patients with Gustilo III open fractures than among patients with other types of fractures.
      However, these authors did not evaluate the importance of other factors that are considered
      to be associated with occurrences of SSI after fracture fixation.

      Because of the lack of information on this important subject, in 2015 three authors published
      results from retrospective investigations that enabled a few conclusions. Galvin et al., in
      their study on closed tibial fractures in American soldiers, found higher incidence of SSI
      after IMN in patients who presented clinical instability during the initial care, although
      this difference was not statistically significant.

      In turn, Metsemakers et al. concluded, after an initial univariate analysis, that previous
      use of external fixators, occurrences of open fractures and the severity of exposure
      according to Gustilo-Anderson would be factors associated with occurrences of SSI, as also
      would greater time intervals between the fracture and its fixation through IMN. It needs to
      be highlighted that these authors did not define the time interval above which the risk of
      infection would be greater. After multiple logistic regression analysis, however, only
      previous external fixation remained as a factor associated with occurrence of SSI after
      internal fixation of the fracture with IMN. In the study conducted by Roussignol et al., only
      the severity of the open fracture according to the Gustilo-Anderson classification had a
      statistically significant correlation with occurrences of infection. Other variables,
      including the severity according to the AO classification, previous external fixation, and
      time interval between fracture and its internal fixation did not present correlations with
      increased incidence of SSI associated with IMN.

      It needs to be emphasized that none of the studies cited that presented information on the
      factors associated with occurrences of SSI after fracture fixation through IMN were
      prospective. This shows that the medical literature still lacks information obtained using
      greater methodological rigor.
    
  