
    
      The dysfunction of wound healing in diabetes involves multiple healing processes by
      diminished inflammatory responses and delayed deposition of matrix components, wound
      remodeling, and closure. Furthermore, hyperglycemia increases the infection susceptibility of
      wounds. The wounds noted at distal limb of body, the diabetic foot ulcers, have more
      significant impacts clinically and socioeconomically compare to those injuries from surgery
      or pressure sores.

        1. Urge for Novel treatments in patients with diabetic foot ulcers:

           1.1. Facts: Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) is a major complication of diabetes that can lead
           to limb loss and premature death. According to a report from the International Diabetes
           Federation in 2017, DFU is also the most common cause of hospitalization for patients
           with diabetes.

           In Taiwan, 1% of patients with diabetes are admitted to hospital for the treatment of
           DFU annually. However, considering that the lower-extremity amputation (LEA) rate is
           around 30%,the treatment outcomes are obviously unsatisfactory.

           1.2. Standard treatment for DFU 1.2.1 In 2016, we formed a Taiwan national working group
           on diabetic foot under the authorization of Diabetes Association of the Republic of
           China and subsequently published a Diabetic foot guideline in Taiwan in 2017 (ISBN
           978-986-82436-8-2). In addition, I also participated in the writing of a clinical foot
           care guideline released 2017 by International Diabetes Federation . 1.2.2 These two most
           updated guidelines detail the diagnosis, management and prevention for patients with
           DFUs with specifically focused on (1) infection, (2) peripheral artery diseases, (3)
           wound care and surgical intervention, and (4) off-loading and risks reduction.
           Suggestions for the appropriate medications for patients with various clinical
           characteristics were also provided. Nevertheless, in addition to treating acute
           infections and limb ischemia, the optimum healing of a foot ulcer requires treating the
           complex biological and molecular events of cell migration and proliferation, and of
           extracellular matrix deposition, remodeling, and tissue microcirculation. This is why
           the prognosis for patients with DFU is still unsatisfactory, worldwide. Novel treatments
           are therefore needed to provide better tissue healing in patients with diabetes.
           Unfortunately, recent results of well-designed novel treatments for patients with DFU
           have been disappointing.

        2. The role of nutrition in wound healing The relationship between nutrition and wound
           healing, whether after injury or surgical intervention, has been recognized for
           centuries and adequate carbohydrate, fat and protein intake is known to be necessary for
           healing to take place. Wound failure, as reflected by wound infections and/or delayed
           healing, significantly contributes to the financial burden imposed on health care
           systems worldwide.

           2.1. Molecular pathogenesis of diabetic wound healing In healthy individuals, the wound
           healing requires maintenance of multiple signals (cytokines and chemokines) released by
           keratinocytes, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, macrophages, and platelets. During
           wound-induced hypoxia, VEGF released by macrophages, fibroblasts, and epithelial cells
           induces nitric oxide synthase (NOS) resulting in an increase in nitric oxide (NO)
           levels.

           2.2. Role of nutrition in wound healing in patients with diabetes Studies have shown
           that changes in energy, carbohydrate, protein, fat, vitamin, and mineral metabolism
           affect the healing process12. Loss of protein due to protein-calorie malnutrition, the
           most common form of malnutrition, leads to decreased wound tensile strength, decreased
           T-cell function, decreased phagocytic activity, and decreased complement and antibody
           levels,ultimately diminishing the body's ability to defend the wound against infection.

           Furthermore, wounding increases metabolic rates, catecholamine levels, loss of total
           body water, and cellular protein turnover, resulting in an overall state of catabolism.

           Patients with diabetes have a significantly impaired ability to heal wounds, and
           therefore, exhibit increased complication rates compared with their euglycemic
           counterparts. The mechanisms at work are multifactorial and need to be further
           verified.Recent evidence has shown that patients with diabetes exhibit a diminished
           early inflammatory response and inhibition of fibroblast and endothelial cell
           activities. Subsequently, when inflammatory cells eventually arrive at the site of
           injury, they initiate a prolonged inflammatory phase that results in delayed deposition
           of matrix components, wound remodeling, and closure. Furthermore, hyperglycemia
           interferes with the cellular transport of ascorbic acid into fibroblasts and leukocytes
           and decreases leukocyte chemotaxis. In addition, patients with diabetes are more
           susceptible to infection2 because of decreased host resistance and phagocytosis ability.

        3. Preliminary data highlights the role of L-arginine in wound healing in patients with DFU
           In our diabetic foot center, we have consistently observed that a lower serum albumin
           level is an independent risk factor for lower-extremity amputation (LEA) . Furthermore,
           we identified an association between nutritional status and treatment outcomes in
           patients with limb-threatening DFU. Using the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) and
           Geriatric Nutritional Risk Index (GNRI) tools, we confirmed a high prevalence of
           nutritional problems among these patients. We further identified that the nutritional
           status of the patients was an independent predictor for acute treatment outcomes.

      More recently, we analyzed the effect of metabolomic molecules and clinical and wound
      characteristics on the 1-year outcomes of wound healing in patients with limb-threatening
      foot ulcer.
    
  