
    
      Despite a high number of infected subjects (estimated of 250,000 at the end of 2004) and a
      rapid spread of HIV infection in Vietnam, the use of anti-retroviral therapy remains limited.
      However, access to care and treatment will be expanded in Vietnam in the next few years with
      the support of national and international organisations. ANRS 1210 study is the first pilot
      program using highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to evaluate the efficacy and the
      tolerance of an antiretroviral therapy delivered to adults in an external system of medical
      care, in Ho Chi Minh City. This feasibility study has also the objective to evaluate the
      cause of treatment failures and to assess social and behavioural conditions of patients at
      different stages during the treatment.

      The present study is an open trial with direct individual benefit. The chosen treatment is a
      once-daily administration of 3TC, ddI and Efavirenz delivered to HIV infected adults with a
      CD4 count below 200/mm3. The duration of the study is eighteen months with a main evaluation
      at six months. One hundred patients will be selected in outpatient consultation of Binh Trieu
      hospital and Tropical Diseases Hospital of Ho Chi Minh City. The main criteria of evaluation
      will be the immunological response at 6 months, opportunistic infection events and the
      proportion of patients undergoing a regular monitoring at 6 months. Viral response will be
      also appreciated but, for technical question, will not be a main criteria of the study.

      Patients are also administered a questionnaire by a trained independent interviewer about
      adherence to treatment, mental well-being, housing and nutrition, drug and sexual behaviour,
      social support and disclosure in order to study the associations between sociobehavioural
      dimensions, adherence and viral load at two successive follow-up visits.
    
  