
    
      The intent of this protocol is to evaluate the impact of singing on cardiac hemodynamics and
      endothelial function, a marker of cardiovascular health and future cardiac risk.

      The study is designed to consist of an initial phone screen and 1 index visit. All
      study-related procedures will be performed by a trained member of the research team. Dr.
      Kulinski will provide oversight of all study related procedures and will be ultimately
      responsible for validation of eligibility, and completion of all study-related tasks.
      Patients in the cardiology clinics at Froedtert Hospital will be made aware of this study by
      the clinic staff. If interested in participating, the patient will be provided with the study
      coordinator's phone number and the study team will be provided with the patient's contact
      information. The study team will first screen the potential subject via a phone conversation.

      Once the subject is deemed eligible based on the legibility criteria, they will be mailed a
      copy of the Institutional Review Board (IRB) consent form to review. If after reviewing
      information about the study, the potential subject remains interested, a 90-minute visit
      (with reserved clinic exam room) will be scheduled for the same day as their upcoming clinic
      appointment (or another day if preferred by the subject). Recruited subjects will be advised
      to remain fasting (for a minimum of at least 3 hours) until their research study appointment
      has been completed. They can drink water.

      The study subjects will be called from the clinic waiting room at the time of their
      appointment. The subject will be taken to a quiet clinic exam room for the visit. Phones,
      beepers and other devices which can cause startling noises should be turned off. restrictive
      clothing that could interfere with blood flow to the arms will be removed. We will ask the
      subject to remove watches, rings, or other jewelry on the hands or fingers.

      Baseline vital signs (resting heart rate, blood pressure, pulse oximetry), weight and height
      will be obtained. Blood pressure will be measured from the subject's control arm (dominant
      arm preferred). The non-dominant arm is recommended as the tested (occluded) arm by the
      manufacturer. The appropriately-sized (Bluetooth-capable) Heart Rate Variability (HRV) heart
      rate sensor strap will be applied to the subject as shown (picture). It is recommended to
      allow 5 minutes to pass between the time of blood pressure measurement and the commencement
      of the EndoPAT recording. The subject will be asked to refrain from talking. Staff should
      avoid talking to the subject and between themselves as much as possible. During this time,
      the blood pressure cuff will be moved to the non-dominant upper arm, and subjects' fingers
      will be placed into the probes with subject's forearms supported on the arm supports. The
      index finger is recommended for the study; however, if this finger is unsuitable, a different
      digit (except the thumb) may be used, so long as the same finger is used on both hands.
      Written informed consent will be obtained. Subject's positional comfort will be maximized.
      The subject will be instructed to refrain from moving the fingers to the extent possible.

      After 5 minutes since blood pressure was taken, baseline EndoPAT measurements will be
      obtained. Endo-PAT device will be placed on subjects to measure reactive hyperemia index
      (RHI) according to a standard protocol (please also see uploaded Endo-PAT manual). Briefly,
      this includes a stable period of baseline signal recording, followed by rapid inflation of
      the blood pressure cuff to a supra-systolic level at least 60 mm Hg above systolic blood
      pressure and no less than 200 mm Hg. Total cessation of blood flow will be verified by total
      absence of EndoPAT signal from the occluded hand. This occlusion will be maintained for
      exactly 5 minutes. This may cause mild stress and/or discomfort to the subject, who will be
      closely monitored. After 5 minutes exactly, the cuff will be completely deflated as quickly
      as possible. The EndoPAT signal will be recorded for an additional 5 minutes.

      The research team member will assist the subject in completing pages 1-4 of the study
      questionnaire, including demographics, medical history, current medications, current exercise
      and singing habits and physical limitations and/or mobility issues.

      Next, the research team will verify Bluetooth connection to the research iPAD. NO subject
      information will need to be entered on the iPAD. A 1-minute "pre-singing" baseline HRV
      measurement will be obtained and recorded (refer to uploaded Data Collection Sheet). An
      automated blood pressure, heart rate and pulse oximetry will be recorded. A pulse oximetry
      finger probe will remain in place. In a seated position, the subject will watch and sing
      along to the 10-minute coaching video that includes a warm-up with vocal exercise and the
      lyrics to the Star-Spangled Banner, created by co-investigator Tanya Kruse Ruck, DMA,
      assistant professor of voice at the University of Milwaukee. Approximately 7 minutes into the
      (10-minute) singing video, a "singing" HRV measurement and automated blood pressure, heart
      rate and pulse oximetry will be obtained and recorded. The heart rate immediately after
      singing will be recorded. A "post-singing" HRV measurement will be obtained. After the
      1-minute post HRV measurement, the heart rate will be recorded (this will allow us to
      determine 1-minute heart rate recovery). Another blood pressure and pulse oximetry will be
      recorded. The pulse oximetry probe will be removed, and the subject's fingers connected to a
      new set of EndoPAT disposable finger probes.

      A second EndoPAT measurement will be started immediately according to the same protocol as
      above.

      The subject will be asked to rate the highest level of exertion while singing, according to
      the Borg scale. The research team member will record their observation of the subject's
      singing effort The subject will be asked to complete questions relating to their visit
      experience.
    
  