
    
      For several decades, U.S. hypertension treatment guidelines have recommended a low-dose
      diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) or chlorthalidone (CTD) as initial monotherapy in
      a stepped-care approach or as part of an initial two-drug combination. In numerous large
      clinical trials, CTD-based regimens have significantly reduced rates of cardiovascular events
      such as stroke, heart failure, and cardiovascular mortality compared with placebo, usual
      care, or active comparators. In contrast, few outcome studies have compared HCTZ-based
      regimens with other treatments, and they have generally found HCTZ to be less effective than
      non-thiazide comparators in preventing cardiovascular events. The two drugs have never been
      compared directly in a large trial. Despite the empirical evidence favoring CTD, HCTZ is much
      more widely used in clinical practice. The proposed R34 is a pilot study conducted in two
      large integrated health systems to test methods and feasibility for an eventual pragmatic
      randomized trial comparing the effectiveness of HCTZ and CTD for preventing cardiovascular
      events and mortality. Using a cluster-randomized design, investigators will allocate 40
      primary care physicians and their adult hypertensive patients who currently use HCTZ
      (N=2,000) to either convert HCTZ users to CTD (intervention group) or to continue HCTZ (usual
      care group). The pilot study and planned full-scale trial will use existing health care
      infrastructure and electronic health records to identify eligible study subjects, distribute
      study medication, and collect operational and outcomes data. For this pilot study, Aim 1 will
      document that the intervention is delivered as intended. Aim 2 will compare safety in
      intervention and usual care patients. Aim 3 will refine the pilot study design and identify
      critical factors for intervention success using a mixed-methods approach. Aim 4 will refine
      estimates of sample size. Finally, Aim 5 will determine the costs of ascertaining outcomes
      and estimate per-participant costs for the full-scale trial. The pilot study will produce
      data that are necessary and sufficient to inform the planning of a full-scale trial comparing
      CTD and CTZ and will advance the development of methods for pragmatic trials.
    
  