
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the occurrence of serious invasive fungal or bacterial infections during the
           first 270 days after transplantation in cytomegalovirus (CMV)-negative patients
           receiving a CMV-positive allogeneic stem cell transplantation and valacyclovir or
           placebo.

        -  Compare the occurrence of primary CMV infection within the first 100 days after
           transplantation in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the survival of these patients at 100 days and 270 days post-transplantation.

        -  Compare the occurrence of CMV disease at day 100 and day 270 post-transplantation in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate the presence of CMV in stem cell product with post-transplantation CMV
           infection in these patients.

        -  Determine if subclinical CMV infection results in a virus-specific immune response
           (humoral and cellular) in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare resource utilization (e.g., rates of hospitalization, number of days alive out
           of the hospital, days in the intensive care unit, days on mechanical ventilation, use of
           antimicrobials and filgrastim [G-CSF], and number of invasive procedures) in patients
           treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to participating center and type of transplantation (matched related
      vs mismatched/unrelated). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral valacyclovir 4 times daily beginning with transplantation
           conditioning (usually day -5) and continuing until day 100 after transplantation.
           Patients receive high-dose acyclovir, instead of valacyclovir, IV every 8 hours
           beginning on day -1 and continuing until oral medications are tolerated. Allogeneic stem
           cells are infused on day 0.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral or IV placebo on the same schedule as in arm I. Quality of
           life is assessed at baseline and on days 50 and 100.

      Patients are followed every 2 weeks for 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 115-230 patients (58-115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 2 years.
    
  