
    
      Qualitative data about participants' experiences throughout the PEACE Rounds will be
      collected using semi-structured interviews and participant observation. This data will be
      analyzed to describe and explain the perceptions that emerge from participant experience.

      Qualitative Sampling Purposive samples are identified to initiate data collection and
      analysis, and then are used to select participants who are likely to clarify, verify, or
      contradict data as it is collected. Sampling concludes when the data are "saturated," which
      means the coded categories are well-defined and no new significant insights are emerging from
      additional interviews.

      Semi-structured Interviews

      The study team will conduct semi-structured interviews, which will be recorded and
      transcribed, following a consented subject's participation in at least one PEACE round.
      Open-ended questions, intended to elicit participants' perspectives on their experience of
      PEACE Rounds, will frame the interview. These are:

      "What/who do you remember most vividly?" "What was most meaningful to you? "What would you
      change about the experience, if you could? " "Would you do it again? Why or why not?" "What,
      if anything, changed after PEACE rounds?"

      Observation PEACE Rounds will be observed by the PI to collect data that will provide further
      insight to participants' experiences. Observations of interactions and reactions in real time
      will be documented and the data will be coded and analyzed using thematic analysis methods.
      Observational data will not be integrated into interview data but will be used to confirm or
      contrast reported data.

      Qualitative Data Analysis Qualitative methodology does not seek to verify hypotheses based on
      logical assumptions, as quantitative measures do, instead it is used to derive salient
      constructs directly from the data. This methodology allows inductive understanding of
      participants' perceptions of their participation in PEACE Rounds.

      The qualitative data will be analyzed according to the thematic analysis method based on that
      of Braun and Clarke . the researcher has become familiar with the data and generated an
      initial list of ideas that are relevant to the research objective, codes will be generated.
      The codes will reflect a specific feature of the data that further explicates it. After the
      data has been coded, the researcher will look for how different codes can be combined to
      create overarching themes. When there is essentially no new information coming from the
      codes, the data is considered saturated and no new themes are created. At this point, the
      researcher will review the themes and refine them, so they can be expressed in a data map
      expressing how they fit together to tell the story of the data.
    
  