
    
      FRRM is a male-focused intervention designed to reduce adolescent male sexual risk behavior
      through supporting father-son communication about sex and condoms, as well as improve future
      life trajectories. The goals of the program are to reduce the number of unprotected sex acts
      among adolescents through (1) improved knowledge about correct and consistent condom use, (2)
      increased sexual transmitted infection (STI) testing, and (3) increased utilization of sexual
      and reproductive health services. Additionally, the program aims to improve adolescent life
      opportunities through (1) improved perception of life trajectories; and (2) increased
      utilization of academic and job training services within the community.

      The RCT consists of two cohorts. The first cohort (n=200 father-son dyads) will receive (1)
      two 60 to 90 minute intervention sessions delivered to the father by project staff.
      Intervention sessions should happen within the first month following the baseline interview.
      The first intervention session focuses on motivating fathers to communicate with their sons
      about sex and condom use, and the second session provides fathers with the skills and
      knowledge necessary to teach their sons about correct condom use. In addition, fathers
      receive guidance on effective adolescent monitoring and supervision and strengthening their
      relationship quality with their adolescent son.

      The second cohort (n=300 father-son dyads) will receive (1) two 60 to 90 minute intervention
      sessions delivered to the father by project staff with content identical to the interventions
      given to cohort one; and 2) one 60 to 90 minute intervention session delivered to the
      father-son dyad by project staff regarding adolescent life opportunities. In the third
      intervention session, the father coach provides father-son dyads with specific guidance and
      helpful resources for on-going and positive interactions between fathers and sons.
      Additionally, this session highlights specific academic and job training resources within the
      community that fathers and sons can access to better address adolescent sexual and
      reproductive health, overall wellbeing, and future goals/aspirations.
    
  