
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To prospectively estimate the incidence of lower extremity lymphedema in patients
      undergoing radical surgery with a concurrent lymphadenectomy with a concurrent
      lymphadenectomy for a gynecologic malignancy.

      II. To identify risk factors for the development of lower extremity lymphedema following
      radical surgery among patients with any one of the three types of gynecologic malignancy
      studied and to develop a corresponding predictive model.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the effect that lower extremity lymphedema has on quality of life (QOL) (as
      measured with Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General [FACT-G] + disease specific
      subscale), psychological adjustment (as measured with Impact of Events Scale [IES] and
      Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy [FACIT] body image items) and physical
      disability (of lower extremity as measured with Lower Extremity Functional Scale [LEFS]) and
      physical function(as measured by FACT-Functional Wellbeing [FW] subscale, FACIT disease
      specific items & patient-reported outcomes measurement information system [PROMIS] items) and
      to investigate potential protective mechanisms (FACT-Social Wellbeing [SW] subscale and
      patient characteristics).

      II. To explore if patient self-reported symptoms (as measured with the lymphedema [LE]
      Symptom Measure [Cancer Lymphedema Questionnaire (GCLQ)]) are associated with the development
      of lymphedema in patients undergoing radical surgery for gynecologic malignancy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the effect of moderate or severe lymphedema (primary endpoint) on QOL outcomes,
      as measured by the FACT-General (G) questionnaire.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients with vulvar cancer undergo a radical vulvectomy or hemi-vulvectomy followed
      immediately by an ipsilateral or bilateral inguinal-femoral lymphadenectomy. (Closed to
      accrual as of June 9, 2014)

      Patients with cervical cancer undergo a radical hysterectomy or trachelectomy and bilateral
      pelvic lymphadenectomy +/- para-aortic nodal sampling via vaginal, laparoscopic, or open
      route.

      Patients with endometrial cancer undergo a laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy, a
      total laparoscopic hysterectomy, or total abdominal hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy
      +/- para-aortic node sampling.

      Patients undergo limb measurements at baseline, weeks 4-6, and at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24
      months.
    
  