
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) in
      combination with lapatinib (lapatinib ditosylate) in adult subjects with advanced solid
      tumors. (Dose Escalation Cohort) II. To further evaluate the safety of MK-2206 in combination
      with lapatinib administered to patients with locally advanced and unresectable or metastatic
      human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 positive (HER2+) breast cancer, previously treated
      with trastuzumab. (Dose Expansion Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical activity of MK-2206 in combination with lapatinib administered
      to subjects with advanced solid tumors. (Dose Escalation Cohort) II. To describe the
      dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of combined MK-2206 and lapatinib. (Dose Escalation Cohort)
      III. To determine the safety of MK-2206 and lapatinib administered in combination. (Dose
      Escalation Cohort) IV. To determine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic profile of
      MK-2206 in combination with lapatinib. (Dose Escalation Cohort) V. To assess for target
      (HER2-phosphoinositide 3-kinase [PI3K]-protein kinase B [AKT] pathway) inhibition via
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in the dose escalation cohort. (Dose Escalation
      Cohort) VI. To determine the clinical activity of MK-2206 and lapatinib administered in
      combination to patients with locally advanced and unresectable or metastatic HER2+ breast
      cancer. (Dose Expansion Cohort) VII. To determine the progression-free rate following MK-2206
      in combination with lapatinib when administered at the MTD level to subjects with HER2+
      metastatic breast cancer (MBC). (Dose Expansion Cohort) VIII. To determine the
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic profiles of MK-2206 in combination with lapatinib. (Dose
      Expansion Cohort) IX. To assess for mechanisms of lapatinib resistance by evaluating tumor
      tissue for phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) loss using immunohistochemistry. (Dose
      Expansion Cohort) X. To assess for mechanisms of lapatinib resistance by evaluating tumor
      tissue for oncogenic mutations in PI3K. Tumor response to combination therapy with lapatinib
      and MK-2206 will be correlated with presence/absence of PI3K activating mutations and PTEN
      loss. (Dose Expansion Cohort) XI. To assess for mechanisms of lapatinib resistance by
      assessing for target (HER2-PI3K-AKT pathway) inhibition via peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMCs). (Dose Expansion Cohort)

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) every other day (QOD) for 28 days (35 days
      for course 1) and lapatinib ditosylate PO once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 1-28
      (days 9-35 for course 1). Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and patients on the
      expanded cohort are followed up every 3 months.
    
  