
    
      The project has one main goal: to perform a clinical trial to compare the OBND with standard
      of care diet. The outcome of the clinical trial will be analyzed in the areas:
      medicine/odontology, sensory science, nursing, public health and health economics.

      Study objectives:

        -  To assess if the consumption of the designated diet results in added medical/dental
           health outcome for the OBND in comparison to standard of care diet. The study is a
           randomized case control clinical trial.

        -  To perform cost-effectiveness analyses comparing costs and health benefits for the test
           and control diets with focus on individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus and otherwise
           healthy individuals living in close relationship to those with diabetes.

        -  To assess consumer acceptance of the diet: (I) acceptance of the diets (questionnaire,
           focus groups and food diary), (II) acceptability of the diet in relation to taste of the
           diet, and the prospect of adopting the diet in everyday life, and (III) sensory analysis
           of identical dishes prepared according to the OBND and the standard of care diet.

      Study design The study design is a randomized double-blinded clinical trial with four
      subgroups including 20 individuals per study group.

      Test Group A: OBND, individuals diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (T2D) with a need for insulin
      intake

      Test Group B: OBND, relatives who do not have T2D

      Control Group C: Standard of care diet, individuals diagnosed with T2D with a need for
      insulin intake

      Control Group D: Standard of care diet, relatives who do not have T2D

      Based on the above reported studies and available data on blood sugar and lipid values, the
      investigators have identified that 18 individuals in each group will provide adequate
      statistical power (alpha=0.05, beta=0.85). While lost to follow up occurs, the investigators
      will enroll 20 individuals in each group. Thus, a total of 80 study individuals (test and
      control) will be enrolled. Data analyses will be performed according to per protocol as well
      as per intent to treat. Clinical examination procedures in medicine and dentistry will follow
      principles of good clinical practice. Study group assignment will be based on a randomization
      using the SPSS statistics package. A pre-baseline examination will be performed to ensure
      that all study individuals fulfill study requirements. The investigators will monitor that
      study individuals are compliant to protocol.

      Study time schedule The study design includes a pre-baseline study examination two weeks
      before study start to ensure that study individuals meet the criteria for study participation
      and to control for Hawthorne effects. Study individuals will be enrolled in groups of 8 to 10
      individuals and re-examined at baseline. The primary study endpoint is the third examination
      will be performed 4 weeks after baseline examination. A follow-up examination will occur
      after 6 months (plus/minus 14 days). All study enrollments will be completed within one
      month. Study individuals will receive phone calls during the study period to encourage
      compliance and respond to specific questions.
    
  