
    
      Study Design

      This will be a prospective and randomised pilot clinical trial. For purposes of pragmatism,
      subjects and investigators will not be blinded to treatment allocation. The study is not
      blinded because it is impossible to blind investigators or patients to the exercise
      programme.

      Patients undergoing major resectional surgery for colorectal cancer will be recruited from
      the Academic Surgical unit (ASU), Castle Hill Hospital. In total, 60 participants will be
      recruited for this pilot study and randomly allocated into 2 groups as outlined below.

      The study will necessitate all participants being involved in a baseline assessment which
      will take on average 60 minutes with patients attending Castle Hill Hospital. Travel costs
      will be met.

      All participants will be asked for a 15 ml blood samples on entry into the study and at 24-48
      hrs prior to surgery. Regardless of recruitment, blood samples are necessary for clinical
      purposes at these stages in all patients as part of routine preoperative assessment prior to
      colorectal surgery. The aim of this is to permit an analysis of possible changes in
      antioxidant status prior to surgery but after preconditioning. This would be in addition to
      routine blood samples required.

      The two groups in this study are described in more detail below. Both groups shall receive
      the same standard care as is normal for patients undergoing colorectal resection surgery. The
      only difference between groups shall be the addition of exercise preconditioning sessions to
      group 1. We anticipate that these will be three times a week and lasting of 60-90 minutes
      duration each. Travel costs will be met.

      Groups

      The 60 patients in this study will be randomised to one of two groups as follows:

        -  Group 1 - Standard care + Exercise intervention. Patients in this group will participate
           in a 2-4 week low volume, moderate intensity, supervised, one to one, individualised
           exercise programme.

        -  Group 2 - Standard care (Control) group. These patients will not be entered into a
           supervised exercise programme.

      Research hypothesis 1

      H0 - A two to four week period of low to moderate intensity exercise prior to surgery using
      an individualised exercise intervention will not reduce post-surgical length of hospital stay
      in colorectal cancer patients.

      H1- A two to four week period of low to moderate intensity exercise prior to surgery using an
      individualised exercise intervention will reduce post-surgical length of hospital stay in
      colorectal cancer patients.

      Research hypothesis 2

      H0 - A two to four week period of low to moderate intensity exercise prior to surgery using
      an individualised exercise intervention will not modify the body's defence systems against a
      future oxidative stress.

      H1- A two to four week period of low to moderate intensity exercise prior to surgery using an
      individualised exercise intervention will modify the body's defence systems against a future
      oxidative stress.
    
  