
    
      A range of types of wart have been identified, varying in shape and site affected, as well as
      the type of human papillomavirus involved.

      These include:

        -  Common wart (Verruca vulgaris).

        -  Flat wart (Verruca plana).

        -  Filiform or digitate wart.

        -  Genital wart (venereal wart, Condyloma acuminatum, Verruca acuminata).

        -  Mosaic wart.

        -  Periungual wart.

        -  Plantar wart (verruca, Verruca plantaris). Despite the presence of several therapeutic
           options, treatment of warts can present a challenge and they are not uniformly
           effective. Viral warts often disappear without treatment. In case of pain, discomfort
           and long duration they can be treated . Treatment options include cryotherapy,
           electrocautery, salicylic acid, immune therapy, minor surgery or laser surgery.

      Common warts have a distinctive appearance and can usually be diagnosed with the unaided eye;
      however, early growth stages and post-treatment warts are less easily diagnosed. Published
      dermoscopic features of common warts include frogspawn pattern, mosaic pattern and dotted,
      linear, globular or coiled vessels. Mosaic pattern consists of relatively flattened, rounded
      structures of similar size, resembling a jigsaw puzzle. Frogspawn pattern consists of densely
      packed papillae, each containing red dot or loop, surrounded by a whitish halo. Vascular
      structures seen dermoscopically in common warts as red or black dotted, linear, globular and
      coiled vessels. Haemorrhages are possible additional features, with black dots corresponding
      to thrombosed vessels. Hairpin vessels were usually seen in non-wart lesions.

      In this study, we aim to compare two therapeutic modalities, the clinical effectiveness and
      safety of carbon dioxide laser and cryotherapy in the treatment of viral warts together with
      dermoscopic evaluation of viral warts before and after treatment.
    
  