
    
      There are no published research studies comparing the injection success rates, procedure
      duration, radiation exposure, and patient comfort between the two standard imaging systems.
      The investigators hypothesize that the newer 3-D Cone-beam Based Computer Tomography (CBCT)
      image system will result in higher success rates, shorter procedure times, fewer image
      snapshots during the procedure, and less patient discomfort than conventional 2-D fluoroscopy
      imaging. Although the radiation exposure from one-time low-dose 3-D CT reconstruction with
      CBCT image system at the beginning of the procedure is higher, the number of later snapshots
      with the 3-D system is likely to be significantly lower. Therefore the 3-D system may result
      in overall equivalent radiation exposure to the 2-D system.

      A statistical power analysis was conducted and determined that a sample size of 100 (50 per
      group) will give 80% power for detecting a difference if the true rates are 65% (2-D
      Fluoroscopy guidance) and 90% (3-D CBCT guidance).

      For this study, patients undergoing SIJ injection will be randomized to either Fluoroscopy
      guidance or CBCT guidance. The primary outcome measure is injection success within 3 attempts
      of needle placement. Statistical analysis will use the Chi-square test to test whether the
      rate of injection success differs between the two methods of guidance. In order to provide
      appropriate clinical care, whenever success is not achieved with the initial guidance method
      then injection using the other guidance method will be attempted. However, the analysis will
      only consider whether or not injection success was achieved with the initial guidance method
      to which the subject was randomized. Whether or not injection success was achieved after
      crossing over to the other guidance method is not relevant to the primary analysis.

      In summary, the investigators would like to formally analyze the differences in these two
      standard image guidance options in SIJ injection therapy. The investigators propose to
      randomly select the first imaging system that will be utilized during standard medical care
      in patients scheduled to undergo an SIJ injection. Presumed that there is a difference in
      success rate between these two standard images, the imaging procedures are considered to be a
      part of the research.
    
  