
    
      Patients undergo an initial screening visit. Inclusion criteria include adults 18 -70 years
      of age with type II diabetes currently using insulin and recording SMBG measurements.
      Exclusion criteria include history of severe hypoglycemic episodes, current use of ASBG
      measurements, serious co-morbid illness or pregnancy. For eligible subjects baseline data
      including HbA1C is obtained. The goal for enrollment is 176 subjects. Subjects are randomized
      into either a fingertip or an arm-testing group within strata of baseline HbA1C. Each subject
      who does not already have one receives a One Touch Ultra® SMBG device. All subjects receive
      training in the use of this device, but for those in the arm-testing group this includes
      training on obtaining samples from the forearm. Arm- testing subjects are encouraged to use
      arm testing as much as possible but to use finger testing if they are not able to obtain a
      sample from the arm. All subjects are asked to perform SMBG testing before breakfast, before
      dinner and 2 hours after dinner and to complete diaries of all SMBG readings. At 1, 3 and 5
      months after the training visit subjects see a diabetes provider who makes adjustments in the
      therapeutic regimen based on the SMBG measurements, as they would during routine diabetes
      management. Diary sheets are then collected and the data they contain is entered into a
      database. At months 2, 4 and 7 subjects present for a visit to drop off their diary sheets.
      At months 4 and 7 they have blood drawn for HbA1C measurement. The principal outcome variable
      is level of diabetic control as measured by 7-month HbA1c. The means for each group will be
      compared, and we will test the hypothesis that glycemic control as represented by 7-month
      HbA1C is not worse for the ASBG group than the FTBG group. Secondary outcome variables are
      compliance with testing and number of hypoglycemic episodes.
    
  