
    
      More than one million Americans suffer an extremity fracture (broken bone in the arm, leg, or
      pelvis) that requires surgery each year. Approximately 5% (or 50,000) of surgical fracture
      patients develop a surgical site infection (SSI), which is twice the rate among most surgical
      patients and nearly five times the rate among patients undergoing elective orthopaedic
      surgeries (e.g. joint replacement). Patients who develop a SSI after their fracture fixation
      surgery experience a long and difficult treatment pathway. Researchers have identified that
      when a fracture patient experiences a SSI, they typically undergo at least two additional
      surgeries to control the infection, spend a median of 14 additional days in the hospital, and
      have significantly lower health related quality of life (HRQL). Similarly, results from the
      recently completed Fluid Lavage of Open Wounds (FLOW) trial confirmed that patients who had a
      SSI, or another complication, that required an additional surgery reported significantly
      lower physical and mental HRQL in the 12 months following their fracture compared to patients
      who did not experience a SSI. In the most severe cases, when a SSI cannot be controlled, a
      limb amputation becomes necessary.

      Open fractures, closed lower extremity fractures, and pelvic fractures represent some of the
      most severe musculoskeletal injuries. Due to their high-energy mechanisms, these fractures
      are often accompanied by soft-tissue injuries that contribute to unacceptably poor outcomes.
      The FLOW trial of 2,447 open fracture patients reported a 13.2% incidence of open
      fracture-related reoperations; Closed fractures of the lower extremity are also at high risk
      of complications, particularly when compared to closed upper extremity fractures. For
      example, the rate of SSI in closed tibial plateau and plafond fractures range from 5.6 -
      11.9%, although some cohort studies have reported infection rates as high as 25.0%. This is
      contrast with SSI rates of <5% for common upper extremity fractures like humeral shaft,
      forearm, or distal radius fractures. This is further illustrated in a series of 214 deep
      orthopaedic fracture infections, in which 58% occurred in the tibia and ankle, and only 10%
      occurred anywhere in the upper extremity. Finally, pelvic fractures are associated with some
      of the most challenging SSIs to treat among closed fractures because of their propensity to
      gram negative organisms and limitations in reconstruction options post-infection. Ultimately,
      infectious complications in these fracture populations lead to prolonged morbidity, loss of
      function, and potential limb loss.
    
  