
    
      The study is designed as a prospective, single-masked intraindividually comparing randomized
      controlled trial involving participants of both genders aged 18-35 years with Keratoconus
      planned for routine corneal crosslinking at the Department of Ophthalmology, Umeå University
      Hospital, Umeå, Sweden. The study includes 30 participants with bilateral Keratoconus,
      receiving Epi-off PiXL (n=30) in one eye and Epi-on PiXL in high oxygen environment (n=30) in
      the fellow eye. The participants are randomized utilizing a list of unique random numbers
      between 1 and 30; an even number will be treated with Epi-on in the right eye; an uneven
      number will receive Epi-on in the left eye; the fellow eye will be treated with Epi-off. All
      patients are informed about the procedures before consenting to participate in the study.

      At baseline, before treatment, each eye is examined with slit-lamp microscopy, subjective
      refraction, determination of uncorrected (UCVA), low contrast visual acuity at 2.5 percentage
      contrast and 10 percentage contrast and best corrected (BSCVA) visual acuities using the
      LogMAR fast protocol and intraocular pressure (IOP) using Goldmann applanation tonometry.
      Under standardized, mesopic light conditions each eye is evaluated by keratometry readings
      and central corneal thickness, extracted from Schemipflug camera measurements, Pentacam HR®
      (Oculus, Inc. Lynnwood, WA).

      Central corneal endothelial photographs are taken with the Topcon SP-IP specular microscope
      (Topcon Europe B.V., Capelle a/d Ijssel, the Netherlands) and total ocular wavefront is
      measured with iTrace (Tracey Technologies, Inc.).

      Ocular discomfort is subjectively evaluated in each eye by a specific visual analogous rating
      scale at 4h, 8h, 12h, 24h and thereafter daily up to 1 week postoperatively.

      All the above mentioned examinations are repeated at 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after
      treatment. At 1 day and 1 week after treatment, solely UCVA, Auto refractor measurements,
      slit-lamp examination are evaluated.
    
  