
    
      Whole-body vibration (WBV) and treadmill training (TT) are commonly-utilized rehabilitation
      interventions for children with neuromotor disorders. The evidence supporting the use of TT
      in children with cerebral palsy (CP) remains inconclusive, but WBV has been shown in the
      literature to positively affect gait and lower body spasticity in this population. However,
      the effects of a single session of WBV are generally transient, lasting between ten minutes
      and two hours. Thus, it may be necessary to combine WBV with another intervention to
      reinforce improved movement patterns and maximize its potential benefits. Therefore, the aim
      of this study is to investigate the effects of the addition of a single bout of WBV to a
      single bout of TT on the lower extremity spasticity and gait parameters of ambulatory
      children with CP.

      The investigators plan to recruit 20 children between the ages of 6 and 17 with spastic CP.
      Subjects will complete a 10-minute bout of TT at 110% of their preferred overground (OG)
      walking speed, rest for 15 minutes, and then complete a 12-minute bout of WBV at 20Hz and 2mm
      followed by a second 10-minute bout of TT at the same speed. OG gait characteristics,
      including spatiotemporal parameters, joint kinematics, and electromyographic (EMG)
      parameters, will be collected at 5 time points: before the first bout of TT, immediately
      following the first bout of TT, before WBV, immediately following WBV, and immediately
      following the second bout of TT. Lower extremity spasticity will be assessed using multiple
      methods at the same time points. Changes in gait parameters and spasticity will be assessed
      using a one-way repeated measures ANOVA and a series of dependent t-tests. Significant level
      will be set at α = 0.05.

      The investigators anticipate that acute improvements in OG gait parameters will be greater
      following the combined bout of WBV and TT than the bout of TT alone. The investigators expect
      this to be due to the reduction of lower extremity spasticity following WBV, which should
      allow for more normalized gait patterns during TT and improve carryover to OG gait. Further,
      the investigators expect to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for spasticity
      reduction following WBV which will allow for the making of informed decisions regarding
      clinical rehabilitative protocols involving WBV and TT.
    
  