
    
      The ARIADE project was preceded by:

        -  A phase of systematic literature review and selection of the different types of visual
           aids to be tested (completed)

        -  A design phase with implementation of these visual aids in augmented reality and
           determination of methods for measuring the effectiveness of devices for detecting
           wanderings (criteria linked to changes in gait: length of steps, frequency, regularity,
           direction , pauses) with detection using accelerometers (completed)

        -  A phase to assess the a priori acceptability of an Augmented Reality device by people
           with Alzheimer's disease or an Alzheimer-type MCI and by their relatives (completed)

      The ARIADE project (9 months) will take place in a controlled and reproducible ecological
      environment (Ker Lann gymnasium) and will aim at assessing the effectiveness of an Augmented
      Reality assistance, and of the devices adapted for detecting wandering, the safety of the
      patient when traveling with an Augmented Reality headset, and their acceptance of the device.

      Three routes each comprising seven intersections will allow us in 20 patients to compare the
      three different visual aids offered in augmented reality, i.e. arrows, path illumination and
      a little companion. We will assess the effectiveness of these aids to complete the course
      without trajectory errors, the safety of the participant throughout the course, the
      effectiveness of the system for detecting wanderings, and the acceptance of the device by the
      participant.

      The participation of a patient in this phase will not exceed one hour, including breaks.

      Patients will be called beforehand by one of the study investigators from a list of patients
      who volunteered to participate in clinical research studies held by the CMRR of Rennes
      University Hospital. Verification of the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria will be carried
      out by CMRR's investigating physicians from the patient's paper file and then during a usual
      follow-up consultation. The travel of participants to the Ker Lann gymnasium will be
      compensated.

      Visual aids tested:

      Based on previous experimental results, we aimed at testing the usability of three types of
      directional stimuli, i.e. information provided regarding the location of the user as well as
      the direction regarding the path to follow to reach a destination.

        1. The first type of aid proposed, which consists of the use of a directional arrow, is
           classic since it is the one whose use is most regularly reported in the literature.
           Arrows will be placed at ground level at each intersection.

        2. The second type of assistance consists of a path illumination. This type of help has
           only been tested with people with dementia as part of a single decision-making task.
           However, previous studies based on the illumination of certain areas indicate that this
           method is promising.

        3. Finally, the third type of help consists of the use of an animated companion standing in
           front of the person. This character does not interact with the person. However, it
           provides a social presence during the ride. The use of a personal aid should help on
           reducing the anxiety generated by navigation tasks. In the long term, and according to
           the results of this first study, the use of a learning companion, ie a type of
           educational agent that can provide a complex form of social presence and emotional
           feedback in a controlled environment, could be considered. To the best of our knowledge,
           a personified navigation aid has never been tested with people with dementia.

      Exploratory, prospective, single-center, pilot study.
    
  