
    
      Objective: To evaluate the modulation of immunity-related gene expression for the Sjögren's
      syndrome under Chinese herbal medicine (SS-1) treatment.

      Method:

      The evidence of the regulation of oxidative-related cytokines and the antioxidant capacity
      could be provided from the previous randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled,
      cross-over design, two-center clinical trial for evaluating the effect of Chinese herbal
      medicine (SS-1) for the Sjögren's syndrome patients. However, the clinical trail could not
      find out the modulation of immunity-related gene expression for SS-1 treatment, and it did
      set up a healthy control group for SS-1 comparison. This study want to establish a healthy
      control group for evaluating the normal range of oxidative stress and cytokines, which this
      work could be used to compare with the 72 SS-1 subjects in previous study. And This study
      also want to analyze the 770 immunity-related gene expression for the Sjögren's syndrome
      under the SS-1 treatment: (1) The best 20 (at least) efficacy SJS subjects who were evaluated
      before and after SS-1 treatments. (2) The 10 (at least) healthy control subjects. The
      findings could provide the evidence on the modulation of immunity-related gene expression for
      clinical manifestation, oxidative stress and cytokine in Sjögren's syndrome patients.

      Expected Results:

        1. Establish the normal range of oxidative stress and cytokines for healthy control group.

        2. To evaluate the regulatory effect on oxidative stress and cytokine secretion between
           SS-1 group and healthy control group.

        3. To evaluate the immunity-related gene expression for the Sjögren's syndrome under the
           SS-1 treatment.

        4. To evaluate the immunity-related gene expression among the best efficacy SJS subjects
           and healthy control subjects.

        5. To evaluate the immunity-related gene expression with the characteristic of TCM tongue
           diagnosis.

        6. To analyze the correlation among clinical manifestations, Sjögren's syndrome -related
           clinical questionnaires and immunity-related gene expression.
    
  