
    
      The study is an online course (derived from an existing evidence-based face-to-face workshop
      designed and evaluated by the C.I) which aims to reduce symptoms of anxiety in the children
      of anxious parents. It is a learning tool to help parents to understand the basic processes
      involved in children's anxiety, to develop a calm, consistent, behaviour management style and
      to learn skills for responding to difficult emotion in their children.

      The whole study takes place online, allowing the participants to sign up, run through some
      brief eligibility questions, read the study information and provide consent.

      Once enrolled in the study, there is a series of baseline questionnaires. The participant
      also has the option to nominate someone who also knows their child well (e.g. a co-parent, a
      family member or close friend) to participate in the study with them and to complete a small
      number of questionnaires. This will help to give us a broader, more objective picture of the
      child, but is an optional part of the study. 48 hours later (to allow time for the
      participants to contact the co-respondent if they choose) the index participant will be
      randomised to one of two groups: either the intervention (the online course), or the control
      group where they do not receive the intervention.

      Those in the intervention will be randomised to receive 8 out of 9 modules of the course,
      with a suggested time frame of one or two modules a week, each module taking about 30
      minutes, with some home-practice tasks in-between.

      Both the intervention group and the control group participants will be contacted again after
      6 months to complete a set of follow-up questionnaires (similar to those completed at
      baseline). Depending on when each participant joins the trial, they may be contacted a third
      time towards the end of the life of the study, to complete another set of questionnaires,9-21
      months after their first.
    
  