
    
      Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is a severe alcohol induced hepatic inflammation that leads to
      jaundice and liver failure. The incidence of AH is increasing and the disease is associated
      with a high mortality. In spite of numerous clinical trials both treatment and prognosis have
      remained essentially unchanged for decades, emphasizing the need to improve our understanding
      of the disease mechanisms behind AH.

      The current perception of the pathogenesis of alcohol-induced liver injury mainly derives
      from animal models, and the resident hepatic macrophages, the Kupffer cells, seem to play an
      important role. Activation of these cells may give rise to most of the hallmark clinical
      findings of AH: The cytokines released initiate hepatic inflammation and an acute phase
      response, recruit neutrophils, and activate stellate cells, contributing to the acute portal
      hypertension. Jaundice is due to intrahepatic cholestasis caused by down regulation of the
      bilirubin transporters on the basolateral hepatocyte membrane. Hepatic macrophages are
      thought to be activated by the bacterial derived endotoxins/lipopolysaccharides (LPS) present
      in the portal blood because of an alcohol-induced increase in gut-blood permeability with
      translocation of bacteria, as found in patients with alcoholic liver injury. LPS is
      recognized by the hepatic macrophages via a membrane complex including the pathogen
      recognition receptor molecule Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4). LPS Binding Proteins (LBP)
      produced by hepatocytes then bind and present LPS to the membrane glycoprotein CD14 that in
      turn activates TLR-4. In support of these mechanisms, alcohol-induced liver injury is reduced
      in knockout mice missing LBP, CD14, and TLR-4. Likewise, chemical destruction of hepatic
      macrophages in rats prevents alcohol-induced liver injury, as does cleansing the gut flora
      with antibiotics.

      Human hepatic macrophages when activated, express their surface receptor CD163. We and others
      have previously shown that sCD163 is released from the liver in alcoholic liver disease, that
      its plasma concentration predicts mortality in patients with acute liver failure and is as a
      marker of portal hypertension and a predictor of clinical decompensation in patients with
      liver cirrhosis. Very recently we have directly demonstrated hepatic macrophage activation in
      human AH paralleling the disease severity, and to suggest this to be elicited by LPS.

      The line of evidence presented above provides rationale for testing whether intervention
      toward bacterial translocation may result in a diminished immune response in human AH.
      Consequently, in this study the investigators seek to perform total gut microbiota
      eradication by combining 3 different orally administered antibiotics. The investigators have
      chosen antibiotics that are not absorbed into the systemic circulation, because the
      investigators want to limit the effects to the gastrointestinal tract.
    
  