
    
      The proposed project will develop an innovative web-based decision aid (DA) to improve
      decision making for lung cancer screening (LCS) among individuals at high risk for lung
      cancer due to cigarette smoking. Recent National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) data
      demonstrated a 20% relative reduction in lung cancer mortality for low dose computed
      tomography screening as compared to chest X-ray among individuals at high lung cancer risk.
      Given that lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States with an
      estimated 160,340 deaths predicted for 2012, the new data have reinvigorated interest in LCS.
      However, LCS carries substantial risks including a high false positive rate, over-diagnosis,
      adverse psychosocial consequences, and increased radiation exposure. Further, it is unknown
      whether LCS would reduce lung cancer mortality among individuals who smoke but do not meet
      NLST eligibility criteria. Therefore, there is currently no clear best choice for whether a
      given individual should be screened or not. Decisions about participating in LCS should be
      well informed and consistent with individual preferences. However, previous data indicate
      that individuals who do undergo LCS rarely have a thorough understanding of the risks or
      benefits.

      To address this rapidly emerging public health challenge, this research has developed a
      web-based decision aid (DA) to facilitate informed decision making regarding LCS in
      individuals at high risk for lung cancer (i.e., cigarette smokers), and will assess
      feasibility of DA administration and proposed methods for conducting a future randomized
      clinical trial (RCT) of DA effectiveness. The content of the DA will be based on the
      investigators previous studies exploring LCS decision making and other recent research.

      The specific aim of the currently proposed research are to conduct a feasibility trial of the
      DA among individuals at high risk of lung cancer due to heavy cigarette smoking.
      Investigators will recruit participants to assess feasibility of: 1) delivering the DA
      intervention in a community setting, and 2) conducting research procedures and assessment
      tools as planned for a future RCT.
    
  