
    
      Gynecologic cancers are malignancies of the female reproductive tract that affect over 70,000
      women per year. Treatments for gynecologic cancer often result in numerous physical and
      emotional side effects that affect long-term adjustment, such as anxiety, depression, low
      self-esteem, sexual dysfunction, difficulties with fertility, and surgically-induced
      menopause. Even when initial treatments are successful, gynecologic cancers have a high
      recurrence rate that can reach nearly 80% among those with ovarian cancer. Fear of Cancer
      Recurrence (FCR) is described as one of the largest unmet psychological needs among
      gynecologic cancer patients and is associated with psychological distress, increased health
      care utilization, and functional impairment. Few studies have examined interventions designed
      to manage symptoms of FCR, which leaves a significant gap in the literature regarding
      treatment of this prominent psychosocial problem. Cancer patients report growing use of
      integrative medicine therapies (e.g., yoga, acupuncture, massage) to manage unmet physical
      and emotional needs related to their disease and treatment. The current study will take
      advantage of this trend in supportive oncology to investigate the feasibility and
      acceptability of a novel intervention program created specially to address FCR among women
      with gynecologic cancer. Patients will be recruited from the UF Health/Shands Hospital
      Gynecology Oncology Clinic and Medical Oncology clinic and invited to participate in a
      10-week, manualized, small group yoga course. Psychoeducation modules, meditation training,
      and gentle yoga poses will be integrated into a comprehensive program focused on managing the
      psychosocial concerns of newly diagnosed gynecologic cancer patients. Findings from this
      research will contribute to the existing literature on FCR and knowledge regarding the use of
      integrative medicine techniques for addressing unmet psychological needs among gynecologic
      cancer patients. If the intervention is deemed feasible and acceptable, future research may
      explore ways in which this manualized yoga program compares to other psychosocial treatments
      for managing FCR and other forms of emotional distress in women with cancer.
    
  