
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the cancers that our community partners have identified as
      a priority. It is the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States, and one with
      significant disparities in screening, stage of diagnosis, and survival. Underinsured and
      uninsured adults are less likely to be screened, more likely to have their cancer diagnosed
      at a late stage, and less likely to survive CRC. In this project we will work with
      "safety-net" health centers serving Medicaid and uninsured patients in St. Louis City and St.
      Louis County in Missouri, and in East St. Louis/St. Clair County in Illinois. Working with
      our Colorectal Cancer Community Partnership we planned a cluster-randomized delayed start
      trial to test the effectiveness of offering community health centers a "Menu" of
      evidence-based systems interventions for increasing rates of CRC screening. The strategies
      included in the Menu will be drawn from evidence-based interventions. The control condition
      will be usual care, but in concordance with our partners' wishes, we will offer all
      participating health centers access to state-of-the-art evidence-based patient education
      materials. The primary outcome will be CRC screening adherence as measured by self-report
      surveys of a random sample of health center patients. Our evaluation will also be informed by
      a chart audit to assess screening referral and completion, surveys of physicians and staff at
      intervention sites to assess implementation outcomes, and exit interviews with administration
      of intervention health centers to assess maintenance of the intervention strategies. We
      developed and will conduct our study adhering to the principles of community-based
      participatory research (CBPR). The specific aims are: (1) Working with community partners, we
      will select and refine the evidence-based intervention strategies for the trial; (2) Using a
      CBPR approach, we will collaborate with our partners to implement and evaluate the
      systems-level intervention for its effectiveness in increasing CRC screening rates. (3) Using
      the RE-AIM framework, we will work with our partners to evaluate implementation and
      maintenance of systems changes by intervention health centers and adoption of the changes by
      control centers. Compared to traditional clinics and healthcare providers, safety-net health
      centers face additional challenges in implementing evidence-based strategies for increase
      screening uptake; yet rigorously testing such strategies in this context is novel. Allowing
      health centers to select from a menu of strategies will provide a practical test of
      effectiveness, and will increase buy-in and representativeness of participating health
      centers. As a practical clinical trial with good external validity, this project has the
      potential for significant impact on CRC screening rates with promise for substantial impact
      on disparities in CRC burden. This study is responsive to community concerns about CRC and
      about no-intervention control groups, and is responsive to the RFA by proposing a CBPR
      randomized controlled trial to increase access to and utilization of CRC screening
      procedures.
    
  