
    
      Distal radius fractures are the most common long bone fractures and the incidence appears to
      be increasing worldwide. They have been found to account for approximately 17% of all
      fracture related emergency department visits. These types of injuries have a bimodal age
      distribution. The first cohort consists of elderly patients with lower to moderate energy
      injuries secondary to osteoporosis, and the second cohort consists of young patients involved
      in high energy traumas.

      Surgical treatment for distal radius fractures varies, as there are numerous techniques for
      fixation. The goals of fixation are anatomic reduction and stability, as this has been shown
      to result in improved chances for functional recovery. The use of volar distal radius locking
      plates has become the standard for treatment of the majority of low-energy distal radius
      fractures. However, adequate fixation for high energy comminuted fractures with or without
      metadiaphyseal extension remains a major treatment challenge. Severely comminuted articular
      fractures are problematic in terms of obtaining an adequate reduction and/or stabilization by
      the standard periarticular plate. It is in this light that the dorsal distraction plate can
      serve as an improved fixation device by allowing comminuted articular fragments reduce under
      ligamentotaxis. In addition, periarticular plate fixation cannot address proximal
      comminution. Furthermore, the use of external fixation has fallen out of favour due to the
      high complication rate associated with pin track infections resulting in loosening and loss
      of reduction. It has been reported that highly comminuted distal radius fractures are
      associated with a 52% to 63% complication rate when treated with external fixation. Recently,
      there has been increased use of dorsal distraction plating for these types of injuries
      however, the literature to date is quite limited. Unlike external fixation, the bridge plate
      can be left in place for an extended period of time without the risk of the aforementioned
      complications.

      Burke and Singer were the first to describe use of internal distraction plating for treatment
      of comminuted, displaced distal radius fractures in 1998. Since then, the literature on
      outcomes after dorsal distraction plating has been limited to retrospective reviews except
      for one prospective series by Ruch et al in 2005. The rationale for an internal spanning
      plate is multifactorial. Firstly, it is an extremely stable construct and more rigid than an
      external fixator. Secondly, due to the extensive time required for bone healing
      (approximately 12 weeks), in these injuries, the internal distraction plate can remain in
      situ until full union has completed. Lastly, this method allows for early weight bearing and
      transfer in polytraumas patients with pelvic or lower extremity injuries.

      Despite the increasing use of dorsal distraction plating for these types of injuries, there
      has not been a proper analysis comparing dorsal distraction plating to standard open
      reduction internal fixation volar plating. Furthermore, most of the studies in the literature
      have varied in terms of outcome assessment. Much of the current literature has found that
      this type of fixation results in restoration of functional range of motion with minimal
      complications rates. More detailed information regarding outcomes following this type of
      fixation may help improve functional outcomes post-injury as well as improve mobilization in
      polytrauma patients. Using a comprehensive approach to evaluating patients, the investigators
      aim to initially perform a retrospective case series study of patients treated with dorsal
      distraction plating versus open reduction internal fixation volar plating. Once completed,
      the investigators plan to perform a pilot randomized control trial comparing the same groups
      described previously for AO.23-C2 and AO.23-C3 distal radius fractures.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the use of dorsal distraction plating alone or combined
      with any other fragment specific fixation in the treatment of severely comminuted distal
      radius fractures with metadiaphyseal extension (AO.23-C2 and AO.23-C3) and compare outcomes
      to those treated with open reduction internal fixation.

      The investigators hypothesize that highly comminuted distal radius fractures with
      metadiaphyseal extension treated with dorsal distraction plating result in restoration of
      function as well as improved outcomes compared to those treated with standard open reduction
      internal fixation.
    
  