
    
      Inflammation around dental implants has been defined as Peri-implant mucositis and
      Peri-implantitis . Peri-implant mucositis is a localized inflammation limited to the mucosal
      tissue surrounding the implant whereas peri-implantitis has advanced to the bone surrounding
      the implant as well. The prevalence of Peri-implant Mucositis has been reported in the
      literature to range from 50-90% whereas the prevalence of Peri-implantitis has been reported
      as high as 20%. Due to the fact that there are many similarities in the clinical
      manifestations of infection in the gingiva and peri-implant mucosal tissue, studies attempted
      to compare the microbial characteristics around teeth to that found around implants. Emerging
      data suggests that the microbiome around infected teeth has some similarities and
      dissimilarities to peri-implant infection. Such differences may stem from different
      inflammatory characteristics as well as the presence of a non-vital foreign material (the
      dental implant) in the area. Some of the known pathogenic strains identified in the
      peri-implant sulcus are anaerobic a-saccharolytic bacteria, which feed off the adjacent
      tissue inflammatory exudate. Logically, attenuation of the inflammation would deprive the
      nearby bacteria of nourishment needed to sustain their growth.

      The use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) to control chronic inflammatory
      disease has been used extensively in medicine. Its action of blocking cyclooxygenase
      inflammatory pathway and in-effect blocking the production of Prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) has led
      to its use with general pain control as well as its long term use in the treatment of tissue
      inflammation and pain caused by rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis, tendinitis and
      bursitis.

      Offenbacher et al. as early as in 1981 discovered that patients with periodontitis had
      significantly higher levels of PGE2 in the sulcular fluid between gingiva and the tooth (GCF)
      . In a follow up study over a period of 18-36 months, Offenbacher observed that patients who
      had exhibited periodontal attachment loss had significantly higher levels of PGE2. This led
      Williams et al. to study the effects of Flurbiprofen, a phenylalkanoic derivative family of
      of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, on naturally occurring periodontal disease in an
      animal model over a period of 12 months. The study demonstrated decreases in alveolar bone
      loss in flurprofen treated animals at 3, 6 , 9 and 12 months. William et al then followed
      with a clinical trial where 44 patients who self administered peroral flurbiprofen twice
      daily for a period of 24 months. The study reported severely depressed bone loss rates over
      the period of the trial and as early as 6 months after administration of flurbiprofen that
      continued over the length of the trial. Other studied the drugs effect on other more
      aggressive forms of the disease with similar results . These results have been duplicated
      around implants as well. Jeffcoat et al demonstrated that oral intake flurbiprofen helped
      reduce bone loss around implants in the first year of service. Reddy similarly demonstrated
      with use of digital subtraction radiography, flurbiprofen taken orally was able to help
      increase bone density and apposition around implants after just 4 months.

      The positive effect of systemic antibiotics and as well topical anti microbials on the
      pathogenic bacteria in the gingiva sulcus and peri-implant crevice has been well documented
      and is indisputable. The removal of these bacteria has helped promote tissue health. Similar
      results have been documented around implants as well. However more recently the reverse
      approach to disease control has gained popularity. Instead of trying just to reduce the
      bacterial challenge through antimicrobial/antibiotic therapy, modulating the host response to
      decrease the inflammatory destruction of the tissue, could be a more efficient and effective
      way of controlling the disease In decreasing the inflammatory environment, the pathogenic
      bacteria feeding off the inflammatory exudate would be greatly decreased, effecting a major
      change in the microbiome. To date nobody has characterized this change.

      The purpose of the study is to test the effects of oral NSAIDS on the peri-implant
      microbiome. Also, clinical parameters will be tested for correlation with the microbial
      findings.

      Methods:

      The study design is random controlled double blind clinical trial. Patients visiting the
      graduate periodontal clinic at the Hadassah Medical Center will be examined for eligibility
      for the study. Implants with peri-implant mucositis (clinical signs of inflammation without
      radiographically bone loss) will be included. Patients (n=50) will undergo clinical
      examination (which will include probing depths, presence or absence of suppuration and
      bleeding on probing) and sampling of the subgingival bacterial deposits using a perio-strip.
      Patients will be randomly assigned to the experimental flurbiprofen group (100 mg bid) or
      placebo group (n=25 for each group). Drug consumption will be set for the duration of 2
      weeks. At the end of drug intake period (day 14) and two weeks afterwards (day 28) all
      subjects will be re-examined, which will include a new clinical exam and sampling of the
      subgingival bacterial deposits. The microbiological samples will be analyzed using 16s
      Ribosomal Pyro-sequencing. The microbiome profile of the Flurbiprofen group before and after
      treatment and two weeks post-treatment will be compared. as well as the microbiome from the
      placebo group compared with the Flurbiprofen group. Statistical differences will be evaluated
      using ANOVA with Bonferroni correction. Correlation between the clinical parameters and
      microbiological parameters will be tested using Pearson correlation.

      Significance:

      The study asks the question whether the use of a well-known NSAID that had proven beneficial
      effects in maintaining the mucosal tissue integrity around implants and help control and
      prevent peri-implant inflammation. Studies have shown that implants placed 5 years previously
      will most likely have some form of peri-implant mucositis . Just as gingivitis can lead to
      periodontal disease, Peri-implant mucositis can lead to peri-implantitis a more destructive
      inflammatory disease that puts implant survival in jeopardy. Therefore, a drug that can limit
      the amount of destructive bacteria around the implant can be a very effective non-invasive
      method of treatment. Additionally with the use of a more comprehensive taxonomical
      identification of the peri-implant micro-genome, there will be a better understanding of the
      bacterial role in the destructive process associated with peri-implant inflammation
    
  