
    
      Functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID) are common in the general population. Symptoms
      such as pain, nausea, bloating, diarrhea or constipation may occur. Irritable bowel syndrome
      (IBS) is the most common FGID with a prevalence in the range of 5-25%. Medical attention is
      sought by 20-75% of patients who meet diagnostic criteria for IBS at some time in their
      lives. Quality of life is often impaired in IBS patients. In previous studies a diet low in
      FODMAP was shown to reduce gastrointestinal symptoms in IBS patients.

      But still it is unknown which FGID patients (e.g. patients with irritable bowel syndrome,
      functional dyspepsia (FD), functional abdominal pain/bloating) profit most from such a diet
      which involves costs, time and significant lifestyle alteration.

      To test for food intolerances, standard hydrogen breath tests using fructose or lactose as
      challenge substance are still commonly used and do present a nutritional challenge, however
      the usefulness of information gained is questionable. Fructose intolerance is as prevalent in
      IBS as in healthy volunteers, in fact when tested with the usual doses of 25-50g, prevalence
      of fructose intolerance ranges between 53% and 73%. Testing (genetic) for hypolactasia, is
      often, even in the professional setting, misunderstood as lactose intolerance testing. Most
      patients, who do have hypolactasia, i.e. almost no activity of intestinal brush-border enzyme
      lactase, tolerate up to 12g of lactose per day, remain asymptomatic and therefore should not
      be considered lactose intolerant. In addition, one must realize, that the vast majority in
      the world is hypolactasic and hypolactasia, or rather lactase persistence, constitutes a norm
      variant.

      Recently it was shown that a standardized liquid mixed nutrient meal including 25g lactulose,
      but not with 15g lactulose, allows differentiation of IBS patients from healthy controls.
      This test, incorporating FODMAP lactulose, that, unlike lactose and fructose, is indigestible
      in all humans in the small intestine, plus a caloric load, reflecting a regular meal and
      everyday life, has therefore the potential to be a useful marker of nutrient intolerance in
      patients with suspected functional bowel disease.

      Additionally, associations between FGID and JH/JHS have been recognized in the past decade.
      JH/JHS constitutes a hereditary disorder of connective tissue in which patients often report
      non-musculoskeletal symptoms, among them gastrointestinal complaints. Previous studies in
      Europe and the U.S. have reported a JHS prevalence of 20% in the general population.

      A stringent approach to studying possibly JH and JHS-related changes with diagnostic and
      interventional arms, such as a nutrient challenge testing or dietary adaptation (i.e.FODMAP
      diet) has not yet been taken.

      Differences in the intestinal microbiome have been shown in IBS patients compared to healthy
      volunteers but not in JHS compared to non-JHS patients. Given the differences noted in
      patients' symptomatology, the preliminary data on gut function and the underlying structural
      abnormalities, the role of microbiome in relation to FGID and JHS is highly interesting and,
      as yet, unstudied. In recent years with the advent of more powerful sequencing tools, a
      number of studies have been published, that try to characterize the microbiome in IBS
      patients. Research on IBS-related changes of the microbiome is early and incomplete. The
      number of literature reviews regarding gut microbiome currently far exceeds the number of
      original articles reporting on the microbiome in functional bowel disease. IBS-specific
      interventional studies are even rarer and when performed, often lack control groups and the
      reality of multiple or repeated intervention, that characterize treatment of FGID. Therefore,
      and to identify patients according to their microbiome which profit most from therapeutic
      intervention (such as FODMAP diet) we are also going to analyze microbiome changes before and
      after FODMAP diet.

      Another pathological, impairing aspect of IBS patients is the intestinal hypersensitivity.
      Anorectal hypersensitivity measurement has been considered a hallmark for IBS for many years.
      We are routinely performing anorectal functions tests in our specialized unit. Recently we
      validated high-resolution anorectal manometry and rapid barostat bag measurements to assess
      visceral sensitivity; in a further study we assessed obstructive defecation when compared to
      magnetic resonance defecography. In an earlier study employing magnetic resonance
      defecography (MR defecography) we were able to show that MR defecography, apart from
      correlating well with the diagnosis of dyssynergic defecation suggested by anorectal
      manometry, additional pelvic floor abnormalities such as pelvic floor descent, cystocele and
      enterocele could be identified. Studying these measures in patients with suspected outlet
      obstruction in relation to JHS status, which is considered a risk factor for pelvic floor
      abnormalities, might lead to more focused diagnostic and therapeutic approaches in the future
      for patients who profit most from certain procedures.

      Considering all above mentioned facts we are going to carry out a study analyzing different
      subtypes of FGID (in particular IBS, FD, functional abdominal pain/bloating) for
      demographics, clinical diagnostics (e.g. nutrient challenge testing, microbiome testing,
      anorectal manometry and MR defecography), treatment (FODMAP diet) and comorbidities (in
      particular JH, JHS and psychological comorbidities) to identify FGID patients which profit
      most from different diagnostics and FODMAP diet.
    
  