
    
      Anemia is a common problem to affect patients diagnosed with esophageal or gastric cancer.
      This anemia is thought to be secondary to blood loss from the tumor, poor oral intake
      resulting from symptoms of the tumor, and impaired iron absorption secondary to neoplasia
      induced inflammatory processes.

      Patients undergoing palliative chemotherapy for esophageal or gastric adenocarcinoma are thus
      prone to development or exacerbation of anemia during their chemotherapy, as this tumor is
      remains in situ.

      Anemia results in symptoms such as shortness of breath, fatigue, lethargy and chest pain,
      which can all affect quality of life. Oral iron and blood transfusions are the current
      mainstay of treatment for the condition, yet both have their disadvantages. Oral iron is
      often poorly tolerated due to side effects including constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain
      and nausea. Blood transfusions can also be administered but expose the patient to other risks
      including infection and transfusion associated reactions. In order to overcome these issues,
      intravenous iron preparations have been developed and have improved in safety.

      This is a single-center, randomized, open label, clinical trial, which looks to investigate
      the efficacy of intravenous iron is in the treatment of anemia in patients with a diagnosis
      of esophageal or gastric adenocarcinoma.

      Patients will be randomized to receive intravenous iron III isomaltoside (treatment group) or
      standard therapies decided by the clinical team (control). The outcomes reviewed will include
      the amount and frequency of blood transfusions received, changes in patient blood profiles
      and most importantly, patient quality of life scores. Patients will be followed from the
      start of their chemotherapy until the beginning of the third cycle.

      The primary hypothesis to be tested is that intravenous iron will increase quality of life by
      reducing the symptoms of anemia. We also hypothesize that there will be a decrease in blood
      transfusion rate in this group and improved changes in hemoglobin and hematinics.

      This is designed as a pilot study to determine the feasibility of a larger trial.
      Randomization will be performed using random allocation of opaque envelopes. All data will be
      confidentially recorded, as will drug reactions and side effects.
    
  