
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the effects of cranial microcurrent electrical stimulation (CES) vs sham CES
           over time on symptoms of depression, anxiety, fatigue, pain, and sleep disturbances in
           women with stage I-IIIA breast cancer receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To explore the relationships among selected markers of inflammation (e.g., tumor
           necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-6, interleukin-1β, and C-reactive protein), symptoms,
           and quality of life.

        -  To examine whether the symptoms of depression, anxiety, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and
           pain form a cluster.

        -  To examine the effects of CES on quality of life.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to chemotherapy schedule (every 2 weeks for 8
      courses vs every 3 weeks for 6 courses). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (cranial microcurrent electrical stimulation [CES]): Patients receive a CES unit
           (Alpha-Stim® 100 Microcurrent Stimulator) that passes microcurrent levels of biphasic
           electrical stimulation via ear-lobe electrodes. The CES unit is preset to provide 1 hour
           of 100 μA (sub-sensory level), modified square-wave biphasic stimulation on a 50% duty
           cycle at .05 Hz, and to automatically turn off at the end of 1 hour. Patients use their
           CES unit once daily in weeks 1-18.

        -  Arm II (sham CES): Patients receive a CES unit as in arm I, but the ear-lobe electrodes
           do not pass electrical current. Patients use their CES unit once daily in weeks 1-18.

      Patients complete symptom questionnaires (e.g., the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale,
      the Brief Pain Inventory Short-Form, the Brief Fatigue Inventory, and the General Sleep
      Disturbance Scale) weekly in weeks 1-18. Patients also complete a quality-of-life
      questionnaire in weeks 1, 7, and 18.

      Blood samples are collected in weeks 1, 7, and 18 and analyzed for cytokines (e.g., tumor
      necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-1β) and C-reactive protein.
    
  