
    
      Nulliparous women who were recruited for an initial evaluation from our maternity unit,
      Hospital Universitario Virgen de Valme. Participants were recruited prior to instrumentation
      at delivery and those meeting the inclusion criteria, being randomized into the two study
      groups (vacuum delivery or forceps delivery).

      Deliveries completed using vacuum instrumentation were performed by obstetricians with a
      minimum of five years' experience in obstetric practice. In terms of analgesia, epidural
      analgesia was used for intrapartum analgesia. The forceps used for the instrumentation was
      the forceps of Kielland and the vacuum was a metal vacuum (Bird's cup 50 mm, 80 kPa) was used
      to perform fetal extraction. A suction cup was carefully placed over the flexion point,
      avoiding caput succedaneum, and rapid negative pressure was applied (over 2 min, until
      0.6-0.8 kg/cm2 ). Traction was carried out during contraction, along with maternal push, at a
      rate of 2-3 tractions per contraction, and without associating Kristeller maneuver. The
      procedure was abandoned if, after three cup slides or 15 min, fetal extraction had not been
      successful. Selective episiotomy was carried out in VD following Valme's University Hospital
      clinical practice guideline for instrumental deliveries.

      Obstetric parameters evaluated were: gestational age, labor induction, epidural analgesia,
      type of instrumentation, duration of second stage of labor, episiotomy and perineal tears.
      Fetal parameters studied after birth were: fetal sex, weight, head circumference, umbilical
      artery pH at birth, Apgar test result (at 1 and 5 min), presence of neonatal morbidity
      (cephalohaematoma, brachial plexus palsy, etc.), admission to neonatology department and
      neonatal mortality.

      The sonographic evaluation was performed six months after delivery and was carried out by a
      single examiner, with more than five years experience exclusively in obstetric ultrasound,
      with specific training in 3/4D imaging and blinded to obstetric data relating to the
      delivery. A 500_ Toshiba Aplio (Toshiba Medical Systems Corp., Tokyo, Japan) ultrasound with
      an abdominal probe PVT-675MV 3D was used for the assessments. Images were acquired with
      patients in dorsal lithotomy position, placed on the gynecological examination table and
      under empty bladder conditions. The transducer was carefully placed on each patient's
      perineum, applying the minimal possible pressure. Three volume measurements were taken for
      each patient: at rest, with Valsalva maneuver and with maximum contraction. Then, offline
      analysis of ultrasound volumes was carried out. Analysis of ultrasound volumes was performed
      offline.

      In the multi-view ultrasound images, complete avulsion was defined as an abnormal insertion
      of LAM in the lower pubic branch identified in all three central slices, i.e. in the plane of
      minimal hiatal dimensions (PMD) and the 2.5 and 5.0mm slices cranial to this one. Levator
      hiatus measurements, transverse diameters, anteroposterior diameters and area were also
      determined in the same plane (PMD).
    
  