
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      Aims

        -  To systematically evaluate an innovative directed psycho-educational intervention
           consisting of written specific, age-appropriate information, complemented by a follow-up
           targeted telephone call in order to reduce psychological sequelae in the child and their
           parents/guardians after PICU discharge.

        -  To confirm the effects of the psycho-educational tool on parent and child emotional
           adjustment 6 months after PICU discharge; and to explore whether these outcomes are
           associated with the child's age; with receipt of the targeted telephone call; and/or
           with parental levels of stress during the child's admission.

        -  To obtain detailed feedback from parents/guardians and children about the different
           aspects of the psycho-educational intervention (the written information and the targeted
           telephone call) and the utility of these two psycho-educational interventions.

      Primary Objective To determine if the psycho-educational intervention is superior to
      treatment as usual in reducing parental post-traumatic stress and other psychological
      symptoms measured at 6 months after PICU discharge.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To determine if the intervention is superior to treatment as usual in reducing child
           post-traumatic stress and other psychological symptoms measured at 6 months post PICU
           discharge.

        -  To determine whether the degree of parental stress during their child's PICU admission
           is particularly associated with the extent of psychological sequelae and whether the
           psycho-educational intervention is as less or more effective in the highly stressed
           families.

        -  To determine if adding this relatively simple, innovative and pragmatic intervention to
           treatment as usual will provide a cost-effective use of NHS resources

        -  To evaluate in detail child and parental acceptance of the intervention.

      Delivery of the Psycho-educational Tool and Assessment of Parental/Guardian Stress on PICU
      Discharge

        -  Eligible families will include children 0-16 years admitted to PICU for > 24 hours,
           surviving to be discharged.

        -  Parents who are deemed to lack adequate English Language to understand the written
           psycho-educational tool, telephone call and questionnaires will be excluded.

      [Our aim in future, if the intervention is shown to be successful, is to translate the
      intervention tools into the most frequently encountered foreign languages.]

      After obtaining informed consent prior to the child's discharge from PICU, a parental PICU
      stress screening questionnaire (18), will be given to all parents/guardians prior to
      discharge by the researcher or appropriately trained bedside PICU nurse.

        -  Parents/guardians of all eligible children will be randomized using random allocation to
           receive either active intervention or treatment as usual (TAU).

        -  Those randomised to the intervention group will be given the age-appropriate written
           psycho-educational tool prior to PICU discharge, by the researcher. The researcher will
           also explain the mechanism of the targeted telephone call to be delivered 4-6 weeks
           after PICU discharge.

           • Telephone Call:

        -  All parents/guardians randomised to the intervention group will be offered the directed
           targeted telephone call from the researcher at 4-6 weeks post hospital discharge.

        -  The researcher will use a protocolised, scripted interview questionnaire to discuss the
           contents of the tool and any psychological problems arising post PICU discharge, as well
           as provide information to families of ways of managing these, including, when
           appropriate referral to GP and local mental health services.

        -  The study team will record the key outcomes of the call to include:

      Uptake rates and outcome; the number of families with impairing symptoms; and rates of
      referral to GPs and/or local mental health services.
    
  