
    
      The proportion of elderly cancer patients is high and is likely to increase due to an
      increasing cancer incidence and an aging population. The prevalence and impact of age related
      problems are, however, poorly documented, and elderly patients may therefore be subjects to
      under-treatment and arbitrary modifications of treatment regimens. In order to improve
      clinical practice, precise identification of patients with increased vulnerability and risk
      of adverse outcomes is paramount.

      In the present study, eligible patients will be identified by referral to oncology services
      at one of the participating cancer units. After consent, the baseline registrations will be
      performed including relevant medical and sociodemographic data, and quality of life. Age
      related problems will be assessed by clinical indicators covering comorbidity, medication,
      emotional, physical and cognitive function and nutritional status. Muscle mass will be
      quantified by analyses of diagnostic CT scans and a biobank will be established for the
      analyses of inflammatory markers. Upon inclusion, the patients' physician will be asked to
      rate the patients as fit, frail or intermediate according to the physicians' subjective
      judgement. The patients will be followed with assessments of quality of life, emotional
      function and nutritional status (self-report), cognitive and physical function (self-report
      and performance tests), muscle mass (diagnostic CT scans when available) and inflammatory
      markers (biobank). Follow up data will also include registry data (hospital records, primary
      health care registries, The Norwegian Patient Registry, The Norwegian Cancer Registry and the
      Norwegian Cause of Death registry). We will describe the prevalence of age related problems,
      investigate the relation between clinical frailty indicators, sarcopenia, inflammatory
      response and the physicians' subjective evaluation of the patients' health status. The
      predictive/prognostic impact of frailty indicators on the patients' self-reported physical
      function and quality of life, hospital and nursing home admittance, treatment toxicity and
      survival will also be investigated
    
  