
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of irofulven alone or combined with
           anticonvulsants known to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 in patients with progressive
           or recurrent high-grade anaplastic astrocytoma, anaplastic oligodendroglioma, or
           glioblastoma multiforme.

        -  Assess the pharmacokinetics of this drug on this schedule and determine the effects of
           P450-inducing anticonvulsants on the pharmacokinetics in these patients.

        -  Determine the response rate of patients treated with this drug administered at the MTD.

        -  Determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival of patients
           treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      concurrent use of anticonvulsant drugs that induce cytochrome P450 (yes vs no drugs or
      modest-induction drugs).

      Patients receive irofulven IV over 30 minutes on days 1-4 or 1-5 (depending on
      dose-escalation level). Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients (per stratum) receive escalating doses of irofulven until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at
      least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined,
      additional patients are accrued to receive treatment with irofulven at the recommended phase
      II dose.

      Patients are followed at 1 week and then every 2 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 18 patients (9 per stratum) will be accrued for the phase I
      portion of the study. Approximately 17-35 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion
      of the study within 6-12 months.
    
  