
    
      Anemia has been identified as a common complication in the critically ill patient.
      Approximately 40 and 60% are transfused in normal clinical practice. However transfusions are
      not free of adverse events including: transfusion-associated lung injury, infectious
      complications, progression of organ failure, fluid overload associated with transfusion,
      among others. Therefore, several clinical trials have been designed to define red blood cell
      transfusion thresholds. Mainly two groups have been compared: 1) liberal schemes in which
      patients are transfused with higher levels of hemoglobin (generally ≤ 10 g / dL) and
      restrictive regimens with lower levels (≤ 7 g / dL). Institutions such as the British
      Committee for Standards in Hematology have developed recommendations in favor of restrictive
      strategies based mainly on the TRICC (Transfusion Requirements In Critical Care) study
      conducted by Hebert et al.

      On the other hand, it is well known that as consequences of living in places at high altitude
      physiological modifications occur in the human. One of these adaptations is the increase in
      hemoglobin levels occurring in people living at high altitude, especially in Andean
      residents, in whom the hypoxia promotes an increase in the production of red blood cells.

      The recommendation of the restrictive strategy in the transfusion of red blood cells has been
      adopted in several countries with numerous populations living at high altitudes, although
      this practice has not been evaluated in these patients.

      The purpose of this study is to describe the current practice on transfusion of red blood
      cells in critical patients treated in intensive care units located in high altitude areas
      (over 1500 m) to determine whether physicians follow the recommendations of restrictive
      strategies.

      This is an observational, non-randomized, cross-sectional survey performed with intensivists
      of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, México and Perú. The data will be collected from an on-line
      scenaries based survey. The survey is designated to assessed the effect of severity, need of
      surgery, severe hypoxia, and alteration in tisular perfusion as modifiers of transfusion
      thresholds. Besides unit characteristics as geographical altitude and type of unit will be
      collected.
    
  