
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To investigate the relationship between the different policies of realimentation (early
           oral feedings versus traditional feedings) and the length of hospital stay following a
           laparotomy in patients with gynecologic oncologic disease.

        -  To assess the degree of postoperative abdominal pain in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the incidence of ileus symptoms, including nausea and vomiting, and the
           postoperative recovery of intestinal activity in these patients.

        -  To determine the incidence of postoperative complications in these patients.

        -  To elucidate the global postoperative patient's satisfaction and the quality of life in
           both groups of patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to laparotomy with or without intestinal resection
      (yes vs no), and presence of ovarian cancer (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      groups at the end of surgery.

        -  Group 1 (early feeding): Patients are offered a liquid diet on day 1 for 24 hours
           following surgery. Beginning on day 2, patients who tolerate a liquid diet are offered a
           regular diet until hospital discharge.

        -  Group 2 (traditional feeding): Patients are offered nothing by mouth on days 1 and 2
           following surgery. Beginning on day 3, patients are offered a liquid diet for 24 hours.
           Beginning on day 4, patients who tolerate a liquid diet (i.e., no nausea and vomiting)
           are offered a semi-solid diet for 24 hours. Beginning on day 5, patients who tolerate a
           semi-solid diet are offered a light regular diet until hospital discharge.

      Data is collected through the Post-Operative Pain Questionnaire, Bowel Function Table, Global
      Postoperative Patient's Satisfaction Questionnaire, Postoperative Complication and Hospital
      Stay Questionnaire, and the Quality of Life Questionnaires EORTC OV-28 and EORTC QLQ-C30.
    
  