
    
      0.1 % of hospitalized patients are attributed to upper gastrointestinal bleeding every year
      in the U.S. and Europe, among which peptic ulcer is the most common cause of upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding. Endoscopic hemostasis procedure in the management of bleeding due
      to peptic ulcers was safe as well as effective and lowered recurrent bleeding, surgery and
      mortality. Endoscopic treatment is widely used as an effective and safe method but it has
      disadvantages including the need for the endoscopy specialist and the likelihood of
      developing the complications such as perforation or recurrent bleeding although they rarely
      occur. Thus, less invasive medical treatments with fewer side effects have been continuously
      studied and among them, gastric acid inhibitors have been studied the most.Acid and pepsin
      inhibit platelet aggregation, activation of blood coagulation system, and fibrinogen
      polymerization. Blood clots already formed are digested by pepsin and the activity of pepsin
      is closely related to intragastric pH level. Therefore, it is known that an elevated
      intragastric pH facilitates hemostasis process, induces hemostasis by stabilizing hematoma
      and prevents recurrent bleeding. To suffice these conditions, it is reported that a potent
      gastric acid inhibitor is needed to maintain intragastric pH of 6 or higher.

      For the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers, the intravenous administration of a high-dose
      proton pump inhibitor after the initial endoscopic treatment has shown a decline in the
      frequency of recurrent bleeding as well as surgery. Recent studies reported that the use of
      oral proton pump inhibitor was effective under certain circumstances in the treatment of
      bleeding peptic ulcers. However, to date, no study has been conducted to compare the effect
      of a high-dose intravenous proton pump inhibitor with that of oral Rabeprazole after
      endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers. Therefore, in this study, after administering
      a high-dose intravenous proton pump inhibitor or high-dose oral Rabeprazole in preventing
      recurrent bleeding following endoscopic treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers, we are going to
      compare the rate of recurrent bleeding between the two groups as well as to compare and
      evaluate the surgery rate, mortality rate and the number of days of hospital stay.
    
  