
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Despite advances in medical, nursing, and respiratory care, CLD affects up to 50 percent of
      premature infants. As a result, nearly 50,000 infants in the United States develop CLD. It is
      desirable to investigate therapies that decrease the incidence of CLD because it is
      associated with failure to thrive, developmental delay, increased risk of pulmonary
      infection, reactive airway disease, pulmonary hypertension, and death.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study. Three specific
      hypotheses will be tested: 1) iNO reduces the incidence of CLD; 2) iNO reduces serum and lung
      (tracheal aspirate) markers of inflammation; and 3) iNO does not increase the incidence of
      intraventricular hemorrhage in premature neonates. The primary endpoint is survival without
      CLD (defined as continued oxygen requirement) at 36 weeks post conceptional age.

      A total of 793 premature newborns will be enrolled from 14 centers within 48 hours of birth.
      They will be randomly assigned to receive either placebo or iNO at 5 ppm until the breathing
      tube can be safely removed or after 21 days. The iNO will be delivered by an INOvent delivery
      system in such a way that physicians and nurses will not know which treatment each
      participant is receiving. Management strategies for aspects of patient care including
      mechanical ventilation, surfactant administration, fluid administration, and steroid use will
      be determined by physicians at each center. Serial cranial ultrasounds and methemoglobin
      levels will be monitored to determine adverse events. The first 200 patients will have serial
      blood samples and tracheal aspirates obtained for measurements of inflammatory mediators,
      including interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-10 (IL-10), endothelin-1,
      myeloperoxidase, neutrophil counts (tracheal aspirates), and endothelin-1 (blood).
      Participants will be seen at 12 and 24 months of age to monitor the long-term effects on the
      cardiopulmonary or neurologic systems. At these visits, a health questionnaire will be
      administered and Bayley II scales of infant development will be completed.
    
  