
    
      -  In 2016, 3 sentinel cases of presumed local anesthetic-induced myotoxicity were reported
           after TKA with associated continuous adductor canal block (CACB) analgesia. The
           diagnosis was made based on its consistency with animal and human descriptions of local
           anesthetic myotoxicity, including: a) exposure to local anesthetic, b) delayed symptom
           onset after a period of normal recovery, c) rapid development of profound muscle
           flaccidity, and d) complete to partial recovery of motor function after weeks to months.
           MRIs obtained in these patients showed diffuse intra- and inter-muscular edema
           (inflammation) of the ipsilateral thigh, which was believed to support the presumptive
           diagnosis. However, because baseline MRI appearance of upper leg muscles has never been
           described for this clinical scenario, it is possible that the MRI scans represented
           "normal, baseline" appearance.

        -  This case series intended to prospectively describe postoperative MRI appearance in a
           cohort of asymptomatic volunteer patients that underwent uncomplicated TKA/CACB. In
           addition, because obtaining biomarkers of muscle injury might also be a reasonable
           diagnostic step, we sought to measure preoperative and postoperative creatine
           phosphokinase (CPK) and aldolase levels.

        -  MRI scans were read by 5 board-certified musculoskeletal radiologists masked to the
           study's purpose. Grading was done using a standard grid that facilitated systematic
           evaluation of various regions within the upper leg. At least 3 of 5 radiologists were
           required to declare edema as present within a given region of the leg.

        -  Only those volunteer patients that presented a normal postoperative course, i.e., had no
           unexpected leg muscle weakness, were entered into the study. As such, the MRI and muscle
           enzyme analysis results had no impact on the volunteer patients' clinical outcome or
           management. This was a prospective, observational/descriptive case series. There was no
           control group and we did not intend to investigate issues of cause-and-effect.
    
  