
    
      Back pain is reported to affect at least 75% of women at some stage during their pregnancy.
      In the United States one review found that approximately a third of women find back pain in
      pregnancy a severe problem. It has been reported that 20% of all pregnant women suffer from
      the condition to such an extent that they require medical help. Six years after pregnancy,
      problems remain in about 7% of women with PGP, causing severe disability and reducing ability
      to work. The increase in back pain in pregnancy occurs most likely as a result of the natural
      underlying posture deviations been accentuated in pregnancy. Anterior displacement of the
      sacrum, posterior displacement of the trunk and a significant increase in the anterior tilt
      of the pelvis results in exaggerated lordosis of the lower back.

      Stretching, weakness, and separation of abdominal muscles further impede neutral posture and
      place even more strain on paraspinal muscles. Joint laxity in the anterior and posterior
      longitudinal ligaments of the lumbar spine puts strain on the lumbar spine and there is
      widening and increased mobility of the sacroiliac joints and pubic symphysis to facilitate
      the baby's passage through the birth canal.

      A significant cause of back pain in pregnancy appears to result from pelvic girdle pain
      (PGP). Back pain in pregnancy is more common in women with pre-existing back pain, back pain
      in a previous pregnancy, advanced maternal age and multiparity. Despite the high incidence of
      back pain in pregnancy (75% of women attending antenatal clinics at Cork University Maternity
      Hospital) only a fraction of women (25% in the same audit) report back pain to their health
      care providers presumably due to their perception that there are minimal interventions for
      the safe treatment of back pain in pregnancy. Similar results have been shown in other
      studies.

      A Cochrane review on interventions for preventing and treating pelvic and back pain in
      pregnancy republished in October 2008 found no studies dealing specifically with prevention
      of back or pelvic pain in pregnancy. They included eight studies (1305 participants) that
      examined the effects of adding various pregnancy-specific exercises, physiotherapy,
      acupuncture and pillows compared with usual prenatal care. They concluded that all but one
      study had moderate to high potential for bias. Adding pregnancy specific exercises,
      physiotherapy or acupuncture to usual prenatal care appears to relieve back or pelvic pain
      more than usual prenatal care alone, although the effects appear small. Recent trials
      investigating the effect of acupuncture on PGP concluded that acupuncture and stabilising
      exercises constitute efficient complements to standard treatment for the management of PGP in
      pregnancy but acupuncture alone has no significant effect on pain or on the degree of sick
      leave compared with non penetrating sham acupuncture.

      The pain of PGP is experienced between the posterior iliac crest and the gluteal fold,
      particularly in the vicinity of the sacroiliac joints. The endurance capacity for standing,
      walking and sitting is diminished. Diagnosis can only be reached after exclusion of lumbar
      causes and this diagnosis should be based on a medical history, a physical standardised
      examination with specific clinical tests that reproduce pain in the pelvic girdle.

      The European guidelines state that available evidence is insufficient to recommend any
      particular treatment modality.
    
  