
    
      TLC-C is a modification of an existing TLC-Multi-Disease system that targets patients with
      multiple chronic diseases combined with a post-hospital discharge intervention (TLC-RED-Lit).
      TLC-C uses conversational computer telephony to monitor patients' multiple diseases between
      their ambulatory care visits. The system works in both routine (patient stable) and
      exacerbation (patient unstable) modes. The system monitors patients through "virtual visits"
      and detects and notifies clinicians about important clinical problems to attend to. It also
      promotes patient self-care (e.g., medication adherence and appointment preparation). In
      emergent situations the system recommends going to the local Emergency Department (ED). In
      urgent situations, an alert is sent to the clinician or to his/her coverage provider.
      Exacerbation mode is used when the patient is discharged from a hospital inpatient service or
      ED or has worsening symptoms. It concentrates on the exacerbating disease and monitors
      patient status (improved, stable or deteriorating). Daily contact is maintained until the
      patient's status improves. Routine mode occurs with the patient at their baseline status and
      monitors the disease and the patients' self-care behaviors.

      The investigators propose to perform a multi-method evaluation study of the patients, the
      providers, and the practice. This includes a 2-arm randomized clinical trial of TLC-C versus
      usual care for patients with two or more chronic diseases, at least one previous episode of
      acute hospital utilization over the last 12 months, and who had been recently discharged from
      an urban hospital. The randomized clinical trial (RCT) will evaluate the system in 440
      patients followed for 6 months.

      The primary outcome is acute hospital care utilization (unplanned hospitalizations and ED
      visits). Secondary outcomes include patient quality of life (EuroQol 5D [EQ-5D]),
      satisfaction (Clinician and Group Survey [G-CAHPS]), ambulatory appointment show rate and net
      payer costs. The investigators will explore disease specific metrics (e.g., hemoglobin A1c
      [HbA1c] or blood pressure). The investigators will perform formative and summative
      qualitative studies of the implementation of the system, its use and performance over time,
      and its impact on the patients, providers and the practice as a whole.
    
  