
    
      Limb loss requires prosthetic use. Prostheses usually consist of 2 components: 1) a soft
      interface to protect the skin and underlying musculoskeletal tissue and 2) a structural
      interface to enable attachment of prosthetic components to the human body. The interface
      connects the patient's body to the prosthetic components and thus ground during gait. The
      interface has 2 purposes: 1) to distribute weight-bearing forces throughout the entire
      residual limb (RL) and 2) to suspend the prosthesis during swing phase and unweighting. The
      interface assists in distributing vertical loads during weight bearing to minimize focal
      loading on pressure intolerant tissues. The interface also suspends prosthetic components to
      the RL in swing phase and other periods of unweighting.

      Many amputees experience RL complications and decreased mobility resulting from the inability
      to detect excess pressure or a lack of distal contact with newly fit and poorly fit
      interfaces. A smart socket technology interface could benefit every new prosthetic patient by
      prompting the user of a compromised socket fit prior to inhibiting functional use and safety.
      Further, the smart socket technology interface may ultimately prevent other health
      complications and improve patient interaction, usability, comfort, fit and function. The ALPS
      iForce most economically measures these variables more comprehensively than any other known
      single device. Therefore the smart socket interface technology chosen for this proposal is
      the ALPs iForce. The iForce tracks pressure over time and indicates to the user when positive
      or negative distal pressure exists by providing volume management suggestions (i.e. sock-ply
      adjustments). The user interacts with data measured sent wirelessly to an application on a
      smart phone (Android/iOS/Windows), handheld device, or PC. Suggestions may include removal or
      application of prosthetic socks over the RL, or other appropriate volume management
      strategies, to improve fit and comfort. Early warning to possible skin irritation and
      breakdown may lead to a healthier limb.
    
  