
    
      Background:

      Complete lung cancer lymphadenectomy in patients without nodal metastasis may not improve
      survival and would increase operative duration and cause damage to mediastinal structures.The
      investigator's previous retrospective study of 2749 invasive NSCLC patients showed none of
      the 151 tumors with consolidation tumor ratios ≤ 0.5 had N2 disease. Tumors with lepidic
      predominant adenocarcinoma (LPA) histology had zero mediastinal nodal involvement. Tumors in
      the apical segment of upper lobes had zero inferior mediastinal nodal (IMLN) involvement.
      Only seven out of 740 (0.9%) peripheral upper lobe tumors had IMLN metastasis. Interestingly,
      all these seven tumors showed visceral pleural invasion. Among patients with left lower lobe
      tumors, if hilar nodes were negative, station 4L lymph node metastasis was not found in
      superior and basal segment tumors, and station 5/6 lymph node involvement was always absent
      in basal segment tumors.

      The current prospective, multi-center, observational study is to verify the staging accuracy
      of a selective mediastinal lymphadenectomy strategy based on tumor location, ground glass
      opacity component and intraoperative histological subtyping by frozen section in patients
      with peripheral clinical T1N0M0 invasive non-small cell lung cancer.

      Objectives:

      Primary: To determine the mediastinal staging accuracy of the selective mediastinal
      lymphadenectomy strategy.

      Secondary:

        1. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of intraoperative adenocarcinoma histologic
           subtyping, N1 nodes metastasis and visceral pleural invasion by frozen section.

        2. To determine the mediastinal lymph node metastasis rate in peripheral clinical T1N0M0
           lung cancer with different histologic subtypes.

        3. To evaluate the pattern of mediastinal nodal involvement of tumors in different lung
           segments.

        4. To determine the mediastinal nodal status of tumors with different radiological features
           (pure ground glass opacity, mixed ground glass opacity and solid nodules).

      Outlines:

        1. All recruited patients will undergo systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection (lung
           resection can be segmentectomy, lobectomy, bilobectomy or pneumonectomy). For tumors in
           the left lungs, removal of mediastinal nodal stations 4, 5,6,7 and 8 are required. For
           tumors in the right lungs, removal of mediastinal nodal stations 2,4,7 and 8 are
           required. For lower lobe tumors, station 9 should also be removed. Stations 10/11/12
           should routinely be dissected.

        2. Stations 10/11 are subclassified as follows: Station 10a (the anterior region of the
           pulmonary veins), Station 10s (between azygos vein and the right upper lobe bronchus),
           Station 10p (in the posterior region of the right main bronchus for right-side tumors or
           between left main pulmonary artery and left main bronchus for left-side tumors), Station
           11s (between right upper lobe bronchus and the intermediate bronchus), and Station 11i
           (between right middle lobe bronchus and right lower lobe bronchus).

        3. Intraoperative frozen section analysis should determine whether the tumor is lepidic
           predominant adenocarcinoma, whether there are N1 nodes involvement (lymph nodes adjacent
           to the tumor should be sent to intraoperative frozen section), and whether there is
           viceral pleural invasion. However, intraoperative frozen section results will not affect
           the surgical predure. Every patient will receive systematic lymph node dissection.

        4. By the assumed selective lymph node dissection strategy, patients with consolidation
           tumor ratios ≤ 0.5 tumors will be considered to have negative mediastinal metastasis.
           Patients with intraoperative LPA diagnosis will be considered to have negative
           mediastinal metastasis. Patients with an apical tumor will be considered to have
           negative IMLN metastasis. If both N1 nodes and visceral pleural invasion are negative,
           patients with peripheral non-apical-segment upper lobe tumors will be considered to have
           negative IMLN metastasis. If N1 nodes are negative, patients with left superior segment
           tumors will be considered to have negative 4L lymph node metastasis, and patients with
           left basal segment tumors will be considered to have negative superior mediastinal lymph
           node metastasis. The virtual mediastinal staging results of this selective lymph node
           dissection strategy will then be compared with the final staging results by the complete
           lymphadenectomy.
    
  