
    
      The sagittal alignment of the spine, or sagittal balance, describe the ideal and normal
      sagittal spinal curvature distribution. With the deepening of the research on spinal
      morphology, function and pathology, more and more researchers pay attention to the role of
      sagittal alignment in the diagnosis and treatment of spinal deformity diseases. Some studies
      have shown that the restoration of patients with appropriate sagittal alignment can
      significantly improve their quality of life. Besides, paravertebral muscle can also influence
      the retaining of sagittal alignment. However, how to define the ideal sagittal alignment is
      still controversial for different patients with adult degenerative scoliosis(ADS) .

      It was proved that the differences in sagittal parameters of the standing and sitting
      positions positions were influenced by age, gender and pelvic incidence(PI). In addition,
      patients with high PI are more prone to sagittal decompensation after long segment fixation
      (fixation of three or more segments) .Therefore, We speculate that the sagittal curvature of
      patients with large PI changes greatly from standing position to sitting position. So after
      long segment fixation, the spine in the state of standing position is more difficult to adapt
      to the changes of curvature and stress in sitting position, which is the possible reason that
      patients with high PI are more prone to sagittal decompensation. At present, how to design
      the proper corrective goals for patients according to both sagittal alignment and
      paravertebral muscle needs further research.

      Thus, this study is aim to explore these three points about ADS patients: the characteristics
      of the sagittal spinal alignment changes from standing to sitting ; the adaption of the spine
      curvature in the standing and sitting position after long segment fixation surgery and the
      relationship among standing-sitting sagittal spinal alignment, paravertebral muscle and
      postoperative clinical outcomes.
    
  