
    
      Introduction: Considered as the "21st century disease", depression is a silent disease that
      stands out for its high prevalence and high morbidity, leading to serious consequences. With
      treatments made in aquatic environment, among them the Water aerobics and Watsu. Objective:
      To compare the effectiveness between aquatic exercises versus Watsu and versus control group,
      for improving the outcomes of depression, anxiety, stress, sleep quality, functionality,
      cognition and quality of life in patients with depression. Methods: This study will be a
      randomized clinical trial, which will last for two months with a follow-up of one month. All
      participants will be assessed using specific questionnaires for each outcome and an
      Improvement Perception Scale (MS). Seventy eight (78) patients with a medical diagnosis of
      depression, aged 18 to 60 years, who will be allocated to three groups (26 patients for each
      group) will be treated. GROUP 1: Aquatic exercises (aerobic and resistance), collective
      session, twice a week lasting 50 min; GROUP 2: Watsu (water shiatsu), individual session,
      twice a week lasting 50 min; Group 3: control, people with depression. Statistical analysis:
      Normality distribution will be by Shapiro-Wilk test. For comparisons of the means between and
      within the outcome groups will be used through Generalized Estimation Equations, with its own
      syntax, linear distribution and, when necessary, multiple comparisons will be performed using
      the Bonferroni test to identify differences. Will be calculated for comparisons between the
      final and initial moments and initial follow-up in each group, statistics such as: mean
      difference (95% CI), standard deviation of the difference, effect size (Cohen's d). The
      statistical significance adopted was 5% and the analyzes were performed using the statistical
      programs SPSS 22.0 and R 3.2.4. The intention-to-treat analysis will be performed.
    
  