
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the implementation and effectiveness of the CPP
      intervention in new settings and populations to demonstrate widespread effectiveness and ways
      to adapt CPP for diverse population subgroups and primary care setting and community care
      contexts. Based on the investigator's previous work, we expect that the CPP intervention will
      result in a greater improvement in mental health and will be cost neutral relative to usual
      care because program costs will be offset by lower use of other health services. A
      cross-jurisdictional, multi-site implementation-effectiveness type II hybrid randomized
      controlled trial will be conducted. The trial will be conducted in two sites in each of
      Ontario, Quebec, and Prince Edward Island. Each of the six sites will involve a primary care
      setting and a community care organization. Study participants will be randomly assigned to
      the intervention or usual care group. Participants randomly assigned to the intervention
      group will be offered the 6-month CPP intervention in addition to their usual primary care
      services offered by their local diabetes education centre or primary care setting. The
      primary outcome of intervention effectiveness is patient mental health. Other health outcomes
      for patients and their caregivers will be assessed (e.g., depression, anxiety, use of health
      and social services etc.). Implementation will be examined in-detail through qualitative
      evaluations with providers, patients and caregivers. Engagement of patients and caregivers
      will occur in all stages of the research study. Qualitative evaluation of patients and
      caregivers as research partners will be conducted through annual evaluations. Patient, Public
      (e.g., caregivers, knowledge users) and Community (e.g., local providers/representatives)
      Research Partners will be engaged in the research study by way of the study's established
      governance structures: Community Advisory Boards, Patient Advisory Council, and Steering
      Committee. Qualitative evaluation of Patient, Public and Community Research Partners will be
      conducted to inform implementation of the CPP intervention at the local context and the
      potential for widespread implementation and scale-up. Both quantitative and qualitative
      evaluations will be used to interpret study findings, and in the development of scale-up
      plans.
    
  