
    
      Although no research on the impact of edible insect protein powder on the human microbiome,
      there is plenty of evidence that edible insects offer a good source nutrition. Extensive
      research demonstrates that edible insects provide a source of high-quality bioavailable
      animal protein as many edible insects contain all essential amino acids for human nutrition
      and have high crude protein levels containing between 40 and 75% protein by dry weight. House
      crickets, for example, have more protein by dry weight than ground beef or broiled cod fish.
      Insects are also rich in healthy fatty acids, B vitamins (riboflavin, pantothenic acid,
      biotin, and folate, as well as important minerals such as iron and zinc. In addition to their
      nutrient content, and as arthropods, edible insects are also rich in dietary fiber, including
      chitin, which is found in the exoskeleton.

      Chitin is a modified polysaccharide containing nitrogen; it is considered an insoluble fiber
      with potential prebiotic properties that could benefit human health by selectively promoting
      the growth of beneficial bacterial species in the intestines. Previous studies on the impact
      of chitin-glucan derived from Aspergillus niger mycelium on oxidized low-density lipoprotein
      (OxLDL) in adults, a risk factor for atherosclerosis, found that chitin-glucan intakes of
      4.5g/day significantly reduced OxLDL in 6 weeks. Additionally, a study of
      chito-oligosaccharides found that chitosan derivatives from shrimp cells with a great content
      of acetylated residues did not cause a putatively prebiotic effect in human gut
      microbiota-although this study was conducted on human fecal microbiota in batch cultures (not
      in humans). To date, no comprehensive study has evaluated the impact of whole insect
      consumption on the microbiota in humans, which would include consumption of insect-derived
      dietary fibers and chitins with potential health benefits. An assessment of the tolerability
      of whole insect consumption is also needed, despite the fact that around 2 billion people
      consume insects on a regular basis in 130 countries or more.

      The "What's Hopping? Cricket Protein and Human Gut Microbiota" study will determine the
      impact of a commercially available insect flour, containing high levels of protein and
      dietary fiber on human gut bacterial composition and functional capacity. A secondary aim is
      to establish whether insect powder acts as a prebiotic. In this study, a 100% insect-based
      flour/powder derived from edible crickets (Acheta domesticus) will be assessed. The objective
      of this study is to determine if Insect powder consumption changes gut bacteria and reduces
      inflammation in your intestinal tract compared to a placebo. To this end, we intend to enroll
      20 healthy individuals to participate in a crossover diet intervention study. Participants
      will consume meals made with cricket powder and placebo meals daily for 2 weeks per treatment
      arm with a 2-week washout period. Both study participants and study personnel (clinical
      coordinators, PI's, statisticians) will be blinded to the intervention group. Anthropometric
      measures, as well as stool and blood samples, will be collected at each of 3 clinic visits
      (baseline, and the end of each intervention period). Primary outcome measures will include
      gut microbiota and microbial metabolism (determined by measuring fecal short chain fatty
      acids), local and systemic inflammatory markers, comprehensive metabolic panels and GI health
      questionnaires to assess safety and tolerability of the intervention foods.
    
  