
    
      Demographically, the geriatric population is expanding. It is also increasingly found in the
      emergency services.However, emergency services are not designed to accommodate these
      patients, whose needs are specific. This population is defined by complex physical and
      psychosocial needs, included in a comprehensive geriatric assessment too complex to be
      carried out in the emergency services. The multidisciplinary care they need takes time.

      Several options are investigated worldwide to properly manage these fragile patients:

        -  Scales of frailty and functional decline screening

        -  Specialized care units: the Mobile Geriatric Team, the Emergency short-stay units, the
           acute care geriatric unit, the geriatric nurse liaison model, or a service specific
           geriatric emergency.

      Many publications focused on ways to prevent potentially avoidable visits to geriatric
      patients in emergency services. People rely upon a therapeutic limitation code established
      for these patients to determine the intensity of the care that may be given to them. However,
      few geriatric patients arriving in the emergency services were already given such a code.

      As a consequence, the intensity of the care given to these emergency patients is influenced
      by the perception of the functional and cognitive status of the patient, even if part of this
      perception is incorrect. Moreover, it is also well established that the outcome of geriatric
      patients with severe pathologies at admission is often poor and that there is a need to find
      alternatives to the intensive treatment offered.

      The goal of this study will be to determine the prevalence of the presence of a therapeutic
      limitation code in geriatric patients at hospital admission / admission to the emergency
      department, and when they leave the hospital. This will be carried out for all geriatric
      patients residing or placed in nursing homes at the end of the hospitalization.The
      investigators postulate that establishing a therapeutic limitation code for these fragile
      patients, before they leave the hospital for a nursing home, would reduce the number of
      future admissions of these patients in the emergency department.

      Furthermore, this study offers the prospective to establish in the future a systematic
      implementation of the therapeutic limitation code for geriatric patients residing in nursing
      homes, therefore anticipating the various issues specific to his population in the emergency
      department.
    
  