
    
      Cognitive training is currently used in brain damaged patients and in some psychiatric
      conditions, like schizophrenia or depression. Very few cognitive training programs have been
      published and tested in addictive disorders.

      Training online is currently proposed in standard care, and is listed as recommended
      activities in daily hospitalization in addiction specialized out-settings in France.

      The purpose of this research is to test the efficacy of an online intervention in gambling
      addiction through cognitive training targeting cognitive control inhibition.

      The experimental Intervention (Cognitive Training) is a computerized cognitive training
      targeting inhibitory control of motor response (Scientific Brain Training®).The tasks
      included in the program have been selected and modified to target inhibition.

      Control intervention is a sensorial program with a similar format targeting visual acuity.
      This is not a cognitive program, and can be considered as neutral in the addiction field.

      An optional guidance by phone performed by a trained neuropsychologist is proposed to the
      included subjects in both groups, up to15 minutes twice a week.

      Study design: A therapeutic web-based, comparative, randomized controlled trial, 2 arms,
      single blinding, with 52 weeks follow-up:

        -  a 14 weeks patient follow up (6 weeks for efficacy assessment and maintenance at 14
           weeks).

        -  52 weeks gambling account based data extracted from the ARJEL database in last 4 weeks
           before baseline, week 6, week 14 and week 52.

      Population of study participants : Problem gamblers who will contact the responsible of the
      study.

      Schedule for the study :

        -  Duration of inclusion period: 8 months

        -  Duration of patient participation: 52 weeks (12 months) including 14 weeks of active
           gambler participation and up to 52 weeks for the collection of gambler data from the
           ARJEL database.

        -  Total research duration: 20 months Main objective : To assess the clinical efficacy of
           an online computerized cognitive training program targeted on cognitive control, namely
           on inhibition, measured with the PGSI-recent, a modified version of Problem Gambling
           Severity Index (PGSI) with a 30 days recall period in patients with problem gambling, at
           6 weeks.

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  to assess the efficacy on the evolution of the gambling behaviour assessed by the
           account player based gambling data, at 6, 14and 52 weeks.

        -  to assess the efficacy on the evolution of the self-reported gambling practice, and of
           quality of life at 0, 6 and 14 weeks.

        -  to assess the efficacy on the evolution of inhibition performance at the
           neuropsychological level at 0, 6 and 14, weeks.

        -  We will also assess the acceptability of this program and the preferred level of
           guidance of the non-treatment seeking problem gamblers as factor of response.

      Statistical analysis:The change in PGSI-recent total score over 6 weeks will be compared with
      the student's t-test. If the test application conditions are not met, a Wilcoxon test will be
      applied.
    
  