
    
      Primary aims:

        1. Localized Disease: Groups B and C: To evaluate and validate the efficacy of sodium
           thiosulfate (STS) to reduce the hearing impairment caused by a cisplatin monotherapy in
           non-metastatic patients without adverse features (localized PRETEXT I-III tumors without
           positive VPEFR annotation factors) (Group B - treated with cisplatin mono-therapy) or
           with adverse features (localized PRETEXT I-III tumors with positive VPEFR annotation
           factors) (Group C - treated with regimen C5VD)

        2. Metastatic Disease: Group D: To determine the 3-year Event-free survival (EFS) in
           patients with metastatic disease treated with International Society of Paediatric
           Oncology (SIOPEL 4) induction therapy followed by response adapted consolidation
           therapy.

        3. To determine the 3-year EFS in patients with HB whose tumor is completely resected at
           diagnosis (Group A) and either receive no adjuvant chemotherapy (Group A1, completely
           resected well differentiated fetal (WDF) histology HB) or 2 cycles of standard dose
           cisplatin monotherapy (Group A2, completely resected non-well differentiated fetal
           histology HB)

      Secondary aims:

        1. To determine any impact of STS on chemotherapy response and survival in children with
           localized hepatoblastoma

        2. To assess the feasibility of complete resection after 2 cycles of interval compressed
           lower dose cisplatin monotherapy (80 mg/m2/cycle) in non-metastatic patients and without
           adverse features

        3. To assess the feasibility of complete resection after 2 cycles of C5VD in non-metastatic
           patients with adverse features.5. To determine the adherence to PRETEXT and
           Post-treatment extent of disease (POSTTEXT) based surgical guidelines

        4. To determine the prognostic relevance in HB of a "small cell undifferentiated", tumor
           component, percentage of tumor necrosis in post chemotherapy specimens, and the
           relevance of a positive microscopic margin in resected HB specimens.

        5. To determine the concordance between institutional, regional expert panel (prospective)
           and international expert panel (retrospective) review assessment of PRETEXT and POSTTEXT
           stage, and correlate with outcome variables.

        6. To prospectively collect patient HB tumor, peripheral blood and urine specimens, for
           translational biology studies.
    
  