
    
      Introduction: Across the healthcare continuum, patients with low functional health literacy
      may have worse outcomes due to difficulties in following prescribed medication regimens.
      While reasons for non-adherence can be drawn from the intra-personal, interpersonal, and
      systemic perspectives; one starting point is the difficulty that patients have reading and
      understanding medication instructions on a prescription bottle labels. Labels can provide a
      vital reminder and decision support aid for patients and healthcare proxies. Yet, skills must
      be available for reading and understanding the labels. The investigators will utilize
      "Talking Pill Bottles" to record prescription medication instructions so that patients can
      re-play the instructions as needed in their homes. Purpose: The aim of this research project
      is to compare the use of "Talking Pill Bottles" to usual care in patients who have low
      functional health literacy and who purchase medications for primary hypertension at a retail
      pharmacy with regard to: a. feasibility of the procedures, b. utility of the equipment, c.
      medication adherence, d. self efficacy in medication self management, and e. blood pressure
      control. Design: This novel intervention will be tested within the context of a retail
      pharmacy in the Pacific Northwest. The pilot test will use a randomized trial design with two
      research arms. Analysis: Within-group change scores on a self efficacy measure and blood
      pressures will be examined with the paired t-test; between group measures will also be
      examined between the two treatment arms. The investigators will also track medication
      complexity as a potential confounder and conduct semi-structured exit interviews. Conclusion:
      Results will help establish the feasibility and utility of providing this technology to
      patients who have low functional health literacy in a retail pharmacy. The investigators will
      gather preliminary descriptive data along with variance and effect size measures for power
      estimations in a future multi-site, randomized controlled trial.
    
  