
    
      Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) has been used since 1967 for the treatment of pain: complex
      regional pain syndromes 1 , ischemic limb pain 2-5, failed back surgery syndrome 6, 7, and
      refractory angina pectoris 8-11. Recently, Kapural et al. reported a case series of six
      patients that underwent SCS for the treatment of chronic visceral pain (CVP)12, 13. SCS
      reduced 50% of the patients' pain and improved patient functionality by 60% 14 . Animal
      studies suggested that dorsal column pathways are involved in the transmission of visceral
      pain 12, 13. Clinical studies in patients with visceral cancer have shown that interruption
      of the fibers of the dorsal columns that ascend close to the midline of the spinal cord
      significantly relieves pain and decreases analgesic requirement 15-18. Different studies
      support the hypothesis that visceral pain perception is positively modulated by the
      descending pathways from the medulla. Dorsal column lesion leads to a reduction of thalamic
      activation by visceral stimuli and decreased visceral pain perception 19. Visceral
      innervation occurs via sympathetic and parasympathetic pathways; parasympathetic afferents
      enter the vagal afferents carrying nociceptive information enter trunks while sympathetic
      afferents carrying nociceptive information enter at the levels T6 and L3. Therefore, limited
      case series using SCS for CVP suggested that pain relief was achieved by blocking these
      segments suppressing sympathetic outflow to the abdomen and pelvis 14. The relationship
      between autonomic nervous system (ANS) and pain are poorly understood. Animal and clinical
      research has provided evidence for close interaction between pain modulatory systems and the
      ANS 20, 21. However, little is known about the ANS function in chronic pain patients. Our
      previous funded work suggested that chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients have reduced LFRRI
      (heart rate variability-low frequency) (not increased as expected) and that indices of the
      vagal component of the Heart Rate Variability(HRV) (Root Mean Square of the Successive
      Differences (RMSSD), heart rate variability-high frequency (HFRRI) were also attenuated. The
      sympatho-vagal balance (LFRRI /HFRRI), a ratio of LF to HF which correlates with higher
      sympathetic activation 22, was paradoxically increased 23. We previously demonstrated that
      Low Frequency Systolic Blood Pressure (LFSBP) correlates with muscle sympathetic nerve
      traffic during orthostatic load supported by a simplified model of blood pressure variability
      24. We also showed that LFSBP can be abolished by ganglionic blockade demonstrating the
      neurogenic origin of these oscillations in blood pressure 25. Additionally, our study
      revealed decreased baroreflex indices (αHF and BRSLF) during sitting in CLBP patients. Blood
      pressure was not different in CLBP patients, but there was a trend for higher heart rates
      possibly caused by higher sympathetic activity to the heart. These findings of reduced
      baroreflex sensitivity and changes in heart rate support hypothesized alterations in
      cardio-vagal control in patients with chronic pain 26, 27. In summary, sympathetic function
      has been assessed by indirect measures. There is no data available regarding the direct
      assessment of sympathetic outflow in CVP patients. Sympathetic outflow is stimulus specific
      28, 29. Therefore, the characterization of resting sympathetic outflow and stimulus-induced
      sympathetic adjustments requires simultaneous measurements of activity by different
      techniques. We propose using microneurography to assess the sympathetic function on a
      second-to-second basis in CVP patients. Microneurography directly assess muscle sympathetic
      nerve activity (MSNA). This technique is used to define sympathetic responses to a number of
      standard physiologic maneuvers. It was first developed in Sweden by Wallin, who described the
      technique for recording afferent muscle or skin sympathetic nerve activity 30, 31. MSNA
      displays real-time sympathetic nerve activity, allowing definition of sympathetic responses
      so transient that they would be lost to all other techniques. In general, MSNA burst/min is a
      good indicator of sympathetic nerve activity 32-37. For example, direct measurement of
      sympathetic nerve activity as reflected in MSNA has been a very useful tool to demonstrate
      that increased sympathetic activity is an important factor in the pathogenesis of essential
      hypertension 38-42. In chronic orthostatic intolerance, a syndrome of autonomic dysfunction
      in young women MSNA have revealed an abnormal regional distribution of sympathetic activity
      during orthostatic stress. 43, 44. Moreover, studies in children with complex regional
      syndrome and adolescents have shown these patients reported systemic ANS symptoms including
      dizziness, near syncope and postural tachycardia 45-49. Our case series of 5 complex regional
      pain syndrome patients (4 male, 1 female, 32-51 years) with implanted epidural spinal cord
      stimulator for pain relief 50 suggested that CRPS (Complex Regional Pain Syndrome) patients
      have: 1) reduced vasoconstrictor response during Valsalva, 2) A greater blood pressure (BP)
      drop during straining phase II as compared to normal and less blood pressure overshoot during
      phase IV in CRPS patients with stimulator turned off and the BP response returns to normal
      ranges during spinal stimulator turned on. Lastly, muscle sympathetic nerve activity improved
      during SCS resulting in better blood pressure control. All these data suggest a tight
      relationship between pain control and sympathetic function. As is well know, CVP is difficult
      to treat because of its ill-defined nature and treatment with SCS has moderate success, but
      predicting success in these difficult to treat patients will probably be increased by
      correlating autonomic function; pain and therapy with spinal cord stimulation.
    
  