
    
      Lung cancer ranks the No. 1 lethal cancer in Taiwan, with a five-year survival rate (5-yr SR)
      of only 15%. Most of the patients with early lung cancer are asymptomatic, while 75% of
      patients with cancer-related symptom at diagnosis have local or distant metastasis. Compared
      to a 5-yr SR of 70-90% in stage I/II lung cancer, the 5-yr SR in late stage IIIb/IV is less
      than 15%. Despite the progress in pharmaceutical treatment for late stage disease, early
      detection is still the only way to improve the outcome and even cure of this potentially
      lethal disease. Low dose computed tomography (LDCT) in recognized as the best tool available
      for early diagnosis of lung cancer. However, the radiation exposure, high cost and high
      false-positive rate are the major concerns to adapt this detection tool to general
      population. Recent studies from Europe and US have shown that LDCT screening in high-risk
      cigarette smoking population can effectively reduce lung cancer mortality. However, the major
      type of lung cancer in Taiwan is adenocarcinoma, which commonly occurs in non-smoker.
      Therefore, the risk prediction model generated from studies of western countries may not be
      suitable for directly adapted to our country. LDCT screening for lung cancer detection in
      non-smoker remains a controversial issue worldwide, including Taiwan. Facing the unmet need,
      it is urgent to establish the risk assessment model to predict lung cancer risks in
      non-smokers and to evaluate the efficacy of LDCT screening in non-smoker high-risk
      population. There are three specific aims in our proposed study and will be carried out in
      three phases. The first (pilot) phase (from 2014 to 2015, 14 months), aims to establish the
      LDCT screening protocol and risk assessment model for lung cancer prediction. 4500 subjects
      will be enrolled for first LDCT screening, preliminary result will be analyzed. The second
      phase (from 2016-2017, 24 months) considers to perform follow up LDCT and enroll another 7500
      subjects for LDCT screening and follow up. The fine tuning of LDCT screening protocol and
      risk assessment model will be performed. The third phase (from 2018-2019, 24 months) is to
      complete the image and clinical follow up of all the subjects, the detection rate of lung
      cancer, false-positive rate, and cost-effectiveness analysis of LDCT screening for non-smoker
      lung cancer in Taiwan will be established.

      Aim 1: To evaluate the risk assessment model for predicting lung cancer in non-smokers
      According to the results of LDCT screening, we expect to improve the risk prediction model
      for nonsmoker female established by GELAC study. The revised risk model will help recognizing
      higher risk population.

      Aim 2: To establish the protocol for LDCT screening pilot study in Taiwan Establishing
      working protocol and procedures of LDCT screening to assure a homogeneous behavior among
      study sites

      Aim 3: To establish the efficacy of LDCT screening for lung cancer in non-smoker Lung cancer
      detection rate, false-positive rate, and cost-effectiveness analysis of LDCT screening for
      non-smoker lung cancer in Taiwan will be established.
    
  