
    
      Combination of ICI with anti-angiogenic therapy has been most extensively studies in patients
      with renal cell carcinoma, for whom both ICI and anti-angiogenic therapy have proven
      anticancer activity as single-agent therapy. Objective response rate of 30-60% was observed,
      far exceeding the response rate of single-agent therapy (around 20%). Results from several
      early-phase trials of this type of combination also support the potential anti-tumor synergy
      between ICI and anti-angiogenic therapy (multi-kinase inhibitors or monoclonal antibody
      targeting the vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway) in advanced HCC. Further
      studies should focus on identifying the optimal targeted agent and its biologically effective
      dosage to achieve the best therapeutic window for the treatment of HCC.

      Current evidence indicated the following:

        1. Combination of ICI and anti-angiogenic therapy in advanced HCC may have better
           anti-tumor efficacy compared with single-agent therapy;

        2. The immune modulatory effects of the multi-kinase inhibitors may be achieved at dosage
           lower than recommended for single-agent therapy in the clinic; using this lower dosage
           when combined with ICI may lower the treatment-related adverse events.

        3. Objective response of 40% to 50% was recently reported in a phase 1 study of regorafenib
           plus nivolumab for patients with advanced gastric or colorectal cancer was reported
           recently (Fukuoka S, et al. American Society Of Clinical Oncology 2019, abstract#2522).
           Grade 3 or greater treatment-related adverse events were found in 27% of subjects who
           received regorafenib 80 mg per day and in 44% of patients who received regorafenib 120
           mg per day. Therefore, regorafenib 80 mg/day was defined as the optimal dosage in
           combination with nivolumab.
    
  