
    
      Perinatal depression (PD) affects 12-15% of women and contributes to adverse outcomes, e.g.
      preterm birth, low birth weight, and impaired cognitive development of the child. Screening
      optimizes the detection of PD, but does not reduce barriers to mental health services (MHS)
      encountered by women who screen positive. A known shortage of MHS across the nation is a
      significant barrier, particularly in low resource and rural settings. Telehealth is a
      promising approach to reducing barriers, but there is little research on the effectiveness of
      telehealth to reduce perinatal depressive symptoms (PDS). There is high potential for
      telehealth to deliver effective, lower cost MHS to childbearing women, particularly those in
      low resource settings.

      The proposed project is a randomized controlled trial among women with mild to moderate PDS.
      The project aims to evaluate; 1) the effectiveness of a group mental health videoconference
      intervention (VCI) to reduce PDS across pregnancy and postpartum, and (2) differences in PDS
      between diverse groups of childbearing women: rural and urban-dwelling, and Latina and
      predominantly North European Descent (NED) populations. The investigators hypothesize that
      women participating in the VCI will have significantly lower PDS across pregnancy and
      postpartum than women in an equivalent attention control (AC) group, and the results will
      differ between diverse groups. A total of 192 women will be enrolled; 48 in each study group.
      Participants are randomly assigned to study groups: VCI +standard of care, or AC + standard
      of care. Sessions are delivered via Utah Telehealth Network (UTN). Women in both groups
      attend weekly one-hour group sessions for 8 weeks using any electronic device (laptop,
      tablet, smart phone) from their own home. PDS is measured six times throughout
      enrollment--Time 1 = pre-intervention; T2 = immediately following week 9 of group
      intervention classes (post-intervention), T3= 2 months post-intervention; T4= 4 months
      post-intervention; T5 = 6 months post-intervention; T6 = 8 post-intervention.

      This study is the first to use a VCI to engage women in a facilitated group approach to
      reducing PDS, and to evaluate the impact among diverse groups. The approach is cost effective
      and reduces barriers to access to MHS, particularly for women living in low-resource, and
      minority communities, and those without adequate transportation, childcare, or work release
      time. The VCI can be replicated in any setting (e.g. rural or urban), and can be adapted to
      the needs of diverse communities. The study advances the field by establishing whether a
      group telehealth intervention reduces PDS, and whether this differs based on the population.
      If effective and implemented broadly, far fewer women and families would suffer the negative
      consequences of depression. The project is in line with NINR's high priority areas, including
      the use of technology to promote health, and a focus on self-management and symptom science.
    
  