
    
      In an animal study, the authors found that intraperitoneal injection of a sub-anesthetic dose
      of ketamine amidst isoflurane anesthesia in rats induced early recovery. A finding the
      authors explained, to be due to increased NMDA mediated increase of acetyl choline secretion
      in the prefrontal area of rats' brains. This rise, in the authors opinion, antagonized the
      GABA mediated isoflurane anesthesia resulting in hastened recovery. Meanwhile, the authors
      found association between hastened recovery and increased Electroencephalographic gamma (EEG
      γ) wave fronto-parietal projection. This is compatible with cognitive unbinding explanation
      of unconsciousness during anesthesia.

      In current proposed study, the investigator will examine tow hypothesis:

      Recovery time:

      If the recovery hastening effect of sub anesthetic ketamine on recovery from isoflurane
      anesthesia is also present in human patients. The assumption will be that ketamine either
      prolong or has no effect on recovery time from isoflurane anesthesia. The claim well be that
      ketamine will decrease the recovery time.

      Put in statistical terms:

      H0: recovery with ketamine ≥ recovery without ketamine. H1: recovery with ketamine ˂ recovery
      without ketamine. 2. EEG (γ) wave activity: As the investigator will record EEG activity
      during the procedure via Bispectral monitor, the investigator will analyze the records for
      presence of enhanced (γ) activity during recovery. the investigator aim is also to detect any
      significant difference in (γ) wave amplitude or other characteristics between isoflurane only
      and ketamine group.

      The assumption will be that (γ) activity will either show no difference between the two
      groups or be lower than in ketamine group than isoflurane group during recovery. The claim
      will be increased (γ) activity with ketamine group during recovery.

      Put in statistical terms:

      H0: (γ) activity with ketamine ≤ isoflurane only. H1: (γ) activity with ketamine > isoflurane
      only. N.P: as the sampling frequency of EEG data exported from BIS Vista is 128Hz, the upper
      limit of the current study of (γ) activity will necessarily be 64Hz.

      Sample size calculation:

      the mean measured variable of the current study will be the recovery time. Recovery time will
      be defined as the time between stop of isoflurane inhalation until recovery of verbal
      response to name called every 30 seconds. A 30% reduction in recovery time in ketamine group
      as compared with isoflurane is considered to be statically significant enough to reject the
      null hypothesis of recovery time. According to one study , recovery time from isoflurane only
      anesthesia is around 12 minutes so the sample size calculation will be as following:

      Equation:

      n>((ᶻ "1- α ̸2" +ᶻ"1-β" )"2" σ"2" )/δ"2" Where n = sample size required for each group, ᶻ
      "1-α" = the value for the standard normal distribution for (1-α̸2) percentile, ᶻ "1-β" =the
      standard normal distribution for 100(1-β) percentile, δ"2" = the difference to detect, σ"2" =
      the variance in the underling 2 population.
    
  