
    
      Randomized double blind clinical trial conducted at the health center of the city of Bom
      Retiro do Sul / RS, Brazil, from December 2014 to March 2015. The study began after approval
      by the Ethics Committee of the Research Center University Univates (COEP), Lajeado. Brazil.
      They were recruited 60 female patients aged 20-50 years after application of the Rome III
      criteria (World Gastroenterology Organization, 2010) and Range Bristol (World
      Gastroenterology Organisation, 2010) were diagnosed with constipation. Patients were
      randomized into two groups, where one group will receive the milk drink with probiotics and
      the other group will receive a probiotic milk drink without (control group). The milk
      beverage consumption period shall be 60 days where each patient will consume 150 ml of milk
      drink a day, with breakfast or morning snack. The milk drink was provided in the homes of
      participants and the health center of the city of Bom Retiro do Sul once a week. At the
      beginning of treatment and at the end of treatment that will last 60 days, will be delivered
      to Bristol Scale and the criteria of Rome III, so as to verify the improvement or not of
      constipation. Patients who agree to participate in the study signed a consent form IC. Will
      be the orientation for the volunteers not to consume yogurt and other cultured milks with
      probiotics, will also be oriented to maintain the same diet and lifestyle when they were
      constipated, thus, check for improvement in constipation with the use of probiotics .

      Inclusion criteria: Having a diagnosis of constipation; Be aged between 20 and 50 years;
      being female.

      Data collection brings no risk or damage to entrant, but can cause discomfort and
      embarrassment to meet the criteria of Rome III and Bristol Scale and the time that will have
      to spend 10 to 15 minutes. Such issues will be mitigated by the fact that the interview be
      individualized and the participant have at their disposal a private room to answer the
      questionnaires, only with the presence of the academic.

      Participants will not obtain any financial benefit, only the benefits of milk drink with
      probiotics and how much consumption adds to your health. It is also important to note that
      participation in the study will not result in expenses.
    
  