
    
      The authors include all patients of both sexes with medical diagnose of chronic coronary
      heart disease and eligible to elective CABG with age ranging from 18 to 80 years. All
      patients have signed the written informed consent form. We exclude those who have
      insulin-dependent diabetic, hepatic or renal disorders, thrombocytopenia, important
      dyslipidemia (triglycerides 3-fold higher than normal standard), gastro-esophageal reflux,
      acute coronary syndromes, allergy to fish oil, and severe malnutrition. We also exclude
      patients underwent off-pump CABG, combined heart procedures, reoperations, and those who
      received blood transfusion in the last 3 months.

      Patients were randomized using a random number software available at www.graphpad.com . They
      were allocated for four groups: group CHO (patients received a 8h fast for solids and 2h fast
      with 200mL of a drink containing water plus 12.5% maltodextrin (25g) and no infusion of
      intraoperative w-3-PUFA); Control group (preoperative fast for solids for 8h but allowed to
      drink 200 mL of water until 2h before anesthesia; and no infusion of intraoperative
      w-3-PUFA); group CHO+w3 (patients received a 8h fast for solids and 2h fast with 200mL of a
      drink containing water plus 12.5% maltodextrin (25g), and an intravenous intraoperative dose
      of w-3-PUFA (0.2 mcg/kg) during 4h ); and group w3 (preoperative fast for solids but allowed
      to drink 200 mL of water until 2h before anesthesia, and an intravenous intraoperative dose
      of w-3-PUFA (0.2 mcg/kg) during 4h).

      Only a dietitian of the hospital knew the randomization chart and informed the ward nurse to
      give the patient one of the two preoperative drinks before sent him to the surgical theater.
      . She also informed the anesthesiologist which patient would receive the intraoperative
      w-3-PUFA. The surgeon and his assistant team did not know which group belong each patient. A
      team of cardiologists and intensivists who also were blind to the study design and
      randomization collected all data.

      Endpoints The primary endpoints were the incidence of POAF and the need of inotropic
      vasoactive drug (dobutamine and/or noradrenalin) for weaning from CPB (intraoperative period)
      and at ICU (postoperative period). As secondary endpoints the investigators looked at
      perioperative morbidity, hospital mortality and length of both ICU stay and total
      postoperative stay.
    
  