
    
      Mifepristone medical abortion has been available in France for a decade and a half and in the
      United States since 2001. Over this time, it has been demonstrated to be as safe as or safer
      than either surgical abortion or carrying a pregnancy to term. Furthermore, as medical
      abortion employs medications rather than surgery to terminate a pregnancy, it has the
      potential to greatly increase the availability of locations providing abortion services in
      the US, eliminating as it does the need for expensive equipment and surgical training.

      Unfortunately, however, although the availability of medical abortion in the US has increased
      with time, it has yet to achieve its full potential. In large part this appears to be due to
      two factors which inhibit providers from offering, and women from choosing, the procedure: 1)
      Although the approved US medical abortion regimen does not require providers to use
      ultrasound examination as part of the procedure, it has become common practice for providers
      to do so. This both increases the cost of the procedure and limits the number of facilities
      that can offer it. 2) While surgical abortion typically requires only one clinic visit,
      medical abortion requires (officially) three or (in practice) two visits, making it more
      expensive, less convenient, and less attractive to women.

      There is already a great deal of evidence that medical abortion can be safely offered with
      two (or even fewer) office visits, and without routine ultrasonography. Most medical
      abortions in the United States, in fact, currently require only two visits, and the
      possibility exists that women could self-screen at home, based on a symptom checklist, to
      determine if the second of these (the follow-up visit) is necessary - an approach that could
      spare the large majority of medical abortion clients who have uncomplicated courses an extra
      trip to the clinic. There are, in addition, several less-expensive and less
      technology-intensive approaches to gathering the diagnostic information currently being
      provided, pre- and post-procedure, by ultrasonography.

      The purpose of the current study is to test the feasibility and efficacy of an approach to
      medical abortion that forgoes the routine use of ultrasonography. It will also provide
      evidence on the feasibility of eliminating the requirement for a universal follow-up visit
      based on self-screening by medical abortion clients. In providing data to make these tests,
      however, the study protocol will not in any way abridge the medical abortion care currently
      received by clients at the participating facilities. The study will permit clients to receive
      standard care (including a follow-up visit and pre- and post-procedure ultrasound
      examinations in all cases) while gathering valuable information which, we hope, will provide
      a basis for simplifying standard care in the future.

      The research questions to be answered by the study are:

        1. Do an interview with the abortion client, a pregnancy test and a physical exam provide
           adequate information to determine which abortion clients are eligible for the medical
           abortion procedure and which should be referred for sonography (or other diagnostic
           tests) before making such a determination?

        2. Can a self-administered symptom diary and a follow-up low-sensitivity pregnancy test
           provide an adequate basis to determine whether a woman has undergone a successful
           medical abortion or whether she requires a sonographic exam (or other diagnostic test)
           in order to make this determination?

        3. Does a post-abortion pelvic examination provide valuable additional information for
           determining whether a woman has undergone a successful medical abortion or whether she
           requires a sonographic exam (or other diagnostic test) in order to make this
           determination?

        4. Can a self-administered symptom diary and a low-sensitivity pregnancy test provide an
           adequate basis for determining which medical abortion clients require a follow-up visit?

      The research hypotheses are:

        1. Practitioners themselves, based on history and examination but without sonography, are
           able to dependably and correctly determine which patients are eligible for medical
           abortion and which patients either are not eligible or require further evaluation to
           determine eligibility.

        2. Practitioners themselves, based on a symptom diary and low-sensitivity pregnancy test
           but without sonography, are able to dependably and correctly determine when a successful
           medical abortion has taken place and when referral for other possible outcomes should be
           made.

        3. A symptom diary and low-sensitivity pregnancy test are safe and effective means of
           separating those women who could benefit from a follow-up visit from those who do not
           need one.
    
  