
    
      The role of surgery in active infective endocarditis (IE) has been expanding since the first
      report of successful ventricular septal repair and removal of tricuspid vegetation in 1961
      and the first successful valve replacement during active IE in 1965 "4".

      The risk of death and complications of infective endocarditis (IE) treated medically has to
      be balanced against those from surgery in constructing a therapeutic approach .

      The results of surgery depend upon many factors. The general preoperative condition of the
      patient, antibiotic treatment, timing of surgery, perioperative management, surgical
      techniques( including choice of methods for reconstruction), postoperative management, and
      follow-up are all important determinants of outcome .

      Despite substantial improvements made in the diagnosis and management of infective
      endocarditis (IE), infective endocarditis remains a serious condition that is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality. Compared with antibiotic treatment alone, surgery for IE
      has greatly increased survival "1".

      Surgery for IE is required in 25-30% of cases during the acute phase and in 20-40% during the
      convalescent phase "2". The most common indications for surgery in IE include intractable
      heart failure, uncontrolled infection related to peri-valvular extension and resistant
      organisms, recurrent embolic events and presence of prosthetic material "3".

      Risk stratification to identify patients at high risk of developing significant morbidity and
      mortality is important in the management of IE. Some authors have found operation during the
      acute phase of endocarditis to be associated with a higher risk of persistent or early
      recurrent prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE)"5". Other studies did not find an increased
      recurrence rate "6", particularly not after surgery for mitral valve endocarditis "7". In
      general, the prognosis is better after early surgery undertaken before the cardiac pathology
      and the general condition of the patient have deteriorated too severely "8"
    
  