
    
      There are different kinds of pacemakers and different ways they can be set up to try to make
      the heart beat regularly. A normal heart has four chambers; these four chambers pump in a
      co-ordinated way to move blood effectively. When pacemakers were first invented, they told
      the heart when to pump, but didn't make the four chambers work well together. Newer
      pacemakers can give more detailed instructions, so the chambers work together more
      effectively. We already know that the newer (bi-ventricular) pacemakers work better for some
      patients with heart failure.

      There are blood tests (often referred to as "markers") that give us information about how
      well your heart is working and about how your body is responding to heart failure. The idea
      of this study is to compare different ways of setting up a pacemaker, using these blood tests
      to give us information about how well it's working. We hope to learn if we can use this
      approach to figure out the best pacemaker setup ("programming") for each individual patient.

      Usually pacemakers have two wires or leads, one is in the top right chamber and the other in
      the bottom right chamber of the heart. The newer pacemakers, which are given to patients with
      heart failure, have an additional lead or wire, which goes to the left side of the heart. So
      when heart contracts the lead from top chamber sends impulses to bottom chambers and the
      leads in right and left sides of bottom chamber responds by sending impulses in a
      co-ordinated way enabling heart to contract efficiently.

      Currently, the standard way of treating patients with heart failure is by pacing the top and
      then bottom chambers, based on a timing interval determined by ultrasound, while also pacing
      the two bottom chambers in a coordinated manner. There are differences of opinion among
      experts and by previous studies regarding this method. Pacing is accomplished through
      pacemaker wires, which are placed in the right top chamber, the right bottom chamber and the
      left bottom chamber of the heart.

      The setting we propose to adjust is the timing between the impulse sent between top and
      bottom chambers.
    
  