
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a major complication of atherosclerosis that affects >8
      million people in the United States alone. Intermittent claudication (IC), defined as leg
      pain with walking that is relieved with rest, is the most frequent clinical manifestation of
      PAD.

      In a proposal that was just funded by the National Institute of Health (NIH) National Center
      for Advancing TRanslational Sciences (NCATS) the investigators pose to test the "reuse" of
      zibotentan (ZD4054, an Asta-Zeneca compound), an orally active, endothelin receptor A (ETA)
      antagonist in patients with IC. The study will seek to confirm the safety and tolerability of
      10mg of ZD4054 in patients with intermittent claudication (Rutherford II or III) and, in
      parallel, establish the capacity of ZD4054 to change calf muscle perfusion, as assessed by
      contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, functional treadmill performance, and quality
      of life indicators.

      The study will be a 1:1 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 44 subjects
      with intermittent claudication with randomization stratified based on the entry calf muscle
      perfusion. The investigators will use magnetic resonance imaging to quantify changes in blood
      flow to the ischemic limb from baseline to week 12 between those randomized to drug vs.
      placebo. Based on the prior experience and the known tolerability of ZD4054, the experience
      of the investigative team with a mechanistically appropriate end-point measure that is part
      of other NIH funded projects, the investigators will proceed directly to this Phase II trial.
      The primary endpoint of the study will be the change in absolute perfusion in the index calf
      muscle from baseline to follow-up, after 12 weeks on the 10 mg dose or placebo. Additional
      outcome measures will be: a) ability of patients with PAD to tolerate 10 mg dose of ZD4054
      vs. placebo; b) freedom from unexpected serious adverse events; c) change in peak walking
      time from baseline to 12 weeks between 10 mg of ZD4054 and placebo groups; d) change in
      ankle-brachial blood pressure index (ABI) from baseline to 12 weeks between 10 mg of ZD4054
      and placebo groups, and; d) change in quality of life measure between 10 mg of ZD4054 and
      placebo groups.
    
  