
    
      Objectives Primary objective: To assess if a 4-week tele-supervised prehabilitation is
      effective in improving post-operative cardio-respiratory fitness in frail colon cancer
      patients.

      Secondary objectives : To examine if a 4-week preoperative tele-supervised prehabilitation
      has beneficial effects on muscle strength and endurance, on quality of life, on executive
      functions, on fatigue, on inflammatory parameters and on metabolic disruption pre-surgery.

      Background In Belgium, colon cancer is the third most common cancer in men and the second
      most common in women and is the second cause of cancer death. Surgery is currently the
      primary treatment for stage I to III. Studies have shown that patients with poor preoperative
      physical fitness are less able to cope with the adverse effects of surgery and
      hospitalization resulting in increased risk of mortality, postoperative complications and
      functional recovery time. Moreover, approximately 60% of colon cancer patients are older than
      70 years at diagnosis and more than 50% of older cancer patients have frailty or pre-frailty.
      Frailty is a state of vulnerability decreased functional reserve, impairment or dysregulation
      in several physiological systems, and reduced capacity to recover physiological homeostasis
      after a stress. Nowadays, no frail definition is clearly defined. One widely accepted
      definition uses the Fried criteria including the assessment of weight loss, physical
      exhaustion, physical activity level, grip strength and walking speed. Preoperative frail
      colon cancer patients have a significantly higher risk of adverse postoperative outcomes
      including institutionalization, length of stay, morbidity and mortality. It seems relevant to
      intervene during the preoperative period to improve the patient's functional capacity before
      the surgery, via physical training to overcome the stress of the surgery and to improve
      postoperative recovery. This process is called "prehabilitation". Structured and supervised
      programs have shown to be effective and feasible. However, time, resources and expensive care
      are often a barrier for the patient. Thereby, a home-based tele-supervising rehabilitation
      would be an attractive therapeutic option to offer a distinct advantage in this regard. To
      date, no study has studied the effects of tele-supervised prehabilitation in these "frail"
      patients.

      Study design A single-blind, randomized, controlled trial will be conducted. Participants
      will be randomized into either a prehabilitation group or a control group. An assessor who
      will be blinded to group allocation will collect outcomes measures for each participant.

      Study sample To be eligible for this study participants will need to meet the following
      criteria: diagnosis of colon cancer requiring surgery; more than 65 years of age; able to
      read, write and understand French; Frailty phenotype criteria ≥ 3. Frailty was assessed using
      the components of the Frailty Phenotype, which was first developed by Fried et al., which
      consists of five criteria: weight loss, exhaustion, low physical activity, slowness, and
      weakness.

      Participants will be excluded if they have a physical impairment that would seriously impair
      physical mobility; the surgery is an emergency; have a neuropsychiatric disease.

      Intervention Participants allocated to the prehabilitation group will undertake a
      telerehabilitation program that will start 4 weeks before the surgery while participants in
      the control group will receive usual care and World Health Organization recommendations on
      physical activity for health before surgery.

      The telerehabilitation program will combine aerobic and resistance training three sessions
      per week. Each 60-min session will begin and end with a five-minute warm-up/cool. The warm-up
      will be followed by 25 minutes of aerobic training. Aerobic exercise can include brisk
      walking, jogging, cycling, or swimming according to patient's preference. The intensity of
      the exercise was set between 60 à 75% of maximum heart rate (maximal heart rate=220 - age).
      And between 12 and 16 on Borg's Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale. Each participant will
      wear a heart monitor. The aerobic training will be followed by resistance exercise performed
      on eight exercises targeting major muscle groups (abdominal, hamstring, quadriceps, triceps,
      gluteus maximus, paraspinal muscles and shoulder muscles). Intensity must be between 12 and
      16 on the Borg's Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale. A physiotherapist will provide detailed
      information about the program. The patient will receive a brochure in which there will be
      descriptions and pictures of exercises and a video including the resistance program was
      recorded on a website. The researcher will conduct weekly telephone calls with the
      participants. The aim of these calls will be to solve any problems of carrying out the
      training sessions and to discuss about possible adverse events. Moreover, the researcher will
      give messages of support and encouragement to improve adherence to the program.

      Outcome measures Outcome measures will be assessed at three time points: at baseline (T0),
      one day before the scheduled date of surgery (T1) and 8 weeks after the surgery (T2).

      Primary outcome will be cardiorespiratory fitness 6min walk test). Secondary outcomes will be
      muscle strength and endurance (isokinetic dynamometer and 1-min sit-to-stand-test), quality
      of life (EQ-5D-3L questionnaire); level of physical activity (International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire Short Form); fatigue (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: Fatigue);
      executive functions (Trail Making test and fluency verbal test) ; blood test (neutrophil
      lymphocyte ratio, C reactive protein, fasting glucose, fasting insulin and cholesterol will
      be measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis); energy expenditure (Sensewear® armband).
    
  