
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the recommended phase II dose of MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor Foretinibin
           combination with standard erlotinib hydrochloride therapy in patients with locally
           advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure of at least one
           prior chemotherapy regimen, and whose EGFR-expression status is positive or unknown.

        -  To determine the safety, tolerability, toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxicities, and
           pharmacokinetic profile of MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor Foretinib and erlotinib hydrochloride in
           this schedule.

        -  To determine the correlation, if any, between the toxicity profile and pharmacokinetics.

        -  To assess the anti-tumor activity of MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor Foretinib in combination with
           erlotinib hydrochloride as evidenced by response rates, clinical benefit (complete or
           partial response or stable disease ≥ 8 weeks duration), and an exploratory endpoint of
           early assessment of tumor size as a continuous variable (when compared to erlotinib
           hydrochloride alone).

        -  To assess one-year survival rate in these patients.

        -  To investigate the correlation, if any, between response and biomarkers, including EGFR
           gene mutation, EGFR gene amplification, EGFR gene polymorphisms, c-Met gene mutation,
           amplification and expression, phospho-c-Met expression, K-Ras gene mutation, and
           baseline serum HGF levels.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation phase I study of MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor
      Foretinib followed by a randomized, open-label phase II study.

        -  Phase I (dose-escalation) : Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on
           days 1-28. Patients receive oral MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor GSK1363089 once daily on days
           15-28 during course 1 and on days 1-28 during all other courses. Courses repeat every 28
           days until the maximum-tolerated dose of MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor Foretinib is determined.

      Blood samples are collected on days 14 and 28 of course 1 for pharmacokinetics and day 1 of
      courses 1 and 2 and post treatment for pharmacodynamic studies.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

             -  Arm I (MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor Foretinib and erlotinib hydrochloride): Patients
                receive oral MET/VEGFR2 inhibitor Foretinib (at the recommended phase II dose
                determined in phase I) once daily and oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on
                days 1-28. Courses repeat very 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II (erlotinib hydrochloride only): Patients receive oral erlotinib
                hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence
                of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, samples are collected for pharmacodynamic studies as in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at week 4 and then every 3 months
      thereafter.
    
  