
    
      In patients with major acute PE thrombolysis has been shown to be life saving (22). Recent
      registries showed the beneficial effect of thrombolysis also in patients with PE not
      associated with shock or hypotension (4-23). In these patients thrombolytic treatment has
      been shown to obtain an improvement of 37% in lung perfusion, detected by lung scan, with
      respect to an improvement of 18.8% obtained by heparin treatment (24). In a different trial,
      rt-PA resulted in a faster and greater improvement of pulmonary artery hypertension than
      heparin treatment (25). Indeed, PE has a wide spectrum of severity at presentation and it is
      conceivable that the use of more aggressive treatments should be reserved to patients at high
      risk for adverse outcome. Hence, the search started of prognostic factors of adverse outcome
      in patients with pulmonary embolism.

      RVD has been associated with early adverse outcome (PE recurrence and mortality) in patients
      with acute PE (26-28; 3). In-hospital mortality in PE patients with and without
      echocardiographic RVD has been found to be 18.4% and 5.7%, respectively (3). Ribeiro et al.
      found a higher mortality in patients with PE and severe RVD: in-hospital mortality was 7.9%
      in the overall population with respect to 14.3% in patients with severe RVD (5). The ICOPER
      registry reported a 2-week mortality of 15.9% in patients presenting with RVD in comparison
      with 8% in patients without RVD (23). In MAPPET 10% of patients with RVD died within 30 days
      as compared to 4.1% of patients without (4).

      RVD is a common finding in patients with acute PE and normal blood pressure (BP) (29-33).
      Recent data suggest that patients with objectively confirmed PE, normal BP and
      echocardiographic evidence of RVD have a high incidence of adverse outcome (7) and may
      potentially benefit from more aggressive treatment (34-35). In a recent study patients with
      acute PE were classified according to the presence of RVD and hypotension; the short-term
      mortality and the incidence of PE-related shock in patients with normal BP and echo RVD was
      respectively 5% and 10%. None of the patients with normal BP and no RVD died or experienced
      PE-related shock (6).

      It has been recently demonstrated in patients with PE and pulmonary hypertension or RVD but
      without arterial hypotension or shock, that rt-PA significantly reduces the incidence of
      adverse in-hospital outcome events (death and clinical deterioration) with respect to heparin
      (8).

      Consecutive patients with symptomatic PE, since no more than four days, confirmed by
      objective testing (high probability lung scan or intermediate probability lung scan and
      objectively confirmed deep vein thrombosis or spiral CT or pulmonary angiography or TE
      echocardiography) will undergo echocardiographic examination within 24 hour from diagnosis.
      Patients with RVD and normal BP (Systolic BP> 100 mmHg) will be included in the study.

      180 patients will be randomized in the study. The patients included in the study will be
      randomized, in a double blind fashion, to receive Tenecteplase + UFH (90 patients) or Placebo
      + UFH (90 patients).

      Study treatment should be administered within 6 hours from echocardiography. Echocardiography
      will be repeated at 24 hours and 7 days or discharge (whichever comes first) from
      Tenecteplase or Placebo injection. A Follow-up visit at 30 days from randomization will
      include: clinical history, physical examination and ECG and an echocardiographic examination.
    
  