
    
      Aim of the Study:

      Achieving therapeutic angiogenesis with gene therapy using a plasmid coding human
      VEGF-A165/bFGF injected into ischemic myocardium of refractory coronary artery disease
      patients, employing a percutaneous catheter-based technique- a double-blind placebo
      controlled study.

      A large group of patients with severe persistent symptoms of coronary artery disease cannot
      be effectively treated using the methods available today - they are sometimes described as
      "no-option" patients. It is currently evident that a promising emerging therapy for these
      patients might be the stimulation of neoangiogenesis in the area of ischemic myocardium,
      which generally requires the use of growth factors. Different methods and different growth
      factors have been used in experiments testing this approach. The two agents attracting the
      greatest interest of researchers are naturally FGF (fibroblast growth factor) and VEGF
      (vascular-endothelial growth factor). A number of methods, both in animal and human
      experiments, have also been tried to deliver these agents effectively to the area of interest
      and to ensure their prolonged action in target tissue.

      Basic research has revealed that the most potent forms of angiogenic growth factors are the
      basic FGF (bFGF) and VEGF type A, especially in its 165 amino-acid form (VEGF-A 165) For this
      reason most clinical research on therapeutic angiogenesis is done using one of these two
      growth factors. This is to our knowledge the first clinical study using bicistronic VEGF-A
      165/bFGF plasmid.

      Study design:

      The aim of the study is to achieve therapeutic angiogenesis with gene therapy using a
      bicistronic plasmid encoding human VEGF-A165/bFGF (pVIF) injected into ischemic myocardium. A
      percutaneous catheter-based technique (Myo-Star, Johnson & Johnson®) is used for plasmid
      delivery. The study is planned as a double-blind prospective placebo controlled trial.

      The patient population will comprise of CCS III and CCS IV coronary artery disease patients
      who cannot be treated with any standard revascularization methods ("no-option" patients). In
      the course of the study we shall attempt to analyze the efficacy of therapeutic
      plasmid-induced angiogenesis in terms of myocardial perfusion increase and clinical symptom
      improvement. The feasibility and safety of plasmid delivery method will also be assessed.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, 1964, with later
      amendments.

      Patient population:

      52 patients will be randomized into two groups in a 2:1 proportion: ph-VEGF-A/FGF (pVIF)
      treatment group (n=34) and placebo group (n=18). The analysis will be performed on an
      intention to treat basis.

      All patients enrolled in the study will receive optimal medical treatment as judged by
      treating physician. An effort will be made to modify the medical therapy during the study
      course only for clear-cut reasons.

      Study course and plasmid therapy:

      A naked plasmid encoding human or placebo plasmid will be used in the study. The plasmid will
      be synthesized at the Department of Cell Biology, Cancer Center, Warsaw , Poland by the team
      of Prof. P. Janik, co-participating in the study. The VEGF-A165 and bFGF cDNA is incorporated
      into a pSec expression plasmid along with a CMV promoter and zeocin resistance gene and
      amplified in the E. coli DH5α strain. The plasmid is extracted according to the method
      described by Y. Isner and approved by the FDA. It has also gained the certificate of the
      Polish Drugs Institute and acceptance of the Ethical Committee of the Institute of Cardiology
      for limited clinical trial use.

      The plasmid will be given at a total dose of 0.5 mg, 10 injections of 0,2 ml each into the
      region of reversible ischemia. The process of injecting the solution into each of ten points
      within the ischemic zone will take 20 to 40 seconds to minimize muscle disruption. This
      dosage regimen seems efficacious and safe, as documented in the works by Sylvén et al., Laham
      et al. and Isner et al.

      After consenting to take part in the trial, eligible patients will be prepared as for a
      standard invasive cardiology procedure. Standard angiography and ventriculography will be
      performed prior to plasmid injection therapy. The ischemic area of interest will be
      identified on inclusion by SPECT. Cardiac nuclear magnetic resonance (cNMR) with adenosine
      will also be performed to assess heart morphology, function and perfusion. Next, the
      injections will be performed according to the protocol described above. The injection
      catheters supplied by catheter supplied by Johnson&Johnson® (Myo-Star) will be used
      throughout the study. Proper myocardial needle fixation will be monitored radiographically
      and on ECG (ventricular extrasystole).

      Standard early safety follow-up after injection therapy will include the assessment of basic
      laboratory parameters (troponin I, CK-MB, RBC, electrolytes), vital signs, echographic
      evaluation and ECG. Its purpose is to diagnose possible post-injection therapy complications,
      especially left ventricle puncture or major bleeding.

      Follow-up visits will be performed at month 4 and month 12 after injection therapy.

      Each visit will include full history, physical examination, laboratory assessment, ECG and
      exercise test. Dipyridamole-stress SPECT and echocardiographic evaluation will be performed
      at inclusion and then at month 4 - the time after expected termination of plasmid expression.

      At weeks 1, 2, 4, 8 after injection therapy blood samples will be obtained to assess plasma
      VEGF-A and bFGF levels.

      Primarily, a change in myocardial perfusion at rest and on dipyridamole-stress SPECT
      evaluation after injection therapy will be a measure of efficacy. Changes in exercise
      tolerance will also be monitored along with a number of other efficacy and safety parameters.
    
  