
    
      The study subjects are divided into two groups: the EUS-FNA(22G EchoTip Ultra needles) Group
      and EUS-FNB group(22G EchoTip ProCore needles).Take the malignant occupying lesion diagnosis
      accuracy as the research major indicator to compare the EUS-FNB group and EUS-FNA group as
      optimal efficiency test. Take the class I error a=0.05, class II error β=0.15, power=0.85.
      Suppose the malignancy diagnosis accuracy is 80%, while that of FNB is 93%. The two trial
      groups be randomly allocated in 1:1, suppose the malignancy cases take 70% of the whole case,
      and considering the shedding factors , extra 20% cases should be included. So the estimated
      cases numbers is 204 cases for EUS-FNB group and 204 cases for EUS-FNA group, totally 408
      cases in this trial.

      Done by professional statistical people with randomized block grouping method and SAS 9.2
      statistical software to generate randomized serial number（001-408）for the two groups in 1:1
      manner. The serial numbers are the randomized grouping numbers for the trial patients, block
      capacity is 8, totally 51 randomized block. The randomized grouping will be generated in
      duplicate copies and sealed. One copy send to trial centers for patient allocating, and the
      another copy be saved by the trial applicant unit. Every trail centers will be responsible
      for the screening of qualified patients, rank them in visit time to get the randomized
      grouping number so as to determine them goes to the EUS-FNA or EUS-FNB.The research people
      and patients in all trial centers should not know the the randomized grouping number and
      relevant groups. The group name will be sealed under scratch card. Every trial patients will
      get a unique randomized number, and it will not change through out the whole trial.

      Use the inclusion and exclusion criteria to observe the patients and do relative inspections,
      and confirm if the patients qualified or not to the trial. Record the result of last time
      test before the treatment. Although it is better to get the informed consent before doing all
      kinds of observation and tests, if for some reason, the medical imaging examination has
      completed, as long as the imaging examination was done within 3 weeks before the needle
      biopsy, it can still be collect as baseline data (imaging examination can be done at other
      hospitals, but the trial center should issue a new evaluation report 1 week before the
      patient join the trial group); other lab test items done at 2 weeks before the needle biopsy
      can still be collect as baseline data for pre-research use, but these tests should be done at
      the trail center hospital so as to guarantee the data trace ability.

      The investigators will do the needle passes for 4 times for all of them:the 1-2 needle passes
      with Slow-Pull and the 3-4 needle passes with Vacuum suction.If no core tissues obtained or
      the operator/onsite pathologist determine insufficient specimen after the operations above,
      then remedy procedures will be done, the operator use proper puncture method to continue the
      remedy biopsy.After the first round of needle biopsy, if the trial patient cannot be
      diagnosed, by getting the agreement of the patient, the patient will be cross-over to another
      trial group and do needle biopsy again on the same lesion 1 week later with the method
      mentioned above.Without knowing the needle biopsy type, the cytologist and pathologist
      evaluate the specimen quality and make diagnosis. Every specimen will be independently
      evaluated and diagnosed by 2 experts. If the 2 experts have different judgments, then these
      two experts discuss together and make the final diagnose discussion. If the same sample has 2
      or more cytology smear slides, than take the highest score slide as the result.Follow up
      (outpatient follow up or telephone follow up) the patients at 1 week, 12 weeks and 36 weeks
      after the needle biopsy and collect the patients clinical data and confirm their final
      diagnosis.

      During the trial, if severe adverse event occurs, the trialed center must take immediate
      actions necessary to guarantee the trialed patients' safety. Once severe adverse event
      occurs, the researchers should inform the trial applicant and the trail center's ethics
      committee within 24 hours after the researchers gets to know the adverse event. And the
      researchers should also fax the report to State Food and Drug Administration of China and the
      local provincial food and drug administration. After receiving the report, the applicant
      should inform other clinical trial centers within 24 hours. All the severe adverse events
      should be filed at group leader medical center and other trial centers.

      CRF(Case Report Form ) will be filled by the researchers, every involved patient must have
      the CRF(Case Report Form ) filled. This will be audited by clinical monitor and handed over
      to data administrator to input and manage data, the first copy will be kept by the applicant,
      the second copy will go to the trial center, and the third copy will be kept by the trail
      researchers.The data input and management will be taken care by specially assigned person. In
      order to guarantee the data accuracy, data input will be done twice by two independent data
      administrators, by computerized and manual verifying, hand over the data to statistical
      experts to do blind check and statistic analyzing.For the questions and doubts within the
      case report form, the data administrator make DRQ and via the clinical monitor asking the
      researchers. The researchers will answer and feed back as soon as possible. According to the
      researchers answer, data administrator will do the data modifying, confirming or inputting,
      and when necessary send out DRQ again.After blind audition and confirming that the
      established data base is correct, major researchers, applicant and the statistic analyzing
      people lock the data. The locked data will not be changed, and the data base will be handed
      over to statistical analyzer to do the statistic analyze according to the statistic analyzing
      plan. Problems found after data locking can be modified during the statistic analyzing
      procedure.This will be done by specialized statistic analyzing people according to the
      predetermined statistic analyzing plan. The statistic analyze will be carried out according
      to intention principle confirmed full analysis set and per-protocol set principle. After
      completing the statistic analyzing, the statistic analyzer issue the statistic analysis
      report and send this to major researchers to write the study report.

      Statistic analyzing plan:⑴ General principle:① all the statistic tests are use the
      two-tailed-test method, P<0.05 will be thought as the tested difference is statistical
      significance. ② the quantitative indicator description will calculate the Mean and Standard
      deviation. The classification indicator description will describe the cases and percentage of
      all types of cases. ⑵ Statistic analyzing method:① for the measurement data, compare it with
      the baseline value at selection period, use paired t-test or symbol rank sum test to compare
      with the before-after-difference within the group.② for the counting data, use x2 test to
      compare the groups. ⑶ Shedding analysis:Comparison of groups'total shedding rates and the
      shedding rates caused by adverse events will use x2 test or Fisher's exact test method. ⑷ The
      baseline value's equilibrium analysis: Use group t test or x2 test to compare the demography
      info and vital signs, disease history, and basic treatment and other indicators of baseline
      value, so as to measure the balance of the groups. The baseline evaluation will be done on
      FAS（full analysis set) and PPs(per-protocol set). ⑸ Effectiveness analysis:The major
      indicator of effectiveness analysis is the diagnostic accuracy on malignant disease, and the
      indicators of second effectiveness include the percentage of Grade A specimen and
      complications rate etc. while the two groups rate and the Youden index comparison will use
      approximate normal Z test or use central effect x2 test.(6) Safety analysis:Use x2 test or
      Fisher's exact test to compare the adverse event/adverse reaction (include biopsy
      complications) rates between the groups. And use table to describe the adverse events during
      this trial project; the lab test results before and after the trial, the normal/abnormal
      changing condition and the relationship with this trial research when abnormal changes
      happened.
    
  