
    
      There is one study visit with a 14-week follow-up that will take place during the
      participants standard of care visit at the Indiana University Health Comprehensive Wound
      Center (CWC). The following procedures will take place once your appointment has been
      completed:

        -  Informed consent will be signed (if not previously signed)

        -  A hemoglobin A1c drawn will be taken by research personnel, if one has not been done
           within the last 90 days to check your average blood sugar level.

        -  An Ankle Brachial Index (ABI) will be obtained if the participant has a leg wound. This
           is to ensure that participants have adequate blood flow to your wound. This is a
           non-invasive test which measures blood pressure in both of the participants arms and
           ankles.

        -  Demographics (such as your name and address and phone number, age), medical history,
           current medications, current standard of care labs, and wound data (measurements, cause
           of the wound, wound culture, assessments, treatments, and duration) will be recorded.
           The participant's medical record number will also be recorded.

        -  A photo of the wound site will be taken.

        -  Wound Vac Collection - The wound vac sponge will be collected (waste by product of the
           therapy) by the research staff.

        -  An optional two 3 mm punch tissue biopsies will be obtained from the participant's
           provider. To perform the biopsy, the area surrounding the wound will first be numbed
           using a local anesthetic agent that will be injected at the wound site. Then, a
           pencil-like instrument will be used to remove a small, thin cylinder of tissue. Each
           biopsy is about the size of this dot. After the tissue is removed, a sterile gauze will
           be placed on the area to stop any minor bleeding that may occur. The biopsies will be
           looked at in the laboratory to look at the microorganisms. You will not receive the
           results of the completed laboratory analysis. (Note: If two biopsies cannot be obtained
           per your physician's discretion, only one biopsy, debridement tissue (dead tissue that
           is removed from your wound) or no tissue will be obtained, and/or culture swabs (your
           wound will be swabbed with something like a Q-tip to collect cells to test for bacteria
           or other organisms in the wound) will be collected to test for infection.)

      During the 14-week follow-up visit, research staff will review the participant's medical
      chart to determine the final status of the wound. If the participant does not return to the
      CWC at 14 weeks, the last CWC visit will be documented as the wound check follow-up. This
      does not require the participant to return for an extra study visit. This information will
      only be collected from their medical chart if available:

        -  Final status of the wound (healing, not healing, healed)

        -  Wound data (measurements), treatments, and any standard of care labs will be obtained

        -  A photo of your wound from the medical chart will be obtained (if available)
    
  