
    
      Children with cerebral palsy, who are ambulatory, have an inefficient gait often associated
      with functional disability. Many of these children are candidates for orthopaedic surgery,
      which includes multi-level soft tissue and bony procedures. Pre-operative planning is based
      on the physical examination and visual (observational) analysis of the child's gait. In some
      centres, patients undergo additional gait analysis in a motion laboratory. While gait
      laboratory analysis is accepted as an important research tool, there is controversy about its
      clinical utility in decision making for the surgical management of this population. To date,
      no clinical trials have been undertaken to answer this question, and the appropriate clinical
      utilization of this technology is yet to be established. The consequence of this uncertainty
      is that ambulatory children with cerebral palsy are either being deprived of a useful
      assessment tool in some centres, or alternatively they are being subjected to an unnecessary
      evaluation that is both expensive and time consuming in other centres. A multi-centre
      randomized trial will provide evidence to support or refute the need for gait laboratory
      analysis for surgical decision-making for this population. This pilot randomized controlled
      trial in four sites will assess the feasibility of, and provide the template for the design
      and conduct of the definitive larger multi-centred trial to extend its generalizability
      across North America and other jurisdictions. The specific objectives include:

        1. Establish the feasibility of implementing the randomized trial study design in multiple
           centres

        2. Estimate recruitment rates and timelines

        3. Establish responsiveness of outcome measures to finalize the primary & secondary
           outcomes

        4. Estimate effect sizes of functional outcomes for sample size calculations

        5. Establish data management system (web-based database) for definitive multi-centre study.

        6. Assess feasibility, reliability and face validity of pilot health economic data forms to
           include health economic evaluation in the future definitive multi-centre trial.

           Secondary objectives include:

        7. Does the addition of gait analysis alter surgical decisions made from video observation
           alone, when performed in the setting of this pilot trial?

        8. Evaluate the consistency of the surgical decision making: intra- & inter rater
           reliability
    
  