
    
      Though HAV is mainly transmitted through the fecal-oral route, infection by sexual
      intercourse and blood transfusion is also possible. Injection drug users (IDUs) and men who
      have sex with men (MSM) have a higher risk of acquiring HAV due to their behaviors. Acute
      hepatitis A outbreaks have been reported among these groups of patients in the USA, Europe
      and Australia. Reemerging threat of hepatitis A among MSM in Taiwan has been reported
      recently. HAV is generally a self-limited disease with marginal public health impact in
      countries with low HAV endemicity. HAV infection does not progress to chronic hepatitis and
      liver cirrhosis, but acute HAV infection poses a risk of acute liver failure or even death,
      particularly the persons with chronic HBV or HCV infection who develop super-infection with
      HAV.

      In HIV-infected patients, liver disease is one of the three most common causes of death, and
      acute HAV infection is one cause of liver damage in HIV-infected patients. HIV-infected
      patients may experience prolonged HAV viremia, which can increase the risk of transmission to
      others. Furthermore, given that drug-induced liver injury associated with highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and that HIV-infected subjects are frequently coinfected with
      HBV and HCV, these patients are considered especially susceptible to severe complications
      when they become infected by HAV. Risk factors for HIV infection, including MSM, IDUs,
      persons with multiple heterosexual contacts, and persons frequently exposed to blood and
      blood products, are also risk factors for HAV infection, since infection may occur through
      shared transmission routes. Based on the guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of
      HIV/AIDS and the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), Taiwan, vaccination of
      individuals against HAV with any of the following indications is recommended: HIV patients,
      adults with chronic hepatic disease, hemophilia, liver transplantation, occupational
      exposure, MSM, persons who use injection or noninjection illicit drugs, or persons traveling
      to or working in countries that have endemicity of HAV. The number of people living with HIV
      had grown to >28,000 persons by 2014 in Taiwan and MSM accounted for more than 50 % among all
      HIV-infected patients. Therefore, protection against HAV infection is essential in the care
      of HIV-infected patients.

      The response rate to HAV vaccination is almost 100% among HIV-uninfected persons who receive
      2 standard doses of HAV vaccine. However, the immunogenicity to HAV vaccination is
      sub-optimal in HIV-infected patients and the seroconversion rate is estimated 68-90% after
      administration of 2 or 3 doses of HAV vaccine. Furthermore, the antibody titers of
      HIV-infected patients following HAV vaccination are significantly lower compared to those of
      HIV-uninfected persons. Though one randomized clinical trial in HIV-infected patients
      suggested the 3-dose schedule of HAV vaccination tended to achieve a higher seroconversion
      rate than the 2-dose schedule at week 72 (78.3% versus 61.2%; P = 0.07), the optimal doses of
      HAV vaccine in these subjects remained unclear. Recently, the research group from National
      Taiwan University Hospital leaded by the principle investigator in this proposal published
      the findings in Hepatology that the serologic response rate to 2 and 3 doses of HAV vaccine
      was similar in HIV-infected MSM (75.7 % and 77.8 % seroconversion rate at week 48 for 2 doses
      and 3 doses, respectively). Administration of HAV vaccine in HIV-infected patients with
      higher CD4 counts (preferably >200 cells/μL) and suppression of HIV replication increased the
      seroconversion rate. This study provided the evidence that 2 doses of primary HAV vaccine was
      appropriate regimen in HIV-infected subjects. However, this study also found that the
      seroconversion rate (75.7 % and 77.8 % in 2 doses and 3 doses, respectively) in HIV-infected
      patients was lower than that in two-dose HIV-uninfected MSM (88.5 %). Around 20 patients
      receiving 2 doses of HAV vaccine and 30 patients with 3 doses of HAV vaccine did not have
      achieve seroconversion. This study based on Taiwanese population is the milestone for the
      research regarding HAV vaccination in HIV-infected patients. It not only demonstrates the
      safety of 2 or 3 doses of HAV vaccine among HIV-infected patients, but also gives as insight
      about the doses of primary vaccination. It is notable that the sub-optimal response among
      HIV-infected subjects remains an unresolved problem. The role of booster vaccination in
      HIV-infected patients without response to primary HAV vaccination has rarely been addressed
      in the literature. In one recent study conducted in Brazil, 23/29 (79.3%) from HIV-infected
      patients maintained HAV antibodies 7 years after primary HAV vaccination. The group that lost
      HAV seropositivity was revaccinated and 83.3% (5/6) responded with antibodies >20 mUI/mL
      after 2 doses of HAV vaccine. Though the limited numbers in this study, the data suggest that
      antibody titer monitoring is necessary in HIV-infected patients and revaccination is
      advisable to maintain protective levels of antibodies.

      Although vaccination against HAV is essential for HIV-infected patients, the uptake of HAV
      vaccine is reported to be low. Studies of HAV vaccination coverage and screening rate for
      exposure to HAV in HIV patients are also limited. It is obvious that physicians interested in
      HIV care and vaccination planning is crucial to deal with this problem. In this study, we aim
      to determine the seroprevalence of HAV infection, the vaccine coverage rate and the factors
      associated with seropositivity in persons with HIV infection who sought HIV care over the
      past 6 years (2010-2016). Furthermore, the investigators aim to conduct a randomized clinical
      trial to compare the immunogenicity of 2 different doses of HAV vaccination (1 dose versus 2
      doses) in HIV-infected patients who failed to achieve serologic response in the primary
      vaccination. This proposal will provide the solid evidence to elucidate the role of booster
      HAV vaccination in HIV-infected patients without response to primary HAV vaccination.
    
  