
    
      Non-adherence to immunosuppressive medications is a major problem after kidney
      transplantation, leading to increased rejections, hospitalizations and health care
      expenditures. Effective educational opportunities may positively influence adherence,
      especially when combined with a behavior intervention. However, increasing education and
      support to transplant recipients demands greater use of care providers' time and resources in
      a health care system that is already stretched.

      A patient-oriented video series has been developed according to best practices for transplant
      education, featuring an animated character embarking on a transplant journey. Animated
      segments illustrate difficult concepts for patients with poor health literacy, and patient
      narratives provide support and encouragement. A multicenter randomized controlled trial will
      be conducted with 4 sites across North America. Patients will be randomized (1:1) to either
      the intervention (i.e., home-based video education + adherence contract plus usual care) or
      usual care alone. Patients will be enrolled in the study prior to hospital discharge and will
      be provided with access to the video intervention and contract electronically. The primary
      outcome will be adherence at 12 months post-transplant, as measured by self-report (BAASIS),
      and variability in immunosuppressant levels. Secondary outcomes include the change in
      knowledge score between the intervention and control in groups (measured by the Kidney
      Transplant Understanding Tool); differences in self-efficacy (Generalized Self-efficacy
      Scale), beliefs about medicines (Beliefs of Medicine Questionnaire), and quality of life
      (SF-12). Individualized viewing statistics will be analyzed to determine patient uptake, and
      satisfaction about the educational experience will be captured on a self-reported survey.
    
  