
    
      Cognitive function declines with advancing age and the prevalence and incidence of dementia
      rises dramatically in later life. Impaired cognitive function limits one's ability to work,
      live and socialize, and represent a major obstacle for active aging. Data from Asian
      countries showed a clear role of cognitive function in contributing to functional disability
      independent of physical health. How to maintain good cognitive health in the later stage of
      life is an important and challenging question that requires well-founded research with good
      applicability. With no cure for dementia in sight presently, it is vitally important to find
      effective preventive measures. Candidates and potential avenues for intervention should be
      carefully evaluated in well-designed randomized controlled trials (RCT). Here the
      investigators propose choral singing as a novel approach for the prevention of cognitive
      decline and dementia; the investigators plan to test the hypothesized efficacy in a RCT based
      on a selected group of senior Singaporeans from the Jurong Area. This proposed research is
      built on a growing body of research evidence on the role of choral singing in health
      promotion and psychological wellbeing; and the fact that no trial has tested the potential
      effectiveness of choral singing in delaying cognitive decline and the onset of dementia.

      The plasticity of the brain forms the scientific basis for the potential efficacy of choral
      singing in preventing cognitive decline and the incidence of dementia. It is well known that
      participating in various cognitive, social and productive activities is associated with
      improved cognitive function and lower risk of dementia. The protective effects on cognition
      may be particularly effective for certain subgroups. For example, analysis of local data
      showed that among the single and widowed elderly, an increase in social engagement was
      associated with a lower risk of cognitive impairment: compared with subjects in the lowest
      tertile of social engagement scores, the adjusted Odds Ratio (OR) of cognitive impairment was
      0.50 for subjects in the second or the third tertile.

      Data from previous clinical trials support that cognitive training is effective in improving
      cognitive function or delaying cognitive decline in the elderly. Functional gains from
      cognitive training have been reported to last up to five years, with a meta-analysis
      demonstrating that the protective effects of cognitive training on cognition in healthy
      elderly can persist years after training. In Singapore, a brain-computer interface based
      cognitive training system showed promise in improving memory and attention in healthy
      elderly. Specifically, the training led to significant improvement in immediate memory (p =
      0.038), visuospatial/constructional (p = 0.014), attention (p = 0.039), and delayed memory
      (p<0.001) scores. However, cognitive training based on human trainer or brain-computer
      interface are expensive and hence the applicability as a preventive in real world setting for
      the general population is largely limited. Participants of such trainings also may not be
      able to maintain lasting interest and motivation. Given those considerations, relatively
      cost-effective and captivating methods are urgently needed and we believe choral singing is a
      promising candidate.

      In Singapore, there are more than 200 school choirs. Most universities and tertiary education
      institutions have choirs developed as an expressive art form. Furthermore, there are numerous
      church choirs who sing with spiritual passion, and the professional choruses who are selected
      to sing and to perform. The existing resource can be tapped on in the future for large scale
      interventional initiative once solid data of its efficacy are produced from rigorously
      designed clinical studies.

      In this collaborative research project that involves experts from multiple disciplines, the
      investigators propose to conduct a randomized clinical trial to examine the clinical efficacy
      of choral singing in the prevention of cognitive decline and dementia. As a cognitive
      stimulating activity, choral singing involves cognitive processes such as attention, memory,
      executive function and language. As a social activity, choral singing consists of group
      interactions which cultivate the feeling of being part of a meaningful community. Prior
      studies have demonstrated that situations and activities involving synchrony with others
      induces feelings of closeness and affiliation, and bolsters coordination with synchronization
      partners. Increased prosociality and conformity produced by synchrony may also be applied to
      other people more generally, even those who were not synchronization partners. Moreover,
      synchrony and affiliative orientations also share a bi-directional relationship, such that
      individuals who are more prone to prosocial tendencies are more likely to synchronize with
      others. As a physical exercise, choral singing requires the involvement of more than 100
      muscles; it helps to improve lung function and circulation, promotes superior posture, and
      boost balance and resistance. Choral singing also requires the choristers to cooperate with
      each other, the discipline of listening to blend with fellow singers and need persistently
      hard work to stay on par with the level of other singers. All the above may contribute to
      long term cognitive benefits of choral singing.

      Although theoretically plausible, the effectiveness of choral singing in preventing cognitive
      decline and dementia has not been studied scientifically. This proposed study will fill an
      important knowledge gap. The investigators aim to produce firm data on two year efficacy of
      choral singing in preventing cognitive decline and this will form the evidence base for
      further research and future interventional initiative.
    
  