
    
      In this prospective observational study the course of 30-50 intensive care patients of the
      University Hospital of Graz is analysed.

      It is not possible to give an exact number of cases, because it is not possible to estimate
      exactly how many COVID-19 patients will be admitted to the listed intensive care units in
      Graz. Recruitment will start when approved from the ethical board and end in June, 2020.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Admission on an isolation unit - intensive care unit of the University Clinic of Graz

        -  Detection of a SARS - CoV-2 infection by PCR (tracheal or pharyngeal secretion) or CT
           examination (with consecutive PCR confirmation)

        -  male and female sex

        -  subordinated declaration of consent if possible*

        -  respiratory insufficiency with indication for non-invasive or invasive ventilation
           during admission to an intensive care unit

      Informed consent

      Since the study patients are intensive care patients, it may happen that the informed consent
      cannot be obtained at the time of admission to the intensive care unit (e.g.: patient is not
      able to give consent due to mechanical ventilation), in this case the informed consent will
      be obtained at a later time (e.g.: at the latest upon discharge from the intensive care
      unit/hospital.

      (* In exceptional cases it may happen that patients cannot sign a declaration of consent at
      admission as well as at discharge from the intensive care unit (e.g.: during the stay
      continuous mechanical ventilation and death at the intensive care unit).

      Study related measures

      In addition to the standardized routine laboratory (daily, in the morning approx. 05.00
      o'clock), a lipid profile (LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, Lpa, HDL cholesterol, total
      cholesterol) is taken once upon admission to the intensive care unit in order to determine
      the cardiovascular risk upon admission to the intensive care unit. This lipid profile is
      taken with the aid of a vacuette (9 ml corresponds to approx. 2 teaspoons of whole blood).

      Study related patient questionnaire for the determination of cardiovascular risk

      The patient questionnaire should be filled out by interviewing the patients at the time of
      admission to the intensive care unit. If the condition of the patients does not allow this,
      the information in the questionnaire should be carried out by a member of the study staff by
      researching the patient's medical history (e.g. doctor's letters, electronic data
      acquisition, etc.). The questionnaire is used to assess the cardiovascular risk (contains
      medication, past medical history).

      Non-study-related measures (standardised routine analyses in an intensive care unit)

      To determine the cardiovascular risk:

      See Patient Questionnaire, Lipid Status, HbA1c

      For follow-up (daily routine laboratory checks):

      Blood count, coagulation, liver and kidney counts, triglycerides, biomarkers (CK, CK-MB,
      TropT, NTproBNP, CRP, PCT, IL-6, D-dimer, LDH, myoglobin).

      Other parameters and therapies that are considered in the evaluation or that are used to
      create the data set:

      Fluid introduction, fluid discharge, balance, prone positioning, non-invasive ventilation
      (PEEP, fiO2), invasive ventilation (ventilation mode, PEEP, Pinsp, fiO2, AF), respiration
      (respiratory rate, fiO2, SpO2, paO2, pCO2, etCO2), circulation parameters (RR syst, RR dia,
      MAP, HF, ECG (rhythm, Qtc)), extracorporeal organ support procedures, mortality, med.
      complications, entire drug therapy (e.g: norepinephrine (incl. dose), levosimendan (incl.
      dose), vasopressin (incl. dose), cortisone (incl. dose), dobutamine (incl. dose), supportive
      therapy (zinc, vitamin C, selenium), antifungal and antibiotic therapy, hydroxychloroquine,
      lopinavir, remdesivir, favipiravir, tocilizumab.

      Anonymisation of patients

      After enrolment in the study, the patient data is encoded/pseudo-anonymised, i.e. patients
      are identified with a consecutive ID number (neither name, initials nor laboratory
      requirement number are recorded). To find out the previous illnesses of intensive care
      patients it is necessary to create a list of patient names and the corresponding ID numbers
      for pseudonymisation. This list remains with the investigator.

      Use of clinical data For the statistical analysis, clinical data in pseudo-anonymised/encoded
      form are used, e.g. diagnosis, concomitant diseases, long-term medication, intensive care
      therapy, medication, smoking, age, sex.

      Should further questions arise during the study regarding this patient collective, the
      collected data would be used for further evaluations.

      Centre/intensive care units The test centre is the LKH Univ.Klinikum Graz, Auenbruggerplatz
      5, A-8036 Graz. Patients are admitted to the SARS - CoV-2 (COVID-19) isolation unit intensive
      care units of the LKH University Hospital Graz.
    
  