
    
      JNJ-38877605 is a new drug being developed for the treatment of cancer. It is an inhibitor of
      mesenchymal epithelial transition (Met) kinase, a substance identified in many cancers. This
      is the first study in which JNJ-38877605 will be administered in man. This research study is
      being carried out to determine the highest dose of JNJ-38877605 that patients with advanced
      or refractory solid tumors can tolerate. The study will also test the safety of JNJ-38877605.
      Safety evaluations will include an assessment of adverse events, clinical laboratory data,
      electrocardiograms, vital signs measurements, physical examination findings, and Eastern
      Oncology Cooperative Group (ECOG) performance status. In some patients the effect of food on
      how the drug is absorbed will also be studied. Throughout the study, treatment will be given
      in cycles which will be 21 days long and the study drug will be taken once a day. The number
      of cycles will depend on the effects the drug has on the patient and whether the patient
      benefits from the treatment. The design of a cycle may be adjusted during the course of the
      study, so that the cycle is shorter or longer, or includes some days when the patient does
      not receive treatment (a pause = intermittent treatment). It is also possible the drug will
      be taken more than once a day. In case of any changes to the drug administration schedule,
      the schedule and the timing of visits and blood/urine tests may be adapted accordingly,
      without increasing their number. During the first treatment cycle, 2 or 3 overnight stays in
      the hospital are required and visits to the hospital during cycles 1, 2, 3, and 4 may take up
      to 12 hours after the morning dose. From cycle 5 onwards, there is a daytime visit only once
      every cycle, and these usually take up less time. Patients are informed about the current
      visit schedule at enrollment and throughout the study. The dose of JNJ-38877605 administered
      in the study will start low and will be increased during the study. The amount of study drug
      taken each day by an individual patient depends on when the patient enrolls in the study. If
      a group of patients does not have severe side effects, the next group of patients will get a
      higher dose. The dose will increase until some patients have severe side effects. The dose
      will then be decreased and 3 to 6 patients will receive the highest amount of drug where
      severe side effects were not observed. The amount of JNJ-38877605 in the patient's blood will
      be measured and the study will also look at the effect of the drug on the disease. The
      patient may continue treatment as long as there is benefit as assessed by the response
      assessments throughout the study and the patient has no unacceptable side effects. A
      follow-up visit for each patient will take place within 14 days after the patient takes the
      last dose of JNJ-38877605. JNJ-38877605 is provided in 10, 50, and 100 mg capsules for oral
      use. JNJ-38877605 will initially be administered once a day orally although the
      administration schedule may be modified at later stages in the study. JNJ-38877605 will be
      provided as a take-home formulation in childproof high-density polyethylene bottles.
    
  