
    
      Iron deficiency is the commonest micronutrient deficiency worldwide and the major cause of
      specific anemia - iron deficiency anemia. Iron is an essential mineral with lots of functions
      in the human body; its deficiency is associated with cognitive impairment, emotional
      alteration, and altered homeostasis in myelination and neurotransmission. Vitamin A
      deficiency can lead to anemia, weakened resistance to infection, blindness, and death. Animal
      model studies showed that vitamin A could affect cognition. Cognitive skills, influenced by
      cognitive development of the individual, are related with academic performance of the student
      and long-term success. One target of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 4) is to ensure
      inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for
      all. Poor health and undernutrition of children in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMIC)
      are the major limitations to reach their potential school performance and learning skills.
      The evidence on the role of intermittent iron supplementation in preventing anemia is strong
      but several aspects of cognitive development, co-supplementation with other micronutrients
      such as vitamin A are missing.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of intermittent iron and high-dose
      vitamin A supplementation integrated within school nutritional plan on anemia, iron status
      and cognitive development of school children (7 - 10 year old) who live in areas with high
      rates of food insecurity in Ethiopia.

      Method: The study will be carried out at primary schools in Arba Minch Zuria District,
      Ethiopia in children aged from 7 to 10 years. Eligible children (a total of 504 children)
      will be randomly assigned to one of the four groups: 1) Control placebo receiving placebo
      vitamin A and placebo iron supplement; 2) Vitamin A group will receive a high dose vitamin A
      capsule (200,000 IU) and placebo iron supplement.;3) Iron group will receive weekly iron
      supplementation (42 mg of elemental iron) and placebo vitamin A; and 4)Iron-vitamin A group
      will receive a combined weekly iron supplementation and high dose vitamin A.

      Iron supplements (42mg of elemental iron)/placebo will be given to school chidlren weekly for
      10 months and 200,000 IU of vitamin A/placebo will be given at baseline and after 5 months.
    
  