
    
      Treatment of AML patients during chemotherapy and SCT is frequently complicated by SI which
      may represent an obstacle to the antileukemic chemotherapy and transplant program.
      Antimicrobial prophylaxis, diagnostic approaches and antimicrobial therapy should be adapted
      to the infectious risk of the leukemic population. A crucial problem in the definition of
      these strategies is represented by the continuous change in the epidemiological patterns of
      infections as a result of the modification of risk factors in the leukemic population and of
      the global epidemiology of hospital and community acquired infections. In particular, the
      emergence of antibiotic resistant pathogens, particularly among gram negative bacteria,
      represents a serious problem which dramatically impacts on the antibacterial prophylaxis and
      treatments choices. A continuous epidemiology survey is required in order to better define
      proper prevention, diagnostic and treatment approaches. A common problem in the infections
      control in immunocompromised populations is represented by a late epidemiological
      consciousness. In particular, when new antileukemic strategies are implemented any change in
      the infectious epidemiology is frequently evidenced later retrospectively, but retrospective
      studies suffer of several drawbacks in the timely and proper collection of data.

      The aim of the AML1310 GIMEMA protocol is to prospectively evaluate in a large population of
      newly diagnosed young AML patients the effect of a risk-adapted, MDR directed antileukemic
      strategy which includes chemotherapy and SCT. The objective of the trial is to evaluate the
      treatment strategy in terms of OS at 24 months and secondary objectives include the response
      rates and outcome according to clinical and biological characteristics at baseline and along
      the antileukemic treatment. A further secondary objective of the AML1310 study is the
      evaluation of the quality of life.

      A prospective, longitudinal survey of infectious complications occurring in patients enrolled
      in the AML1310 study along the entire antileukemic program, as an ancillary observational
      study, may be a useful tool to evaluate in real-time the epidemiological patterns of
      infections, their impact on the OS, on the antileukemic treatment schedule, and on the
      quality of life. First, it may allow to assess whether the various types of SI, in addition
      to well known clinical and leukemia-related prognostic variables, are actually independent
      prognostic factors for the long-term outcome of AML patients. Second, the results of this
      survey may offer precious indications for the timely update of the prophylaxis , diagnosis
      and treatment strategies of infections in AML patients undergoing a modern antileukemic
      program. The advances in the treatment of AML resulting from the AML1310 study may be further
      enriched by the epidemiological consciousness derived by a parallel survey of the infectious
      complications.
    
  