
    
      Sleep disturbance is commonly found in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and is
      often accompanied with family distress. Disturbed sleep may exacerbate the core symptoms of
      ASD including stereotypic behaviors, social interactions, and health problems. Therefore, it
      is important to develop effective intervention strategies to ameliorate the sleep disturbance
      in children with ASD. Traditionally, behavioral interventions and supplemental melatonin
      medication are used to improve their sleep quality. However, poor sustainability of
      behavioral intervention effects and use of other medications (e.g. antidepressants and
      stimulants) that metabolize melatonin may degrade the effectiveness of these interventions.
      Alternatively, previous research supported physical activity intervention as an effective
      treatment on sleep disturbance for typically developing children who suffered from sleep
      disturbance. It is therefore natural to extend the study to examine whether such intervention
      is also effective in children with ASD. This study aims to investigate whether physical
      activity intervention would be effective to improve sleep quality in children with ASD.
      Moreover, how physical activity impacts on sleep in children with ASD through
      melatonin-mediated mechanism model will also be investigated. According to this mechanism
      model, it is suggested that physical activity could affect circadian rhythm through altering
      melatonin level. Melatonin is generally lower in ASD children than in their typically
      developing counterparts and supplemental melatonin medication is often used to treat the
      sleep disturbance in this population. This study is a parallel-group randomized controlled
      trial comparing a 12-week jogging intervention and a control group receiving standard care in
      32 children with ASD. The changes of four sleep parameters (sleep onset latency; sleep
      efficiency, wake after sleep onset and sleep duration) through objective actigraphic
      assessment and parental sleep logs will be monitored. To measure melatonin level, all
      participants will be instructed to collect a 24-h urinary sample. 6-sulfatoxymelatonin, a
      creatinine-adjusted morning urinary melatonin and representative for melatonin level, will be
      measured from the collected urine sample. All the assessments will be carried out before the
      intervention (T1), immediately after the 12 weeks of physical activity intervention or
      regular treatment (T2), and 12 weeks after post-intervention (T3) for examination of
      sustained intervention effect. The findings of this proposed study can provide information on
      the mechanism pathway that physical activity impacts on sleep in children with ASD, which
      will contribute to the design of an effective intervention to improve sleep quality for
      children with ASD.
    
  