
    
      All children in the right age group presenting with clinical signs of malaria at the study
      site were considered possible study subjects. The guardians of these children were informed
      about the study orally in Swahili according to the informed consent form. Those who were not
      willing to participate in the study were treated according to local standard procedure.

      On day 0 the patient was tested for parasites using light microscopy on Giemsa stained blood
      films. A detailed clinical history and a clinical examination including an axillary
      temperature was assessed. Haemoglobin was assessed and blood samples were collected on filter
      paper for each child for genotyping of the parasites as well as for possible determination of
      blood levels of different antimalarial drugs.

      The guardian was asked to bring their child back to the study site on day 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21,
      28, 35 and 42. If they failed to do so they were visited in their homes to assure proper
      follow-up. At each follow-up the investigator asked about concomitant medication and adverse
      events, carefully filling out the clinical report form (CRF).

      If, during the follow-up between day 14 and 42, a child previously enrolled in the study
      presented with fever, all tests and examinations were run as on day 0. If the child was
      clinically and parasitologically diagnosed with malaria again, he was treated as a new
      infection. If diagnosed with severe malaria during the follow-up period the patient was given
      rescue treatment (oral or intravenous Quinine) and withdrawn from the study. Each time an
      enrolled child presented at the site the CRF was completed with regards to clinical and
      laboratory status, treatment given and possible adverse events.

      Clinical and laboratory assessments included:

      Malaria smear: Giemsa stained thick blood films examined using electrical or sunlight
      microscope at the study site by an experienced microscopist. The number of parasites were
      calculated as the number of parasites seen against 200 leucocytes in the thick blood film and
      recorded in the CRF for the correct occasion. The slides were stored for quality controls
      double-check (10% of all slides) centrally.

      Haemoglobin: Haemoglobin levels were measured by the HaemoCue™ method using blood samples
      collected on cuvettes. The Hb levels were recorded in the CRF for each occasion.

      Full Blood Picture (FBP) and Liver Function Test (LFT): FBP and LFT were performed in the
      Kivunge Study Site sub-population only (GLP Sub Study). FBP was obtained using the Cell-Dyn
      1700™ Haematology Analyser (Abbott Laboratories, USA). LFT, including ALT, AST, Gamma-GT,
      albumin and bilirubin, was obtained using the BTS-310™ Photometer UV-VIS (BioSystems, Spain).

      Temperature and Clinical history: A medical doctor/officer measured the patient's axillary
      temperature using an electronic thermometer and took a detailed clinical history as well as
      performed a clinical examination.

      PCR Filter paper sample: Blood samples were collected on Whatman FTA filter papers. When dry,
      each filter paper sample was stored in separate plastic bags at -20ºC (Kivunge) or +4ºC
      (Micheweni) until regularly transferred to Kivunge for -20ºC long term storage.

      HPLC samples (Kivunge only): Approximately 5ml of venous blood was drawn from each patient on
      days 0 and 7 for FBP and LFT tests. In the ASAQ group 100 µl of this blood was collected on
      special filter papers for high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of amodiaquine
      levels. In the AL group 100 µl of plasma (separated by centrifugation at >3000rpm for 10min)
      was collected on special filter papers for HPLC analysis of lumefantrine levels. All
      remaining (minimum 2ml) of plasma was collected and kept at -20ºC as a back-up.

      Molecular analyses: PCR genotyping of merozoite surface protein 2 (msp2), considered the most
      informative single genetic marker for multiplicity of P. falciparum infections, was performed
      to differentiate reinfections from true recrudescence. Paired PCR results were compared
      between day 0 and at the time of recurrent parasitaemia from day 14 up to day 42. The outer
      conserved region of the polymorphic repetitive block 3 of msp2 was amplified in an initial
      reaction followed by two nested reactions with oligonucleotide primers specific for the two
      allelic families FC27 and IC/3D7, using a standard protocol. The pfmdr1 Y86N and pfcrt K76T
      genes' Single Nucleotide Proteins (SNPs) analysis was done according to established AluI
      restriction-based PCR-RFLP protocols. All molecular analyses were performed at the Malaria
      Research Unit, KI, Sweden.
    
  