
    
      The rate of restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has dramatically
      decreased since the introduction of drug-eluting stents (DES). However, restenosis still
      remains a problem and some papers reported that the rate of restenosis can even go up to
      nearly 20% after the first-generation DES implantation, depending on the complexity of target
      lesion. Furthermore, there arises a concern about thrombogenic risk of these DES at the
      expense of reduced restenosis. Therefore, works aiming to reduce both restenosis and
      thrombosis are on-going, and there has been a rush of various second-generation DES with
      "biocompatible but non-absorbable polymer" and third-generation DES with "bioabsorbable
      polymer".

      Recently, Orsiro hybrid sirolimus-eluting stent (Orsiro SES, Biotronik AG, Bulach,
      Switzeland) has been developed. It has a unique hybrid combination of polymers coated on thin
      cobalt-chromium struts (60um). The BIOlute® active component is a bioabsorbable polymer
      matrix combined with an anti-proliferative drug, sirolimus, and elutes the drug in a
      controlled manner after implantation, degrades over time and leaves only the PROBIO® coated
      stent behind in the long-term. The PROBIO® passive coating encapsulates the stent and
      protects interaction between the metal stent and the surrounding tissue. Although Orsiro SES
      showed excellent results in terms of late lumen loss at 9 months in first-in-man single arm
      trial (BIOFLOW-I trial), randomized controlled trials evaluating its efficacy and safety are
      limited to date.

      The ORIENT Trial will evaluate the angiographic and clinical outcomes of the innovative
      third-generation DES, Orsiro SES, compared with the latest second-generation DES, Resolute
      Integrity zotarolimus-eluting stent (ZES-I, Medtronic Cardiovascular, Santa Rosa, California,
      USA), for treatment of patients with coronary artery disease.
    
  