
    
      This study is a randomized control trial where subjects will be randomly assigned to a
      control or an intervention group. Participants will be recruited through general
      advertisements (e.g. radio, newspaper, posters), in Fredericton and surrounding areas. These
      participants will be volunteers, and no compensation will be provided besides having access
      to a free exercise program in their community. Eligibility will be determined by the research
      staff prior to the baseline assessment day.Eligible participants will be evaluated at an
      initial day of testing at either a Horizon CommunityHealth Centre or at the University of New
      Brunswick in the Cardiometabolic Exercise and Lifestyle Laboratory (CELLab). This first visit
      will involve the confirmation of eligibility, reading and signing a consent form, and the
      administration of the measurements discussed previously. All research staff will have
      received the appropriate training to deliver these fitness assessments, finger pricks, and
      interviews.

      At the end of the baseline visit, research staff will randomly assign participants to the
      intervention or control group. The participant will wear a pedometer for seven consecutive
      days following this initial visit. The paper form for any information collected (e.g. consent
      form) will be stored in the CELLab at UNB in a locked cabinet. The CELLab has limited access;
      only staff has access through a password to the lab. All information will be linked to a
      participant number for which the only linkable personal information (e.g., name, age, sex)
      will be kept in a password protected computer and only the Principal Investigator,
      Co-Investigators, and Research Coordinator will have access to this information. Information
      will be stored for a maximum of 7 years.

      Following this baseline assessment, participants in the intervention group will be assigned
      to an exercise program most convenient to them. This is a 12-week exercise program, offered
      twice a week. Full attendance is not mandatory for being a participant. This is a peer-led
      exercise program, meaning it is instructed by a leader of similar age. This leader has
      received extensive Fitness New Brunswick training to deliver a program aimed to reduce the
      risk of falls and help older adults safely increase their physical activity levels. This
      60-minute exercise program involves aerobic and resistance exercise, as well as flexibility
      and balance activities. The program is currently designed to help individuals meet the
      physical activity guidelines. Participants' numbers will be used to register attendance from
      the leaders.

      Following this 12-week intervention or control period, participants will repeat all the
      baseline assessments (including questionnaires and interviews), with an exception that they
      will not have to wear the pedometer in the follow up visit. The primary objective will be to
      determine whether participants' experiences with the program were positive or negative, and
      specifically identifying participants' attributions of why/how the exercise intervention
      positively impacted their physical and/or mental health.
    
  