
    
      Patients with a new diagnosis of AML often confront a sudden and life-threatening diagnosis,
      requiring an immediate disruption of their life and an urgent 4-6 week hospitalization to
      initiate intensive chemotherapy. During this hospitalization, they endure substantial
      physical symptoms due to the side-effects of intensive chemotherapy, which negatively impacts
      their quality of life (QOL). Patients with AML also experience significant psychological
      distress as they struggle with the abrupt onset of illness, uncertainty regarding their
      prognosis, physical and social isolation during their hospitalization, and complete loss of
      independence. The study doctors want to know if the use of a mobile application (app) focused
      on helping patients cope with the diagnosis and treatment can reduce the distressing symptoms
      and improve the their quality of life and care.

      The main purpose of this research study is see if a mobile app is feasible to use for
      patients with new diagnosis of AML and is acceptable to them. The study will also compare two
      types of care - standard leukemia care and standard leukemia care with the mobile app to see
      which is better for improving the experience of patients newly diagnosed with AML undergoing
      treatment.

      The purpose of this research study is to find out whether using the mobile app that is
      focused on educating patients about leukemia and how to cope with its treatment can improve
      the physical and psychological symptoms that patients experience during hospitalization for
      their leukemia care. Using this research, the study doctors hope to find out the best way to
      help patients cope with their diagnosis and treatment for acute myeloid leukemia.

      The study will use questionnaires to measure patient's quality of life, physical symptoms,
      mood, and the participant sense of control over their situation. Study questionnaires will be
      completed in the hospital or clinic with assistance provided as needed. The participants will
      also have the option of completing these questionnaires remotely through a secure web link or
      through a mailed paper copy
    
  