
    
      Cerumen is ear wax, a combination of dead skin cells of the external ear canal, sebaceous
      glands secretions and ceruminous sweat glands secretions. Cerumen exists in a range of people
      but sometimes it become an obstacle to patients or caregivers. Cerumen may accumulate in the
      external ear canal and cause discomfort to the patient, sensation ofobtuseness and conductive
      hearing loss. Patients who use hearing aids may suffer from problems wearing them, and
      sometimes the cerumen may plug the inner part of the hearing aid or the ventilation channel
      of the ear phone.

      For caregivers, cerumen may poses a diagnostic challenge, by concealing part of the external
      ear canal and tympanic membrane, thus making it difficult to observe the middle ear. cerumen
      my affect the results of audiometric tests, ABR tests, Otoacustic Emission tests and in
      conducting tympanometric tests. All of which may result in false results. The incidence of
      cerumen is estimated to be betwean 7 to 35% of the general population.

      There are few options to evacuate the cerumen, but they usually require skill and the use of
      otology microscope. It mays casue discomfort or pain, and even trauma to the external ear
      canal or the tympanic membrane. A device which does not require a special skill or equipment
      may have a advantage, especially for the general practioner doctor.

      The Wondertip is an Israeli patent, made of silicone with a coil like end, targeted to
      evacuate the cerumen in a safe and effective manner. The coil is gently inserted to the ear
      canal, grasps and evacuates the cerumen.

      The purpose of the trial is to investigate the safety and efficacy of the Wondertip. A second
      purpose is to messure external ear canal depth.

      Each candidate which will present with cerumen impaction will recieve a detailed explanation
      regarding the trial. If the patient agrees, and signs a concent form, a short interview will
      take place by the doctor. An evacuation of the cerumen will be attempted by the same doctor
      with the Wondertip. Further the doctor will document details regarding the safety and
      efficacy of the procedure.
    
  