
    
      Background

      Children with SNI may experience nociceptive-inflammatory pain as a result of their specific
      medical condition or procedures. Often, however, it is not clear what underlies the pain
      behavior as there is no clear inciting noxious event. The investigators define this entity of
      pain without an obvious source as Pain and Irritability of Unknown Origin (PIUO).

      The investigators' work to date has developed an efficient, focused clinical pathway to
      evaluate children with SNI for all potential sources of nociceptive-inflammatory pain. Using
      this approach the "unknown" element of pain in these children is reduced and a source of PIUO
      may be found in individual cases, increasing the potential for treatment. Nevertheless there
      are children, who at the end of a thorough evaluation guided by a clinical pathway, will
      still have PIUO. These children may benefit from adjuvant analgesics such as gabapentin.

      The evidence base supporting the use of gabapentin for pain and irritability in infants and
      children with neurological impairment rests on case series publications describing a limited
      number of retrospective cases. The lack of prospective, randomized studies, even for this
      commonly used medication, underpins the rationale for this trial.

      Objectives

      The primary objective of the pilot trial is to evaluate the clinically significant difference
      of gabapentin to decrease pain and irritability in children with SNI, when the source of pain
      and irritability is attributed to neurological dysregulation (nociplastic pain), as measured
      by parent-reported pain scores.

      The investigators will compare the gabapentin versus placebo along an escalating dose range
      for both individual subjects and for the group. The investigators will aggregate the results
      of the completed N-of-1 trials across all subjects to estimate the group level comparative
      effectiveness of gabapentin in reducing pain and irritability.

      Outcomes from this study will help with designing larger randomized control trials,
      especially with sample size and power calculations. It will also provide prospective
      information on drug effect.

      Trial Design

      This trial uses a single randomized multiple-measures cross-over design (N-of-1), with
      results aggregated over several subjects. This design is well-suited to outcomes that are
      highly specific to each individual and not amenable to precise measurement across a large
      cohort. The heterogenous nature of pain and irritability responses in children are more
      likely to be personally specific and characteristic, rather than generalizable.

      Subjects will switch between gabapentin (G) and placebo (P) in a randomized order. The
      sequence of whether G precedes P (GP) or P precedes G (PG) will be randomized by the study
      pharmacist, and neither the clinician nor the subject (parent/caregiver) will know the
      sequence. Each subject will serve as their own control and experiment, allowing for a finer
      assessment of the treatment efficacy within each patient.

      The primary variable assessed is the child's pain score. Pain and irritability will be
      measured using the Non-Communicating Children's Pain Checklist - Revised (NCCPC-R) at
      specified intervals throughout the randomized sequence of G : P. Additional measures of
      parent/caregiver burden and impact on their daily function will be undertaken weekly with the
      PROMIS-57, a tool adapted to measure the impact of the child's pain and irritability on
      parental functioning. Other measures will be of usual, known side effects (e.g., sedation)
      and of any unexpected adverse events.
    
  