
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Over the past four decades, a significant research effort has been devoted to the
      understanding of the epidemiology and pathophysiology of chronic obstructive airways disease
      (COPD) in adult life. Epidemiologic studies uniformly have identified cigarette smoking as
      the predominant risk factor for the occurrence of COPD. Other factors such as socioeconomic
      status, environmental pollution, occupational exposures, and inherent genetic susceptibility
      have been observed to have very limited roles as risk factors.

      A number of studies have suggested that postnatal maternal cigarette smoking has a measurable
      effect on lung function in children. One longitudinal analysis of this problem in children
      5-19 years of ages identified significant effects on the growth of FEV1 and forced expiratory
      flow between the 25th and 75th percent volume points (FEF25-75) of the volume-time curve.
      These investigators, however, pointed out that the effects which they observed could have
      resulted from the in utero consequences of maternal smoking during pregnancy and/or from
      exposure to factors such as severe respiratory illnesses which have been documented to occur
      with increased frequency early in infancy and were not measured by the study.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Pregnant women were identified during the first trimester and followed monthly. Assessments
      were made of their smoking habits, urinary cotinine measurements, general medical condition,
      and status of pregnancy. Within two weeks of birth the infants were evaluated with partial
      forced expiratory flow-volume curves and measurement of passive respiratory system compliance
      and resistance. Measurements were repeated at intervals until age five. Babies were also
      observed regularly for respiratory illness experience, passive exposure to cigarette smoke,
      and general respiratory health.

      The study helped to elucidate: the effect of maternal cigarette smoking on lung function at
      birth and development of function at five years; the effects of postnatal factors on lung
      development; the extent to which the reported increased frequency of respiratory illness in
      infants of smoking mothers resulted from in utero exposure to tobacco smoke products or
      postnatal passive smoking.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  