
    
      Mindfulness-based smartphone apps have surged in popularity in recent years. Headspace -
      among the most popular of these platforms - has over 42 million users. Recent surveys
      indicate that 11% of U.S. adolescents have used mindfulness apps as a means of coping with
      anxiety or depressive symptoms, which increase substantially during the adolescent years. A
      growing body of research implicates rumination as being a transdiagnostic risk factor
      involved in the development of depression and anxiety in youth. Critically, mindfulness
      meditation has shown significant promise in targeting rumination, and ultimately improving
      depressive and anxiety symptoms. Mindfulness apps offer a convenient and cost-effective means
      for accessing mindfulness training, while being interactive and engaging for youth. Despite
      their growing popularity among teens, strikingly little research has been conducted on these
      apps. Two critical questions have yet to be addressed, which are strongly aligned with the
      NCCIH Strategic Plan: (1) what are the underlying neural and cognitive mechanisms that
      account for the beneficial effects of these apps and (2) for whom is app-based mindfulness
      well-suited. To address these gaps, adolescents (ages 13-18) will be randomly assigned to an
      app-delivered mindfulness course vs. an active control condition and will complete pre- and
      post-intervention resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans to probe
      static and dynamic functional connectivity within - and between - brain networks strongly
      implicated in mindfulness training and rumination (i.e., Default Mode Network and Salience
      Network). In addition, cognitive tasks will be administered at pre- and post-intervention to
      assess attentional control abilities putatively enhanced by mindfulness training. Finally,
      mindfulness skills and changes in rumination will be assessed via smartphone-based ecological
      momentary assessment (EMA). First, the investigators will test whether changes in (1) brain
      functional connectivity (dynamic resting state functional connectivity via coactivation
      pattern analysis), (2) attentional control (Correct NoGo % on the SART task) and (3)
      acquisition and use of mindfulness skills (assessed via EMA) mediate between-group (i.e., app
      vs. control) differences in the reduction of rumination. Second, the investigators will test
      whether a machine learning model incorporating baseline clinical, demographic, and
      psychosocial characteristics can be used to identify which adolescents are predicted to
      benefit from app-based mindfulness training. Ultimately, such an algorithm may inform
      individual risk-benefit assessments that could be used to objectively communicate the
      probability of experiencing positive vs. adverse outcomes to users prior to engaging with a
      mindfulness app. Collectively, results are expected to advance (1) our understanding of the
      underlying mechanisms that account for the beneficial effects of app-based mindfulness
      training and (2) our ability to predict which adolescents are well-suited to these
      increasingly popular apps.
    
  