
    
      Visits will match with usual schedule of patient's appointments with their referent
      oncologist or for injections of ICIs, when blood sampling or biopsies will be done. Feces
      will be collected by patients themselves, at home (optional).

      The same day of registration for either an EMA approved first line PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor in
      combination with platinum-based chemotherapy OR a standard 2nd or 3rd line PD-(L) 1 ICIs
      monotherapy (to date, Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab, Atezolizumab), 450 advanced NSCLC patients
      will undergo a screening visit (Vs). If they are eligible, after signing an informed written
      consent, they will be blood-sampled specifically for the study:

        -  after 3 or 4 weeks (V1-1st assessment of PK/PD, after the 2d course),

        -  after 6 weeks (V2),

        -  after 8 or 9 weeks (V3-2nd assessment of PK/PD, after the last course),

        -  after 12 weeks of treatment (V4- samples for 3rd assessment of PK/PD and other analyses
           ).

        -  after 18 weeks (V5- samples for 4th assessment of PK/PD and other analyses,),

        -  after 24 weeks of treatment (V6-5th assessment of PK/PD and other analyses).

      Patients will also be re-biopsied (primitive tumor or metastasis) specifically for the study,
      at V2. Referent patients'oncologist will opt for the simplest technical approach with a
      minimal risk exposure for patients. Standard procedures will be implemented for subsequent
      patient's monitoring.

      Patients will also provide remaining samples from pre-treatment surgical resections/biopsies
      (primitive tumor or metastasis).

      If they are amenable to collect feces samples at home, an auto collection kit will be
      supplied to them, before the first injection (Vs) and when they come for the 2nd course (i.e
      after 3 or 4 weeks post initiation) in order to self-collect feces within the week beforeV2 -
      6 weeks post initiation).

      Following the last study visit (V4 or V5 or V6)or at the time of a subsequent disease
      progression, patients will enter to the follow up period (a minimum 24 weeks ). They will be
      followed by their usual referent oncologist, no additional visit is required. Subsequent
      response to the anti-PD (L) 1 treatment, anti-cancer therapy, survival will be collected via
      patient medical records and analysed for current study.
    
  