
    
      Neural tube closure defects are among the most common birth defects. They are also called
      Spina Bifida or spinal dysraphism. According to the latest epidemiological studies in Europe
      based on the EUROCAT register (1991-2011), the prevalence of neural tube closure defects
      (including spinal dysraphisms as well as anencephaly and encephalocele) at birth is estimated
      at 9.105/10000 births in Europe (95% CI 8.94 to 9.27) and 12.02/10000 births in France.

      The effectiveness of vitamin B9 (or folic acid or folate) supplementation in the
      periconceptional period on reducing the prevalence of neural tube closure defects has been
      widely demonstrated.

      In France, the HAS (public health agency) recommends taking vitamin B9 between 1 month before
      and 2 months after conception, at a dose of 0.4 mg per day (5 mg per day in case of risk
      factors) since 2009. However, the proportion of women taking folic acid during
      periconceptional period is estimated at 1%.

      The spina bifida - dysraphisms centre of the University Hospital Center of Rennes wishes to
      implement a campaign to prevent neural tube closure defects by supplementing with vitamin B9
      during periconceptional period.

      This study aimes to assess men's and women's knowledge of the need to take vitamin B9
      supplementation in women in the periconceptional period and the reasons why this
      supplementation is carried out or not, in order to target our future prevention campaign.

      This will allow comparing the results before and after the prevention campaign. Finally, such
      a study is an awareness-raising campaign by itself. The study objective is to assess the
      knowledge and the follow-up of vitamin B9 supplementation recommendations for women in the
      periconceptional period to prevent neural tube closure defects. It will be conducted with
      health professionnals and women who have just given birth in Rennes CHU.

      A questionnaire will be administered to each study participant, among 2 distinct populations:

        -  Paper questionnaire for women who have just given birth during their stay in the
           maternity ward at the University Hospital of Rennes.

        -  Electronic questionnaire (Sphinx Déclic) sent to all CHU mailbox users.
    
  