
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility of an intervention to reduce
      sedentary behaviour in n=45 older adults undergoing orthopaedic surgery, at Russells Hall
      Hospital, Dudley, Birmingham, UK. Recruitment will be via screening of surgery lists followed
      by direct contact with potentially eligible participants. The intervention is designed
      utilising Self Determination Theory. It is designed to have multiple components:
      incorporating individualised feedback on sitting time, education about sedentary behaviour,
      individualised goal-setting and environmental modification according to each participant's
      own behavioural patterns and capabilities, motivational interviewing, and biweekly phone
      calls.

      Due to variation in surgery times, the intervention will be variable but can last up to 18
      weeks. Each participant will undertake 3-5 visits depending on whether they are in the
      control group (n=3 visits) or intervention group (n=5 visits). The intervention group will
      undergo baseline assessments, two intervention meetings, pre-surgical assessments, and a
      6-week post-surgical follow up. These visits will occur in different weeks for each
      participant due to the variability of surgery, however visit 2 will occur 1 week after visit
      1. Visit 3 will occur shortly thereafter but may also be combined with visit 2. Visit 4 will
      occur the week prior to surgery, which is intended to be 6-10 weeks after baseline. Visit 5
      occurs 6 weeks post-surgery, which should be 12-18 weeks post-baseline. The primary outcome
      measure will be feasibility, assessed quantitatively with study statistics. Secondary outcome
      will be mixed-methods assessment of feasibility via bespoke participant questionnaires.
      Exploratory outcomes will cover a number of mental and physical health variables, including
      blood measures to assess cardiometabolic biomarkers, as well as physical function using the
      short physical performance battery (SPPB). Surgical recovery will be assessed using the
      Oxford Hip/Knee score and the SPPB. The results of this feasibility study will serve to aid
      the design of a definitive trial of an intervention to reduce sedentary behaviour in this
      population.
    
  