
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether single fraction palliative radiation therapy (SFRT) improves
      health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) over multi-fraction palliative radiotherapy (MFRT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether single fraction palliative radiation therapy (SFRT) improves
      individual domains of health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) over multi-fraction palliative
      radiotherapy (MFRT).

      II. To determine whether SFRT increases clinically meaningful HR-QOL improvement over MFRT.

      III. To determine whether SFRT provides non-inferior symptom burden improvement to MFRT.

      IV. To describe radiation related toxicity rates within 21 days and within year for patients
      receiving SFRT and MFRT.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe T-cell repertoire of patients receiving SFRT and MFRT. II. To describe vaginal
      microbiome of patients receiving SFRT and MFRT. III. To describe gut microbiome of patients
      receiving SFRT and MFRT. IV. To describe financial burden of patients undergoing palliative
      pelvic radiation with either SFRT or MFRT.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy in the form of 3-dimensional
      conformal radiation therapy (3D CRT), intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), or volume
      modulated arc therapy (VMAT) at the physician's discretion for 1 fraction in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with < 30% decrease in the Symptom
      Inventory Scale (SIS) may receive an additional fraction on day 21 at the physician's
      discretion.

      ARM B: Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy in the form of 3D CRT, IMRT, or
      VMAT at the physician's discretion over 2 weeks for 10 fractions in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 1
      year.
    
  