
    
      Objective:

      The aim of the study is to use an improved sampling method for collection of MMP-9 to test
      the hypothesis that MMP-9 levels are significantly elevated in the dentinal fluid of
      symptomatic (painful) human permanent teeth compared to asymptomatic counterparts that need
      replacement of a filling, and pulp necrotic teeth. Moreover, the dynamics of MMP-9 expression
      after removal of the causative stimulus for pulpitis is to be investigated.

      Outcome:

      Measuring the total MMP-9 levels of dentinal fluid collected during dental treatment using a
      human MMP-9 fluorescent assay.

      Measurements and procedures:

      Patients attending the day service of the Center of Dental Medicine Zurich will be screened.
      Patients matching the inclusion criteria will be asked to participate in the study. Upon
      written informed consent, the affected tooth gets anesthetized, isolated with rubber dam and
      receives one of the following treatment procedures: caries removal and restoration, tooth
      filling replacement and restoration, or root canal treatment (because of irreversible
      pulpitis, or pulp necrosis). After caries removal, removal of the defect tooth filling, or
      during access cavity preparation, a cellulose membrane (paper point) will be applied with its
      blunt end to the dentin for 1 min to collect dentinal fluid. The cellulose membrane will be
      stored until the laboratory analysis. Depending on the individual treatment plan of the
      patient, the tooth will subsequently receive root canal treatment, its final restoration, or
      a temporization with glass-ionomer cement for coverage of the dentinal wound and
      reinforcement of the remaining tooth structure. Final restoration of a tooth with composite,
      a partial crowns, or full-coverage crown can be technically demanding, time consuming, and
      frequently involves multiple patient visits. Teeth that receive root canal treatment, or the
      final restoration are sampled once. When a patient with a temporized tooth returns for the
      final restoration, the sampling procedure (appliance of a cellulose membrane to the dentin
      for 1 min and storage for further analyses) will be repeated. Any further treatment will be
      continued without further impairments. The investigation does not alter the treatment plan of
      any patient (either participating in one, or two sampling procedures, or in the study at
      all).

      Number of participants:

      Based on a previously performed study (Zehnder et al., 2011), which used a similar
      experimental set-up and had 31 participants (2 groups), it is aimed to recruit 60
      participants for the current study.

      Comparators:

      MMP-9 levels in dentinal fluid sampled from teeth with painful (irreversible) pulpitis will
      be compared to MMP-9 levels of teeth without clinical signs and symptoms. Moreover, the MMP-9
      levels of teeth showing an painless pulpitis (teeth affected by a caries lesion) will be
      compared to a repeated sample of the same tooth collected after removal of the caries lesion.

      Statistical analysis:

      MMP-9 contents in the clinical samples will be determined against a standard curve
      (4-parameter logistic curve fit) obtained from the recombinant pro-MMP-9 standard dilution
      series. Values between groups will be compared by using Mann-Whitney U test, with the
      alpha-type error set at 0.05.
    
  