
    
      MATERIAL In the period from May 2014 to November 2015, a random subset of patients who
      underwent transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) or surgical aortic valve replacement
      (SAVR) were offered intensified post-procedural clinical and imaging follow-up. It is
      intended to examine a variety of implanted transcatheter heart valves (THV) as well as
      surgical aortic valve bioprosthesis.

      METHODS:

      Post-procedural clinical and imaging follow-up encompasses the following:

        -  Thoracic 4DCT scanning - with evaluation of leaflet morphology and leaflet motion

        -  Transthoracic echocardiography - with evaluation of peak aortic valve gradient, mean
           aortic valve gradient, aortic valve area/effective orifice area (cm2), paravalvular
           leakage, central aortic valve regurgitation, and left ventricular ejection fraction

        -  Clinical follow-up: improvement in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class dyspnea, and
           major adverse cardiac and cerebro-vascular events (MACCE)

        -  Registration of anti-coagulation/anti-thrombotic therapy following aortic valve
           replacement

      All patients will receive the above-described post-procedural follow-up at two different
      time-points:

        -  The first follow-up contact will be planned 30 to 180 days after the TAVR or SAVR
           procedure. The medical treatment will not be changed based on the generated data.

        -  The second follow-up contact will be planned 120 to 180 days after the first follow-up
           contact (see above). This second follow-up offers the possibility to study the 'natural
           evolution' of this process. In those patients with an abnormal leaflet morphology and/or
           motion, a treatment with rivaroxaban 20mg daily will be initiated.

        -  Those patients initiated on rivaroxaban after the second follow-up will be called in for
           a third clinical and imaging follow-up, with focus on leaflet morphology and/or motion
           after rivaroxaban therapy. In case of persistent abnormal leaflet morphology and/or
           motion despite NOAC, a treatment with Marevan (INR 2-3) will be initiated.

        -  Those patients initiated on Marevan after the third follow-up will be called in for a
           fourth clinical and imaging follow-up contact.
    
  