
    
      Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) is an inherited immune disorder involving decreased
      phagocytic superoxide oxygen radical production, resulting in increased susceptibility to
      infections. Furthermore, there is a predominance of immune-related inflammatory problems in a
      subset of CGD patients, such as the inflammatory bowel disease (CGD-IBD). CGD-IBD is often
      complicated by obstruction, strictures, fissures, fistulae, and extra-intestinal problems. In
      fact, it is clinically and histologically indistinguishable from Crohn's Disease (CD),
      another inflammatory bowel disease that affects the general population. Crohn's disease (CD)
      is a prototypic T helper cell type 1 (Th1) immune disease. Since CGD-IBD bears such close
      resemblance to CD, it is possible that CGD-IBD is also immune-based. Furthermore, mice
      studies also support a primarily immune basis for CGD-IBD. However, currently there is little
      data on this Crohn's-like CGD-IBD in human patients. Treatment for the Crohn's-like CGD-IBD
      has been primarily oral or topical corticosteroids. Antibiotics have been ineffective and
      stool cultures typically do not identify clear pathogens. Many patients with the Crohn's-like
      CGD-IBD disease remain steroid-dependent, thus new therapeutic regimens are needed.

      This is a Phase I/II study that will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tumor Necrosis
      Factor Alpha Inhibitor (Infliximab or Adalimumab) in CGD patients with symptomatic
      Crohn's-like IBD. Infliximab and Adalimumab are standard-of-care treatments for moderate to
      severe CD, with extensive experience using these agents being well documented in terms of
      safety and efficacy. Preliminary reports from ongoing studies of CD at NIH are encouraging in
      inducing remission. We will also evaluate changes in immunophenotype and cytokine profiles of
      peripheral blood and colonic lamina propria lymphocytes following treatment. In addition, we
      will evaluate the immunophenotype and cytokine profile of blood and mucosal cells in CGD
      patients, with or without IBD, to determine the CGD-specific cytokine profile. Specific
      cytokine profiles have been observed in different genetic immunodeficiencies, despite similar
      IBD clinical manifestation.

      Documentation of clinical status will be performed using the Crohn's Disease Activity Index
      (CDAI). Potential effects of genetic variation (including CGD mutation type) on the
      expression of IBD in patients with CGD, and their responses to treatment will also be
      assessed. The long-term goal of this study is to establish better or alternative treatment
      modalities with low risk profiles for CGD patients with Crohn's-like IBD.
    
  