
    
      In this retrospective cohort study, all consecutive lung biopsies performed between April
      2014 to May 2016 at our department of cardiothoracic interventional radiology were included
      using the local thoracic biopsy database. Biopsies were scheduled after the weekly
      multidisciplinary lung cancer meeting approval. Pleural, parietal and mediastinal lesions
      were excluded due to the absence of intra-parenchymal pathway. Radiofrequency ablation and
      peripheral nodule marking procedure were also excluded.

      A complete retrospective imaging review of the procedures was performed on a PACS workstation
      by an experienced chest radiologist. Clinical data was also collected from the electronic
      medical record system.

      Variables analyzed were age, sex, spirometry data, emphysema on CT, therapeutics previously
      done, target lesion characteristics (location, depth, and nodule size and feature), patient
      position, length of intrapulmonary biopsy path, number of pleural needle passes, biopsy
      length and number of biopsy passes. Procedural air embolism and other associated
      complications (hemoptysis and pneumothorax) and their management and consequences (length of
      hospitalization and additional action) were recorded.

      Patient's characteristics with and without air embolism were compared using Student or
      Wilcoxon rank test for continuous variables and Chi-square or Fisher test for categorical
      ones. To determine the relative importance of air embolism occurrence influencing factors,
      multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed on variables according to
      significance level or clinical coherence. A backward selection was used; the α-to-enter and
      the α-to-exit were set, respectively, at 0.20 and 0.10. Statistical bilateral significance
      threshold was set at 5%. Statistical analyses were performed using SAS version 9.1 (SAS
      Institute, Cary, North Carolina).
    
  