
    
      Cryosurgical freezing will release intact antigens to prime the immune system. The study
      treatment immunotherapeutic drugs (PD-1 inhibitor monoclonal antibody nivolumab and
      anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody ipilimumab, and cyclophosphamide) will then be sequentially
      injected directly into the cancer immediately following cryosurgical freezing. Oral low-dose
      cyclophosphamide will also be administered subsequently. It is speculated that neoantigens
      released from the cryoablated necrotic cancer will be available in the vicinity of the
      cryosurgical freezing field immediately following the procedure. Immature dendritic cells
      attracted to the injection site will internalize neoantigens to become activated to recognize
      cancer-specific antigenic proteins. The activated dendritic cells will recruit killer T-cells
      to the injection site to attack cancer cells, and then migrate through the lymphatic system
      to sites of metastases, targeting cancer-specific neoantigens and recruiting more killer
      T-lymphocytes to destroy other cancer cells harboring the precise antigenic epitopes
      (abscopal (bystander) effect). In this way, dendritic cells are capable of initiating
      cell-mediated systemic immune response in combination with cytotoxic killer T-cells.
      Regulatory T lymphocytes, which have been implicated in dampening or halting cell-mediated,
      antigen-specific immune responses, will be selectively depleted by anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal
      antibodies and low-dose cyclophosphamide. Intratumoral injection of the immunotherapeutic
      medications assists in stimulating and harnessing the local and systemic immune response.
      Oral cyclophosphamide prolongs the immune response. Using this combination of therapies,
      referred to as AbscopalRx1001, it is thought that a clinically significant systemic
      anti-cancer immune response might be elicited. Intratumoral injection of drugs will likely
      offer fewer side effects than systemic therapy.
    
  