
    
      Obesity has reached epidemic proportions with nearly two-thirds of the US population either
      overweight or obese. Ethnic minorities are disproportionately affected with 37% of
      African-American adults being obese. Obesity is also inversely related to socioeconomic
      status. In Pennsylvania, the prevalence of obesity increased from 14.7% in 1991 to 24.0% in
      2002, and annual medical expenditures attributable to obesity are estimated at $4.2 billion;
      making Pennsylvania the 4th highest state in the country in terms of obesity-related costs.
      The prevalence of obesity is matched by it serious medical consequences including type 2
      diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerotic disease. The core pathogenetic
      factor underlying these conditions appears to be insulin resistance. Weight loss through diet
      and physical activity is the most desirable way to reduce insulin resistance (IR). Weight
      losses of 8-10% are associated with significant improvements in IR. While clinic-based weight
      loss programs at tertiary medical centers can produce clinically significant losses, the cost
      and location of these programs make them inaccessible to underserved populations (e.g., inner
      city African Americans and rural poor) who are most in need. Moreover, the most common
      outcome for weight loss treatments is weight regain. Thus, novel strategies that both improve
      weight loss maintenance and are accessible to those most in need are a priority for research
      and the focus of this application.

      Based on our expertise in behavioral weight management and telemedicine, this study will
      determine if a telemedicine system can help participants, who have undergone a weight loss
      program based in church and community centers, maintain their weight loss over a 1 year
      period. Overweight and obese men and women (n = 400) will participate in a 16-week behavioral
      weight loss program in local churches and community centers. After 16 weeks, participants
      will be randomized to either an "In-person" follow-up group or to a "telemedicine" group for
      1-year. The latter will provide support through self-monitoring, education, supervised chat
      room, bulletin board, and e-mail. Assessments of body weight, body composition and insulin
      sensitivity will be conducted at baseline, 16 and 68 weeks. Based on recent data, we predict
      greater maintenance of weight loss (and lower body weights) at 68 weeks in the Telemedicine
      group as compared to the "In person group".
    
  