
    
      Armodafinil is designed to stimulate the central nervous system, which may increase
      wakefulness and reduce fatigue.

      A placebo is not a drug. It looks like the study drug but is not designed to treat any
      disease or illness. It is designed to be compared with a study drug to learn if the study
      drug has any real effect.

      Study Groups:

      If participant is found eligible to take part in this study, participant will be randomly
      assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 will take armodafinil. Group 2
      will take a placebo. A placebo is a substance that looks like the study drug but has no
      active ingredients.

      Neither participant nor the study staff will know if participant is receiving the study drug
      or the placebo. However, if needed for participant's safety, the study staff will be able to
      find out what participant is receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Participant will take the study drug/placebo every day for 4 weeks starting the morning after
      participant has enrolled in this study. Participant will take the study drug/placebo in the
      morning with a full glass (8 ounces) of water. Participant may take the study drug/placebo
      with or without food. If the dose causes an upset stomach, participant should take it with
      food. If participant has trouble swallowing the dose of study drug/placebo, the study staff
      will tell participant of different ways of taking it. Participant will be given a pamphlet
      with more information about how to take the study drug/placebo.

      Symptom Questionnaires:

      Before participant starts taking the study drug/placebo, the following tests and procedures
      will be performed:

      °Participant will complete 6 questionnaires about participant's fatigue, sleepiness, and
      other symptoms as well as participant's quality of life and participant's ability to work.
      These questionnaires should take about 20 minutes to complete total.

      Throughout the study, participant will complete 2 of the symptom questionnaires listed above
      2 times every week while participant is on study, including during the Open-label Extension
      Phase (described below). Participant may complete the questionnaires over the phone using the
      Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system or with a member of the study staff. Another option
      is to complete the questionnaires during a routinely scheduled visit outside of this study.
      If participant completes the questionnaires over the phone, the study staff or the IVR system
      will call participant at a time that is convenient for participant. If the questionnaires are
      completed through the IVR system, the study staff will give participant the information
      participant needs to report participant's symptoms by using the system. If the questionnaires
      are completed with the study staff, she/he will ask participant the questions and record
      participant's answers on paper or enter them into a computer.

      When participant completes the questionnaires for the second time each week, participant will
      also be asked if participant is taking participant's study drug/placebo as instructed and
      participant will be asked about any side effects participant may be having. If the
      questionnaires were completed through the IVR system, the study staff will contact
      participant and ask participant if participant is taking participant's study drug/placebo as
      instructed and about any side effects participant may be having.

      At the end of Week 4, participant will complete the same set of 6 questionnaires that
      participant completed at the beginning of the study. Participant will also complete a
      questionnaire about participant's thoughts on the study drug/placebo. Participant will also
      be asked about any changes in drugs (both prescribed and over the counter) that participant
      may be taking. This should take about 30 minutes.

      Open-label Extension:

      At the end of Week 4, if participant was in Group 1 and participant did not have any
      intolerable side effects, participant will be able to continue taking armodafinil for an
      additional 4 weeks. If participant was in Group 2 and participant did not have any
      intolerable side effects, participant will be given the option to begin receiving armodafinil
      for 4 weeks.

      No matter what participant chooses, participant will not be told whether participant was
      taking the study drug or the placebo during the first 4 weeks of the study.

      If participant is in the open-label extension phase, at the end of Week 8, participant will
      complete the same set of 6 questionnaires that participant completed at the beginning of the
      study. Participant will also complete a questionnaire about participant's thoughts on the
      study drug/placebo. This should take about 30 minutes.

      Length of Treatment:

      Participant will receive the study drug/placebo for either 4 or 8 weeks. Participant will be
      taken off study if intolerable side effects occur or if the study doctor thinks it is in
      participant's best interest.

      Follow-Up:

      After participant's last dose of the study drug/placebo, participant will continue to
      complete 2 symptom questionnaires for another 4 weeks. The last time participant completes
      the 2 questionnaires, participant will complete an additional 3 questionnaires that
      participant completed at the beginning of the study.

      Additional Information:

      Any information about the side effects participant may have that are collected during this
      study will not be reported to participant's regular doctor. Participant should tell
      participant's regular doctor about all symptoms and/or side effects that participant had.
      Participant will given a hot line phone number to call the study staff if participant has any
      side effects from the study drug/placebo.

      Another option to complete the questionnaires at Weeks 4, 8, and 12 is to receive
      questionnaire packets during the baseline assessment and to mail them back to the study
      coordinator. The study staff will contact participant to remind participant when it is time
      to complete them.

      This is an investigational study. Armodafinil is FDA-approved and commercially available to
      treat narcolepsy (falling asleep at unexpected times), obstructive sleep apnea, and shift
      work sleep disorder. It is also FDA-approved and commercially available to treat sleepiness
      in patients with excessive sleepiness. Its use in this study is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  