
    
      Methods:

      Patients and Study design It will be two-step study carried out among school teenagers. In
      the first step the school children will be screened for EIB during physical education (PE)
      lesson. Inn all children before and after physical exercise (PE) lesson spirometry will be
      performed. Children with decreased FEV1 (>=10% from baseline) and/or children with EIB
      history within last 12 months (symptoms: dyspnea, cough, wheezes, chest pain during/after
      exercises) will be invited to the clinic for future evaluation and qualified to the next step
      of the study.

      In the second step children with suspected EIB and their parents will be invited to the
      clinic. Three visits are planned. Treatment with long acting beta agonists will be stopped 24
      hours before each visit; antihistamine treatment will be stopped 21 days before the first
      visit.

      First visit

      In all children standardized exercise trade mil challenge together with reversibility test
      and skin prick tests will be performed. Based on these results children will be divided to
      the following groups:

        -  children with EIB and asthma (EIB+A+)

        -  children with EIB without asthma (EIB+A-)

        -  children without EIB and asthma (EIB-A+)

        -  children without EIB without asthma (EIB-A-) Second visit Twenty children will be
           randomly selected from each group. In all children standardized exercise trade mil
           challenge will be performed again together. Blood sample will be taken before and after
           challenge together with exhaled breath condensate sample in order to detect markers of
           inflammation. Also before and after exercise challenge exhaled nitric oxide will be
           measured.

      Third visit Bronchial provocation challenge with metacholine will be performed in each child.

      Methods

        -  medical history and physical examination

        -  lung function tests Pulmonary function tests Pulmonary function testing will be
           performed with a Master Screen unit (Erich Jaeger Gmbh-Hochberg, Germany). Predicted
           values for all lung function variables are based on a previous study of healthy controls
           provided by the manufacturer of the lung function test equipment. Flow-volume curves
           will be performed according to the American Thoracic Society standards. The highest of 3
           successful measurements will be taken and analyzed. The results will be expressed as the
           percentage of a predicted value. All the subjects will be able to perform spirometry.

        -  exhaled nitric oxide measurements The NO measurements will be performed according to
           European Respiratory Society/American Thoracic Society (ERS/ATS) recommendations with a
           chemiluminescence analyzer (model 280i nitric oxide analyzer; Sievers, Boulder, CO, USA)
           and deaned in parts per billion. The analyzer provides an on-line continuous measurement
           of NO in a single exhalation with a detection range of 0.1 to 500 ppb. Environmental NO
           will be measured before and after each test and never exceed 5 ppb. All subjects are
           studied in the sitting position, without wearing a nose clip. The subjects exhale at a
           constant ﬂow rate (50mL/s) from total lung capacity to residual volume without breath
           holding. They maintain a constant mouth pressure (17 cm H2O) by monitoring a visual
           display in order to eliminate contamination from nasal NO. Dead space and nasal NO
           (which are reﬂected by the NO concentration peak during exhalation) and NO from the
           lower respiratory tract (determined by the plateau value after the peak) are recorded
           automatically by using the manufacturer's software. Three fractional exhaled nitric
           oxide (FeNO) measurements of the plateau phase will be obtained, with less than 10%
           variation. The mean value of 3 successive, reproducible recordings will be retained for
           statistical analysis.

        -  standardized exercise treadmill challenge Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction will be
           tested by the use of a motor-driven treadmill (Kettler, Ense-Parsit, Germany) according
           to ATS/ERS guidelines. The children will be instructed to run for 8 minutes with a
           submaximal exercise load. The exercise test consist of a 2-minute warm-up and 6 minutes
           of steady-state running on a treadmill inclined to produce a heart rate of at least 95%
           of the maximum predicted for age (calculated as 220 - age [years]). The slope of the
           treadmill is 5.5% (3°). Small adjustments in workload (treadmill speed) will be made, if
           necessary, to achieve targeted hearth rates. Nasal clips will be used during the test,
           and heart rate will be continuously monitored (electronic heart rate scanner; Kettler).
           The submaximal run on the treadmill will be performed at the same speed (exercise load)
           on both test occasions (at randomization and after 4 weeks of treatment) for each child.
           The ambient temperature in the air-conditioned laboratory will be kept stable at 22°C,
           and the humidity will be stable between 40% and 50% on each day of the study.
           Differences of 1°C in temperature and 5 mg H2 OxL-1 of air humidity on the test days on
           each patient will be accepted. 14 FEV1 will be measured before running, immediately
           after, and 3, 6, 10, 15, 20 and 30 minutes after running. Maximum percentage fall in
           FEV1 after exercise test will be calculated by using the following formula:
           [(pre-exercise FEV1 - lowest postexercise FEV1) /pre-exercise FEV1] x 100. The FEV1
           values will be plotted against time for each treatment. The area under the curve (AUC)
           for the FEV1 values from exercise over the 30-minute period will be calculated by using
           a trapezoidal rule. EIB will be defined as a ≥ 15% decrease in FEV1 from baseline within
           the first 5 minutes after exercise.

        -  exhaled breath condensate EBC samples will be collected through EcoScreen-II device
           (Viasys Healthcare GmbH, Berlin, Germany). Samples of exhaled breath condensate (EBC)
           will be obtained from children during tidal breathing while wearing a nose clip, as
           describe previously [6]. The two-way non-rebreathing valves and tubing to the condenser
           will be served as a saliva trap. After collection (during 10min), EBC will be rapidly
           frozen in small plastic tubes at -80°C using dry ice and will be stored at -80°C until
           analysis.

      The material will be the exhaled breath condensate of children diagnosed with asthma. The
      analysis will be performed using Quantibody Human Inflammation Array 3 (RayBiotech, Norcross,
      GA, USA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. This multiplex ELISA array kit allows
      quantitative measurement of 40 human cytokines. Each standard glass slide consists of 16
      wells, each with an identical cytokine antibody array. All antibodies and positive controls
      will be printed in quadruplicated in every well.

      In the first step, the capture antibody is bound to the glass surface of the slide. Next, 100
      µl of each patient sample and the aray specific cytokine standards of known concentration are
      added to each well. After incubation for 2 hours at the room temperature, the array is washed
      5 times with 150 µl of Wash Buffer I and twice with 150 µl of Wash Buffer II, 5 minutes per
      wash. Next, the array is incubated for 2 hours with 1.4 ml of the biotin - conjugated
      antibody at the room temperature. Then the washing protocol is repeated before the addition
      of 80 µl of Cy3 equivalent dye-conjugated streptavidin to each well for 1 hour. After washing
      the array, the fluorescence signal is detected and quantified with the Axon GenePix 4000B
      scanner and GenePix Pro 6.0 software (Molecular Devices). The results will be analyzed using
      Q - Analyzer Software (RayBiotech, Norcross, GA, USA).

        -  metacholine bronchial provocation challenge Metacholine bronchial test of the
           provocation will be performed using the dosimeter technique aerosol provocation system
           (APS) Pro (Erich Jaeger Gmbh-Hochberg, Germany) with controlled tidal breathing. After
           the pulverization physiological diluent, methacholine will be delivered in four
           cumulative doses: 0,015 mg, 0,045mg, 0,18mg, 0,72mg. Metacholine based provocation test
           (MBPT) is continued with 2-min intervals between the inhalations until a fall in forced
           expiratory volume in 1s (FEV1) of ≥20% will be obtained. Provocative dose (PD20) is
           calculated by linear interpolation on a log-dose-response curve (13).

        -  in blood sample (5 ml sample): tryptase, lipoxin A4 serum levels

        -  also in the present study blood sample will be taken before and after challenge together
           with exhaled breath condensate sample in order to detect markers of inflammation (such
           as interleukin (IL)-1a, IL-2, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-9, IL-12p70, IL-13, IL-17, IL-22,
           monocyte chemoattractant protein one (MCP1), toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2),macrophage
           inflammatory protein one alfa (MIP1a), platelet derived growth factor (PDGFBB), tissue
           inhibitor of metalloproteinase two (TIMP2), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), C
           reactive protein (CRP), transforming growth factor beta one (TGF-b1), thymic stromal
           lymphopoietin (TSLP) - ELISA and cysteinyl leukotrienes, leukotriene B4 (LTB4),
           prostaglandin E2 - high pressure liquid chromatography ((PGE2-HPLC))/mass spectrometry).

      Meaning:

      Practical assessment/The results of proposed study will allow us to assess the prevalence and
      define the inflammatory background of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in school
      children. School absence, morbidity, and co-morbidity affecting physical activity will be
      verified and undiagnosed patients will be treated. Significance of environmental (tobacco
      smoking, type of exercise, temperature and humidity of exercise room) and individual (age,
      gender, atopy, obesity, recurrent respiratory truck infections, presence of chronic diseases)
      factors will be verified.

      New findings/Main findings of study will allow to define primary prevention methods of EIB
      without exercise avoidance, and new recommendations for EIB treatment in children:

        1. EIB screening in real live environment (during exercise lesson at school) verified by
           standardized exercise test in the clinic

        2. Defining the individual and environmental risk factors of EIB in school children

        3. Kinetics of inflammatory markers (in exhaled breath condensate and serum) during
           exercise test

        4. Complex evaluation of clinical and inflammatory profile of patients with EIB
           with/without asthma.

      Findings in the field/To define markers of inflammation in EIB and possible differences
      between asthmatic and non-asthmatic children with/without EIB.

      Effects/The goal of the project is to define the prevalence and inflammatory background of
      exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in school children and determine individual and
      environmental risk factors for EIB. The obtained results will provide objective measures on
      biological processes leading to bronchoconstriction during exercise, as might be experienced
      naturally during the school life. The results could be applied in the management of EIB
      patients with or without asthma. The results of planned research will be published in
      journals with national and international impact, and presented during symposia and
      conferences.
    
  