
    
      A. Study Proposal and Rational

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether intranasal nicotine can decrease the
      negative side effects of the general anesthetic isoflurane. Isoflurane and other volatile
      anesthetics are potent antagonists of central nicotinic receptors (Flood, RamirezLatorre et
      al. 1997; Violet, Downie et al. 1997). Nicotinic receptors are inhibited by isoflurane at the
      low concentrations that are present on emergence from anesthesia. Evidence from animal
      experiments suggests that inhibition of nicotinic receptors may cause increased sensitivity
      to pain and amnesia that occurs at low anesthetic concentrations. These anesthetic
      concentrations are frequently present on emergence from anesthesia (Zhang, Eger et al. 2000;
      Flood, Sonner et al. 2002). In these experiments, treatment with nicotine prevented the
      hyperalgesic state caused by isoflurane (Flood, Sonner et al. 2002).

      Intranasal nicotine treatment has been used in smokers as an aid to smoking cessation. As
      nicotine acts as an agonist at sympathetic ganglia, it can cause increases in heart rate and
      blood pressure. At the dose to be used in this protocol (3mg intranasally) there was an
      average increase of 7 mM of mercury in systolic blood pressure and no change in diastolic
      blood pressure or heart rate in nonsmoking volunteers (Fishbein, O'Brien et al. 2000).

      B. Study Design and Statistical Analysis

      The study is a randomized prospective controlled trial. Women scheduled to undergo total
      abdominal hysterectomy or myomectomy will be randomly allocated intranasal nicotine or
      intranasal saline before emergence from a standard general anesthetic. The patient will be
      randomized to one of two standard anesthetics regimens that are described below. Both patient
      and investigator will be blinded to treatment. Nicotine or saline will be placed in a single
      use nasal spray bottle by the research pharmacy and identified by number. Randomization will
      be accomplished with a random number table. Patients will be enrolled sequentially.

      We wish to detect a 50% change in pain sensitivity and in our other studies, VAS scores and
      PCA utilization varied by approximately 40% (pooled variance). In order to achieve 80% power
      and p<0.05, 40 women per group will be enrolled (total of 80 women). This study will include
      only female patients as animal studies suggest that females have a greater hyperalgesic
      response to isoflurane than males. Patients treated with nicotine will be compared to those
      treated with placebo for VAS score, PCA utilization and memory at 1 and 24 hours.

      C. Study Procedure

      The study subjects will be given one of two standardized anesthetics by an anesthesiologist
      at NYPH not involved with the study. The anesthesiologist will be familiarized with the study
      protocol prior to the surgery. The anesthetic protocols chosen are typical for this type of
      surgery, but is standardized to decrease variability in postoperative condition.

      After placing an intravenous catheter and standard anesthetic monitors, the patient will be
      pre oxygenated. Fentanyl will be administered at 12 micrograms/kg and a continuous infusion
      of 12 micrograms/kg/hr will be begun. Vecuronium 1 mg will be used to reduce fasciculation
      from succinylcholine. Anesthesia will be induced with propofol 2 mg/kg and intubation
      facilitated with succinylcholine 12 mg/kg. Anesthesia will be maintained with either
      isoflurane or propofol titrated by the anesthesiologist. All patients will be have a BIS
      monitor (a measure of processed EEG) titrated between 45-60 to assure adequacy and
      equivalence of anesthesia. Hypotension will be treated with ephedrine or phenylephrine as
      deemed necessary by the anesthesiologist. Hypertension will be treated with hydralazine or
      labatelol in doses determined by the anesthesiologist. If other hemodynamic or anesthetic
      drugs are deemed necessary by the anesthesiologist, the patient will be removed from the
      protocol.

      After closure of the abdominal fascia (typically, approximately 5 minutes before anticipated
      completion of the surgery) the general anesthetic and fentanyl drip will be titrated to off.
      Muscle relaxant will be reversed with neostigmine 0.1 mg/kg and glycopyrolate 0.01 mg/kg. At
      this time the study drug (nicotine 3 mg or saline) will be administered intranasally 3 mg
      (half to each nostril). The patient will be extubated by the anesthesiologist when she meets
      normal criteria (as determined by the anesthesiologist).

      Five minutes after extubation, the patient will be asked for a VAS score by the study
      coordinator. Pain will be treated with fentanyl by the anesthesiologist, 1 mg/kg every 5
      minutes until VAS score is less than 3. PCA will then be begun with morphine 1 mg with a
      lockout of 6 minutes and a maximal 1 hour dose of 10 mg. A rescue dose of 3 mg morphine will
      be available to be administered by the nurse through the PCA every 5 minutes for a maximum of
      12 mg in 4 hours. If pain is inadequately treated there will be an option to increase the
      patient demand dose to 1.5 mg morphine and the 1 hour maximum to 15 mg. This is a typical PCA
      protocol for this surgery.

      PACU monitoring will be standard except that the patient's pain intensity will be monitored
      every 5 minutes in the first hour, once at the second hour and once at the twenty four hour
      period postoperatively by the study coordinator who will ask for a VAS score. PCA utilization
      will be determined from the amount of narcotic used from the PCA machine. The study will last
      during the patient's first postoperative day. We expect to enroll on average 2 patients per
      week and expect our protocol to take approximately two years to complete.

      D. Study Drugs

      Nicotine has been used commonly on an outpatient basis for smoking cessation. We have chosen
      the intranasal route because of the kinetics of its action. Intranasal nicotine has its peak
      effect in five minutes and is dissipated in about 1 hour. In human studies, the hyperalgesic
      effect after a volatile anesthetic lasted about 1 hour.

      As nicotine acts as an agonist at sympathetic ganglia, it can cause increases in heart rate
      and blood pressure. At the dose to be used in this protocol (3mg intranasally) there was an
      average increase of 7 mM of mercury in systolic blood pressure and no change in diastolic
      blood pressure or heart rate in nonsmoking volunteers (Fishbein, O'Brien et al. 2000). Our
      preliminary data do not show any significant increase in blood pressure or heart rate in
      patients who recieved nicotine.

      We have chosen to study a dose of 3 mg because that dose had minimal hemodynamic effects and
      resulted in an arterial peak concentration of 100 microM and a steady state venous
      concentration of 30 microM nicotine (Guthrie, Zubieta et al. 1999). As nicotine crosses the
      blood brain barrier, these concentrations would be expected to result in significant
      activation of nicotinic receptors in the brain and spinal cord.
    
  