
    
      BACKGROUND

      Reducing hospital readmission rates is a top national priority. Unplanned hospital
      readmission is estimated to have accounted for more than $17 billion of the roughly $103
      billion hospital payments made by Medicare in 2004.1 For patients in Medicare fee-for-service
      programs, the 30-day hospital readmission rates was recently found to be 19.6% nationally,
      and 20.7% in New York State (Jencks et al., 2009). Hospitals have urgent incentives to
      address readmission rates: readmission rates have been added to the National Quality Forum
      performance metrics (National Quality Forum, 2007); readmission rate comparisons are posted
      on www.hospitalcompare.hss.gov as public indicators of hospital quality; and provisions in
      health care reform legislation will soon mean that hospitals will not receive payment for
      many readmissions within 30 days of discharge.

      Targeted transitional programs and better coordination of care between inpatient and
      outpatient settings have the potential to reduce hospital readmission rates (Naylor et al,
      2004; Coleman et al, 2006; Peikes et al, 2009). Successful care coordination measures depend
      upon the effective transmission of health information between the inpatient and outpatient
      settings.

      The Brooklyn Health Information Exchange (BHIX) is a regional health information organization
      (RHIO) that provides secure health information exchange (HIE) services among participating
      health-care organizations in Brooklyn, Queens, and other parts of New York City. HIE allows
      the meaningful sharing of health information of locations where a patients may receive care
      or healthcare services and can be used to help improve the effective transmission of health
      information between inpatient and outpatient settings. Maimonides Medical Center is working
      with BHIX to offer a health information technology- and HIE-based care coordination program
      (CCP) to help improve the care of frail elderly patients upon discharge. The CCP includes:
      (1) access to a secure online personal health record (PHR) that people can logon and manage
      their health information, as well as receive alerts and reminders about action items for them
      to take on their healthcare; and (2) depending on the patient's health care needs, nursing
      support (either in-person or by phone).

      The main objective of this study to determine the impact of the CCP in a frail elderly
      population.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      Weill Cornell Investigators will be analyzing a HIPAA-defined de-identified dataset from BHIX
      to evaluate the impact of the CCP. The two main outcomes we will be addressing in our data
      analysis are:

        1. Readmission to any BHIX hospital within 30 days of hospital discharge from Maimonides;

        2. Number of inpatient days within 30 days after being discharged from Maimonides Hospital.

      See CITATIONS, for references.
    
  