
    
      The Specific Aims of the project are:

        1. To conduct a detailed qualitative/ethnographic investigation to study: (a) the processes
           and factors operant in a person's decision to link with a substance abuse treatment
           agency once a formal (i.e., professional) assessment and referral have been made; and
           (b) the processes and factors operant in staying in treatment once it has been
           initiated.

        2. To identify and classify, using quantitative methods, the operant barriers to treatment
           linkage and engagement. We will assess the factors that are associated with these
           barriers and examine the effects of the study's interventions on removing them.

        3. To evaluate the effectiveness, using a controlled trial, of a Motivational Intervention
           and Strengths-Based Case Management, compared to the CIU's "standard" referral process,
           by examining differences between the Standard, Motivational Intervention, and Case
           Management conditions on treatment linkage and engagement outcomes. The conceptual
           framework for this controlled trial is the well-studied Andersen model of access and
           health service use, modified for chemical dependency services (Andersen, 1995). The
           interventions are designed to affect mutable factors such as perceived barriers to
           treatment. Data will be collected at baseline, and at 3 and 6 months thereafter.
           Analyses will examine whether the interventions work better with different groups of
           clients (e.g. cocaine users versus marijuana users, males versus females, different
           ethnicities, etc); as well as different treatment modalities (standard outpatient versus
           intensive outpatient.)

        4. To conduct a quantitative investigation of the effects of Individual Level and Health
           Care System Level factors that predict treatment linkage and engagement in the context
           of the proposed interventions. This study component will develop comprehensive models to
           predict how these factors interact with the study's interventions to effect treatment
           linkage and treatment engagement.
    
  