
    
      Visit 1 - screening visit: This visit will take about 1 hour. The study doctor will talk to
      the patient about C-diff infection and fecal transplant in detail. Investigators will ask you
      questions about your medical history and health. A complete physical examination will be
      done. Investigators will order a pregnancy test (for girls who are old enough to become
      pregnant) and take blood (about 1.5 teaspoons) to make sure you do not have any other illness
      or infections (other than C-diff.) If the pregnancy test comes back positive on a patient who
      is younger than age 18, both the patient and parent(s) will be informed. The study doctor
      will then choose a possible stool donor. The study doctor will ask the donor to fill out a
      questionnaire about their medical history, past and present diseases, allergies and
      medications. If this donor seems suitable, blood and stool tests will be performed on the
      donor.

      Before the next visit: Before the fecal transplant is scheduled the study doctor will look at
      your all of the lab results from you and the donor to make sure it is safe for the fecal
      transplant to take place. This will take up to two weeks. If the donor is not a suitable
      donor, another donor will be chosen. Every possible donor will need to sign a consent form
      and fill out questionnaires. When a suitable donor is found, we will to schedule the fecal
      transplant.

      There are two ways in which the fecal transplant can be given. One is by enema and the other
      is during a colonoscopy. The study doctor believes that the best way to give the transplant
      is during a colonoscopy. If you needs to have a colonoscopy done for clinical purposes (in
      the routine medical care of your C-diff infection), the fecal transplant will happen during
      that procedure. The doctor will explain the colonoscopy to you in detail and will be given
      special instructions on how to prepare for the colonoscopy. You will need to sign a separate
      consent for the colonoscopy. The other way the fecal transplant can be given is by enema. If
      you are not having a colonoscopy or for some other reason the doctor believes it is better to
      do so, you will receive the transplant through an enema.

      The study doctor will talk with you about stopping medicines that are not allowed during the
      study. If you are taking antibiotics (such as metronidazole, vancomycin, or rifaximin,
      nitazoxanide, and fidaxomicin) as a treatment for C-diff, you will be asked to stop these
      medicines 2 days before the transplant.

      Visit 2 - the day of the fecal transplant: This visit will take about 4-6 hours. A pregnancy
      test will be repeated. If the pregnancy test comes back positive for a patient who is younger
      than age, both the patient and parent will be informed. The study doctor will ask you and the
      donor how they are feeling. If either the patient or the donor is not feeling well, the
      transplant will be reschedule to another day. If both are well, the fecal transplant will
      proceed.

      On the morning of the transplant the donor will be asked to have a bowel movement in a
      plastic container. The donor will bring this stool sample to the hospital to be processed.
      This stool sample will be blended into a liquid.

      The FMT can be given by either a colonoscopy or enema. The doctor will talk to you about
      which method will be best for you.

      Transplant by colonoscopy: Before the colonoscopy, the study doctor will ask questions about
      your symptoms and medications. During the colonoscopy, the doctor will squirt one cupful (250
      ml) of liquid into the colon using a special colonoscopy tube. The liquid will be made of
      saline (salt water) and donor stool. The recovery time from the colonoscopy will be the same.

      Transplant by enema: The study doctor will ask you questions about your symptoms and
      medications. The patient's pants and underwear will be removed. A thin slippery tube will be
      put into the patient's bottom (rectum). The tube will be pushed in as deep as we can without
      pushing the tube hard. About 1 cupful of liquid will be gently squeezed into the rectum. The
      liquid will be made of saline (salt water) and donor stool. We will ask the patient to lie
      down on their left side for 30 minutes and keep the solution in for at least 45 minutes. The
      patient will then be sent home.

      After the transplant: The patient will be called at days 1, 7, 14 and months 1 and 6 to see
      how they are feeling. The investigator's staff will ask some questions over the phone. The
      phone call will take about 10 minutes. The patient may also call the study doctor anytime
      with questions or concerns.

      If belly pain or diarrhea continues one month after the transplant, the study doctor will
      want to repeat a stool test for C-diff. Sometimes the patient is not cured and a second
      transplant is needed. If a second transplant is needed, the same donor can be used if he/she
      is willing. The second transplant will be done by enema. The donor would have lab (blood and
      stool tests) done again to be sure she/he does not have any new infections or illness.

      The donor may need to have the lab work done again if the transplant does not happen as
      scheduled (cancellation, no-show or illness). HIV testing is one of the things we do on
      potential donors. The HIV testing must be done no more than 14 days before the transplant.
      The other required lab tests need to be done no more than 30 days before the transplant. The
      date the transplant is rescheduled to will determine whether or not these tests need to be
      done again.
    
  