
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a disordered eating disease characterized by a persistent pursuit of
      thinness, intense fear of weight gain, distorted body image, and obsessive eating habits.
      People with AN are at high risk for certain health problems, such as depression,
      osteoporosis, substance abuse, and cardiovascular and neurological complications. Current
      treatments for AN include different forms of psychotherapy and medications, but the success
      of these treatments is highly variable among people with AN. A better pathophysiologic
      understanding of AN is needed in order to develop novel therapeutic strategies for preventing
      and treating the disorder. Current research is targeting dopamine (DA), a neurotransmitter
      that is released in response to pleasurable stimuli, such as food and drugs. Animal studies
      have found that chronic food restriction may alter functioning of the DA system by reducing
      DA response to food and drug stimuli. A better understanding of the effects of disordered
      eating on the DA systems of people with AN may provide insight into the development of new
      and improved treatments for people with AN. This study will use positron emission tomography
      (PET) imaging to investigate changes in DA systems in people with AN before and after both
      weight restoration and administration of methylphenidate, a psychostimulant medication. The
      study will also use PET imaging to compare DA systems of people with AN with DA systems of
      people who are healthy.

      This study will involve both healthy participants and participants with AN. Study
      participation for healthy participants will include two PET scans and one magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) scan, which, if the participants prefer, can all be completed in one study
      visit. Study participation for participants with AN will include three PET and two MRI scans.
      The first PET and MRI scans will be performed upon entry into the hospital as an inpatient.
      The remaining scans will be conducted 2 to 4 weeks after participants have accomplished
      weight restoration.

      Including preparation, each MRI study will last about 45 minutes and each PET study will last
      about 3 hours. For each MRI study, participants will be asked to lie on their backs for 15
      minutes in the MRI scanner. For each PET study, participants will first be injected with a
      dose of [11C]raclopride, a radioactive drug used in brain imaging, and will then lie on their
      backs for 30 minutes in the PET scanner.

      One hour before the second PET scan for healthy participants and the third PET scan for
      participants with AN, participants will receive an oral dose of methylphenidate. During these
      scans, participants will also undergo blood pressure monitoring and an electrocardiogram
      (EKG). Once participants no longer feel the effects of the methylphenidate and their vital
      signs have returned to normal, they will be discharged from the medical center and study
      participation will be complete.
    
  