
    
      Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are a new type of breast cancer molecular marker. CTCs in
      peripheral blood originate from breast cancer (primary and metastatic lesions) shedding.
      Utilization of CTCs as novel and noninvasive tests for diagnosis confirmation, therapy
      selection, and cancer surveillance is a rapidly growing area of interest. At present, there
      is a great challenge to create an effective platform that can isolate these cells, as they
      are extremely rare: only 1-10 CTCs are present in a 7.5mL of a cancer patient's peripheral
      blood. The majority of the CTC capture methods are based on EpCAM expression as a surface
      marker of tumor-derived cells. However, EpCAM protein expression levels can be significantly
      down regulated during cancer progression as a consequence of the process of epithelial to
      mesenchymal transition. Although many technologies have been reported to achieve the capture
      and counting of CTCs, these methods study little information of cells and limited biological
      information can be obtained, leading to a lack in clinical diagnosis.

      Microfluidics has demonstrated great potential as an effective technique for the medical and
      biological sciences. Inspired by the bed topography in river meanders, here, the
      investigators report a novel river meander-like cross-section in helical microchannels for
      size-based inertial focusing and enrichment, aiming to realize more functional geometries as
      well as reduce the extensive laborious requirement in traditional fabrication process. This
      device can facilitate particle focusing at a larger scale than traditional channels. Compared
      to the circular, rectangular and trapezoidal channels, the river meander-like microfluidic
      channel can successfully realize 26 μm particle focusing with a thinner focusing band in a
      shorter channel length. Also, in a single test, this structure can achieve 85.4% recovery and
      the enrichment ratio of 1.86 of spiked MDA-MB-231 cells in the whole blood, overcoming the
      dependence on traditional cell manipulation microfluidic devices. These results indicate that
      this river meander-like microfluidic chip has the great potential of size-based cell/particle
      sorting and enrichment for clinical application. Meanwhile, Surface-enhanced Raman scattering
      (SERS) has such advantages as high sensitivity, flexible excitation wavelength, high spectral
      resolution, non-invasiveness to biological samples, resistance self-fluorescence,
      photobleaching, etc., which is considered as a promising and powerful real-time detection
      technology for unlabeled cells. But SERS spectrum of cell contains information about
      different molecules, so it usually requires complex data interpretation. Therefore, the
      application of Raman spectroscopy combined with chemometrics in biological problems has
      attracted more and more attention. However, analysis result of chemometrics can be influenced
      by the complex background of Raman spectroscopy. Therefore, a pre-processing is needed to
      remove these influencing factors.

      Based on these previous work, the investigators have developed a novel technology for the
      detection of CTCs of breast cancer. The detection platform constructed by the combination of
      microfluidic chip and surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy is used to detect the blood sample
      of the subject, obtain the high quality of breast cancer circulating tumor cells from the
      aspects of cell specificity, surface structure and molecular activity of surface-enhanced
      Raman spectrum information, and extract the characteristics of different breast cancer
      circulating tumor cells by related signal feature extraction methods, establish a standard
      surface-enhanced Raman spectral feature database for the main types of breast cancer
      circulating tumor cells.

      This technology aims to build a platform allowing for cell detection, synthesize particles
      for surface plasmon Raman enhancement, fabricate microfluidic devices, study the collection
      and analysis of the Raman spectra of CTCs, establish the database of CTC Raman spectra and
      develop the evaluation method of the biological detection. The primary objective is to
      demonstrate that the CTC assay counts technology can distinguish between healthy subjects and
      malignant breast cancer subjects. The secondary objective is to demonstrate that the CTCs
      detection technology can evaluate the efficacy of chemotherapy and neoadjuvant chemotherapy,
      as well as dynamic treatment monitoring and prognosis evaluation.
    
  