
    
      Although many patients with schizophrenia currently take oral antipsychotic medications, it
      is estimated that up to 75% of them have difficulty adhering to the daily oral regimen.
      Long-acting injectable formulations of antipsychotics may eliminate the need for daily
      medication and enhance patient compliance with the treatment regimen. The purpose of this
      trial is to evaluate the long-term effectiveness of Risperdal® Consta®, a long-acting
      injectable antipsychotic medication, versus Abilify®, an oral antipsychotic medication in
      patients with schizophrenia. The study will include patients, who in the investigator's
      opinion may benefit from a change in their current antipsychotic medication due to
      insufficient effectiveness, side effects or difficulty in adhering to a daily dose regimen.
      This is an open-label, randomized study in which patients will have an equal chance of
      receiving treatment for up to 2 years with Risperdal® Consta®, administered in the muscles
      near the hip every 2 weeks, or Abilify®, taken orally once daily. The initial dose and
      subsequent dose of study drug will be determined by the investigator. The patient's current
      oral antipsychotic medication will be decreased over the first four weeks of the study and
      discontinued. During the study, investigators may adjust the dose of study drug or add new
      antipsychotic medications to treat worsening psychotic symptoms. Patients may continue on or
      have added, antidepressants, mood stabilizers (except carbamazepine), sedative hypnotics, or
      anxiolytic medications during the study. Patients will return to the doctor's office every
      two weeks to receive an injection of Risperdal® Consta® or another supply of Abilify®. During
      certain visits, patients will be asked questions which will help the investigator determine
      the severity of the patient's illness, how well the study drug is working, quality of life,
      reasoning, memory, judgement and perception and side effects that may be associated with
      schizophrenia or treatment. Safety evaluations include the incidence of adverse events during
      the study, vital signs and clinical laboratory tests (both blood and urine). The study
      hypothesis is that Risperdal® Consta® is superior to Abilify® in the long-term treatment of
      subjects with schizophrenia as measured by time to relapse and time in remission. Treatment
      with Risperdal® Consta® (administered in the muscle every 2 weeks) at a dose of 25, 37.5 or
      50 mg or Abilify® (administered orally daily) at a dose of 10-30 mg for 2 years.
      Investigators will determine the starting dose and may adjust the dosage of study drug during
      the study according to symptoms and treatment response.
    
  