
    
      Oesophageal cancer has the fastest rising incidence of any solid tumour in the western world
      with the UK, and London, having particularly high rates of the disease.

      Those patients being considered for "cure" will benefit from pre-operative/neo-adjuvant
      chemotherapy (NAC), which is known to have a deleterious effect on fitness and is associated
      with increased post-operative morbidity. Post-operative morbidity is also associated with
      reduced survival. Reduction in fitness is compounded by major surgery and significantly
      reduces the numbers of patients who commence or complete the standard treatment of
      post-operative chemotherapy to around 40%.

      Chemotherapy and surgery for oesophageal cancer both represent significant physiological
      insults that may have detrimental effects on physical activity and outcomes after surgery.
      Cardiopulmonary exercise (CPEX) testing has been effectively used in numerous tumour groups
      to predict outcome after surgery, although its role in oesophageal cancer patients remains
      uncertain owing to conflicting data from institutional series. Advanced exercise programmes,
      sometimes termed 'prehabilitation', directed by experienced multidisciplinary teams are
      increasingly being used to mitigate the secondary effects of cancer treatment.

      'Prehabilitation' has been shown to reduce postoperative morbidity and mortality in thoracic
      patients undergoing elective high-risk surgery. In addition, results of studies examining
      physical exercise and cancer recurrence/survival which effect immune system function in
      cancer survivors suggest that physical exercise training may improve a number of immune
      system parameters that may be important in cancer defence.

      The investigators believe that optimising patient fitness through a structured and
      expert-devised exercise programme of 'prehabilitation' during neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and
      prior to surgery will mitigate the effects of chemotherapy and improve patient outcomes after
      surgery.

      The investigators intend to assess the feasibility of a 'prehabilitation' programme and
      quantify the resultant effects primarily using CPEX testing. In addition, changes in hospital
      'length of stay' will be documented with a number of additional parameters.
    
  