
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of durvalumab in combination with chemotherapy in
      subjects with variant histology bladder cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the percent of subjects post-neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy who achieve
      tumor stage of pT2 N0 M0 or better (pT1 N0 or pT0) at cystectomy.

      II. To assess the response rate (RR) in post-neoadjuvant chemo immunotherapy as assessed by
      the investigator using imaging at screening and post treatment.

      III. To assess the molecular characterization of tumor tissue pre-neoadjuvant therapy and at
      post treatment cystectomy (for subject who have persistent disease).

      IV. To determine circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) (cell free DNA) at
      baseline, during treatment and following post treatment cystectomy using Natera sequencing
      platform.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1,
      methotrexate over 3 minutes on day 1, vinblastine IV over 3 minutes on day 2, doxorubicin IV
      over 5 minutes on day 2, and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 2. Cycles repeat every 14
      days up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      undergo cystectomy within 6 weeks.

      COHORT II: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1, cisplatin IV over 60
      minutes on day 1, and gemcitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21
      days up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      undergo cystectomy within 6 weeks.

      COHORT III: Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1, carboplatin IV over 60
      minutes on day 1, and gemcitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21
      days up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      undergo cystectomy within 6 weeks.

      After surgery, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days.
    
  