
    
      This study is a post-marketing, open, exploratory, multicenter trial with 2 parallel-groups
      of patients suffering from knee OA. Investigators will be private or public hospital
      rheumatologists, general practitioners, or articular disease specialists located in Belgium.

      After evaluation by the investigator during a control visit or via on site-patient registry,
      potential participants will be asked to perform an inclusion visit (V1). During this visit,
      the investigator will assess the eligibility of the patients. Eligible patients will sign an
      informed consent. The investigator will make a general evaluation (demography, medical
      history, OA history, OA medication history, concomitant medications including "rescue
      treatments") and a pain evaluation. Synovial fluid will be collected in case of knee
      swelling.

      Blood samples will be collected in a preselected clinical laboratory for future biomarkers
      analyses.

      Patients will be asked to perform an MRI exam within 20 days following the inclusion visit
      and representing the MRI at baseline. A standard X-ray will be performed at the same imaging
      site if the last X-ray available is not responding to high quality standard.

      For DROGLICAN arm, patients will be given investigational medicinal product (IMP) for a
      6-month period via the hospital pharmacy where image acquisition will be performed. IMP
      intake will begin right after baseline MRI acquisition. Study arm attribution will be
      determined according to the order of enrolment at each investigating site and using a
      randomization list.

      All study subjects (receiving DROGLICAN or untreated control) will be allowed to take
      paracetamol and oral NSAIDs excluding COX2 inhibitors to relief knee pain. Patients will be
      asked to use these "rescue medications" only when needed during the trial, beginning by
      Paracetamol (up to 3g/day) and NSAIDs as a second-line medication, and will be told to reduce
      their use if they do not feel the need for them. The use of rescue treatments during the
      month prior to each visit will be recorded by the investigator in a Case Report Form (CRF).
      All other treatments for osteoarthritis will be forbidden during the course of the study.

      Patients will return for consultation after 6 month (V2) and 12 months (V3). At each visit,
      the investigator will make a general evaluation, and will record concomitant medications
      including rescue medications, adverse events and drop-outs.

      For DROGLICAN arm, compliance to the IMP will be assessed by counting unused capsules within
      the investigation kit brought back by the patient. At V2, patients will be given IMP for the
      next 6 months. Patients will be asked to return to the investigator all unused capsules of
      IMP at the next visit.

      Blood samples and synovial fluid (if applicable) will be collected for future biomarkers
      analyses. MRI will be done at 6 months (V2) and optionally at 12 months (V3). Finally, an
      optional X-ray might be performed at V3 depending on the result of the interim analysis.

      Monthly phone calls will be made by the investigator to assess and encourage patient's
      compliance (for DROGLICAN arm), to record potential adverse event, new concomitant treatment
      and/or drop-off.

      Patients' clinical data will be recorded at each visit in a CRF.
    
  