
    
      Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is a relatively rare but important and
      increasingly recognized cause of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Most patients presenting with
      SCAD are treated with beta-blockers (BB) and antiplatelet drugs (AP). Although appealing from
      a pathophysiological standpoint, such management strategy is completely empiric. The
      Beta-Blockers and Antiplatelet Agents in Patients with Spontaneous Coronary Artery Dissection
      (BA-SCAD) randomized clinical trial is an academic, pragmatic, nation-wide, prospective study
      developed under the auspices of the Spanish Society of Cardiology (SEC) that aims to assess
      the efficacy of medical therapy in SCAD patients. Using a factorial 2x2 design, patients will
      be randomized (1:1/1:1) to: 1) BB (yes/no) and 2) short AP regimen (1 month) vs prolonged
      dual AP therapy (DAPT) (12 months). A conservative medical management will be initially
      recommended, with coronary revascularization reserved for patients with ongoing/refractory
      ischemia. Only patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) will be
      randomized to BB (yes/no) because patients with LVEF <40% will receive BB according to
      current guidelines. Likewise, only medically managed patients will be randomized to short AP
      therapy vs 1-year DAPT, because patients requiring coronary interventions will receive DAPT.
      The study will have a pragmatic, open label, blind outcomes design (PROBE). The type and dose
      of BB and AP agents will be at the discretion of the treating physician. Treatment adherence
      will be reinforced and closely monitored and the potential influence of drug
      discontinuation/cross-over on outcomes will be carefully evaluated. A total of 600 SCAD
      patients will be randomized within 2 years (300 per arm in a factorial 2x2 design). The
      primary efficacy endpoint will include the composite of death, acute myocardial infarction
      (MI), stroke, coronary revascularization, recurrent SCAD, and unplanned hospital admission
      for ACS or heart failure at 1 year. The primary safety endpoint will be bleeding according
      the Bleeding Academic Research Consortium (BARC) criteria ≥ 3. An analysis of net clinical
      benefit, including primary efficacy and safety endpoints, will also be performed. All
      patients will be clinically followed at 1 year (primary endpoint) and yearly thereafter.
      Although the main study will be pragmatic, following routine clinical practice, a systematic
      and comprehensive set of additional ancillary studies and investigations (clinical, imaging,
      biomarkers, inflammatory, immunologic, pharmacogenetic and genetic) will be prospectively
      organized to ensure a multidisciplinary and holistic view on this challenging condition.
    
  