
    
      This will be a retrospective analysis of patients with histologically confirmed
      triple-negative or HER2+ operable breast cancer (with high risk of recurrence) who are
      treated at Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group (HeCOG)- affiliated departments of oncology.
      Patients who participate are 18 years or older, women of any menopausal status with
      triple-negative or HER2+ breast cancer who receive epirubicin and cyclophosphamide every two
      weeks followed by docetaxel every three weeks or weekly paclitaxel. Patients with
      HER2-positive tumors are treated with trastuzumab, initiated concurrently with the first
      cycle of docetaxel, for 52 weeks. Pertuzumab may be combined with trastuzumab only in
      patients with node-positive disease.Patients can be treated with hormone therapy and/or
      radiotherapy. The investigation of the potential biomarkers will be performed using in situ
      methods in Formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor sections. More specific will be
      investigated the expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors, the expression of SPARC
      proteins, special cellular activation and metastasis systems and other important pathways in
      cell life and reproduction.

      Statistical analysis: The primary endpoint of the study will be the progression-free survival
      (PFS), defined as the time from treatment initiation to either the first documented disease
      progression or death from any cause. Second primary endpoint will be the overall survival
      (OS), defined as the time from treatment initiation to patient's death or last contact.
      Survival curves will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared across groups
      with the log-rank test. The associations between the clinicopathological factors to be
      examined and the mortality rate will be evaluated with hazard ratios estimated with Cox
      proportional hazards model. The statistical analyses will be completed using the SAS software
      (SAS for Windows, version 9.3, SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC).
    
  