
    
      The objectives of the household model program are:

        1. Timely case finding through education and screening for common, treatable conditions;

        2. Linkage to care for symptomatic clients along with those qualifying through routine
           screening;

        3. Ongoing support and accompaniment of patients in care, including adherence support,
           psychosocial support, and tracking of missed patient visits (NCDs, chronic care,
           Antenatal care, postnatal care); and

        4. Health education for common health conditions and prevention and management of these
           conditions to optimize prevention, health services uptake, and health management
           behaviors in the household.

      All CHWs in Neno will be reassigned and trained in the Household model in a staggered rollout
      over two years. The maximum number of trainees per group is capped at 60 participants, with
      some trainings occurring with two groups of CHWs per catchment area. CHWs will receive a 4 to
      5 day foundational training, followed by half-day refresher trainings each quarter. CHW
      training will be evaluated through the following tools: training attendance count; CHW
      knowledge assessment; CHW skill assessment; CHW refresher assessment; and overall through a
      training dashboard.

      The implementation of the new CHW model is designed so that it may be evaluated as a stepped
      wedge, cluster-randomized trial (SW-CRT). The stepped-wedge study design was selected for a
      number of reasons. First, the training of CHWs needs to be staggered due to training capacity
      constraints. Second, all sites in Neno will receive the intervention. And third, the stepped
      wedge RCT design permits estimation of the causal effects of the intervention.

      Eleven intervention sites were clustered into six groups based on population size such that
      each group had manageable number of CHWs to train. The order of implementation for these six
      sites was randomized by a third party. In the SW-CRT study design, each cluster crosses over
      from control to intervention group until all groups receive the intervention.

      The primary outcomes are:

        -  HIV: % of enrolled clients with a visit to IC3 in the last 3m

        -  NCDs

             -  Hypertension: % of enrolled clients with a visit to IC3 in the last 3m

             -  Asthma: % of enrolled clients with a visit to IC3 in the last 3m

             -  Diabetes: % of enrolled clients with a visit to IC3 in the last 3m

             -  Epilepsy: % of enrolled clients with a visit to IC3 in the last 3m

             -  Mental Health: % of enrolled clients with a visit to IC3 in the last 3m

        -  Malnutrition: % of children under five enrolled in care for moderate and severe
           pediatric malnutrition

             -  Hypothesis: don't expect this to change because most cases are cured

        -  Tuberculosis: % of total population diagnosed with new confirmed TB cases

        -  Women's Health:

           o Family Planning: % WCBA on long-term family planning methods

             -  Antenatal Care:

        -  % women starting ANC within first trimester

      The secondary outcomes are:

        -  HIV:

             -  % clients initiated on ART in last year with visit in last 3m

             -  % infants who attend 10w EID visit

             -  % of population tested for HIV

        -  Malnutrition:

           o % of children aged 6m-59 who were discharged as cured in SFP or OTP (cure rate)

        -  Tuberculosis:

             -  % TB cases completing treatment successfully (no loss to follow up or death)

        -  Women's Health:

             -  Family Planning:

        -  % women of child bearing age receiving modern family planning methods

        -  % women of child bearing age newly initiating family planning

           o Antenatal Care:

        -  % expected pregnant women in ANC care

        -  % number of women in cohort attending 4+ ANC visits

        -  CHW retention o % of CHW retained during the entire intervention period

      Descriptive Statistics:

        -  Measure of Facility Performance o % of facilities offering women's health services on a
           daily basis

             -  % months with no facilities stocking out of RUTF (ready-to-use-food for
                malnutrition)

             -  Average number of stock out days per month per facility for combination, adult TB
                medication. Stock outs are measured as when running balance on the facility's stock
                card is zero.

             -  Average number of stock out days per month for non-communicable disease care at the
                two satellite pharmacies for several key drugs

      Outcomes Data

      To measure the outcomes listed above, we will collect data from:

        1. Ministry of Health-monthly reports collected from each facility and entered into
           electronic database called DHIS2

        2. Partners In Health Medical Record capturing patient-level HIV and NCD data.

        3. Short, semi-structured qualitative interviews with purposively selected sample of CHW
           program recipients.

      The study is designed as a stepped wedge randomized controlled trial. However, unlike a
      typical trial of this type, data will be collected at the aggregate cluster level rather than
      from individuals within clusters. As such, we specify a model for the cluster-time cell
      means. In addition, the primary outcomes are proportions of people, therefore we will specify
      the model in logs and control for population size to transform to the whole real line and
      make a linear model appropriate.
    
  