
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether escalating maintenance therapy with the addition of ixazomib citrate
      (ixazomib) to lenalidomide improves overall survival among patients who are MRD positive
      after approximately 1 year of lenalidomide maintenance following an early stem cell
      transplant (=< 12 months from diagnosis).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish whether progression-free survival is superior with the addition of ixazomib
      to lenalidomide maintenance.

      II. To evaluate best response on treatment and compare response rates between arms.

      III. To evaluate the safety profile of ixazomib added to lenalidomide and compare toxicity
      rates between arms.

      EXPLORATORY CLINICAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure treatment exposure and adherence. II. To estimate treatment duration, duration
      of response and time to progression.

      PATIENT-REPORTED OUTCOMES OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the extent and timing of neuropathy associated with the addition of ixazomib
      to lenalidomide maintenance on patient reported health-related quality of life outcomes.

      II. To assess the impact and timing of disease control with the addition of ixazomib to
      lenalidomide maintenance on patient reported health-related quality of life outcomes.

      III. To evaluate attributes of select patient reported treatment-emergent symptomatic adverse
      events (Patient-Reported Outcomes - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      [PRO-CTCAE]) longitudinally and compare responses with provider-reported adverse events.

      IV. To measure the likelihood of medication adherence and examine the relationship with
      treatment exposure.

      V. To assess correlation among patient reported outcome measures and association with
      clinical outcomes.

      VI. To tabulate PRO compliance and completion rates.

      IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association between baseline fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission
      tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and patient outcomes.

      II. To compare overall survival with the addition of ixazomib to lenalidomide among baseline
      FDG-PET/CT-positive and FDG-PET/CT-negative subgroups.

      III. To compare the change in quantitative FDG-PET/CT parameters over time with the addition
      of ixazomib to lenalidomide.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and ixazomib
      citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21 and a placebo PO on days 1, 8, and
      15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if < 2 years
      from study entry, every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry, then every 12 months for up
      to 15 years from study entry.
    
  