
    
      Forty Heart Failure (>18 yrs. of age) will be recruited. The study will include a total of 2
      visits. All experiments will take place at the Mayo Clinic; at the outpatient radiology for
      MRI screening, the Charlton Clinical Research Unit (CRU) for surgical suite for spinal cord
      stimulation placement and the Saint Mary's Hospital Clinical Research Unit for clinical
      exercise laboratory for the exercise protocol and overnight stay.

      Study visit 1 will include eligibility screening, consenting process, completion of a health
      questionnaire and performance of a peak oxygen consumption (VO2) test. Additionally, subjects
      will undergo a screening lumbar MRI to ensure that there are no anatomical anomalies in or
      around the epidural area consistent with standard clinical practice for epidural stimulator
      lead placement associated with chronic pain syndromes.

      Study visit 2 will include an overnight stay in the Saint Mary's Hospital Clinical Research
      Unit. Patients will check in to the CRU in the morning of day 1, visit 2. Prior to placement
      of stimulating electrodes an international normalized ratio (INR) will be checked to ensure
      safe clotting. An anesthesiologist will place the electrodes in the lumbar/thoracic epidural
      space in a manner that is standard for the clinical placement of temporary electrodes in
      humans. The participants will then transfer to the clinical exercise laboratory to start the
      exercise protocol. Participants will rest 15 minutes prior to starting exercise. Exercise
      will take place on a vertical bike where they will perform a submaximal cycling exercise at
      30% of peak work for 29 minutes. Thigh cuffs will be placed on thigh bilaterally and inflated
      intermittently to pressures of 80m mmHg. After the testing is complete, participants will
      return to their room in the Clinical Research Unit for the rest of the day and sty over
      night.

      On day two of visit two, participants will repeat the testing from day one with new
      randomization to determine reliability of testing performed on day one. After the exercise on
      day two of visit two, the spinal cord stimulator leads and radial arterial catheter will be
      removed.
    
  