
    
      Atraumatic care philosophy developed by Donna Wong; it is a principle of therapeutic care
      aimed at minimizing or eliminating the physical and psychological problems experienced by the
      child and his/her family. Pediatric nurse; it is obliged to offer atraumatic care by ensuring
      the cooperation of the child and his/her family, reducing pain and controlling stressors.

      In accordance with the principles of atraumatic care; limitation of painful initiatives to
      prevent or reduce physical stress sources, regulation of environmental conditions, use of
      pharmacological and nonpharmamological pain removal methods in the presence of pain;
      promoting family-centered care in order to ensure the unity of children and family members;
      informing the child and his family about care to ensure the development of a sense of
      control, resting recommendations on care, establishing a daily care program.

      The American Pain Association considers pain the fifth life finding. Studies show that all
      babies, including preterm babies, suffer pain and can distinguish pain from other sensory
      experiences. Controlling pain in children is multidisciplinary team work. It makes the nurse
      different from other team members in the control of pain and ensures that she is in an
      indispensable position; the nurse spends a long time with children, learns about the child's
      previous pain experiences and methods of coping with pain and benefits from coping methods
      when necessary, teaching the child and his family strategies to cope with pain, guiding them,
      applying planned treatment, monitoring their effects, results and empathizing, in short,
      being able to practice the nursing process.

      Children who are often subjected to painful invasive interventions from the newborn period;
      however, they have a structure that requires the consideration of their level of development,
      cognitive and communicative skills, previous experiences of pain. According to the American
      Academy of Pediatrics , newborns and children are exposed to a total of 24 injections due to
      vaccination in the first 2 years of their life. In Turkey, the total number of injections for
      routine vaccination of children up to 2 years of age is 18. The negative effects of pain,
      which cannot be managed effectively, in physiological and psychological dimensions can occur
      even years later. The pain and stress experienced with deterioration in the clinical
      condition of newborns brings many complications.

      Pain in children is more difficult to assess than in adults. The perception of pain in
      children, age, gender, family reactions to pain, previous experiences, insomnia, fatigue,
      fear, sadness, anger, being in an unpleasant environment can affect.

      Conditions caused by pain include short-term changes such as respiratory irregularity,
      hypoxemia, fading or redness, blood pressure changes, increased heart rate and oxygen
      consumption, enlargement of pupils, as well as permanent, structural and functional
      (endocrine, behavior and immune system) changes. It negatively affects the behavior, family
      infant interaction, diet and clinical course of babies who warn of long-term and frequent
      pain, as well as prevents the baby's adaptation to the outside world. Repeated painful
      interventions can lead to neurotoxia and lead to deterioration in social cohesion, anxiety,
      change in pain sensitivity, stress disorders, hyperactivity/attention deprivation in the
      future. That's why the American Pain Society (APS) and the American Academy Of Pediatrics
      (AAP) recommend minimizing pain and anxiety due to procedures. The high number of vaccines
      for children and infants and the psychological traumas caused by the pain caused by the
      vaccines make it mandatory to intervene in the pain that occurs during vaccination and are
      one of the ethical issues

      Research shows that nurses do not make adequate pain assessments and do not use
      nonpharmamological methods effectively. Nonpharmaciological pain methods, which are effective
      in consequential or alone, can also be used in the elimination of pain, among the
      non-pharmacological methods such as hot cold application, diverting attention, listening to
      music, balloon blowing, reading books, watching movies, vibration, transcutaneous electrical
      nerve stimulation (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation) application.

      Divert attention; it is a non-drug method that is often used in the management of pain in
      children. It removes the perception of pain by focusing the individual's attention away from
      pain and in another focus. More work is needed to improve pain management in children and
      illuminate optimal pain management and strategies that take into account children-specific
      needs
    
  