
    
      This project investigates microcirculation in skin, muscle and bone after surgical treatment
      of distal Radius fracture with and without Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy for detecting any
      benefit of the HBOT. In Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy the patients breathes Oxygen from a mask in
      a pressure chamber with higher air pressure than normal atmospheric pressure wich is meant to
      increase the peripheric oxygen suppley in the healing tissue. The patients will receive 10
      sessions of HBOT. The patients who are treated with HBOT are chosen randomly.

      The microcirculation is measured as parameter for tissue damage and wound healing. It is
      registered by O2c, which works with measuring reflected lightwaves. It is strictly
      noninvasive and causes absolutely no pain for the patient. The measurement device consists of
      two small probes, which simply stick to the patient´s skin. There are 8 measurements in this
      study:

      The first one shortly after the surgical treatment, then there will be one measuring
      appointment every week up to four week. Afterwards the patients hands will be measured in the
      6th, 8th and 12th week after surgical treatment. In all measurements the healthy side will be
      measured as well for comparison. Additional the force fo both hands and the level of pain in
      the Visual Analogue Scale are evaluated.

      Furthermore there will be a sonography with contrast medium in the first week after surgical
      treatment to indicate any increase of blood suppley after the HBOT and detect any wound
      healing complications.

      Therefore this study will research on the one hand if there is a benefit to the HBOT for the
      often young and healthy patients of radius fractures to return earlier and more easily to
      their health condition. On the other hand this study is meant to establish the sonography
      with contrast medium as a examination method with little risks.
    
  