
    
      Claustrophobia and disruptive patient motion are common impediments to MRI examination, but
      they may be prevented or ameliorated with a non-pharmacologic behavioral intervention
      administered by trained staff. The potential benefits of such an intervention are highly
      significant, considering that the alternatives are to cancel the study or administer
      sedation. Inability to complete their MRI scans adversely affects an estimated 700,000
      patients every year in the US. These patients are either deprived of a diagnosis, subject to
      diagnostic delays and interpretation errors due to motion artifact, or are exposed to risks
      of pharmacologic sedation, including death. The imaging facilities typically cannot fill the
      suddenly vacated examination slots in time before the next scheduled patient and incur
      considerable lost revenue and efficiency. A negative patient experience further jeopardizes
      Value-Based reimbursement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) towards
      which patient satisfaction counts 30%. The long term goal is to provide a validated,
      clinically feasible means for non-pharmacologic amelioration of claustrophobia and disruptive
      patient motion, achieved by training facility staff in Comfort Talk®.

      Comfort Talk® training consists of a proprietary, standardized R3 Process of Rapport,
      Relaxation, and Reframing including 2 x 8-hrs class-room interaction, onsite coaching, and
      institution-specific web-based support to help the MRI team to further develop its own
      language style and skill set.

      The effect of Comfort Talk® training will be quantified in a prospective randomized design at
      12 MRI satellites of the Ohio State University Medical Center and Duke University Medical
      Center. Return of investment of training will be based on a decision-analysis model with
      focus on number of scans performed, cancellations from no-shows and refusals; patients unable
      to start or complete a scan; and sedation rates in relation to capacity, cost, and
      reimbursement schedule. Patient satisfaction scores will be compared using Press Ganey
      national benchmark percentile rankings and CMS quality standards.
    
  