
    
      A total of 60 patients will be enrolled in the study. In the pre-operative period, there will
      be no additional time requirements for the patient, except for the informed consent process
      for the study. Routine radiographs including an AP and Y view of the shoulder as well as a
      pre-operative MRI are obtained for all patients undergoing rotator cuff surgery.

      The patients will complete a structured clinical examination conducted by a sports medicine
      fellowship trained orthopaedic consultant. The examination will consist of range of motion
      testing by goniometer as well as strength testing by hand dynamometer. The patient will also
      complete the WORC questionnaire.

      Surgical Technique

      All patients will undergo a 15-point arthroscopic shoulder examination as per the method
      outlined by Snyder. An arthroscopic acromioplasty will be performed if needed according to
      the technique described by Snyder. The bursal side of the tear will be evaluated. If the cuff
      can be re-approximated to its anatomic position on the greater tuberosity without excessive
      tension, a standard rotator cuff reconstruction will be attempted. If this is not possible
      the surgeon will determine that the cuff is "irreparable" and the randomization envelope will
      be opened.

      Wong et al. described the surgical procedure for patients in the "Bridging" group. The bursa
      will be debrided thoroughly and rotator cuff edges will be shaved down to stable tissue.
      Following this, an acellular human dermal patch will be rehydrated in saline solution for 15
      minutes. The patch is stretched to remove the manufacturing surface irregularities. The patch
      is then sewn in place with braided polyester suture material. Multiple sutures, approximately
      5 to 10 mm apart from one another will be used. The medial sutures are placed into the
      remnants of supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons. The patch is then attached to the
      greater tuberosity in a double row configuration.

      The technique described by Burkhart et al will be followed for patients in the "SCR" group.
      The bursa will be debrided thoroughly and rotator cuff edges will be shaved down to stable
      tissue. Following this, an acellular human dermal patch will be rehydrated in saline solution
      for 15 minutes. The patch is stretched to remove the manufacturing surface irregularities.
      Measurement of defect size (coronal and sagittal) will take place, following that the glenoid
      and humeral footprint preparation will be performed utilizing an arthroscopic burr,
      arthroscopic bone anchors will be inserted on the glenoid footprint and graft is inserted
      with double pully technique. The graft is then tensioned to greater tuberosity using a double
      row configuration.

      Postoperative protocol

      The shoulder will be immobilized in a sling for one week postoperatively, and only passive
      forward flexion and external rotation will be allowed for eight weeks. The patient then
      progresses to active shoulder motion. Strengthening will begin at twelve weeks
      postoperatively.

      The patient will follow-up with the attending surgeon (IW) at 2 weeks post-operatively for a
      wound check. Then further follow-up appointments will be at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12
      and 24 months, as per current clinical practice.

      At the 3, 6, 12, and 24 month visits the patient will again undergo the structured clinical
      examination conducted by a sports medicine fellowship trained orthopaedic consultant who is
      blinded to the patients' treatment group. The patient will also complete the (WORC)
      questionnaire at these follow-up appointments. Radiograph will be taken also to obtain the
      postoperative measurements. MRI will be done to assess healing at 12 months.
    
  