
    
      Group B Streptococcus (GBS) causes severe infections in young infants across the world. In
      2015 it was estimated that there were at least 319,000 infants under three months of age with
      GBS disease worldwide, resulting in 90,000 deaths and at least 10,000 children with long term
      disabilities. Around 20% of all pregnant women carry GBS in their vagina and bowel, and
      babies are exposed to GBS bacteria around the time of birth. The options for prevention are
      currently limited to offering antibiotics during labour.

      A vaccine that could be given to pregnant women has the greatest potential to benefit mothers
      and babies worldwide. There are vaccines currently being tested in clinical trials, including
      in pregnant women. Given the complexity, size and costs associated with a phase III trial, it
      is generally agreed that indirect evidence (correlates) of protection (CoP), based on
      immunologic data from vaccine and seroepidemiological studies, opsonophagocytic assays and
      supported by animal models, could be pivotal for vaccine licensure, with effectiveness
      subsequently confirmed in post-licensure evaluations.

      This study aims to develop a biobank of sera from 150 cases of serotype III GBS disease and
      associated clinical information from seven countries (Malawi, Uganda, UK, the Netherlands,
      Italy and France) with 3:1 (450) serotype matched healthy controls.

      GBS cases will be identified through active surveillance of GBS disease in infants, as part
      of ongoing epidemiological studies in Uganda, the UK, Italy, France, the Netherlands and
      Malawi. Upon identification of cases, consent will be requested to obtain a serum sample (1-2
      mL of blood collected from infant), the GBS isolate and to collect brief clinical and
      demographic details. Each site will aim to collect around 50 cases of invasive GBS disease
      cases (with all samples) over the course of 2 years.

      Each site will also recruit approximately 1000 women to have a rectovaginal swab at 35-37
      weeks gestation and cord and maternal blood samples at delivery. These women and their
      infants will be followed up to 90 days of age and considered appropriate controls if the
      infants are exposed to the same serotype/strain of GBS at delivery as the case - but do not
      develop GBS the first 90 days of life. We will select 3 controls for every case.

      The biorepository will be established at the St George's University of London for all samples
      from the European Union and Malawi and the MRC/UVRI & LSHTM Uganda Research Unit for Ugandan
      samples.
    
  