
    
      Aim of the study The present randomised trial aims to evaluate the efficacy of osteopathic
      manipulative treatment in supporting the management of neurogenic bowel dysfunction in CNS
      diseases.

      Study design Randomised controlled trial. Participants recruited will be divided into two
      groups. The treatment group will receive five osteopathic manipulative treatment sessions in
      addition to the standard treatment.

      The control group will only receive standard treatment.

      Sample A neuro-urologist will determine eligibility for the study during an interview.
      Participants will be conducted during outpatient visits to the Neuro Urology department. This
      study does not include any diagnostic assessment or treatment, which are different from the
      normal patient's evaluation and management process.

      Informed consent will be obtained before any evaluation or treatment. Principal Investigator
      will explain in detail the study purpose and procedures, risks and potential benefits.
      Participants will be provided with contact information and have adequate time to consider
      their participation in the study and encouraged to ask questions, both during the initial
      interview and throughout the study.

      Staff involved in the study Operative Unit Staff (1 urologist specialist, 1 nursing
      coordinator, 2 nurses); Osteopaths of the School of Osteopathy of Milan (SOMA) who administer
      osteopathic manipulative treatment; Researcher performing randomisation and data analysis.

      Interventions

      Eligible participants will be randomised in two different treatment groups:

      Conventional therapy (control group)

      The conventional treatment consists of education provided by qualified nurses through an
      individual interview of 45-60 minutes structured as follows:

      assessment of the best personal evacuation strategy concerning the quality of life,
      resources, and level of autonomy; evaluation of the correct execution of the identified
      evacuation manoeuvre (digital stimulation, manual removal, reflex stimulation, transanal
      irrigation, use of micro-enemas or suppositories; identification of the best postural
      strategies during an evacuation; nutrition and proper hydration education; education in
      completing the evacuation diary; bowel massage training; verification of the correct hiring
      of any previously prescribed laxative drugs. Approximately two months later, patients will be
      contacted by telephone to assess the effectiveness of the strategies used to carry out any
      telephone nursing counselling.

      Osteopathic manipulative treatment (experimental group)

      In addition to the conventional treatment described above, the experimental group will
      receive osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT).

      The treatment will last 45 - 60 minutes with the following frequency: the subjects will
      receive three OMT every week, the two following twice weekly. The osteopathic treatment
      protocol will, therefore, last seven weeks. Each patient will be taken in charge by two
      operators during the entire duration of the study.

      OMT procedures will be provided by a team of osteopaths, who will practice through specific
      training to improve palpation reliability before enrollment. The diagnostic and treatment
      procedures will follow a specific protocol, developed from clinical experience and evidence
      to improve treatment specificity, safety and reproducibility.

      Osteopathic assessment General assessment: the presence of asymmetries, scars. The
      observation can provide a lot of information on the fascial structure; Assessment of the
      dural system: cranial and sacral grip, evaluating its intrinsic motility;

      Assessment of the fascial system:

      lower extremity intrarotation tests and upper limb flexion tests, assesses their quality and
      amount of movement and any restrictions; abdominal palpation, fascial entrainment in the
      abdominal-pelvic region; thoracic palpation, fascial entrainment in thoraco-abdominal area.

      Assessment of the biomechanical system:

      Diaphragms: pelvic, respiratory, upper thoracic, cranial; Structural palpation, spring test:
      iliac crests, hip mobility, ribs, glenohumeral / clavicles, supine vertebral test.

      Each level of assessment (fascial, dural or biomechanical) in which dysfunction is
      highlighted will be correlated with all other systems and with autonomous nervous system. In
      relation to the dysfunctions found in the various systems, using parameters such as
      alterations of tissue density, asymmetry, rigidity (or reduction of range of motion) and
      tenderness (TART), treatment procedures will be implemented in the specific subject areas at
      somatic dysfunction.

      Osteopathic treatment

      Dural system:

      L5-S1 decompression; sacred decompression among the iliacs; occipital-sphenoid approach;
      decongestion of occipital condyles

      Fascial system:

      fascial techniques in the abdominal region: right hypochondrium, epigastrium, left
      hypochondrium, right side, mesogastrium, left side, right iliac area, hypogastrium, left
      iliac area; relationship with corresponding vertebral levels (e.g. hypogastrium); fibro scar
      adhesions treatment.
    
  