
    
      Purpose

      ISACS-TC investigators may deposit to the ISACS ARCHIVES their registry data acquired prior
      to the first submitted date of ISACS-TC at ClinicalTrials.gov (October 7, 2010). Non- ISACS
      investigators with ACS data are welcome to deposit their data to the ISACS ARCHIVES as well.
      In this case the data may have been acquired prior or later than October 7, 2010. The data in
      the ISACS ARCHIVES will be catalogued and made available to the general research community.
      The ISACS ARCHIVES will use an established informatics infrastructure, hosted and managed by
      the ISACS TC (NCT01218776) and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
      University of California, Los Angeles, California, which will enable the sharing and use of
      data. The NIH. Gov. Registration number for the ISACS ARCHIVES will serve as the key for ACS
      related data submissions to the contact persons.

      Applicable Data The ISACS ARCHIVES will accept only de-identified data from human subjects'
      studies on ACS (for a definition of human subjects see:
      https://humansubjects.nih.gov/glossary). This will include data from clinical trials,
      epidemiological surveys, and other types of studies involving human subjects. Databases with
      significant genomic data (e.g., genome-wide association studies, medical sequencing,
      molecular diagnostic assays), are expected to be deposited as well. Likewise, physical
      bio-samples can be included in the ISACS ARCHIVES.

      Data Sharing Procedures Data submitted to the ISACS ARCHIVES must be de-identified by the
      investigator prior to submission. Submitted data will be subjected to algorithms that check
      for basic data accuracy. Any problematic data items will be summarized in a report and
      returned to the investigator for corrective action, if necessary, before data are accepted.
      Data will be made available for sharing with general research community 2 months after the
      deposit. This 2-month embargo period will provide study investigators with protected time to
      check for basic data accuracy. After the embargo, the data will be made available for sharing
      with the general research community. Investigators will be able to gain access to ISACS
      ARCHIVES data by submitting a data access request to ISACS TC (NCT01218776) contact persons.
      Data requests will be reviewed by an ISACS ARCHIVES Data Access Committee. The Department of
      Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles, California will
      collect data.

      ISACS Data Archive Sharing The following is a summary of tasks and expectations related to
      submitting data to the ISACS ARCHIVES. The purpose of this summary is to provide an overview
      of data submission and data sharing via the ISACS ARCHIVES. This list only provides a summary
      of tasks.

      Investigators are expected to:

        1. Collect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) from research subjects that will allow
           for the creation of the ISACS ARCHIVES Global Unique Identifier.

        2. Provide a de-identified subject ID, which is required for submission of data to the
           ISACS ARCHIVES.

        3. Complete and submit a Data-Sharing Agreement and Permission (DSAP) to ISACS TC
           (NCT01218776) contact persons.

        4. Review the ISACS TC data definition for the measures/experiments expected and define the
           project's data definition harmonized to that standard.

        5. Work with ISACS TC (NCT01218776) contact persons to define any undefined measures in
           accordance with ISACS TC practices.

        6. Specify the expected measures to be collected by the project in a summary table to be
           forwarded to the ISACS TC (NCT01218776) contact persons.

        7. Address any post submission quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) checks that
           have been identified by the ISACS TC (NCT01218776).

        8. Create an ISACS ARCHIVES Library, linking a result from a publication, pipeline, or
           discovery of the data sent to ISACS ARCHIVES to its records for publications of results.

      Policy Implementation ISACS ARCHIVES expects investigators and their institutions to provide
      basic plans for policy implementation

      At present PI Study Investigators:

        -  ISACS TC. International Survey of Acute Coronary Syndromes in Transitional Countries
           (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT01218776) from October 2010 to present. Contact
           person: Raffaele Bugiardini, MD University of Bologna email raffaele.bugiardini@unibo.it

        -  HORACS: hospital registry for acute coronary syndrome in Serbia from January 2002 to
           September 2010. Contact person: Zorana Vasiljevic, MD Medical Faculty, University of
           Belgrade, email zoranav@eunet.rs

        -  EMMACE-3 X. Long-term Follow-up of Health-Related Quality of Life in Patients With Acute
           Coronary Syndrome (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT01955525) during the period of 2011
           to 2013. Contact person: Chris P Gale University of Leeds email c.p.gale@leeds.ac.uk

      ISACS ARCHIVES Data Access Committee

        -  Raffaele Bugiardini, University of Bologna (Principal Investigator)

        -  Chris P Gale, University of Leeds

        -  Olivia Manfrini, University of Bologna

        -  Lina Badimon, Cardiovascular Research Institute (ICCC), CiberCV-Institute Carlos III,
           IIB-Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Autonomous University of Barcelona

        -  Mihaela van der Schaar, University of Cambridge

      ISACS ARCHIVES Data Sharing Coordinators

        -  Edina Cenko University of Bologna

        -  Jinsung Yoon, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of
           California, Los Angeles

      Sponsor University of Bologna

      Inquiries

      Please direct all inquiries to:

      Principal Investigator: Raffaele Bugiardini, MD University of Bologna
    
  