
    
      Introduction The indication of total breast removal is primarily the part of a correct
      oncological therapy, but secondly the removal of the full parenchyma can be prophylactic
      among high risk patients with positive genetic testing. Unlike in the US, in Europe it is not
      yet common to perform prophylactic breast surgery on the contralateral side among average
      risk patients with unilateral breast cancer.

      In modern breast surgery, mastectomy means the removal of the entire glandular tissue.
      Surgery can be done in the absence of contraindication (eg, skin infiltration, mastitis
      carcinomatosis), by preserving the nipple-areola complex (NAC) and the skin layer above the
      parenchyma (nipple-sparing mastectomy, NSM) by removal of the whole or a part of the NAC
      (skin-sparing mastectomy, SSM) or by removal of the nipple but with the preservation of the
      areola (areola-sparing mastectomy, ASM).

      It is important to emphasize that similarly to the classic simplex mastectomy in the cases of
      SSM, ASM and NSM techniques provided by an experienced and qualified breast surgeon, the
      complete oncological removal of the mammary gland is done.

      The essence of advanced mastectomy techniques is that they ensure the combination of radical
      oncological resection and immediate (immediate breast reconstruction, IBR) or
      delayed-immediate breast reconstructive surgery (delayed immediate breast reconstruction,
      D-IBR) (insertion of a tissue expander during the first operation, then as a second step
      replace it with a silicone implant). It avoids all the burden and negative effects of distant
      flap surgery, like donor scars, loss of movements etc.

      One or two-step post-mastectomy breast reconstructive surgeries are mainly implant-based
      techniques and less commonly autologous tissue techniques like distant pedicle flaps or free
      flaps. The tissue expander or silicone implant is placed primarily in a submuscular position
      but also can be inserted in a subcutaneous position in front of the large pectoral muscle.

      The coverage of the lower pole or even the entire surface of the implant may be strengthened
      with biological (so-called acellular dermal matrix) or synthetic materials (Ultrapro mesh) to
      reduce the pressure load of the implant on the preserved skin, the consequent skin
      perforation and so the loss of the implant.

      The international literature of immediate or delayed-immediate postmastectomy breast
      reconstructive techniques is extensive and the correlation between these procedures and the
      oncological treatments (such as adjuvant radiotherapy) are well known. According to the
      currently available evidence, reconstructive techniques do not adversely affect oncological
      outcome, so these breast surgical techniques are nowadays considered standard procedures in
      advanced breast cancer surgery.

      The immediate or delayed-immediate implant-based reconstruction of the affected breast
      following skin-sparing mastectomy techniques requires almost in all cases symmetrization of
      the contralateral breast. Symmetrization surgery involves mastopexy, volume reduction or
      silicone implant augmentation, or furthermore skin-sparing mastectomy with an implant-based
      reconstruction corresponding to the tumorous side. Symmetrization can be performed in one
      step with the tumorous breast surgery or more often at a deferred time.

      Postmastectomy breast reconstruction surgeries are well-known as an effective rehabilitation
      procedures, with significant psycho-oncological benefits to patients with low complication
      rates and high patient satisfaction. Postmastectomy breast reconstructive surgery however
      require more sophisticated surgical techniques, special expertise, longer surgical time and
      significantly higher costs than simplex mastectomies.

      The cosmetic results and patient satisfaction achieved with the immediate postmastectomy
      reconstructive techniques with the use of symmetrisation, are widely studied, and high,
      mainly in the early postoperative period.

      However, the long-term results of the more and more popular and widespread usage of
      skin-sparing mastectomies, immediate reconstructions and symmetrization surgery and the
      related patient satisfaction rates have so far not or only barely been in the focus of
      clinical trials, so the available scientific data is severely limited. The long-term
      disease-free survival with multidisciplinary treatments in early stage breast cancer could
      raise up to 85% of patients, so knowing the long-term changes of patient satisfaction,
      cosmetic result and symmetry of stressful and expensive immediate or delayed-immediate
      postmastectomy breast reconstruction surgeries is top priority.

      Aim of the study

      This is a response-adaptive (RAR) prospective randomized study with a long-term follow-up and
      the aim of this clinical study is to measure with qualitative and quantitative indicators the
      changes in cosmetic results, quality of life and patient satisfaction after breast
      reconstructive surgery with silicone implant (following SSM, ASM or NSM mastectomy) and
      symmetrization (mastopexy and/or silicone implant and/or Ultrapro mesh sling technique) over
      time.

      According to the hypothesis of the study, the results of implant-based breast reconstruction
      and symmetrization following advanced postmastectomy techniques significantly decrease over
      time and later results limited patient satisfaction rate.

      This is mainly due to the fact that over time, the natural breast differs from the
      reconstructed breast with silicone implant. Because of the different biological properties
      (gravity results ptosis on breast with mastopexy, significant volume increasement of the
      breast with mastopexy due to endocrine therapy, gradually progressive capsular contracture on
      the tumorous side, nipple flattening, nipple tattoo fading etc.) the two sides change
      differently resulting in significant asymmetry and consequently could lead to decreased
      patient satisfaction.

      The high degree of asymmetry over time (which can be similar to the difference between the
      result of a simple mastectomy and natural breast (control group)), may indicates additional
      surgeries or usage of medical devices, putting a financial burden on the patient and the
      health system. On the other hand, the symmetry can be achieve with bilateral skin-sparing
      mastectomies and implant-based immediate or delayed-immediate reconstructions is clearly
      better and change less with time. The mastectomy of the contralateral disease-free side is
      considered as an unreasonable burden for moderate risk patients.

      The information such as the need for multiple surgeries, change in symmetry over time etc.,
      should be an important part of the professional decision-making mechanism and the surgeon
      should inform the patient during the primer surgery. Nowadays due to the lack of
      evidence-based knowledge, it is not part of the patient's information and surgical planning
      internationally. Planning breast units, attention, capacity and financial resources must also
      be provided to meet the long-term needs of patients who underwent postmastectomy breast
      reconstruction. Simple mastectomy with an external prosthesis can be an alternative for
      patients with intolerable degree of asymmetry or on the contrary, the results may justify the
      need for bilateral mastectomy and reconstruction even in the absence of high oncological risk
      and for purely symmetrical and cosmetic reasons.

      Patients and method Participation in the study is voluntary. In this response-adaptive (RAR)
      prospective randomized study, the used standardized surgical techniques are considered to be
      routine procedures in the literature and iat department as well. The oncological and
      reconstructive surgeries do not represent new surgical procedures for patients either in
      their technique nor in the indication, this prospective trial guarantee quantitative and
      qualitative data collection only. Applied oncological therapies are unaffected by the study
      and still follows the decisions of the Institute's preoperative and postoperative
      multidisciplinary breast cancer committee. The study does not change the complex oncological
      treatment in any way compared to the institute's protocol.

      Response-adaptive classification in this study means that the choice of the optimal surgical
      technique for the patient is not affected by the clinical trial. The selection of the
      surgical technique is based on the decision-making models that is used for a long time, and
      made individually for the patient's oncological disease (eg. nipple removal), breast size and
      degree of ptosis (NSM vs. SSM), which is the same way as patients are treated out-of-study.
      The principles of selecting symmetrizational techniques are presented in the introduction. In
      addition, reinforcement with Ultrapro mesh is used during mastopexy when the degree of the
      breast ptosis is at least Grade 3 or size D according to Regnault's classification or the
      patient has significant pseudoptosis, so the fibrous system and the skin of the breast have a
      very loose structure.

      Therefore, in a scientific sense, this study does not involve treatments other than routine
      treatment protocols.

      Preoperative examinations:

        -  Physical examination

        -  Triplet examination of the breast

        -  Chest X-ray

        -  Axillary ultrasound with aspiration cytology if needed

        -  Required additional imaging based on the oncological staging (targeted x-ray, CT, MRI,
           PET)

        -  Routine hematological and blood test analysis

        -  Measurements of jugulum-nipple width, nipple midline width, and nipple inframammary-fold
           width

        -  Regnault Classification of breasts' ptosis

        -  Photo documentation (standard 5 directions and ap with raised arms) and the application
           of the BCCT.core program (regarding data protection regulations)

        -  Filling out the BREAST-Q questionnaire

      Recorded data:

      Age, body mass, height, BMI, pre-/postoperative cup sizes, presence of preoperative breast
      assymetry and its severity (BCCT.core software data), past history, medication, smoking
      habits, oncological data, cTNM, pTN, pathological data, molecular genetic subtype,
      neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy, type of axillary treatment, locoregional cancer recurrance,
      metastasis.

      Age, weight, body mass, BMI, skin type typisation (normal, atypical, seborrheals, dehidrated,
      hyperhydrated (oedamatic)), preoperative cup size, presence of preoperative breast assymetry
      and its severity (BCCT.core software data), past history, medication, smoking habits,
      oncological data, cTNM, pTN, pathological data, molecular genetic subtype, type of mastectomy
      (SM, SSM,ASM, NSM), type of primary reconstruction, neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy, type of
      axillary treatment, type of delayed reconstruction, type and time of symmetrisation according
      to primary surgery, type of the primer surgery, bra cup size after the reconstruction and
      symmetrisation then measuring it yearly, the size of used silicone implant(s).

      Postoperative complications were classified following Clavien-Dindo Classification.

      Grade I complication (light inflammations, non-surgical haematoma or suffusion, seroma
      formation, partial skin/NAC loss, limited fat necrosis, SSI and lymphoedema) does not require
      medication or surgical treatment. Grade II complication is a Grade I complication that
      requires medication or surgical interaction (antibiotic therapy, resuture due SSI and
      multiple puncture due chronic seroma). Grade III complication requires invasive surgical
      action (haematoma evacuation, chronic inflammation which requires reoperation, severe fat
      necrosis, full skin/ NAC necrosis and wound dehiscense). Grade IV complication means
      temporary organ failure. Grade V complication is one that leads to death.

      The following data are collected in this trial: preoperative jugulum-nipple width,
      nipple-midline width, nipple-IMF width, vertical and horizontal width of the areola, Regnault
      Classification of the breast ptosis then repeating the above measurements during the
      follow-up (every 6 months) with parallel photo documentation, using BCCT.core program and
      data recording of the BREAST-Q questionnaire and 5 point Likert-scale.

      Methods Enrolled patients who require unilateral SSM, ASM, NSM, or bilateral SSM, ASM, NSM
      with immediate- or delayed-immediate implant based reconstruction, or only unilateral SM due
      oncological reason, they filled out preoperative BREAST Q questionnaire and have undergone
      preoperative photo documentation, BCCT.core software analysis. In case of neoadjuvant
      therapy, the procedure is the same and the patient selection and data recording are performed
      preoperatively.

      The patients after oncological surgery receive adjuvant therapy based on the decision of the
      multidisciplinary breast cancer board of the Institute. As a second step of the
      reconstruction the expander-implant exchange and contralateral breast's symmetrization
      happens at least 6 months after the adjuvant radiotherapy, and at least 3 months after the
      adjuvant chemotherapy. This happens at the same time in case of bilateral skin sparing
      mastectomies.

      Data collection: measurements of the patients, the photo documentation, filling the BCCT.core
      software database and the postoperative quality of life BREAST Q questionnaire made
      postoperatively in the 4th-6th week. Nipple reconstruction performed until the postoperative
      12-16th weeks in case of SSM and ASM. During the follow-up the above mentioned measurments,
      photo documentation and quality of life questionnaire will be checked first in the 3rd
      postoperative month then after every 6 months. The follow-up lasts until the end of the 5th
      year. During this period, correction of the breast is not allowed. The BREAST-Q questionnaire
      will be checked in every 6 months and the body measurements and photo documentation happens
      yearly in the SM group until the end of the 5th postoperative year to evaluate the
      contralateral breast's ptosis.

      Surgical therapy The treatment of the patients examined in the study relied on the techniques
      of the Breast and Sarcoma Department of the National Cancer Institute including standardized
      SSM, ASM and NSM, and SM in the quality of life control group. (See the detailed description
      of these: Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M Kásler Principles and practice of oncoplastic
      breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019. 8. fejezet: Tradicional breast surgery, 8.1.1.
      Surgical technique of simple mastectomy and classical breast-consevring surgery; 11. fejezet
      Postmastectomy breast reconstruction, 11.4. Immediate breast reconstruction, 11.6.
      Skin-sparing and areola-sparing mastectomy, 11.7. Nipple-sparing mastectomy).

      According to the valid protocol of the National Cancer Institute, the surgery of the axilla
      can be either sentinel lymph node biopsy or axillary lymphadenectomy/ axillary block
      dissection, if needed with radiotherapy of the axillary and supraclavicular region depending
      on the regional stage of the breast cancer. (see as well in Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M
      Kásler Principles and practice of oncoplastic breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019. 8.
      fejezet: Tradicional breast surgery, 8.1.2. Axillary lymph nodee dissection; 9. Sentinel
      lymph node biopsy in breast cancer).

      See the detailed standardized techniques of immediate or delayed-immediate breast
      reconstruction below: Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M Kásler Principles and practice of
      oncoplastic breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019. 11. fejezet Postmastectomy breast
      reconstruction, 11.4. Immediate breast reconstruction, 11.8. Subpectoral/subserratus implant
      based breast reconstruction).

      For the involved patients the principles of the symmetrization surgeries at Department is
      standardized. To achieve the best result of symmetrisation, to built a natural shape breast
      choosing an optimal implant size according to the footprint width, quality, quantity and the
      tension of the skin at the ipsilateral tumorous breast side and volume increasement with
      silicone implant augmentation in submuscular position and/or volume reduction and/or
      mastopexy at the contralateral side.

      According to the institutional practice the standardized inferior pedicle Wise technique for
      mastopexy from an invert-T incision is chosen. If there is an expressed taint for ptosis, in
      the subcutaneous layer an extra Ultrapro mesh sling is used (size of 7x15 cm) to suspened the
      breast. (See detailed surgical technique: Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M Kásler Principles
      and practice of oncoplastic breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019. Chapter 12. Breast
      shape and volume symmetrisation surgeries, nipple and areola reconstruction, 12.2. The link
      between removal of the breast cancer and symmetrisation.) To compare the postoperative
      aesthetic result of SSM and ASM, the nipple reconstruction and the NAC tattooing is
      obligatory. The technique of the nipple reconstruction is standardized in enrolled patients.
      (See detailed surgical technique: Z Mátrai, G Gulyás, T Kovács, M Kásler Principles and
      practice of oncoplastic breast surgery. Medicina Kiadó Zrt, 2019. 12. fejezet Breast shape
      and volume symmetrisation surgeries, nipple and areola reconstruction, 12.4.3. Techniques for
      reconstructing the nipple.)

      Using and collecting cosmetic results The following data collected in standing position
      marking the midline and the IMF preoperatively then at the step of delayed reconstruction and
      at symmetrization: jugulum-nipple width, nipple-midline width and nipple-IMF width.

      The breast ptosis examination performed according to Regnault Classification at the beginning
      and after symmetrization.

      The primary aesthetic stage will be documented with standard photo documentation using valid
      BCCT.core software making it measurable which allows us to compare it. the photo
      documentation performed the standard way in 5 position (antero-posterior (ap), 45 degree
      oblique and 90 degree lateral), in ap direction both ways arms up and down with strict
      adherence to personal privacy policies. The patients are anonymous on the pictures without
      their faces, and the photo documentation performed without jewelry. The mentioned software
      counts measurements regarding to the photo documentation and gives a 4-point rating scale (1:
      excellent, 2: good, 3: acceptable, 4: non-acceptable). These numerical results can be
      statistically analyzed.

      The quality of life is measured by BREAST-Q validated questionnaire. According to this, a
      score is given in a 1-100 scale measuring the variables of "satisfaction with the breast",
      "discomfort by radiotherapy", "psychosexual wellbeing" and "physical
      wellbeing".Preoperatively a preoperative questionnaire and postoperatively a postoperative
      questionnaire is filled. Higher rates show better quality of life. The questionnaires are
      filled before the procedure and after the surgery in the 3rd months and every 6th months.

      Likert scale is used (1. definitely not, 2: no, 3: abstain, 4: agree, 4: definitely agree)
      for evaluating the subjective aesthetic outcome based on the photo documentation
      (preoperative, 4 weeks after delayed reconstruction with symmetrization, 3rd months, every 6
      months 5 years long). Based on the photo documentation three, non-involved breast surgeons
      make the evaluation separately without communication. The results are collected and averaged.

      Follow-up The follow-up is similar to the surgical and oncological follow-up in the National
      Cancer Institute, so it is not a burden for the patients The primary check-up and data
      registration performed preoperatively, the second check-up performed 4-6th weeks after the
      delayed reconstruction and symmetrization then 3rd postoperative months with photo
      documentation, body measurements, body mass calculation and BREAST-Q questionnaire.

      After this the photo documentation, body measurements, body mass calculation and BREAST-Q
      questionnaire examination performed every 6 months until the 5th year.

      In SM group the body measurements, photo documentation made in the 3rd months and
      measurements of the contralateral side and the BREAST-Q questionnaire performed every 12
      months.

      The bioethical background of the study It is a non-interventional clinical study is conducted
      by the competent regional research ethics committees in accordance with the Medical law 164 /
      A. § (2).

      This non-interventional clinical trial is performed with the permission of the Ethical
      Committee of the National Cancer Institute according to the 23/2002. (V.9.) Medical
      Regulation.

      The Researchers commit themselves to protect the patient's data, photo documentation in
      accordance with the WHO Good Clinical Practice ( based on the Helsinki Declaration) and the
      applicable provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) regarding the
      international ethical and scientific quality requirements pertaining to the design, conduct,
      documentation and reporting principles of tests conducted on humans.

      Data collection and registration It is performed with the registration sheet for computer
      processing and BREAST-Q questionnaire which is an internationally validated and authorized
      mirror translated questionnaire. Digital photo documentation (standard 5 direction with
      lowered arms and ap direction with raised arms) The BCCT.core made with at least 9 megapixel
      photo documentation, ap and lateral directions with lowered and raised arm to calculate
      numerically with a validated procedure the aesthetic outcome.
    
  