
    
      Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women worldwide. In the United
      States, an estimated 230,480 new cases of invasive breast cancer were diagnosed in 2011, with
      39,520 breast cancer deaths. In 40-80% of women with node-positive disease at diagnosis,
      their breast cancer will recur. When distant metastases occur, median survival is 18 to 36
      months from time of recurrence. Among the 60-70% of women with HR+ breast cancer, 40-60% of
      them will benefit from endocrine therapy. Endocrine therapy has shown to yield similar
      survival rates in hormone-sensitive disease as compared to chemotherapy; although response
      rates are lower and responses develop more slowly. Endocrine therapy is considerably less
      toxic than chemotherapy, and is therefore the preferred treatment option for patients with
      HR+ disease.

      Endocrine therapy represents the foundation of treatment for HR+ metastatic and locally
      advanced breast cancer. Multiple compounds in varying classes exist, and those most widely
      used include the selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), aromatase inhibitors (AIs),
      and the selective estrogen receptor down-regulators (SERDs). Although the utility of these
      drugs is well established, as many as 50% of women with HR+ breast cancer will fail to
      respond to endocrine treatment. Moreover, those who do respond will inevitably develop
      acquired resistance.

      Fulvestrant is the first drug which acts as a pure estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist without
      known agonist effects. It competitively binds to the ERs with an approximately 100 times
      greater affinity than that of tamoxifen. Fulvestrant promotes the degradation of ERs and
      subsequently prevents ER-mediated gene transcription.

      Everolimus (RAD001) is an oral derivative of rapamycin that is an m-TOR inhibitor. At
      cellular and molecular levels, everolimus acts as a signal transduction inhibitor. Everolimus
      selectively inhibits mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin); a key and highly conserved
      serine-threonine kinase which is present in all cells and is a central regulator of protein
      synthesis and ultimately cell growth, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and cell survival.
      mTOR is the only currently known target of everolimus.

      In oncology, everolimus has been in clinical development since 2002 for patients with various
      hematologic and non-hematologic malignancies as a single agent or in combination with
      antitumor agents, including cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents, targeted therapies, antibodies
      and hormonal agents.

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) to receive everolimus or placebo with fulvestrant after
      consideration of stratification factors of performance status (0 vs. 1), measurable disease
      (yes vs. no), and prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease (yes vs. no).

      Patients will be evaluated for disease response every 12 weeks, and treated until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent for a maximum of 12 cycles (48
      weeks).

      Patients with no evidence of progressive disease who remain on study after completing 12
      cycles are unblinded and continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if originally randomized to
      placebo) or in combination with everolimus (if originally randomized to everolimus) at the
      same dose and schedule. Patients will continue to be evaluated for disease response every 12
      weeks and continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  