
    
      This randomized controlled imaging study will be performed to evaluate the impact of
      mindfulness-based stress reduction via a mind body program on arterial inflammation in
      individuals with self-identified high levels of stress. Individuals will undergo baseline
      Fluorodeoxyglucose-Positron emission tomography / magnetic resonance imaging and will then be
      randomized to the stress-reduction intervention group or no intervention groups by blocks of
      2:1, with stratification by age and sex. The stress reduction sessions focus on developing an
      understanding of stress physiology and the physiology of the relaxation response, on
      developing a regular practice of eliciting the relaxation response, and on learning cognitive
      behavioral and positive psychology/resilience skills.

      During the screening period, patient acceptability for the study will be assessed based on
      medical history, concomitant medications, physical examination, and clinical laboratory test
      results. Acceptability for study participation will be confirmed for subjects who identify as
      having increased levels of stress and/or a Perceived Stress Scale score >5. Once the patient
      has passed screening, they will undergo baseline imaging followed by randomization and group
      assignment. Approximately 12 weeks after randomization, all individuals will return for
      follow-up imaging and evaluation.

      Thus, 2 Fluorodeoxyglucose-Positron emission tomography / magnetic resonance imaging scans
      will be performed throughout the study for baseline and follow up to assess the
      intervention's impact on the brain and arterial inflammation, along with changes in related
      positron emission tomography / magnetic resonance imaging imaging parameters. Perceived
      Stress Scale will be delivered prior to Fluorodeoxyglucose-Positron emission tomography /
      magnetic resonance imaging, during both imaging visits to measure perceived psychological
      stress. During both imaging sessions, subjects will be exposed to overt faces to measure
      signals during brain imaging.
    
  