
    
      Severe oligohydramnios (AFI<5) is an uncommon complication of pregnancy and it is often
      associated with Preterm Premature Rupture of the Membranes (pPROM) or with the lethal
      congenital abnormality. However, in very few cases it is idiopathic (with no obvious
      etiopathology) and in the prevention of fetal complication (e.g. pulmonary hypoplasia) the
      amnioinfusion is a treatment option for the persisting oligohydramnios.

      Severe oligohydramnios for >14 days had a predicted mortality rate >90%. Although severe
      oligohydramnios and pPROM may lead to pulmonary hypoplasia, all of these three factors are
      independent predictors of pulmonary hypertension. It is obvious that there are some
      alterations in the fetal pulmonary circulation in cases of severe oligohydramnios.

      The preliminary study shows that single/serial amnioinfusion has some beneficial effects on
      the outcome of the pregnancies complicated with severe idiopathic oligohydramnios: to prolong
      the gestation, to reduce the number of premature labor and to prevent the adverse neonatal
      outcome.

      The investigators propose an open trial comparing baseline Doppler waveforms in the
      uteroplacental and fetal pulmonary circulation in patients presenting with severe, idiopathic
      olighydramnios (AFI<5, no apparent ethiopathology), managed either with single or with serial
      amnioinfusions and in matched controls (matched in gestational age, parity and gravidity,
      AFI>8). The patients will be followed up weekly in the fetomaternal unit, Dept. of ObGyn for
      measuring AFI repeatedly to assess the need for further infusions. These will be carried out
      when the AFI falls below 5cm again.

      Inclusion criteria: Single pregnancy, severe (AFI<4 cm), idiopathic oligohydramnios between
      the 18 and 34 weeks of gestation. The study is open and will be run by a single
      ultrasonographer to avoid interobserver bias, and with a set of minimal number of outcome
      measures recorded. Primary outcome: Doppler waveforms of the uteroplacental and fetal
      pulmonary circulation.

      Alterations in Doppler indices of the Ductus venosus, arteria umbilicalis, arteria uterina,
      left and right arterial pulmonary branches: (1) systolic/diastolic ratio (S/D), (2) peak
      systolic velocity; (3) time-averaged velocity; (4) maximum forward velocity during atrial
      contraction; (5) pulsatility index (PI); (6) Pourcelot's resistance index (RI).

      The pulsed Doppler measurements of the arterial pulmonary branches will be carried out from a
      transverse cross-section of the fetal chest at the level of the cardiac 4-chamber view after
      visualization with color Doppler. Depending on fetal position, the right or left lung will be
      examined. Doppler waveforms (sample volume: 0.1-0.3 cm) will be first obtained from the most
      proximal branch of the pulmonary artery, then in the middle lung region at equal distance
      from the outer border of the heart and the inner thoracic wall and subsequently in the distal
      lung region as close as possible to the fetal inner thoracic wall.

      Secondary outcomes: Alterations of the Doppler waveforms during the progress of the
      pregnancy.
    
  