
    
      I. BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE (including progress report and preliminary studies).

        1. Historical background

           Repetitive transcranial magnetic simulation (rTMS) has been used extensively to treat
           patients with major depression [1]. However, its efficacy varies. Biomarkers which can
           quantify, objectively assess, or even predict the efficacy of the rTMS treatment for
           each patient are necessary in order to establish more effective and individualized
           treatment, as well as to save cost and time. TMS is a noninvasive technique that
           stimulates the brain by using an externally applied magnetic field to induce electric
           currents at surface of the cortex without causing pain. rTMS has been used to treat
           depression for close to 20 years, and the FDA recently approved the use of rTMS in 2007
           for treatment.

        2. Previous pre-clinical or clinical studies leading up to, and supporting the proposed
           research

           Despite its potential, rTMS has limitations such as a variable rate of effectiveness [1,
           2]. It requires daily on-site treatment for duration of 4-6 weeks, and it is commonly
           paid for with private patient funds. Therefore, there is a need to assess the efficacy
           of rTMS more objectively and accurately. Importantly, patients would benefit from an
           ability to predict the likely outcome of the treatment (4-6 weeks) within the first few
           sessions. Thus, the investigators propose to study two corresponding biomarkers by
           employing two imaging modalities, functional MRI (fMRI) and functional near infrared
           spectroscopy (fNIRS). Success of this project will result in the identification of
           quantitative biomarkers that are responsive to rTMS treatment of depression and predict
           its outcomes. This will greatly improve and individualize the treatment for depression
           in the future.

        3. Rationale behind the proposed research, and potential benefits to patients and/or
           society

      Unlike functional activation studies, which are mainly focused on brain regions in isolation,
      functional connectivity studies quantify the dynamic interactions between functionally
      related brain regions. This is likely to be more relevant in complex psychiatric disorders
      such as major depression. Resting state (RS) network activity reflects intrinsic brain
      function in the absence of a task. It has shown a remarkable overlap with patterns of
      task-induced activity [3]. The main benefit to using RS fMRI to investigate the effect of
      psychiatric disorders on the brain is that it assesses brain state, rather than response to a
      complicated experimental task. This is especially critical in studying the patients with
      depression, since the trademark of the disease is lack of willingness to participate in any
      activity. There is mounting evidence of atypical RS functional network activity in depression
      [2, 4- 6]. Among these networks, the cognitive control network (CCN) is particularly
      important due to its role in mood regulation and attention. Because of this, the dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), an important part of the CCN, is the target of standard rTMS
      treatment. Thus it is critical to understand the changes in the CCN before and after rTMS
      treatment; this could be used as clinical marker of the efficacy of the treatment.

      RS fMRI is advantageous for the assessment of the efficacy of rTMS treatment: it is
      brain-based, objective and potentially more specific. fNIRS is a noninvasive optical imaging
      tool, which measures oxy-, deoxy-, and total hemoglobin concentration changes (Δ[HbO], Δ[Hb]
      and Δ[tHb], respectively) at the cortex through the intact skull [7]. fNIRS is the ideal
      accompaniment for rTMS research, because:

        1. The instrumentation is immune to magnetic field changes

        2. It is most sensitive to the brain regions most affected by rTMS

        3. It has a wide temporal dynamic range (from ms to hours), which allows the measurement of
           single TMS pulses as well as an entire rTMS session

        4. The probe hardware is compact and adaptable so that measurements can be made without
           affecting rTMS equipment placement Recently, various labs have demonstrated the ability
           of fNIRS to monitor the effect of rTMS in healthy subjects [8, 9]. In this study,
           patients that will receive rTMS as part of their clinical treatment for depression will
           be monitored for up to 30 sessions. Investigators will focus on the correlations between
           the changes in hemodynamic response from session to session with the final outcomes,
           especially the correlation between the hemodynamic changes in the first few sessions and
           the treatment outcome. This will help us to understand if the early trend of hemodynamic
           responses of rTMS can predict the long-tern effectiveness.

      II. SPECIFIC AIMS (Research Objectives)

      a. Specify objectives and hypotheses to be tested in the research project

      In this proposal, the investigators will employ two imaging modalities to assess
      quantitatively the rTMS treatment and establish the early biomarker to predict the outcome by
      exploring:

        1. The RS functional connectivity within 10 days before and within 10 days after a course
           of treatment (up to 30 treatments; however, a typical course of treatment is likely one
           treatment 5 times a week for 4-6 weeks: total 20 sessions) using blood oxygen
           level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI).

        2. The real time hemodynamic response of the brain to rTMS during each treatment session
           using fNIRS. A number of studies report a decrease in functional connectivity in the CCN
           in subjects with major depression [4-6]. Furthermore, studies indicate the DLPFC, a
           major part of CCN, exhibits relatively low activation in depression.

      To this end, our specific hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Primary Hypothesis: In patients with a positive response to rTMS, the investigators will
           observe an increase in the strength of connectivity as measured by fMRI among brain
           regions in the CCN after 4 weeks treatment.

        2. Secondary Hypothesis: Brain activation measured by fNIRS in the DLPFC during rTMS will
           increase as the number of treatments increase. Detection of this increase in brain
           activity at the beginning of the treatment may be a marker for positive treatment
           outcome.
    
  