
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, monocentric, open-label, controlled phase III clinical
      study conducted in Fortaleza, Brazil, from April 2017 to October 2018. The local
      Institutional Review Board approved the study protocol and informed consent, which was
      obtained from all participants. The research was conducted in accordance with the 1975
      Declaration of Helsinki and its amendments.

      The study population consisted of 115, both male and female, participants, who were recruited
      from a local burn treatment center. Inclusion criteria were: age ≥ 18 and ≤60 years; the
      presence of dermatological wounds caused by superficial partial-thickness burns (SPTB)
      affecting up to 15% of Total Body Surface Area (TBSA) and with indication for outpatient
      treatment; the absence of previous treatment for the current burn and an absence of other
      significant diseases that could impact the volunteer's participation in the study (coronary
      artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, cancer, diabetes mellitus, among others).
      Exclusion criteria included hypersensitivity to materials used in the study or to related
      compounds; history of severe adverse reactions; drug addiction, including alcohol; use of
      medications that could have an impact on wound healing (e.g., steroids) and pregnancy, labor
      or miscarriage in the 12 weeks before the scheduled start of treatment.

      In the test group, the treatment was Nile Tilapia Fish Skin, which have a patent registered
      at the National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI) under number BR 10 2015 021435 9.
      Nile Tilapia Fish Skin was subjected to a rigorous process of chemical sterilization,
      glycerolization and irradiation, followed by microbiological tests for bacteria and fungi,
      before storage in sterile refrigerated packaging. Prior to its use in the patient, the skin
      was washed in sterile 0.9% saline for 5 minutes, with this process being repeated three times
      in a row. In the control group, conventional treatment with silver sulfadiazine cream 1% was
      applied. Randomization was performed using a predefined computer-generated list, with 57
      patients being allocated in the test group and 58 patients being allocated in the control
      group.
    
  