
    
      Methodology:

      PROSPECT II: Multicenter, prospective, natural history study of troponin positive patients
      with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) examined with angiography and intended for PCI for the
      initial culprit lesion(s). Prior to PCI all target lesions (those lesions for which PCI is
      planned) will be examined (if possible) by IVUS/NIRS. After successful PCI of all
      flow-limiting lesions determined angiographically and/or by FFR/iFR intended to be treated
      (termed "culprit lesions," whether responsible for the original ACS or otherwise
      flow-limiting and requiring PCI for complete revascularization), intravascular ultrasound
      (IVUS), and intracoronary near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) will be performed over a 6-10 cm
      length in all three coronary arteries with a combined IVUS/NIRS catheter. Clinical and
      register follow-up will identify all new coronary events, the origin of which will be
      determined by follow-up angiography when clinically indicated. These lesions will be
      identified and compared to the baseline examination at a central angiographic and IVUS/NIRS
      core laboratory, and adjudicated to have arisen from either originally treated culprit
      lesions or untreated "non-culprit lesions." This will allow determination of the baseline
      patient-related and lesion-related variables in culprit and non-culprit lesions that increase
      the risk for future unanticipated cardiovascular events.

      PROSPECT ABSORB (Randomized Trial): Patients with angiographically non-obstructive lesions
      that are not intended to undergo PCI based on the current standard of care, and that are
      site-assessed by IVUS to have plaque burden of ≥65% (which has previously been shown in the
      first PROSPECT study to identify lesions at high risk of causing future coronary events
      despite their non-obstructive angiographic appearance) will be randomized (1:1) to treatment
      with ABSORB BVS + guideline directed medical therapy (GDMT) versus GDMT alone. All such
      randomized patients will undergo repeat angiography and IVUS/NIRS after 25 months of
      follow-up.

      Patient enrollment and procedure overview:

      PROSPECT II: Patients with a troponin positive ACS within the prior 4 weeks (STEMI >12 hours
      or NSTEMI) in whom coronary angiography is planned will be screened and asked to participate
      in the study. After informed consent has been obtained and prior to PCI, all target lesions
      (those lesions for which PCI is planned) will be examined (if possible) by IVUS/NIRS. If the
      patient is successfully treated with PCI of all intended culprit lesions without major
      procedural complication(s), all three coronary arteries will be examined with IVUS/NIRS. The
      IVUS results will be visible (unblinded) to the operator, but the NIRS data will be blinded.
      The patient will be considered formally enrolled in PROSPECT II only after PCI of all
      intended target culprit lesions has been successfully completed with no major
      complication(s), and after the study imaging catheter is passed out of the guide catheter
      into a coronary artery (n = approximately 900 patients). If a staged procedure is required to
      achieve revascularization of all intended lesions, the patient will not be enrolled until
      after the staged procedure has been performed without major procedural complication(s). Once
      enrolled, IVUS and NIRS will be performed over a 6-10 cm length in all three coronary
      arteries with a combined IVUS/NIRS catheter to assess both the treated culprit lesion(s) and
      long segments of the untreated coronary tree. Patient enrollment and 3-vessel IVUS and NIRS
      imaging may be performed either in the same procedure during which the culprit PCI lesion(s)
      are treated, or during a subsequent angiographic procedure as long as this occurs within 4
      weeks of the initial ACS presentation, and after successful and uncomplicated treatment of
      all target lesions. If the imaging catheter passed into a coronary artery for imaging a
      non-culprit segment of the coronary tree and no non-culprit segment imaging data is obtained
      (e.g. the catheter fails and a second catheter is not used), the patient will be disenrolled
      (discontinued) from the study, and only be followed up for safety purposes for 30 days.

      PROSPECT ABSORB: Patients in whom one or more lesions are identified with (a) an
      angiographically visually estimated diameter stenosis of <70%; (b) a visually estimated
      reference vessel diameter (RVD) of 2.5 - 4.0 mm; (c) a visually estimated lesion length ≤50
      mm; d) a site determined IVUS PB ≥65%; and (e) is located at least 10 mm from a previous
      stent and at least 10 mm of intervening segment between the previous stent and the
      non-culprit lesion does not have PB >50% will be enrolled in the PROSPECT ABSORB trial and
      randomized 1:1 to treatment with ABSORB BVS + GDMT versus GDMT alone (n = approximately 300
      patients, 150 patients in each group). For patients with multiple qualifying lesions, a
      single lesion will be selected for randomization prior to assignment to BVS + GDMT versus
      GDMT alone.

      Study follow-up:

      PROSPECT II (Natural History Study)

      Clinical follow-up:

      Patients will be followed in the Scandinavian quality registers (eg, SWEDEHEART). Patients
      will undergo follow-up through register data collection and by calls by study coordinators at
      1 month (30 days), 6 months (180 days), 12 months, and 24 months, assessing MACE and safety
      parameters. MACE will be followed in all patients throughout the whole study period until
      last patient has been followed for 24 months. Patients will then undergo follow-up through
      register data collection at yearly intervals starting at 3 years and through 15 years.
      Additional phone follow-up to patients may also be performed.

      PROSPECT ABSORB (Randomized Trial)

      Clinical follow-up:

      Patients will be followed in the Scandinavian quality registers (eg, SWEDEHEART). Patients
      will undergo follow-up through register data collection and by calls by study coordinators at
      1 month (30 days), 6 months (180 days), 12 months, and 24 months. MACE will be followed in
      all patients throughout the whole study period until last patient has been followed for 24
      months. Patients will then undergo follow-up through register data collection at yearly
      intervals starting at 3 years and through 15 years, with additional phone follow-up subject
      to Executive Committee approval.

      Angiographic follow-up:

      All patients randomized in PROSPECT-ABSORB will undergo routine angiographic and 3-vessel
      IVUS/NIRS follow-up at 25 months; ie, 1 month after the 24 month telephone follow-up. The 25
      month angiogram may be performed within a window of between 24.5 months and 28 months after
      enrollment.

      Note: 25-month angiographic follow-up will not be required in PROSPECT-ABSORB randomized
      patients who either a) have had scaffold thrombosis or in-scaffold restenosis (DS>50% as
      determined by the angiographic core laboratory) at any time point prior to 25 months, OR b)
      have had a repeat angiogram ≥12 months after enrollment and in whom IVUS/NIRS of the
      randomized target lesion was performed.
    
  