
    
      Sickle cell disease has been referred to both as a condition associated with increased risk
      of blood clots and increased inflammation. Despite the abundant laboratory evidence of
      abnormal blood clotting and inflammation, the contribution of these changes to the problems
      experienced by patients with sickle cell disease remains uncertain. In additional to abnormal
      blood clotting, platelets (small blood cells that help blood clotting) are more activated in
      sickle cell disease patients compared to healthy patients without this disease.

      In addition, when sickle cell disease patients experience a painful crisis, there is evidence
      that the platelet activation and abnormal blood clotting increase even further. Activated
      platelets release a substance called cluster of designation 40 ligand, which can increase how
      sticky the lining of blood vessels are and can increase the abnormal blood clotting. The
      level of cluster of designation 40 ligand is much higher in sickle cell disease patients
      compared to healthy individuals without this disease. In addition, the levels increase even
      further when sickle cell patients are experiencing a painful crisis.

      Painful crisis represent the most common clinical problem in sickle cell disease, and are
      largely responsible for making the lives of these patients so unpredictable. However, the
      treatment of these painful crisis remains inadequate, consisting mainly of strong pain
      medications. In this study, we will evaluate the safety of eptifibatide in sickle cell
      patients and how well it works during the course of painful crises. At the completion of this
      trial, we will have an improved understanding of the contribution of platelet activation and
      inflammation to the problems in sickle cell disease.

      The overall hypothesis that we seek to test is that increased platelet activation and the
      resultant inflammatory responses are important contributors to the problems of sickle cell
      disease. We believe that by decreasing platelet stickiness, and the release of mediators of
      inflammation and abnormal blood clotting, eptifibatide will affect the clinical course of
      complications in this disease.

      If the results from our study support the hypothesis that eptifibatide is safe and effective
      in this population, we plan on carrying out larger studies to more definitively evaluate the
      safety of eptifibatide and how well it works in the treatment and/or prevention of painful
      crises in sickle cell disease.
    
  