
    
      It is hypothesised that undertaking PFMT with a pessary in place may increase the level of
      existing muscle support in the pelvic area: by reducing the descent of the pelvic organs and
      the consequent stretching of soft tissue the pessary may allow the pelvic floor muscles to be
      exercised and strengthened more effectively. Potentially this could lead to additional
      improvements in the pessary retention rate and associated prolapse symptoms beyond that
      expected from the pessary alone. Urine, bowel and sexual function, which can be affected by
      prolapse, may also improve independently in response to a PFMT intervention. If a more
      permanent reduction in prolapse symptoms results from concurrent use of PFMT, this may delay
      or prevent the need for long term pessary use or surgical intervention. In summary, a PFMT
      intervention in combination with pessary management for vaginal prolapse may be more
      effective in reducing symptoms and increasing quality of life than management of the prolapse
      with a pessary alone. This study will start to provide the evidence to address this question.

      This is a feasibility study to develop the methods for a multi-centre RCT. It will run
      alongside The POPPY Trial (a 17 centre trial of PFMT already underway in the UK;
      ClinicalTrials Number NCT00476892). Three of The POPPY Trial centres will be involved in this
      feasibility study. Over a 12 month period, we plan to enrol 50 women with diagnosed prolapse
      of stage I to IV, who are not eligible for The POPPY Trial because they require a pessary.
      These women will be randomised into one of two groups: PFMT (delivered by a physiotherapist
      at 5 appointments over 16 weeks) in conjunction with pessary management of their prolapse or
      pessary management alone. All women will have a nurse appointment six months after
      randomisation at which time their pessary will be removed. A replacement pessary will not be
      immediately re-fitted. At seven months after randomisation all women will have a review
      appointment with their gynaecologist to have their prolapse assessed, the pessary re-fitted
      if necessary, and other treatment needs discussed. Women will complete postal questionnaires,
      at baseline (prior to randomisation), at six months post-randomisation (prior to seeing the
      nurse to have the pessary removed), and seven months post-randomisation (prior to the 7 month
      gynaecologist review appointment), and record symptoms in a diary for one month after removal
      of the pessary. Key outcomes are: prolapse symptoms, prolapse-related quality of life,
      prolapse severity, and additional prolapse treatment received up to seven months after study
      entry.
    
  