
    
      Kidney transplantation has improved survival and quality of life for patients with end-stage
      renal disease. Despite excellent short-term results, long-term survival of transplanted
      kidneys has not improved accordingly in the last decades. Calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) have
      been the cornerstone of immunosuppressive therapy for many years, due to their efficacy in
      preventing acute rejection. However, CNI have nephrotoxic side effects that can directly
      contribute to renal dysfunction and compromise long-term outcomes. Consequently there is a
      strong interest in immunosuppressive (IS) regimens that maintain efficacy for the prevention
      of acute rejection, whilst reducing nephrotoxicity.

      In this perspective the combination of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) with a mTor inhibitor
      (Everolimus (Certican®)) might be an optimal strategy to facilitate CNI (tacrolimus)
      withdrawal. MSCs have IS properties and roles in tissue repair and everolimus is a
      proliferation signal inhibitor with potent immunosuppressant effects. In experimental studies
      the combination of mTor inhibitor and MSCs was shown to attenuate alloimmune responses and to
      promote allograft tolerance.

      In total 70 de novo renal recipients, 18-75 years of ages will be recruited from the
      transplant clinics of the LUMC. Thirty five of these patients will be included in the
      Certican/ and MSC group and 35 patients in the Certican/ standard dose tacrolimus group.
      Patients of the MSC treated groups will receive two doses of autologous BM derived MSCs IV, 7
      days apart, 6 and 7 weeks after transplantation in combination with Certican® (1.5 mg
      b.i.d.). At the time of the second MSC infusion tacrolimus will be withdrawn in 2 weeks
      (after 1 week dose of tacrolimus will be halved, after 2 weeks stopped). Patients in the
      control group will receive Certican® (1.5 mg b.i.d.) and standard dose tacrolimus (through
      levels 6-8 ng/ml after 6 weeks).

      Primary goal is evaluate whether concentration-controlled Certican® with MSCs compared to
      Certican® with standard tacrolimus in renal transplant recipients reduces fibrosis by
      quantitative Sirius Red scoring.
    
  