
    
      Barrett ' s esophagus, defined as a pathological finding of metaplastic change of esophageal
      mucosa from squamous to columnar epithelium, is a tongue-like extension of salmon-colored
      mucosa from the gastroesophageal junction by endoscopy (1 2,3) . Endoscopic abnormalities
      suggestive of BE which has not been confirmed by histology, are defined as endoscopically
      suspected esophageal metaplasia (ESEM) (2). Barrett's esophagus is considered a precancerous
      lesion of esophageal adenocarcinoma (4 5) and it's mandatory for accurate diagnosis of BE.
      The pathogenesis of BE has also been closely associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease
      (6). In Western countries the reported prevalence of BE has varied from 0.9 to 4.5 % (3,7,8)
      in the general population and 6.3 to 13.6 % (9 - 12) in patients with GERD. For reliably
      rating differences of severity of endoscopically identified lesions among studies or quantify
      progression or regression of BE, International Working Group for the Classification of
      Oesophagitis (IWGCOA) proposed new classification of BE, the Prague C and M criteria (13) for
      defining the extent of BE based on the circumference (C) and maximum (M) of the lesion. This
      standard grading system could allow comparison of the severity of BE and aid in following the
      natural course of BE Image-enhanced endoscopy (IEE) compromises various means of enhancing
      contrast during endoscopy using dye, optical, and/or electronic methods IEE allows improved
      visualization of lesions and can be used to gain insight into the pathology of the lesion,
      Recent progress in optics and computerized processing of endoscopic images, such as narrow
      band image (NBI) and Fuji intelligent Chromoendoscopy (FICE), provide an optical and/or
      electronic enhancement of the mucosal structures. Most recently, the EPKi-processor (Pentax,
      Tokyo, Japan) developed i-Scan, a novel endoscopic post-processing light filter technology
      using delicate software algorithms with real-time image mapping technology, which can provide
      detailed analysis based on vessel (i-Scan V), pattern (i-Scan P), or surface architecture
      (i-Scan SE). Resolution of about 1.25 mega pixels per image could be provided by the
      computer-controlled digital processing. The SE-mode could be used for the identification of
      the morphological changes of esophageal mucosa. Accordingly, i-Scan e- and b-modes could be
      used to further evaluate the lesions, such as the regularity of vascular pattern and the
      presence of the abnormal vessels.

      According to previous study (14), Ki67 and p53 immuno-histochemistry could reduce
      interobserver variation in assessment of Barrett's oesophagus. These IHC methods correlate
      with the severity of dysplasia very well and are useful supplementary prognostic markers In
      our study, we use the image enhanced endoscopy to observe the endoscopically suspected
      esophageal metaplasia and record it with Prague C and M criteria grading system.
      Immuno-histochemical staining was used as supplementary prognostic markers. Our aim is to
      evaluate the efficacy of imaging enhanced endoscopy for screening of Barrett's esophagus and
      evaluation of invasiveness.
    
  