
    
      Compared to adult cancers, most pediatric cancers carry a relatively low mutational burden.
      However, a small fraction of pediatric tumors in the INFORM registry cohort display a higher
      mutational burden. Truly hypermutated tumors, e.g. in the context of rare cancer
      predisposition syndromes, are reported to respond well to immune checkpoint inhibition. In
      addition to hypermutation, increased PD-L1 expression is associated with clinical responses
      to checkpoint inhibition. Increased PD-L1 mRNA expression is observed in a small fraction of
      pediatric patients in the INFORM registry cohort independent from mutational load. We
      hypothesize that pediatric tumors with a high mutational burden and/or high PD-L1 expression
      will respond to checkpoint inhibition.

      HDAC inhibition (HDACi) modifies T-cell regulation and can augment response to checkpoint
      inhibition by reducing the number of myeloid-derived suppressor cells and creating an
      immunogenic tumor microenvironment including induction of MHCI and neo-antigens. In vitro and
      in vivo models showed enhanced anti-tumor activity of the combination of checkpoint
      inhibition and HDACi compared to either agent alone. This provides a strong rationale to
      combine these drug classes.

      Furthermore, MYC- or NMYC-driven (referred to as MYC(N)) malignancies like very high-risk
      medulloblastomas or very high-risk neuroblastomas still have a dismal outcome. MYC is not
      only reported to upregulate PD-L1 and thereby a possible biomarker for checkpoint inhibition
      but also very compelling recent preclinical data strongly suggests that HDAC inhibitors are
      active against MYC amplified medulloblastoma in vitro and in vivo. In NMYC amplified
      neuroblastoma cell lines similar observations were made in vitro. Taken together, our results
      suggest that MYC(N)-driven tumors depend on HDAC and we hypothesize that MYC(N) status can
      serve as a biomarker for response prediction to a combinatorial treatment of checkpoint
      inhibition and HDAC inhibition.

      Pediatric patients aged 6-21 years with refractory/relapsed/progressive high-risk
      malignancies with a high mutational load (group A), with high PD-L1 mRNA expression (group
      B), with MYC(N) amplification (group C) and with a low mutational load, low PD-L1 mRNA
      expression and no MYC(N) amplification (Biomarker low group D) are eligible for this trial.
      Phase I determines the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for the combination of the HDACi
      entinostat and the checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab for the age groups 6-11 and 12-21 years,
      respectively. Phase II investigates activity in 4 groups A, B, C, D. The duration of
      treatment is 12 cycles (1 cycle = 28 days), preceded by 1 priming week.

      In addition, a comprehensive accompanying research program investigates PD biomarkers for
      immune checkpoint and HDAC inhibition.

      Clinical trials investigating the combination of nivolumab and entinostat in children have
      not been reported so far.
    
  