
    
      Patient reported outcomes (PROs) are widely used by clinical providers as important tools to
      help inform their clinical and research practice, and to improve quality of care for
      patients. In addition, PROs are increasingly cited as a tool in measuring surgical
      performance and the value of health care services being delivered. The quality of data
      captured by PROs is, however, largely dependent on patients' response rates, both pre- and
      post-operatively. For pre-operative surveys, higher response rates may be achieved as
      patients may be reminded to complete their surveys at an office visit or prior to surgery.
      However, patient non-compliance presents a major challenge post-operatively, undermining PRO
      data integrity.

      As clinical practices have moved to using PROs for all patients, rather than just a research
      tool, automated systems have been developed to deliver and collect PRO electronically.
      However, while automation has helped streamline PRO administration and data collection, this
      hasn't always translated into obtaining better PRO compliance rates. In an attempt to improve
      response rates, efforts have been made to reduce patient burden (by reducing the number of
      questions asked, for example), to regularly remind patients to complete their forms (either
      by email or telephone), or even offer patients monetary or non-monetary incentives.

      Despite these measures' variable success, however, achieving high response rates remains a
      challenge. This, in part, is due to the fact these platforms depend heavily on patients
      receiving the request and their willingness to participate in the program, often long after
      their care is completed. As data are increasingly used to measure physician performance and
      quality, as well as to determine reimbursement, low patient compliance rates remain a
      significant impediment and affect the validity of the data.

      In this study, the invetigators hypothesize that direct patient engagement can improve
      patient compliance with automated PRO capture.
    
  