
    
      Acute respiratory failure related to infection by the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), is the main reason for ICU admission in in the majority of
      patients admitted to the ICU in this viral syndrome, and it presents a significant clinical
      challenge. Severe hypoxemia in these patients is thought to be related in part to generation
      of alveolar edema. This would be related to the specific infection related injury of the
      alveoli-capillary membrane, however other factors could be related to edema formation.
      Although patients meet criteria for the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), there is
      significant controversy about whether the lungs of the COVID-19 patients have the
      characteristics of ARDS and thus whether the treatment should mimic treatment of ARDS due to
      other causes. A general principle in ARDS patients is to avoid positive fluid balances as
      this may contribute to alveolar edema. Also, the guidelines on the management of COVID-19
      patients by the Society of Critical Care Medicine advocate a conservative fluid strategy [8].
      However, uncorrected hypovolemia may result in additional organ dysfunction (especially
      kidney injury). The clinical fluid status is usually estimated by the presence of peripheral
      edema and daily fluid balances and thus prone to errors as these are poorly related to the
      circulating blood volume. Management of patients with sepsis based on blood volume
      measurements and red blood cell volume, to disclose true anemia, has been shown to improve
      outcome. Finally, the transudation of albumin in the extravascular space has been shown to be
      associated with outcome of critically ill patients. It is highly plausible that these
      parameters could help guide the care of COVID-19 patients given the available data in the
      literature, thus promoting better treatment of these patients.

      This is a prospective multicenter study where the treatment team is blinded to the results of
      the study. The primary objective of the study is to describe the blood volume, the volume of
      blood components, and the capillary leak and their trajectory during the early phase of
      hospitalization of patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
    
  