
    
      According to the World Health Organization, breast cancer is the most common one among women,
      both in developed and developing countries. It accounts for 23% of all breast cancer cases
      worldwide whereas, in Brazil, it represents 25% of new cases per year. However, its mortality
      rate has increasingly decreased due to advances in screening protocols, diagnoses and
      treatment in the last decades. Even so, breast cancer and its treatment might cause
      psychological and physiological side effects that can affect patients' quality of life.

      There is evidence that increase in physical activity generates important physical and
      psychological benefits to patients with cancer. Studies with breast cancer survivors have
      shown that the fact that the patients become physically active after the diagnosis leads to a
      24-67% decrease in total death risk and 50-53% decrease in death related to breast cancer, by
      comparison with sedentary patients.

      Reviews, systematic reviews and metaanalysis of studies that investigated the effects of
      interventions with physical exercise programs on health outcomes in breast cancer survivors
      showed the benefits brought to these patients by exercise. However, these reviews have also
      called the attention of the scientific community regarding the need to standardize measures
      of outcomes and intervention methods of evaluation since variations found in the studies make
      it difficult to reach definite conclusions. Furthermore, type, frequency, intensity and
      duration of exercise sessions to reach beneficial effects on important health parameters for
      breast cancer have not been well established yet. Therefore, this study aims at analyzing the
      effects of combined training program (resistance and aerobics), in comparison with a
      non-training group, on quality of life, as well as on neuromuscular and cardiorespiratory
      parameters in breast cancer patients in stages one to three who have finished their
      treatment, such as surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

      Methodology: This trail will be carried out with women with histological confirmed breast
      cancer who have already completed the primary treatment for breast cancer (including surgery,
      radiation therapy and chemotherapy) from 6 months to 5 years but keep on hormone therapy.
      After baseline assessments, the eligible participants will be randomized to the combined
      exercise group or control non-exercising group. The combined exercise group will follow an
      eight week exercising program, which consists of three weekly exercise sessions. Each session
      will last around 60 minutes and will include strength training (with machines and elastic
      bands) and aerobic exercises on treadmills. Workouts will be guided and supervised by
      previously trained physical education professionals and physiotherapists. The strength
      training will comprise nine exercises, which will alternate body segments with maximum
      repetitions in the first set and the inferior limit of repetitions in the second set. Along
      the training, the number of series will increase whereas the number of repetitions will
      decrease. The intensity of the aerobic exercises will be based on the percentage of cardiac
      frequency of anaerobic threshold. All exercise sessions will take place at the Physical
      Education School at the Pelotas Federal University, located in Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul,
      Brazil.
    
  