
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the recovery course of patients with malignancies who undergo standard vs
           extended recovery preparation after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

        -  Compare the efficacy of these recovery preparations in managing rehabilitation needs,
           including reduced stamina and cognitive limitations, of these patients.

        -  Compare the ability of these recovery preparations to assist patients and caregivers in
           adjusting to unavoidable fluctuations in caregiver roles and emotions.

        -  Compare the ability of these recovery preparations to assist female patients in managing
           menopausal symptoms and sexual function changes.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      gender, type of transplantation (allogeneic vs autologous), ethnicity (Caucasian vs
      non-Caucasian), total body irradiation (yes vs no), and participating center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 supportive care arms.

      Patients complete 1 baseline assessment prior to transplant and a second assessment after the
      transplant, approximately 1 week before returning home.

        -  Arm I (Standard Recovery Preparation): Patients and caregivers receive standard
           preparation prior to discharge, a booklet of stem cell transplant-related resources and
           contact information, and the National Cancer Institute-produced publication entitled
           "Facing Forward".

        -  Arm II (Recovery Preparation Intervention): Patients and caregivers receive standard
           preparation and resource materials as in arm I. Women also receive 10 scheduled
           telephone appointment sessions, lasting 1 hour each, over the first year after returning
           home. Men receive 9 scheduled telephone appointment sessions in the same manner as the
           women. The first 5-6 sessions have a specific topic with a corresponding video. The last
           4 calls are booster calls to answer questions, identify new problems, and provide
           support. Patients with acute problems or problems that cannot be handled through regular
           sessions are referred to the interdisciplinary recovery triage team. Problems addressed
           by this team include depression, agitation, cognitive change, fatigue, family
           disruptions, sexuality, and gynecologic or menopausal difficulties.

      Patients are followed at 1 and 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 412 patients and their caregivers (385 patients randomized)
      will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  