
    
      Study design: Cluster randomized controlled trial

      Primary aim: To compare the effect of targeted mass drug administration (tMDA) versus
      reactive case detection (RCD) on reducing malaria incidence

      Study site: Elimination targeted areas within East Hararghe Zones, Oromia Regional State,
      which is comprised of 24 woredas/districts

      Cluster or unit of randomization: Kebeles will be randomized to the control, RCD or tMDA arms
      using simple randomization

      Evaluation methods: The primary outcome measure of annual parasite incidence (API) will be
      obtained through routine surveillance data at all health facilities (health centers and
      health posts).

      Secondary outcomes will be measured through cross-sectional surveys and study monitoring
      data:

        1. Case investigation. At the time of diagnosis of the index case and enrollment of
           community members to the study, a short questionnaire will be administered to collect
           demographic data and assess malaria risk, including past malaria treatment and travel
           history, access to malaria interventions, occupation, etc.

        2. Cross-sectional surveys. At baseline and end of the study period (year 2),
           cross-sectional household surveys will be conducted to assess malaria prevalence,
           household and individual risk factors for malaria, including access to malaria
           interventions. It will also assess knowledge of, attitude towards, and participation in
           the study intervention.

        3. Longitudinal feasibility measurements: Coverage of RCD or tMDA in the target population,
           acceptability of RCD or tMDA in the target population, serious adverse event (SAE)
           reports, adherence measured by self-report and pill count, and cost data from all arms

        4. Laboratory testing: The conventional rapid diagnostic test (RDT) for malaria will be
           used in the RCD arm. Dried blood spots (DBS) will be collected for molecular and
           serological testing during the cross-sectional surveys in all arms. DBS collected in
           incident cases as part of routine surveillance as well as during the RCD activities will
           also be utilized for antigen, antibody, and molecular testing. G6PD testing will be used
           in the RCD and tMDA arm to guide primaquine (PQ) treatment.

      Sample size: To measure the primary outcome, change in incidence, 16,000 Households (HH) (16
      clusters, 1,000 HH each) per arm will be included in the study. For the cross-sectional
      surveys, 320 randomly selected HHs per arm (16 clusters, 20HH/cluster) will be included.
    
  