
    
      Since the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) surfaced at the end of
      2019, transmission has been rapid and particularly lethal. Death is most commonly due to ARDS
      which has been quoted as occurring in up to 42% of patients. The rapid lethality of the
      COVID-19 has emphasized the limitations of currently available therapies in the Intensive
      Care Unit. Traditional mechanical ventilator support, the use of inhaled and systemic
      pulmonary vasodilatory drugs, invasive monitoring, proning and extracorporeal membrane
      oxygenation (ECMO) to name a few, are all voracious consumers of resources and have
      culminated in at least $27 billion expenditure per annum in the US alone pre-virus. This
      fiscal burden has been far exceeded in the current pandemic. With patient numbers growing
      exponentially hospital resources are being rapidly surpassed with ICU's overflowing which is
      exacerbated by a national shortage of mechanical ventilators. New techniques are demanded to
      both treat patients and identify responders if medical resources are to be optimized.

      Traditionally, patients present to the ICU and are intubated once a threshold of respiratory
      distress and failure is reached. Various maneuvers are initiated to optimize oxygen uptake by
      the lungs to prevent the onset of organ failure and death. At present, there are no effective
      bridging technologies providing intervention between intubation to these costly more complex
      techniques which are almost solely the purview of more technologically adept tertiary
      academic centers. Clinical practice is often empiric and driven by trial and error in this
      emerging disease, largely because there are presently no clinical tests to provide clinicians
      with any clear indication as to which and whether patients will respond to these more costly
      difficult procedures. This is in part due to the underlying pathophysiology of ARDS where
      there is a further "uncoupling" between bloodflow,(and hence uptake of oxygen), and healthy
      lung units which allow transfer and absorption of oxygen because of the damage to the
      alveoli. This phenomenon shifts physiologic Ventilation/Perfusion mismatch (V/Q mismatch)
      into a pathologic state. Since this phenomenon is worsened by diseased tissue, it is diffuse
      but, not uniform and response to therapy is difficult to determine based on current
      modalities. Thus, many therapies are therefore instituted purely by trial and error.
      Determination of appropriate candidates for advanced therapeutic techniques is critically
      important as they are not without risk and resource consumption. Patients who are profoundly
      hypoxic and fail traditional supine position support are "flipped" onto their abdomen to
      assume the prone position, a technique known as proning. This requires a team of at least 6
      nurses, respiratory therapists and physicians who attempt to ensure that there are no adverse
      events. Such complications contribute to the morbidity and potential mortality of the
      maneuver and include accidental extubation (displacement of the endotracheal tube out of the
      trachea), disconnection from the ventilator, transient worsening hypoxia, hemodynamic
      instability, dislodgement of central and peripheral venous catheters to name a few. This is
      further compounded by the need for greater sedation which is itself associated with
      hemodynamic instability, aspiration, altered conscious state and an increase in acuity of
      monitoring making it much more labor intensive and expensive.

      The researchers propose the development of a ventilation/ perfusion system, (V/Q System), a
      pneumatically driven device which can improve oxygenation by adjusting trans-thoracic
      pressure gradients. This is a new field of lung physiology which is only just being explored.
      However, the concept of noninvasive manipulation of lung mechanics and ventilation/perfusion
      mismatch is profoundly impactful as it potentially introduces a comparatively safe technique
      to address an otherwise fatal failure of lung function. The V/Q System represents an effort
      to optimize lung function without the risk of patient proning. If successful, improved
      oxygenation associated with the device has multiple clinical and economic ramifications.
      Initially, the device may obviate the need to more costly, time consuming and potentially
      morbid procedures. Future research may include investigating if the device may be utilized to
      identify both "responders" and "non-responders" to advanced therapeutic techniques and can
      help eliminate the "trial and error" approach in managing complex ARDS patients.

      The study procedures will take up to 5 hours to complete for each participant enrolled.
      During this time, the participant will be sedated per standard ICU protocol. Each study
      participant will have up to 4 hours of intervention with the study V/Q System, followed by 1
      hour of post-intervention observation.
    
  