
    
      The theme is:

      • Evaluation of the training program of de-escalation for third-year nursing students

      Underlying research questions will be:

        -  Will the intervention provide increased de-escalation skills?

        -  Will training in de-escalation provide increased confidence in coping with patient
           aggression?

      The design used to answer the research questions is a cluster-randomized controlled study
      with an intervention group and a control group.

      The two study groups with nursing students will be exposed to two different scenarios (A and
      B) with simulated patient situations. Students will conduct simulation A before the
      intervention and simulation B the same day after the intervention. A control group will also
      be included which will review scenarios A and B without intervention. The purpose of this is
      to see if the scenarios in isolation give any effect on the pre- and post-measurements.

      Participants will also be asked to complete a questionnaire (Thackreys, 1987) related to
      experienced coping security related to aggression management at four different times.

      The scenarios will be recorded on video. Following all video data collection, 2 de-escalation
      experts will independently review the video data and quantify it using the EMDABS instrument.
      They will be blinded and not aware of whether the video was recorded before or after the
      intervention. The data that this generates will then be statistically examined.

      The selection of participants will be made from three classes with third year nursing
      students. The classes consist of about 50 students. Participation is voluntary.

      It is uncertain how many will participate, but on the basis of practical limits there is an
      upper limit of 15 participants per class for the intervention group (the selection is
      recruited from two classes), and 30 participants from the control group (the selection is
      recruited from a class). A total of n = 30 is desired in both the intervention group and the
      control group.

      The following two outcomes will be analyzed; de-escalating behavior (EMDABS, Mavandadi et
      al., 2016) and confidence in coping with patient aggression (Thackrey, 1987).
    
  