
    
      OBJECTIVE The aim of the study is to evaluate the impact of a " limitations " section in
      systematic review's abstract on results' interpretation by readers.

      STUDY DESIGN The study is a randomized controlled trial with two parallel arms. The study
      follows the CONSORT 2010 statements Participant will be invited to participate in an on-line
      survey with a secured web site. Participants, after a characteristic description will be
      randomized in one of the two arms: 1) abstract with a " limitations " section 2) abstract
      without a " limitations " section.

      ELIGIBILITY Eligible participants are corresponding authors of randomized trials published
      between 2010 and 2012 and referenced in pubmed core set journal

      INTERVENTION We will evaluate the impact of the presence of a " limitations " section in
      abstract of systematic review with meta-analysis.

      SELECTION OF ABSTRACTS We will retrieve all systematic review with meta-analysis published in
      the journals Annals of Internal Medicine between the years 2006 and 2012, about health care
      intervention with a conclusion in favor the experimental treatment or intervention. We
      exclude updates, diagnostical, genetical, epidemiological or economical evaluation and
      multiple or indirect comparisons.

      MODIFICATION OF ABSTRACTS All selected abstracts will be standardised. Treatment name will be
      replaced with "experimental treatment A", control treatment will be replaced by "control
      treatment B" if necessary in the title and in the abstract.

      The two groups of abstract will be presented as follow:

        1. Abstract with " limitations " section

        2. Abstract without " limitations " section: the " limitations " section of the original
           abstract will be deleted.

      OUTCOMES PRIMARY OUTCOME The primary outcome will be, the readers' recommendation of the
      experimental treatment A

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES Secondary outcomes will evaluate the interpretation of the results of the
      meta-analysis. The readers will answers the following questions, with the choice of answers
      based on a 10-point Likert scale

        1. How would you rate the quality of the systematic review?

        2. How confident are you in the results of this systematic review?

        3. Do you consider that the experimental treatment A is a proven effective treatment?

        4. How confident are you in the validity of the conclusion that the authors draw? NUMBER OF
           PARTICIPANT A power analysis was conducted to estimate the number of subject
           (participants) needed to achieve a power of 0.9 and an alpha value of 0.05 to discern a
           different of effect size of 0.4 between the two versions of abstract. This resulted in
           an estimate to the need of recruit a minimum of 133 participants in each arm, either a
           total of 266 participants STATISTICAL ANALYSIS We will analyze data with R project
           software, in intention to treat. Data for quantitative variables are expressed with
           medians and interquartile (IQR) ranges. Qualitative variables are expressed with
           frequencies and percentages and missing data Primary analysis will compare means of the
           primary outcome between the 2 groups with a Student t test.
    
  