
    
      In Andalusia, current data show that the mortality rate from stroke is 50% higher than in
      Spain as a whole. Endovascular therapy has revolutionized the treatment of acute stroke and
      could improve these high mortality rates. The investigators propose to take the great advance
      that the thrombectomy has given to the community of Andalusia in which there are more limited
      resources with several strategies such as the implementation of strict protocols of inclusion
      through a common registry, use of cheaper equipment (aspiration vs stent-retrievers)

      The objective of the TRIANA trial is thus to:

      1. Demonstrate that the use of thrombectomy systems with direct aspiration first pass
      technique (ADAPT ) using the new large-bore 6F SOFIA Plus catheter (MicroVention, Inc., a
      wholly owned subsidiary of Terumo Corporation) is equal in safety and efficacy to the results
      of thrombectomy with stent retriever.

      2) The use of mechanical aspiration systems would lead to a decrease in cost per procedure,
      shortening the duration of treatment and decrease the rate of embolism to new territory.

      3) Identify futile recanalization blood biomarkers that will allow the investigators in the
      future to treat only those patients who will benefit from the most adequate reperfusion
      treatment.

      The design is an observational, prospective and multicentric study of patients with acute
      ischemic stroke of anterior circulation and less than 8 hours of evolution treated with
      neurointerventionist rescue techniques to study safety, effectiveness, costs of the
      intervention and duration (puncture-recanalization) of the thrombectomy system with
      aspiration with Sofia Plus in comparison with the stent retrievers system.

        1. To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of thrombectomy with manual mechanical
           aspiration with Sofia Plus under clinical practice conditions.

        2. Determine if the duration (puncture-recanalization) of thrombectomy with aspiration is
           less than that of stents retrievers; And if the number of embolisms distal to new
           vascular territories decreases with aspiration.

        3. To estimate the cost savings by procedure in the treatment of ischemic stroke and to
           analyze the efficiency (cost effectiveness) of thrombectomy with aspiration.
    
  