
    
      Surgical technique for Hautmann ileal neobladder: A 70-cm portion of terminal ileum is
      selected and incised on the antimesenteric border. The ileum is arranged into an M or W
      configuration with the four limbs sutured to one another. After a buttonhole of ileum is
      removed on an antimesenteric portion of the ileum, the urethral anastomosis is performed. The
      ureteral anastomoses are performed using a Le Duc technique or direct implantation, are
      stented, and the reservoir is then closed in a side-to-side manner. As an alternative, the
      two ends of the W may be left slightly longer as a short chimney on either side for
      implantation of the ureters.

      Surgical technique for detaenial sigmoid neobladder: After radical cystectomy, the sigmoid
      was brought out from a midline incision in the lower abdomen and a 15 to 25 cm segment was
      isolated. Intestinal continuity was restored using a circular stapler. Omental and free
      taeniae, and the serosal layer were incised deeply as far as the submucosal layer until the
      plane between smooth muscle and the submucosal layer could be identified clearly by scalpel
      dissection. The serosal layer with smooth muscle was then detached from the submucosal layer
      and removed continuously without difficulty. During this time, the operator could insert the
      finger in the sigmoid lumen and lift the sigmoid wall up for accurate dissection. Only the
      mucosal and submucosal layers were preserved. Approximately 2 to 3 cm of the taeniae and
      serosal layer were preserved to strengthen the urethra-neobladder anastomosis at the central
      portion of the isolated sigmoid and at the two ends for the ureter-neobladder anastomosis.
      The detaenial sigmoid was irrigated repeatedly by dilute iodine solution to eliminate
      impurities. Its capacity for enlargement and leak tightness were assessed at the end by
      filling with 300 to 400 ml iodine solution. Residual taeniae were identified and incised
      during this filling phase. The ureters were subsequently implanted in antirefluxing fashion
      in a submucosal tunnel with 4-zero poly glactin at the two ends of sigmoid. The
      ureter-neobladder anastomoses were protected with a 6Fr Single J® stent. Each stent was
      passed through the sigmoid wall and exteriorized. The two ends of the sigmoid were closed by
      2-zero polyglactin with the embedded seromuscular layer. The central portion of the sigmoid
      was incised and a 22Fr 3-way catheter was inserted in neobladder. The neobladder was
      anastomosed to the urethra with 2-zero polyglactin.

      Followup: Each patient was evaluated at 3-month intervals for 1 year, at 6-month intervals
      for 2 to 5 years. Renal ultrasound, biochemical examination and urine culture were done every
      3 to 6 months. Pelvic computerized tomography and retro-cystogram were performed 6 months
      postoperatively and annually thereafter. Urodynamic investigation and cystoscopic examination
      were done annually.

      Postoperative complications were classified as early (90 days or less) and late (greater than
      90 days). Early and late complications were subdivided into those related and not related to
      the neobladder. Complication grade was classified according to the Clavien-Dindo system.
      Major complications were defined as grade III or higher. Daytime and nighttime continence
      levels were recorded postoperatively at patient interview. Continence was defined as complete
      if the patient was dry without a pad, satisfactory if no more than 1 pad was required and
      poor if the patient used more than 1 pad during the day or night.

      End points: The primary end point was change in renal function from baseline to 3 years.
      Secondary end points included changes in renal function from baseline to 6, 12 and 24 months,
      reduction in eGFR 10 ml/minute/1.73 m2 or greater, early (less than 90 days) and late (90
      days to 3 years) complications, urinary tract infection that was symptomatic or was treated,
      any surgical re-intervention or urinary diversion related surgical re-intervention defined as
      an open or endoscopic procedure under anesthesia, cancer recurrence and overall survival.
      Renal function was assessed using the CKD-EPI equation. Complications were analyzed and
      graded by a blinded adjudicator using the modified Clavien complication grading system.
    
  