
    
      Approximately 30 older adults who complain of memory problems will be recruited for this
      study. Over the course of six months, participants will complete questionnaires, open-ended
      questions, and cognitive and motor screens. Participants will also undergo training to learn
      to use a DMN to support daily activities and will continue to use the DMN for three months
      following training. Additionally, half of the participants' homes will be equipped with our
      "smart home in a box" technology that will support DMN use with context-aware prompting
      technology.

      During month one, participants in both conditions will complete a cognitive and motor screen
      as well as questionnaires assessing depression, quality of life, coping, everyday memory, and
      functional abilities. Care-partners/informants (when available) will also complete the same
      questionnaires as well as an additional questionnaire about caregiver burden. The
      questionnaires will be administered monthly (6x total) for the duration of the study.

      During month two, graduate students will train study participants to use the DMN using a
      training manual and workbook in 6-8 training sessions (depending on participants comfort with
      the DMN) over 3-4 weeks. Supervision will include review of audiotapes and use of a checklist
      to monitor fidelity of the training content and process. Participants and care-partners will
      also answer open-ended questions designed to help improve the DMN and its training procedure
      as well as the prompting technology and its integration with the DMN at each assessment
      period. In addition, participants and care-partners will complete questionnaires about their
      satisfaction and perception of ease of use of the DMN and interface as well as a
      questionnaire concerning likeability and cognitive demand.

      During months three through five, data collection will continue. Participants in the smart
      home condition will use the DMN in conjunction with prompting technology for the third month,
      only the DMN for the fourth month, and again the DMN and prompting technology for the fifth
      month. Control participants will use only the DMN for all three months. Control participants
      will rely on traditional methods (e.g., time-based alarm cues, sticky notes) to support DMN
      use rather than activity-aware prompting technology.

      During month six, participants will complete a post-test cognitive and motor screen identical
      to the initial screen. Participants will also complete the set of the previously described
      questionnaires and open-ended questions.
    
  