
    
      The study was planned to be performed between 01.03.2020 and 01.04.2020 in Health Sciences
      University Konya Training and Research Hospital Burn Unit and Health Sciences University
      Mogadishu-Somalia Recep Tayyip Erdogan Training and Research Hospital General Surgery
      Clinics.

      Patients hospitalized with a second degree superficial burn and treated with PRP will be
      included in the study.

      Primary purpose: To investigate the effectiveness of platelet-rich plasma in burn treatment
      Secondary purpose: None. Platelet-rich plasma has recently been used in medicine for the
      treatment of various diseases.

      In our study, patients hospitalized in our clinic with the diagnosis of second-degree
      superficial burn were randomized and divided into two equal groups. It was planned to treat
      the first group with PRP, and the second group to be treated with a conventional method of
      dressing containing silver sulfadiazine cream.

      Patients will be given clear and understandable information about the study. Patients who
      agree to participate in the study will receive a consent form explaining that they have
      participated in the study voluntarily.

      The secretary will do randomization with the help of a computer program. A note stating which
      group the patient is in will be placed in a closed envelope. A randomization envelope will be
      opened in each patient before starting treatment.

      The primary endpoint of the study was determined as the day when the burn was epithelialized
      100%.

      Secondary endpoints are the deepening of the wound and the application of other treatment
      modalities, including surgery, or an infection in the burn area.

      In our power analysis, investigators found the number of patients as 80% power and 28
      patients with an alpha value of 0.05. Assuming that 10% of patients will be excluded during
      the study, investigators calculated that a total of 31 patients should be studied.
    
  