
    
      Background

      Amongst many surgical subspecialties particularly the field of neurosurgery has made major
      advancements in the last decade in regards to microsurgical techniques such as continuously
      pushing the boundaries of radical tumor resection while ensuring patient security and
      functional integrity nonetheless to mention just one aspect. However, once the surgeon has
      closed up and the patient is transferred to the intensive care or intermediate care unit for
      observation for the crucial early postoperative hours the brain tissue is exposed to
      hemodynamic and respirational changes.

      Early postoperative bleeding and brain swelling are the most feared complications after
      elective craniotomy in neurosurgery. Unfortunately, there is no bedside monitoring to
      diagnose these complications at a very early state. Patients become symptomatic by a clinical
      neurological deterioration or an early postoperative seizure. Therefore, much attention has
      been paid to provide a close monitoring and observation of the patient usually at a critical
      care unit during the first hours after brain surgery.

      Although not substantiated by hard evidence, the major postoperative strategies are the
      following:

        1. Parameter oriented: Periods of arterial hypertension, hypoventilation with arterial CO2
           increase, low oxygen saturation, extensive coughing, pressing, and pain are strictly
           avoided. In order to achieve this goal the patient remains intubated and sedated during
           the first hours postoperatively.

        2. Symptom oriented: The awakened patient is monitored clinically as early as possible for
           a deterioration of consciousness, seizure or the development of a new neurological
           deficit. Thus, the patient is extubated in a timely fashion postoperatively.

      Evidently, both strategies are opposite to each other, since strategy 1 requires keeping the
      patient sedated and intubated over a longer period of time and weaning from artificial
      ventilation is performed at the critical care unit. This hinders early diagnosis of a
      neurological deterioration and timely action. On the contrary, strategy 2 aims at a very
      early extubation of the patient immediately after completing the surgical procedure, which
      exposes the patient to more hemodynamic and cardiopulmonary stress which may lead to a higher
      likelihood of a secondary neurological injury.

      Since, to the best of the investigators' knowledge, there is no prospective data, depending
      on the philosophy of the neurosurgeon, the anesthetist and the neuro-intensivist one strategy
      is preferred over another. For this clinical study, the Department of Neurosurgery Berne is
      conducting a prospective observational study to show that early tracheal extubation following
      elective brain surgery is feasible and safe.

      Objective

      The investigators aim to provide prospective data with respect to complications of early
      extubation and to compare these results to existing data in the literature with the delayed
      extubation strategy after elective craniotomy. The investigators believe early extubation and
      continuous clinical monitoring does not coincide with a higher rate of postoperative
      complications. Furthermore, strategy 2 might even be superior to strategy 1 in that respect.
      Also, by conducting this clinical trial the investigators hope to get a more profound insight
      to further improve the postoperative patient management after elective brain surgery.

      The primary endpoint is the incidence of significant postoperative intracranial hemorrhage,
      brain swelling or seizure leading to either surgical intervention or any new, secondary
      neurological deficit, coma, palliative care or death related to postoperative events.

      As a secondary endpoint the investigators will assess the role of routine early postoperative
      CT imaging before transfer to the ward and surgical drains.

      Methods

      This clinical study is designed as a prospective monocenter observational trial. Data as
      defined in a case report form will be collected of patients undergoing elective craniotomy at
      the departments of neurosurgery of the University Hospitals in Bern. Patient data collection
      begins at admission and ends at hospital discharge except for a mortality follow-up of 30
      days postoperatively. Statistical analysis will be performed as defined in the study
      protocol.
    
  