
    
      The study will be carried out at a municipal public pharmacy. The subjects will be users of
      the Family Pharmacy, aged 60 years or over, who seek the service to remove the drugs
      prescribed for the treatment of Systemic Arterial Hypertension. In order to calculate the
      sample for this study, the incidence of patients with Hypertension System who need treatment
      adjustments (under- or over-treatment) will be considered. It is expected that in the
      intervention group, MRPA indicates that 30% of patients will need to change their
      pharmacotherapy and, in the control group, using the office measure, 10%. For a two-tailed
      test with 80% power, 5% sampling error and 95% confidence level, the sample will be 160 users
      in the intervention group and 160 in the control group. Considering the pandemic of COVID-19
      and the risk of infection during care in health services, whether from patients or health
      professionals from the health care network, the Family Pharmacy already adopts the screening
      for respiratory symptoms that identify suspected infection by Sars-Cov-2.To minimize the
      impact of selection and information bias, the following procedure will be used to select
      individuals: during attendance at the windows, each trained attendant will invite patients
      with eligibility criteria, when they accept, they will be inserted in the service schedule.
      The selection for control group and intervention group will take place by drawing from the
      list of scheduled people, with 3 participants being drawn for the Intervention Group,
      totaling 160 participants in each group. Data collection will only occur after signing the
      Informed Consent Form (ICF). The Control Group will be attended by Pharmacists and will have
      the data collected according to the standard collection instrument, will receive general
      guidance on blood pressure control and pharmacotherapy assessment. The Intervention Group, in
      addition to the control group procedures, will also perform the MRPA, the result of which
      will guide the pharmaceutical suggestions, when necessary, they also received a Letter of
      Referral to the Prescriber containing pharmaceutical suggestions for optimization of
      pharmacotherapy, considering the current clinical protocols. In the service, patients and
      companions will be instructed on preventive measures against Sars-coV-2 infection, in
      addition to performing hand hygiene with water and liquid soap or 70% alcohol gel. The office
      will undergo cleaning before and after use, as well as the material, in addition to adopting
      the time of 15 minutes between appointments, maintaining the ventilation of the room,
      following all the recommendations of the Ministry of Health. Pharmaceutical evaluation is
      already a routine of the service. For the purposes of this research, the procedures will be
      added to standardized instruments and routines to guarantee methodological quality and answer
      the questions of this research. The Data Collection Form (Appendix I) will be used, which
      includes the collection of data related to sociodemographic and clinical characteristics. In
      order to assess adherence, the Portuguese version of the Brief Medication Questionnaire (BMQ)
      will be used in two stages: during the initial evaluation, when the patient was included in
      the research and 45 days after the intervention.

      The pharmaceutical suggestion procedure, for this research, is defined as forwarding a letter
      of suggestion to the prescriber, previously agreed with the patient, based on clinical
      evaluation, review of pharmacotherapy, adherence to treatment and result of the MRPA
      procedure. The definition of the conducts to be adopted will be based on the 8th Brazilian
      Guideline on Systemic Arterial Hypertension, and in a complementary way - as it is an elderly
      patient (60 years old or more) - by the Brazilian Consensus on Potential Medicines
      Inappropriate for the Elderly.

      The data will be tabulated and analyzed using the SPPS® Statistic 25 software. The
      Kolmogorov-Sminorv test will be used to assess the data distribution. The paired T test will
      be used to assess the differences between BP measurements in the office and the MRPA mean.
      Continuous variables with normal distribution will be presented as means, standard deviations
      and Odds Ratio. Categorical variables will be presented as a proportion, using the Chi-square
      test. Values of p <0.05 will be considered significant.

      To compare the proportion of patients with controlled and uncontrolled blood pressure, before
      and after application of the intervention, the chi-square test (χ2) will be used. Mean or
      median values of the MRPA Blood Pressure Mean will also be compared before and after the
      intervention / description and adherence before and after the MRPA procedure (baseline and at
      the end of the study) using the paired T test or Wilcoxon.
    
  