
    
      Background

      The treatment of choice for acute cholecystitis is cholecystectomy performed as soon as
      possible after onset of symptoms. Early cholecystectomy within 4 days after onset of symptoms
      resulted in reduced costs, morbidity and shorter hospital stay than delayed cholecystectomy.

      Preoperative magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography ( MRCP) is usually performed if
      there is a clinical suspicion of common bile duct ( CBD) stones. CBD stones in acute
      cholecystitis can be found in up to 9-22% of cholecystectomized patients. MRCP in acute
      cholecystitis can aid in technical planning of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The benefit of
      MRCP is the non-invasiveness of the technique with 85-95% sensitivity and 93%-97%
      specificity.There is a lack of good-quality prospective studies concerning the findings of
      MRCP and intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) in acute cholecystitis. The purpose of
      preoperative diagnosis of CBD stones is to facilitate adequate planning of CBD stone removal,
      which is preferably performed as a single-stage procedure.

      In acute cholecystitis the cystic duct may be obliterated and thus cause cannulation
      difficulties . In these situations preoperative MRCP may give valuable information if CBD
      stones are present.

      The aims of this study is:

        1. To observe the feasibility of routine preoperative MRCP in acute cholecystitis in
           Central Finland Central Hospital

        2. To study and compare the quality of MRCP and IOC in acute cholecystitis

        3. To study the impact of preoperative MRCP findings in surgical outcome of laparosocpic
           cholecystectomy

      All patients with clinically and radiologically proven acute cholecystitis during one year
      (2019) will form the study cohort. Ultrasound and MRCP are performed unless there are no
      contraindications. The quality of MRCP is systematically and independently evaluated by two
      experienced radiologists. Laparoscopic or open cholecystectomy is programmed and IOC is
      performed if feasible. The quality and technical success of IOC is recorded and the c-arm
      cholangiography is documented and stored in the hospital database. In case of common bile
      duct stones the operating surgeon will decide the policy of stone removal.

      The onset of symptoms, hospital arrival, time from arrival to operation, laboratory values,
      operative details, 30 day morbidity and postoperative outcome are evaluated.
    
  