
    
      Patients will be prospectively enrolled from Carolinas Hernia Center's outpatient clinic. All
      paraesophageal hernia patients, age 18 and older, undergoing PEH repair at CHS will be
      included. We will conduct a two-arm prospective randomized study, IV Lidocaine versus
      placebo, to study the reduction of narcotics, return to bowel function and length of stay.
      Both arms will receive standard multimodal pain control in the operative and postoperative
      period. There will be two arms: 1. IV Lidocaine 2. Placebo. Subject participation will last
      approximately 6 months for this study. Lidocaine will be used as a perioperative adjunct. At
      the conclusion of the study, chart review will be performed to evaluate if Lidocaine infusion
      limited narcotic need, or effected Visual Analog Scale (VAS) values. VAS is the standard
      nursing method of documenting pain using pain scores. The nurses ask the patient to rate pain
      from 0 (no pain) to 10 (excruciating pain). LOS is a secondary endpoint of the study, as
      subjects in the lidocaine arm are hypothesized to have improved pain control and require
      lower narcotic dosing, potentially leading to earlier discharge. We will evaluate patient
      demographics, preoperative lab values, intraoperative and perioperative variables, as well as
      postoperative outcomes and pain reported by VAS. Postoperative data to be reviewed will also
      include total opioid analgesia administered, time from surgery to a clear liquid diet, time
      from surgery to a post-fundoplication diet, time to return of bowel function, length of stay,
      pain/VAS scores at 6 hours postoperatively, pain/VAS scores on each post-operative day until
      discharge, pain/VAS scores at 2 and 4 weeks, and pain/VAS scores at 6 months, infectious
      complications (urinary tract infections as well as surgical site infections, deep organ space
      infections, pneumonia), and non-infectious complications (stroke, myocardial infarction,
      respiratory failure, post-op bleeding, unplanned return to the OR, acute renal failure,
      death, etc.). When results of the study are published, the subject's identity will remain
      confidential. Data will be analyzed using standard statistical methods; all
      patient-identifying information will be removed prior to analysis. Descriptive statistics
      including means and standard deviations, medians and interquartile range, or counts and
      percentages, will be used to describe the study population on all variables. For continuous
      variables comparisons will be made between groups using t-tests and Wilcoxon Rank Sum test.
      For categorical variables, Chi-Square test and Kruskal-Wallis tests will be used for
      comparisons between groups. Multivariate regression will be performed as needed to control
      for potential confounding factors such as age, gender and type of procedure. A p-value of
      <0.05 will be used for all significance determinations. The SAS® system version 9.4 (Cary,
      NC) or similar program will be used to complete all statistical analyses.
    
  