
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the molecular response rates, as measured by the decrease in breakpoint cluster
      region-Abelson murine leukemia viral oncogene homolog 1 (BCR-ABL) transcripts after 12 months
      of treatment, in patients with previously untreated chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in
      chronic phase who are treated with either dasatinib 100 mg/day or imatinib (STI571, Gleevec)
      (imatinib mesylate) 400 mg/day.

      II. To test whether increasing the dose of imatinib (STI571, Gleevec®) from 400 mg/day to 800
      mg/day increases the rate of molecular response, as measured by the decrease in BCR-ABL
      transcripts after 12 months of treatment, in patients with previously untreated CML in
      chronic phase.

      III. To estimate rates of cytogenetic and hematologic responses to imatinib 400 mg/day,
      imatinib 800 mg/day, and dasatinib 100 mg/day.

      IV. To evaluate in a preliminary manner the prognostic effects of derivative (der)(9) and
      der(22) chromosomal deletions for response in CML patients treated with imatinib and
      dasatinib.

      V. To investigate in a preliminary manner changes in gene expression at relapse or
      progression compared to pre-treatment.

      VI. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of the three treatment regimens.

      VII. To evaluate, in a preliminary manner, the overall survival and relapse-free survival of
      patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment repeats
      every 4 weeks for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO twice daily (BID). Treatment repeats every 4
      weeks for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive dasatinib PO BID. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 5 years
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 15 years.
    
  