
    
      Pulmonary thromboembolism (PE) with circulatory and/or respiratory symptoms is associated
      with high morbidity and mortality. Acute pulmonary hypertension is the hallmark of severe PE,
      and is to be held responsible for the full spectrum of clinical manifestations and
      complications. Although it is common belief that only mechanical obstruction by thrombus mass
      causes this pulmonary hypertension, there is strong evidence indicating that pulmonary
      vasoconstriction contributes significantly to the rise in pulmonary vascular resistance.

      Although all patients will receive anticoagulant treatment immediately after the diagnosis is
      established, morbidity and mortality are still disturbingly high when circulatory and/or
      respiratory symptoms accompany PE, or when hemodynamically stable PE patients have
      echocardiographic signs of acute right ventricle overload. There are no generally accepted
      guidelines for additional treatment options in these patients with moderate-to-severe PE.
      Thrombolytic therapy is recommended by many when hemodynamic symptoms are severe, but its
      effectiveness has never been proven in a controlled trial. In patients with moderate-to-large
      PE associated with echocardiographic signs of right ventricle overload, but who are still
      circulatory stable, mortality is increased, but thrombolytic therapy appears not to be
      beneficial.

      Given the plausible role of pulmonary vasoconstriction in the pathogenesis of PE associated
      pulmonary hypertension, the potential benefit of pulmonary vasodilators is important.There is
      experimental evidence that antagonising pulmonary vasoconstriction by the administration of
      selective vasodilators may be beneficial in animals with PE. In addition, anecdotal evidence
      of a similar kind exists for humans with acute PE.

      We hypothesise that in PE patients who have echocardiographic evidence of acute right
      ventricle overload, epoprostenol sodium (Flolan®) results in partial or complete reversal of
      echocardiographic abnormalities, as well as in improvement in respiratory and circulatory
      symptoms and signs.
    
  