
    
      Renal transplantation is the standard treatment for patients with end-stage chronic kidney
      disease, as it is effective in reducing the morbidity and mortality of patients in this
      condition. Despite satisfactory results, some patients have graft dysfunction and
      difficult-to-control hypertension, with the main cause of transplanted renal artery stenosis
      (TRAS).

      The incidence of TRAS varies from 1 to 23% in the various series in the literature, depending
      on the definition and diagnostic techniques used, most commonly occurring between the 3rd
      month and the 2nd year after transplantation. However, it may present at any time with
      refractory hypertension and / or graft dysfunction in the absence of rejection, ureteral
      obstruction or infection.

      About 50% of TRAS cases occur at the anastomosis site and there seems to be no relationship
      with the type of anastomosis, whether end-to-end or end-to-side. TRAS is generally a
      consequence of clamp perfusion injury, incorrect suture technique, or fibrotic inflammatory
      reaction to suture material. Other factors attributed to TRAS are secondary to graft
      rejection, cytomegalovirus infection, and cadaveric donor graft. The last two factors are
      controversial in the literature. Late TRAS is related to progressive atherosclerosis.

      The diagnosis of TRAS is made by clinical manifestations and / or by complementary exams. In
      addition to refractory hypertension, patients with TRAS may have increased serum creatinine,
      sudden graft deterioration and acute pulmonary edema. Color Doppler ultrasonography is the
      most commonly used method due to its easy access, low cost and does not require the use of
      contrast or radiolabels. However, its biggest limitation is the heavy reliance on operator
      expertise. It has a sensitivity of 87 to 94% and a specificity of 86 to 100%. TRAS is
      suspected when Doppler ultrasound has a peak systolic velocity (PSV) above 180 cm / s and a
      resistance index <0.50.

      Computed tomography provides three-dimensional images that may be superior to those of
      selective angiography, with the advantage of not requiring arterial puncture and requiring
      less contrast. Nuclear magnetic resonance is even superior to tomography, with a sensitivity
      of 67 to 100% and specificity of 75 to 100%. However, its availability is still limited,
      besides presenting high costs.

      Renal arteriography is the gold standard for the diagnosis of TRAS. However, there is a need
      for high contrast volumes, which can precipitate acute renal failure, particularly in
      patients who already have renal dysfunction. Three-dimensional rotational angiography (3D-RA)
      appears as an auxiliary tool that can minimize the deleterious effects of contrast. The
      measurements obtained by 3D-RA showed a strong correlation with the measurements made by
      conventional angiography, demonstrating equivalent accuracy, without the need for additional
      projections, helping to perform the intervention.

      Complications arising from transplanted kidney arteriography are puncture site hematomas,
      pseudoaneurysms, thromboembolism, arteriovenous fistulas, iliac artery dissection, graft
      artery dissection, occurring in less than 10% of cases. Due to the substantial risks and high
      costs, arteriography cannot be considered a screening method and is only indicated when a
      stenosis is suspected based on noninvasive exams.

      Percutaneous intervention has been the method of choice for the treatment of TRAS with
      satisfactory results and few short-term complications, and its efficacy has been
      demonstrated, especially when using stents, in the various case series published in the
      literature. However, there is little data on long-term intervention, showing reduced
      mortality and graft preservation.

      Evaluated data from the 2000-2005 United States Renal Data System (USRDS) and found no
      differences in mortality or renal loss in patients undergoing TRAS angioplasty (145 patients)
      compared to those who only underwent clinical treatment (678 patients) .

      In a recently published systematic review, the authors demonstrated that percutaneous
      intervention with or without stenting was effective in the treatment of TRAS, with favorable
      results in terms of technical success (over 90%), clinical success, long graft patency, with
      few serious complications described. However, the authors report the absence of well-designed
      robust randomized studies, most of which are retrospective series of a single center with a
      low casuistic. The positive findings of this review contrast with the results found in the
      treatment of native renal artery stenosis, where stent revascularization showed no benefit in
      patients with atherosclerotic renovascular disease when compared to drug treatment. In this
      same article, the authors describe the inconsistency and lack of standardization in the
      methodology for defining the outcomes of the intervention on TRAS.

      The Hospital do Rim e Hipertensão, an agency linked to the Federal University of São Paulo
      (Unifesp) in Brazil, is the world leader in renal transplantation, performing an average of
      1000 transplants / year in recent years. From 2006 to January 2015, patients with suspected
      TRAS were referred for angiography in the Hemodynamics of Hospital São Paulo.

      The aims of this study was to retrospectively evaluate all patients referred to service with
      suspected TRAS who underwent angiography and intervention.
    
  