
    
      The proposed trial tests the extent to which CDS plus facilitation promotes evidence-based
      care and improves the clinical outcomes of reduced disease progression and mortality in
      primary care practices. We also conduct an observational comparative effectiveness analysis
      of data from a larger database of electronic medical records in order to identify the most
      successful components of evidence-based care with respect to disease progression and
      all-cause mortality.

      Specific Aim 1: Conduct a group randomized controlled trial of point-of-care computer
      decision support plus the full TRANSLATE model of practice change, versus computer decision
      support alone in promoting evidence-based care in primary care practices for all patients
      with an eGFR <60 and > 15 ml/min/1.73m2 confirmed with repeat testing over three or more
      months. (CKD stages 3 and 4) Hypothesis 1.1: CDS practices using the TRANSLATE model will
      provide a greater degree of evidence-based guideline-concordant care for CKD than CDS only
      practices.

      Specific Aim 2: Conduct an intent-to-treat and process analysis between the CDS practices
      with facilitation versus the CDS only practices of the clinical outcomes of CKD progression
      and all-cause mortality.

      Hypothesis 2.1: Patients with stage 3 and 4 CKD in facilitated practices will have slower CKD
      progression than patients in CDS only practices.

      Hypothesis 2.2: Patients with stage 3 and 4 CKD in facilitated practices will have
      significantly lower all-cause mortality than stage 3 and 4 patients in CDS only practices.

      Hypothesis 2.3: The process evaluation will determine through qualitative methods the
      fidelity of the facilitated TRANSLATE program; find the challenges and enablers of the
      implementation process, the role of facilitation, and the contextual factors that contribute
      to TRANSLATE decisions and strategies; and translate lessons learned into pragmatic "best
      practices" for future facilitation and dissemination.

      Specific Aim 3: Conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis that will compare the benefit of the
      intervention of computer decision support alone against the intervention of computer decision
      support plus TRANSLATE (practice facilitation). Hypothesis 3.1 The intervention of computer
      decision support plus TRANSLATE is more cost-effectiveness than the intervention of computer
      decision support alone.
    
  