
    
      Background & Motivation: Non-traumatic shock accounts for millions of emergency department
      visits every year and is a significant burden on the health care system making rapid
      identification and treatment essential. For decades the Rapid Ultrasound in Shock and
      Hypotension (RUSH) exam has been employed to help determine the etiology of non-traumatic
      shock in the ED setting. The RUSH exam does not answer other critical questions such as the
      need for additional fluid resuscitation. The current study hypothesizes that by include a
      step-wise cardiopulmonary algorithm the RUSH exam can be extended (E-RUSH) to accurately
      determine the need for additional fluid therapy.

      Study Design: Prospective Observational Study in two urban Emergency Departments with a
      combined annual census of >111,000.

      Population: ED patients exhibiting signs of shock definied by a systolic blood pressure < 100
      mmhg, MAP < 65, persistent tachycardia, mottled skin, or lactate >2mmol either at
      presentation or during ED stay will be included. Exclusion criteria will be inability to
      consent, external factors preventing ultrasound examination, age less than 18, pregnancy,
      incarceration, arrhythmia, cardiac arrest, or treating physician gestalt that the patient is
      not in shock.

      Protocol: The E-RUSH protocol will include ultrasound exams of the IVC, heart and lungs as
      described in the RUSH protocol but will also evaluate cardiac output, IVC collapsibility, and
      presense of B-lines on lung ultrasound. At the time of ultrasound measuresments a
      bioreactance device will be applied. Bioreactance measurements and ultrasound measurement of
      cardiac output will be recorded pre and post a passive straight leg raise test. All charts
      will be reviewed by two experts who are blinded to ultrasound and bioractance measurements.
      When possible the protocol will be repeated 1-2 hours later or after initial interventions in
      order to provide trend data.

      Data Analysis: Volume responsivness as assessed by the E-RUSH will be defined a priori using
      a step-wise flow diagram that combines IVC, lung and cardiac ejection fraction and output
      measurements (see research plan for details). Determination of volume responsiveness by the
      bioreactance device will be defined by manufacturer protocal. Determination of volume
      responsiveness by expert review will be by a standard abstraction form with agreement of both
      expert reviewers. Descriptive statistics will be performed to determine the test
      characteristics of the ultrasound protocol to predict volume responsiveness. Given the lack
      of a universally agreed upon gold standard for volume responsiveness, we will determine test
      characteristics for E-RUSH using the bioreactance device as a reference standard and using
      expert review as a second reference standard separately.

      FACILITY RESOURCES The study facilities are in San Diego California, with a combined
      emergency department census of over 111,000 patients per year. The emergency departments of
      the facilities are equipped with portable bedside ultrasound machines, CT and MRI, 24 hour
      laboratory testing and an integrated electronic medical record system. Emergency medicine and
      family medicine residents rotate through both emergency departments. Both departments are
      stroke receiving centers and level 3 trauma centers.

      Research Databases An important aspect of the KPSC managed care environment is its integrated
      approach to the delivery of medical care. This approach depends on, and therefore
      facilitates, the development and maintenance of a large number of databases, linkable through
      a unique identification key. These databases include those that track membership, encounters,
      laboratory, claims, pharmaceutical dispensations and others. The address information is
      annually geo-coded to the census block level, providing linkage to census-based group-level
      information about socio-economic status.

      Each of the KPSC clinical operations systems are updated in real-time, facilitating our
      ability to create near real-time research databases. Our Membership database captures
      demographic (e.g., name, date of birth, gender, race/ethnicity, etc.) and benefit information
      for over 12 million active and former members, and is updated on a weekly basis. The
      utilization database captures outpatient and hospital encounters (e.g., diagnoses,
      procedures, etc.), member claims submitted from outside hospitals (usually with up to 3-month
      delay), and care provided at home, skilled nursing and hospice facilities. This database is
      updated weekly. Outpatient and inpatient pharmacy databases track medication orders and
      dispenses, and are updated either daily or monthly depending on the source system. Death
      information is derived from multiple sources including KP hospital and membership data, as
      well as two external sources from California State and Social Security Administration death
      files. The state death records lag about one to two years for date and underlying cause of
      death and between two and three years for all causes listed on the death certificate.

      SCIENTIFIC ENVIRONMENT Biostatistical expertise is provided by a Biostatistics Unit that
      consists of statisticians, programmers, natural language specialists, database developers and
      administrators. The Unit provides services including statistical consultation, data analysis,
      data extraction, disease identification based on free-texts and data management for research
      projects. In addition, the Unit is responsible for creating many of the research data bases
      used. All Unit employees have SAS programming skills and years of experience in conducting
      broad and varied research. The Biostatistics Unit supports more than 300 research projects
      annually.

      Oversight of Research at KPSC KPSC has an Institutional Review Board (IRB) under the Medical
      Director of Operations for the Southern California Permanente Medical Group. The IRB is
      charged with the protection of human subjects through the oversight of all investigators and
      their research projects in Kaiser Permanente Southern California. Compliance with the minimum
      Federal standards for the protection of human subjects in research is demonstrated by a
      Federal Wide Assurance (FWA) held through the Kaiser Foundation Research Institute. The IRB
      also acts as the KPSC HIPAA privacy board.

      Ethics Kaiser Permanente - Southern California (KPSC) shall obtain written evidence of review
      and approval from our independent ethics committee (IRB) of the protocol, informed consent
      forms, evidence of partial waiver, and all other documents requiring IRB review and approval
      prior to the initiation of the project.

        1. RISKS TO THE SUBJECTS

             1. Human Subjects Involvement and Characteristics Describe the proposed involvement of
                human subjects in the work outlined in the Research Design and Methods section.

                The study population are ED patients exhibiting signs of shock definied by a
                systolic blood pressure < 100 mmhg, MAP < 65, persistent tachycardia, mottled skin,
                or lactate >2mmol either at presentation or during ED stay will be included.
                Exclusion criteria will be inability to consent, external factors preventing
                ultrasound examination, age less than 18, pregnancy, incarceration, traumatic
                mechanism, arrhythmia, cardiac arrest, or treating physician gestalt that the
                patient is not in shock. Our goal is to enroll a total of 50 patients.

                This study will not recruit subjects defined as vulnerable populations. Individuals
                age less than 18 and pregnant women will be excluded as noted in the exclusion
                criteria.

             2. Sources of Materials

           The following data will be obtained from the patient:

             -  Consent Form

             -  ultrasound will be used to perform visual assessment of the patient's inferior vena
                cava

             -  Variables including but not limited to: systolic blood pressure, MAP, persistent
                tachycardia, mottled skin, or lactate status, age, pregnancy status, arrhythmia,
                cardiac arrest,

             -  "Electronic Health Data" - All charts will be reviewed by two experts who are
                blinded to ultrasound and bioractance measurements.

             -  Bioreactance measurements and ultrasound measurement of cardiac output will be
                recorded pre and post a passive straight leg raise test.

           The data collected will be linked/coded using a study identification number (SID) and
           only KPSC study team members and persons directly involved in recruitment will have
           access to the key that identifies individual subjects.

        2. ADEQUACY OF PROTECTION AGAINST RISKS

             1. Recruitment and Informed Consent We will obtain a waiver to access and use the EHR
                data for case/patient identification. The waiver will be used to identify patients
                in order approach patients regarding the study and to obtain consent. Study
                personnel will screen the ED tracking board and communicate with ED providers to
                find patients meeting inclusion criteria. Upon identification study personnel, will
                approach patient in the private exam room to obtain informed consent in person.

                The study will not recruit anyone less than 18 or women who are pregnant. However,
                due to the rich diversity of Kaiser Permanente's membership in Southern California,
                Spanish speakers will be recruited. All materials and forms will be translated to
                Spanish to include all Spanish speaking/reading potential participants. Consent
                forms will be stored securely onsite and a study database will be maintained. All
                patients will be provided a copy of the consent form.

             2. Protection Against Risk Names and other identifying information on participants
                will be obtained for record keeping purposes only and no participants will be
                identified in any forms or reports from this study. Survey and clinical data will
                only be shared internally among KPSC study team members and only persons directly
                involved in recruitment will have access to the key that identifies individual
                subjects. Transfer of data if needed will be via encrypted email.

        3. POTENTIAL BENEFITS OF THE PROPOSED RESEARCH TO THE SUBJECTS AND OTHERS The immediate
           benefit to the participant is none. However, If the E-RUSH protocol proves accurate and
           useful, it has the potential to improve patient care and safety and a vulnerable and
           high risk population. There are no high-risk aspects of the proposed work.

        4. IMPORTANCE OF THE KNOWLEDGE TO BE GAINED There are no high-risk aspects of the proposed
           work. The importance of the current study presents an innovative algorithm that my
           further demonstrate the ability of ultrasound to be useful in the shock patient to
           determine fluid needs. If an algorithmic approach using bedside ultrasound proves
           accurate in titrating fluid resuscitation, it could reduce complications of under
           resuscitation (organ failure) and over resuscitation (pulmonary edema, third spacing and
           abdominal compartment syndrome). Avoidance of complications would have downstream
           benefits such as reduced length of stay, reduced mortality, and reduced burden on the
           healthcare system.

        5. DATA AND SAFETY MONITORING PLAN Our study will not be a clinical trial. All the
           information and/or databases will be password protected to ensure security of the PHI
           contained in the data systems. Study data access that would identify participants will
           be tightly controlled and limited to authorized individuals using the follow safeguards:
           roles and privileges, defined data owners, automatic log off and lockouts, field level
           hide, read only, or read-write permission at user level, encryption of data transfers,
           and limited/controlled delete capabilities. Standard backup procedures will be employed
           at Kaiser Permanente, where data will be backed up nightly to a secured disk based
           storage system and then offloaded to a robotic tape library system, with tapes rotated
           offsite for additional level of protection. This ensures against data loss in the event
           of a local systems failure or natural disaster.
    
  