
    
      Permitted Concomitant Medications and Procedures

        -  Subjects are receiving a JAK2 inhibitor for the treatment of MPN-associated MF that is
           approved in the country where the study is being conducted. JAK2 inhibitors are to be
           used according to their respective label and as prescribed as part of the subject's
           standard-of-care therapy as prescribed by their physician prior to study entry.

        -  Best supportive care (BSC) includes, but is not limited to, treatment with transfusions
           (eg, RBC, platelet, whole blood), ICTs, antibiotic, antiviral and/or antifungal therapy,
           and nutritional support as needed.

        -  Granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (ie, G-CSF, granulocyte macrophage
           colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF]) are allowed only in cases of neutropenic fever or as
           clinically indicated per product label.

        -  Prophylactic antithrombotic therapy is permitted.

        -  Thrombopoietin and platelet transfusions are permitted.

        -  Treatment with systemic corticosteroids is permitted for nonhematological conditions
           providing the subject is receiving a constant dose equivalent to ≤ 10 mg prednisone
           during the study.

        -  Administration of attenuated vaccines (eg, influenza vaccine) is allowed if clinically
           indicated per Investigator discretion.

        -  Iron chelation therapy (ICT) is to be used according to the product label. If the label
           permits, the ICT dose should be stable during at least the first 24 weeks of IP.
           Initiation of ICT while within the first 24 weeks of IP should be clinically indicated
           to treat an AE.

      Prohibited Concomitant Medications

      The following concomitant medications are specifically excluded during the course of the
      study:

        -  Cytotoxic, chemotherapeutic, targeted, or investigational agents/therapies (excluding
           JAK2 inhibitor therapy)

        -  Azacitidine, decitabine, or other hypomethylating agents

        -  Lenalidomide, thalidomide, and pomalidomide

        -  Erythropoietin stimulating agents (ESAs) and other RBC hematopoietic growth factors (eg,
           IL-3)

        -  Hydroxyurea or other alkylating agents

        -  Androgens (unless given to treat hypogonadism)

        -  Oral retinoids (topical retinoids are permitted)

        -  Arsenic trioxide

        -  Interferon

        -  Anagrelide

        -  Systemic corticosteroids at a dose equivalent to > 10 mg prednisone

        -  Investigational products for the treatment of MPN-associated MF
    
  