
    
      Objective:

      The objective is to study cerebral activity associated with reward-related decision making.
      We plan to analyze and localize electrical activity of the brain related to such processes
      with magnetoencephalography (MEG). We also want to modulate the activity of these areas using
      repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). We would like to analyze the
      consequences of these procedures on both brain activity and behavioral performance. This
      protocol will provide new information on cortical regions involved in decision-making and how
      these areas communicate with one another.

      Study population:

      50 right-handed adult healthy volunteers.

      Design:

      A probabilistic reversal task will be performed: subjects will have to choose between pairs
      of stimuli associated with changing probabilities of rewards and losses. Using MEG, their
      cerebral activity will be recorded during task performance.

      Since we want to modulate the cortical activity of cerebral areas involved in reward-related
      decision making, the study will be carried out in 8 different visits (screening visit,
      structural MRI acquisition and 6 recordings visits). In one visit, decision-making will be
      studied with no previous cortical stimulation. In 3 visits, decision-making will be studied
      after stimulation of one of 3 regions of interest. In one visit, decision-making will be
      studied after stimulation of a cortical area that is not thought to be involved in the
      process. Lastly, decision-making will be analyzed following a sham stimulation to test a
      possible placebo effect of rTMS.

      Outcome measures:

      Outcome measures are as follow:

        1. Task-related: reaction time and error rate during the task performance.

        2. MEG signal: scalp and source coherence between cortical regions, amplitude and latency
           of event-related potentials and even-related (de)synchronization.
    
  