
    
      Oesophago-gastric (OG) cancer is the fifth most common malignancy in the United Kingdom,
      affecting approximately 16,000 people each year. Although surgery offers the best prospect
      for potential cure of OG cancers, radical treatment may result in increased treatment relate
      mortality, high treatment-induced morbidity, and reduced quality of life. Traditionally, many
      centres managing OG cancers focused on mortality and morbidity as their key outcome measures.
      However, a growing body of opinion considers that a measure of broader effects of ill health
      and treatment on the patients quality of life (QOL) is necessary. Such considerations are
      important as it is questionable if patients are subjected to treatment merely to offer them a
      few extra months of life, particularly if this is at the expense of quality of life. These
      includes physical, functional, social and physiological aspects of life.

      More than half of the operated patients will develop significant functional disorder after
      surgery affecting QOL. The most common problems observed are dysphagia, dumping syndrome,
      delayed gastric emptying, and reflux. These functional disorder are not always detected
      immediately post operatively, but may become more troublesome as time goes by.

      The purpose of this study is

        -  to evaluate mid to long term HRQL in patients that underwent Ivor Lewis esophagectomy
           (ILE) with gastric pull-up in Royal Leicester Infirmary with minimum of 12 months follow
           up and up to 5 years.

        -  to identify clinical factors influencing quality of life post operatively.

        -  explore patients' experiences of their quality of life and how they handle their new
           life situation from a long-term perspective after oesophagectomy The outcome of this
           study would benefit both surgeons and patients in terms of pre-operative counselling and
           planning.
    
  