
    
      Many surgical procedures, which previously resulted in days to week's hospital admissions,
      are now done as outpatient procedures. This is the result of better surgical and
      anaesthesiology techniques as well as the economic incentive.

      Examples from another surgical fields are cholecystectomy and further back in oto-rhino-
      laryngology (ORL) also tonsillectomy.

      Hemithyriodectomy as an outpatient procedure is becoming increasingly popular and is already
      applied in some countries. However many European countries is continuing the procedure with
      hospital admission post-operatively (inpatient surgery), due to risk of complications. In
      Denmark hemithyroidectomy is currently done with at least one night hospital admission for
      observation of above mentioned . At the ORL department at Køge hospital it is annually
      performed approximately 200 hemithyroidectomies. It is a common procedure and the number of
      procedures yearly is increasing. Complications to hemithyroidectomy include postoperative
      haemorrhage, damage to the recurrent laryngeal nerve, hypothyroidism and infection and veryn
      rarely hypocalcaemia. With sufficient patient information, the above-mentioned complications
      can be managed in an outpatient setting. Postoperative haemorrhage is the most serious
      complication and thyroid surgery is unique in outpatient setting, considering the risk of
      cervical haemorrhage which secondary can lead to respiratory failure due to tracheal
      compression and laryngeal oedema in a rapid sequence. Incidence of haemorrhage after thyroid
      surgery varies from 0.19 % to 2.8 % of which most bleedings occur within six hours
      postoperatively. There are two different approaches in the event of post- operative
      haemorrhage; acute decompression bedside and acute re-operation.

      Acute decompression is reserved for respiratory failures. Eligibility criteria for who may
      undergo outpatient thyroid surgery have been debated in the literature. No consensus has been
      reached for these criteria. For now, there is consensus that some patients (high risk of
      bleeding) will require inpatient procedure, and in carefully selected groups of patients
      outpatient thyroid surgery is already performed, as the inclusion criteria below. Outpatient
      hemithyroidectomy has shown low number of complications in retrospective studies as well as
      high patient acceptance and economical advantage in recent prospective and retrospective
      studies studies. However, recent national and international studies recommend against
      outpatient procedure, mainly due to the risk of late cervical haemorrhage. It is therefore
      important to continue to investigate whether hemithyroidectomyis feasible as an outpatient
      procedure, especially considering patient safety and acceptance. This will be done in a
      randomized controlled trial where half of the patients are allocated to outpatient procedure
      and the other half to inpatient procedure. The aim is non-inferiority comparing the two
      above-mentioned procedures. As far as the authors know, no previous RCT has been done or
      published with this purpose.
    
  