
    
      This study is planned as a prospective randomized single blind controlled study. It was
      approved by the Ethics Committee of Ankara University, Faculty of Medicine and will be
      conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. The study will include 38 stroke
      survivors who are admitted for rehabilitation at the Department of Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation, Ankara University Medical Faculty. Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria
      of the study will randomly be divided into 2 groups as robotic group and control group.
      Random allocation software (RAS) program will be used to assign the patients to the treatment
      groups with "block randomization" method and to create the randomization scheme. In this
      single blinded study, all patients will be evaluated by the same physician (Dr. Merve Dayi).
      The physician will be blind to patient's assignment. Routine physical and rehabilitation
      medicine program including physical therapy and exercises, walking and balance training, and
      occupational therapy to improve activities of daily living will be given to all patients for
      a total of 6 weeks, 5 days/week, 1 hour/day. Robotic group will additionally receive upper
      extremity robotic training therapy with Armeo Spring V2.0 exoskeleton (Hocoma Inc.,Zurich,
      Switzerland) for 6 weeks, 5 days/week, 1 hour/day. The Armeo Spring is an adjustable
      suspension system for the upper limb that connects to virtual reality, which has settings
      with several degrees of complexity. The system is an exoskeleton that supports the patient's
      arm and magnifies any residual active movement of the hemiparetic arm in 3-dimensional space.
      The patients will receive 30 sessions of robotic therapy under the supervision of
      physiotherapists, who will adjust the patient's arm and hand in the device and select the
      virtual reality computer games according to the functional level of the patient's upper limb.
      All individuals participating in the study will be assessed before and immediately after the
      treatment and also 3 months at follow-up. Each assessment will include evaluation of
      cognitive functions, upper extremity motor functions, hand dexterity, upper extremity
      activities and daily living activities.

      Statistical Analysis

      As the primary outcome variable, the difference in cognitive functions measured by the
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale (MoCA) between baseline and post-treatment will be used
      (Δ MoCA). Group sample sizes of 19 and 19 achieve 80% power to detect a Δ MoCA of 1.0 between
      robotic and control groups with estimated group standard deviations of 2.5 and 2.5 and with a
      significance level of 0.05 using a two-sided Mann-Whitney U test. Stratified block
      randomization will be used to ensure an equal number of subjects in each group. Educational
      status and age has been chosen as stratification variables. Difference between two groups for
      continuous variables will be evaluated by Student's t test. Mann-Whitney U test will be used
      to assess difference between two groups in terms of ordinal variables. The differences in
      proportions between groups will be compared by using Chi-Square. The repeated-measures ANOVA
      will be used to test within-group and between-group comparisons for continuous variables and
      interaction between them. p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  