
    
      Hestia3 will evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of ticagrelor versus placebo in
      children with SCD during treatment for at least 12 months and up to approximately 24 months.

        -  The target population are children aged ≥2 to <18 years of age and body weight of ≥12 kg
           diagnosed with HbSS or HbS/β0 confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography or
           hemoglobin electrophoresis. At least 50 evaluable patients should be recruited in each
           of the age groups, ≥2 years to <12 years and ≥12 years to <18 years.

        -  To be eligible for the study, patients must have experienced at least 2 VOCs (defined as
           painful crisis and/or ACS) events in the past 12 months prior to Visit 1, indicating
           that the severity of the patient's disease justifies preventive chronic long-term
           treatment. The intent is to enroll only children aged 2 years or above, since VOCs
           become more frequent with age.

        -  Study participants should receive standard of care for SCD, adjusted to the individual
           patient at the discretion of the investigator, including routine health care screening
           examinations and immunizations according to local guidelines and health care
           programmers. Study drug will be given on the background of standard treatments for SCD.
           Study participants are not withheld from any other treatments that may be used in SCD
           (eg., hydroxyurea) during the trial, which is important considering the use of a placebo
           control group. However, restrictions apply to some medications and interventions that
           may be necessary for the patient's health and well-being during the study.

        -  Patients are to be followed up to 24 months or until a common study end date is reached
           defined as 12 months after the last patient is randomised. The expected average
           follow-up is 18 months. Considering inclusion of patients with at least 2 VOC events in
           the past year, this treatment duration is considered long enough to evaluate effects on
           VOC events as well as to capture safety and tolerability data supporting a potential
           future long term use of ticagrelor.

        -  Due to ticagrelor mechanism of action and the potential to reduce symptoms caused by
           ischemia during a vaso-occlusion, a composite endpoint with painful crises and/or ACS
           has been selected for the primary endpoint. Painful crisis is the most common reason for
           emergency department visits for patients with SCD with a significant impact on young
           patients' lives, affecting them physically and emotionally. Secondary endpoints are
           included to broaden the understanding of effects in patients with SCD and to also assess
           potential benefits on symptomatic disease burden and health-related quality of life
           (HRQL).

        -  Patients will be treated with 15, 30 and 45 mg bd or matching placebo, depending on body
           weight.
    
  