
    
      The specific aims of this study are to:

        1. Compare patient responses to selected modes of therapy (activity) without and with an
           ETM protocol

             1. Molecular responses: markers of inflammation interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-10

             2. Physiological responses: peripheral oxygen saturation, heart rate, blood pressure,
                new dysrhythmias

             3. Safety/Unsafe events including pain, fatigue, line or tube dislodgement, fall or
                near fall

        2. Determine the associations between duration and level of activity/ETM achieved and
           outcomes:

             1. occurrence of delirium

             2. occurrence of ventilator associated pneumonia

             3. occurrence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary emboli

             4. occurrence of acquired pressure ulcer

             5. muscle strength

             6. number of days mechanically ventilated

             7. discharge location (after ICU)

        3. Describe strategies used in the ICU to initiate and implement activity with and without
           an ETM protocol

             1. use of personnel such as registered nurses, physical therapists, respiratory
                therapist and nursing assistants

             2. use of equipment such as a walker, lift device, belt or bed

             3. perception of sufficient time and abilities

        4. Describe patient factors that are associated with implementation of ETM

             1. Potentially modifiable exemplars: sedation, site of vascular access, physician
                orders

             2. Potentially nonmodifiable exemplars: weight, consciousness, hemodynamic
                instability, terminal condition

      This is a prospective, longitudinal, repeated measures study with a control period, run-in
      period and intervention period. Data will be collected during all three periods for
      comparison. During the control period, patients will receive standard care. Standard care in
      this institution does not include a program of progressive or early mobility but does include
      activities similar to the ETM protocol, implemented at the discretion of the staff. During
      the run-in period, subjects will receive a mix of standard care and the intervention.
    
  