
    
      Background. Community implementation is a barrier to technology transfer of contingency
      management (CM), an effective behavioral treatment for substance dependence. The Biomedical
      Informatics Section (BIS), the Treatment Section, and the NIDA Blending team are developing
      and validating software for automated contingency management (ACM) for free distribution and
      use in community treatment programs. This is part of a collaborative effort between NIDA and
      SAMHSA to facilitate use of CM in the community.

      Scientific goals. To validate the usability and robustness of our ACM program, eXtensible
      Platform for Motivational Incentives (XPMI), implemented under conditions simulating those of
      a community treatment program with minimal technology support.

      Participant population. Up to 30 outpatients (20 completers) participating in treatment
      studies at Archway clinic. Target enrollment for the outpatients will include 30% women and
      60% minorities (mostly African-American).

      Experimental design and methods. In this field test, Archway counseling staff will use XPMI
      to reinforce participants attendance at up to 12 counseling sessions for up to 14 weeks.
      (Participants who are still enrolled in the clinic at the end of this period will be
      considered completers.) Participants will earn opportunities to draw for prizes each time
      they attend their weekly counseling session on time and as scheduled. A record of any
      problems in using the program and the possible recommended solutions will be maintained.
      Feedback on problems, accuracy, and simplicity will be given to the software-development team
      at BIS on an ongoing basis. BIS will fix any problems as they arise.

      Benefits to participants and/or society. There are no direct benefits to the participants.
      Availability of XPMI may improve technology transfer of a proven effective treatment to the
      community.

      Risks to participants. Risks of participation are minimal. This is a secondary study;
      participants decisions about enrollment and compliance will not affect their status in their
      primary studies.
    
  