
    
      This is a Phase I, randomised, single-centre, single-blind, placebo-controlled study to
      assess the safety, tolerability of oral Xanamem once daily in healthy elderly subjects.

      It is planned to randomise approximately 84 subjects, 42 in each cohort, at a single site in
      Australia.

      Cohort 1 starts with a 20mg QD dose vs matching placebo. A Dose Escalation Committee will
      review the results from cohort 1 and provide a recommendation to proceed with Cohort 2
      randomisation which involves a dose escalation to 30mg.

      At the Baseline visit (Week 0), eligible subjects will be randomised on a 30:12 ratio to
      receive either Xanamem administered orally QD (treatment group) or matching placebo (placebo
      group). Subjects will return to the study site for visits at Week 2, Week 4, Week 6, Week 8,
      Week 10, End of Treatment (Week 12) and Follow-up (4 weeks post last dose of study drug)
      visits, at which study assessments will be performed.

      Ad hoc telephone contact may also occur at any other time-point throughout the study, if
      deemed necessary by the investigator/study nurse, or if the subject wishes to report an
      adverse event (AE).

      Subjects will be interviewed and examined at the study site at each visit and will complete a
      variety of questionnaires, routine safety evaluations and nerve function tests.

      A central reader will review every Nerve Function Monitoring (NFM) assessment performed for
      each subject for Potential Nerve Safety Signals (PNSS).

      Optional cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sampling will be performed at baseline and end of
      treatment visits for a small subgroup of subjects, who provide additional consent. Subjects
      who do not provide consent for this optional sub-study will still be eligible for the main
      study.

      The overall study duration for an individual subject will be 17 to 20 weeks, including a
      screening period of up to 4 weeks, a single-blind treatment period of 12 weeks, and a
      follow-up period of 4 weeks. The total duration of the study is expected to be 1.5 years.
    
  