
    
      Background: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a multi-factorial and multi-systemic
      pathology associated with motor neuron degeneration, muscle atrophy and paralysis. Mounting
      evidence suggests that the earliest presymptomatic functional and pathological changes are
      occurring distally in axons and at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). These changes precede,
      and can be independent of the loss of cell bodies or alterations in other cell types already
      linked to the ALS disease process. In line with these studies, we found that in human ALS
      muscles the acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are less sensitive to ACh than denervated non-ALS
      muscles. It has been also reported that muscle specific expression of mutant superoxide
      dismutase (SOD1) gene induces muscle atrophy, significant reduction in muscle strength,
      mitochondrial dysfunction, microgliosis, and neuronal degeneration, suggesting that
      retrograde signals from muscle to nerve may contribute to synapse and axon damage. This
      suggests that skeletal muscle is an important target for therapeutic intervention.
      Neuromuscular system may be artificially stimulated either by an electrical stimulation (ES)
      or by time-varying electromagnetic fields. Neuromuscular magnetic stimulation (NMMS) has been
      proposed as an alternative, non-invasive, stimulation technique.

      Objective: aim of the study is to verify whether neuromuscular magnetic stimulation can
      improve muscle function in spinal-onset Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) patients. We will
      study if neuromuscular magnetic stimulation can counteract muscle atrophy by promoting the
      modulation of factors associated with muscle catabolism and/or increasing the efficacy of
      nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.

      Methods: At the baseline visit, ALS patients will be randomized in two groups to receive
      daily real neuromuscular magnetic stimulation in one arm and sham neuromuscular magnetic
      stimulation in the opposite arm for two weeks. All patients will undergo median nerve
      conduction study and a clinical examination, including handgrip strength test and evaluation
      of upper limbs muscle strength by Medical Research Council Muscle Scale. At the end of the
      stimulation procedures, a needle muscle biopsy will be performed bilaterally from flexor
      carpi radialis muscle. Muscle samples will be used to perform histomorphometric and molecular
      analysis and electrophysiological recordings of acetylcholine evoked currents.
    
  