
    
      This work was a controlled and randomized clinical trial, where patients were analyzed in
      postoperative period of CABG with CPB. The protocol study was approved by Ethics Committee of
      the Faculty of Medicine, University os São Paulo and the Ethics Committee of the Hospital do
      Coração. Written informed consent was obtained from the patients or their surrogates at the
      thime of their enrollment.

      Patients, doctors and nursing team were blinded to which group the patient was allocated,
      only the physiotherapy team, responsible for applying NIV therapy in the study, was aware of
      group allocation after randomization.

      All the patients were ventilated in Servo I (MAQUET Critical Care AB™, Sweden) and used the
      FitLife total face mask (Philips Respironics™, USA).

      Randomization was performed using a computer-based software. Patients eligible to the study
      were randomly assigned to the Control Group (CG) or Recruitment Group (RG).

      CG used NIV for 30 minutes with pressure support for a tidal volume of 6 mL/Kg, PEEP 8 cm
      H2O, fractional inspired oxygen (FiO2) for a peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) ≥ 95%. RG
      used NIV with RM with PEEP 15 cm H2O and afterwards 20 cm H2O remaining 2 minutes in each
      level, then being maintained in NIV for 30 minutes with pressure support for a tidal volume
      of 6 mL/Kg, PEEP 8 cm H2O, FiO2 for a SpO2 ≥ 95%.

      Patients were monitored during the whole NIV session.The RM would be interrupted and medical
      staff would be called to check the patient if any clinical instability occurred during or
      after RM, such as barotrauma, respiratory instability, hemodynamic instability and
      arrhythmia.

      Medical staff would take the required measures for the safety of the patient.

      Safety criteria for Interruption of RM:

        -  respiratory rate > 35 breaths per minute;

        -  heart rate >120 beats per minute or < 20 points from baseline;

        -  Systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg or > 16 mmHg;

        -  Cardiac arrhythmia;

        -  Patient's request. The patients used NIV three times per day until discharge from the
           ICU, the arterial blood gas and chest radiograph examinations were collected as sector
           routine. The arterial blood samples was collected after 2 minutes in room air and chest
           radiograph without NIV.

      All postoperative patients of the ICU had NIV therapy once in the morning, once in the
      afternoon, once at night and only the physiotherapist applied NIV. All the patients were
      guided concerning how their therapy would be and, if they had queries, they were clarified
      before the start.
    
  