
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the percentage of patients with minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete
      remission (CR) (MRD-CR) as measured by flow cytometry at the end of first cycle of
      consolidation therapy with chemotherapy + MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and compare between the two
      study arms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the rate of complete remission (CR)/complete remission with incomplete count
      recovery (CRi) as defined per European LeukemiaNet 2017 response criteria at time of count
      recovery after induction therapy with chemotherapy + MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) (Dohner et al.,
      2017).

      II. Rates of complete remission with partial recovery count (CRh) and hematologic improvement
      (HI) to red blood cells and platelets.

      III. Assess the rates of MRD negativity at day 14, MRD-negative CR at end of induction
      therapy and MRD negative CR after last consolidation cycle.

      IV. Assess event free survival (EFS), measured from randomization to failure to achieve
      CR/CRi, relapse or death from any cause, and relapse free survival (RFS), calculated as the
      time from first documentation of CR/CRi to either disease relapse or death from any cause.

      V. Assess the duration of response (DOR, defined as the time from first CR/CRi to the date of
      the first documented relapse or death, whichever occurs first) and overall survival (OS),
      defined as time from randomization to death from any cause.

      VI. Assess safety endpoints including proportion of patients who develop severe toxicity as
      defined in the protocol.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. MRD assessment by duplex sequencing (DS) and comparing DS and multiparameter flow
      cytometry for MRD detection as an exploratory biomarker.

      II. Assessment of immune-checkpoint expression and dynamic change of immune cell subsets in
      response to the combination of checkpoint-inhibition and backbone combination in acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML).

      III. High-throughput sequencing of the T-cell receptor (TCR) Vb CDR3 regions on ﬂow
      cytometrically sorted t-cell subsets to assess the effect of immunotherapy on the diversity
      of the t-cell repertoire and assess for correlation to clinical outcomes.

      IV. Investigation of protein signatures and ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with
      response and efficacy using O-link cytokine panel and RNA-sequencing (seq), respectively.

      V. Determination of mutational load by whole exome sequencing to assess for correlation with
      clinical outcomes, immune infiltrating profile, and T cell repertoire diversity and
      clonality.

      VI. Correlate gut microbiome at baseline and changes in the microbiome with clinical
      response, both in standard chemotherapy and immunotherapy/chemotherapy therapy settings.

      VII. MRD assessment using duplex sequencing strategy for circulating cell-free tumor
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and correlation with long-term outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      INDUCTION PHASE:

      ARM I: Patients receive cytarabine via continuous intravenous (IV) infusion on days 1-7 and
      idarubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30
      minutes on days 1-3 of a 28-35 day cycle. Patients who have evidence of residual leukemia
      receive cytarabine via continuous IV infusion over days 1-5 and idarubicin hydrochloride IV
      over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-2 for an
      additional cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning
      day 8, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a CR or a
      CRi may undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) per physician discretion or
      continue to consolidation therapy.

      ARM II: Patients receive cytarabine via continuous IV infusion on days 1-7 and idarubicin
      hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on
      days 1-3 of a 28-35 day cycle. Patients who have evidence of residual leukemia receive
      cytarabine via continuous IV infusion over days 1-5 and idarubicin hydrochloride IV over
      15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-2 for an
      additional cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who
      achieve a CR or a CRi may undergo HSCT per physician discretion or continue to consolidation
      therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY:

      ARM I: Within 4 weeks of remission status documentation, patients receive high-dose
      cytarabine (HiDAC) IV over 1-3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 for a total of 6
      doses and pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes. Cycles with HiDAC repeat every 28-42 days and
      cycles with pembrolizumab repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who remain in CR or CRi receive up to 3 additional cycles of
      HiDAC and pembrolizumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity and
      continue to maintenance therapy.

      ARM II: Within 4 weeks of remission status documentation, patients receive HiDAC IV over 1-3
      hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 for a total of 6 doses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who remain in CR or CRi receive up to 3
      additional cycles of HiDAC in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY:

      ARM I: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for
      up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6
      months for up to 5 years. Patients who undergo HSCT are also followed up at 100 days
      post-transplant.
    
  