
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare time to rituximab failure between the rituximab scheduled and rituximab
           retreatment arms.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the time to first cytotoxic therapy between the rituximab scheduled and
           rituximab retreatment arms.

        -  To document the rationale for beginning cytotoxic therapy; defined as chemotherapy,
           radiation therapy or radioimmunotherapy.

        -  To compare the toxicities associated with rituximab therapy between the two randomized
           treatment arms.

        -  Quality of Life Objectives:

             1. To compare health-related quality of life, distress, psychological functioning,
                physical well-being and functional well-being of patients receiving rituximab
                scheduled to those receiving rituximab retreatment.

             2. To examine the impact of differential treatment response (delayed time to rituximab
                failure and/or time to first cytotoxic therapy), if observed, on quality of life,
                distress, and psychological functioning on patients receiving rituximab scheduled
                to those receiving rituximab retreatment.

             3. To obtain prospective data on physical and functional well-being during treatment
                with rituximab.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      histologic subtype (follicular vs other), age (under 60 vs 60 and over), and the time from
      diagnosis (less than 1 year vs at least 1 year).

        -  Induction rituximab: Patients receive rituximab Intravenous (IV) once a week for 4
           weeks.

      Patients are re-evaluated 9 weeks after the completion of induction rituximab. Patients with
      a partial or complete response to induction rituximab are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm A (retreatment rituximab): Patients receive rituximab IV once a week for 4 weeks
           upon disease progression provided time to progression is more than 6 months.

        -  Arm B (scheduled rituximab): Patients receive a single dose of rituximab IV once every
           13 weeks until disease progression and in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed after induction rituximab treatment and at 26, 39, 65, 117, 169,
      and 221 weeks after randomization.

      Patients are followed at least annually for 15 years from study entry.
    
  