
    
      There is no single, simple test to differentiate MS from conditions that mimic it. Apart from
      the patient's symptoms, doctors use Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the brain to see if
      there are abnormalities which are consistent with MS. In patients without typical symptoms or
      a typical MRI appearance, a firm diagnosis cannot be made as other neurological illnesses can
      mimic symptoms of MS and the MRI scans can look very similar. Further tests are often
      required such as lumbar punctures, resulting in delays, discomfort for the patient and
      additional healthcare costs. With time the diagnosis can become clearer as patients may
      develop other symptoms of MS but this may take months or years.

      The most common errors are from misinterpretation of the brain abnormalities or 'lesions'
      seen on the MRI scan. Subsequently if a patient is misdiagnosed with MS they may receive
      treatment they do not need. Furthermore a delay in a firm diagnosis delays treatment for
      another condition. With the rapid increase of new medications in the last few years, accurate
      and rapid diagnosis is paramount.

      Pathologically (when looking at lesions using a microscope) MS lesions usually have a vein
      running through the centre, whereas in lesions arising from other conditions, the
      investigators hypothesize that no central vein is seen. The investigators can therefore
      distinguish between patients with MS and patients without it.

      The researchers therefore want to test the value of a clinical 3-Tesla MRI brain scan in
      accurately distinguishing between MS and other conditions, with MRI sequences that have been
      refined over the last few years.

      Patients will only have one research MRI brain scan and then be followed up by their
      neurologist, who will confirm the final diagnosis. The investigators shall then look back at
      the original scans to see if those with MS had veins within their lesions and if those
      without MS had lesions without veins
    
  