
    
      Living donor transplants provide several advantages over deceased donor kidneys, including a
      shorter waiting time. Living donor grafts also appear to have a lower rate of delayed graft
      function and improved long-term recipient and graft survival. Most published studies of
      living kidney donation have supported that the donation process is relatively safe for the
      donor. However, these reports also emphasize concerns that comprehensive long-term data on
      U.S. live donor outcomes are insufficient. One concern is that current data may underestimate
      the true long-term morbidity and mortality of living kidney donation. Additionally, older
      studies might not apply to the current donor population that includes older and more obese
      individuals.

      This is an observational study to look at the long term outcomes in living kidney donors.
      This study also seeks to find out if living kidney donors are at higher risk for certain
      conditions when compared to people of similar backgrounds who have not donated a kidney.
      Medical history, completed questionnaires, and blood and urine tests will be collected from
      donors and non donors. The compiled data from donors and non donors will be compared. Risks
      for diseases related to the kidney, heart, and blood vessels will be examined between the two
      groups. Quality of life and health insurance status will also be compared.

      The study will be conducted in 2 phases. All donors who donated a kidney between 5 and 50
      years ago at one of the three study transplant centers will be asked to take part in Phase 1.
      Phase 1 aims to collect limited medical information using a short questionnaire. Phase 2 will
      include Phase 1 donors who agree to further assessments and matched community control
      participants. Participants in Phase 2 will be asked to complete more in-depth questionnaires
      on health status and quality of life. Phase 2 also involves height, weight, and blood
      pressure measurements. Blood and urine will be collected for this study if the participant
      does not have the necessary tests within 3 years of study participation.

      Seven thousand-eight hundred-sixty four (7864) previous kidney donors and about two
      thousand-five hundred (2500) control subjects will be asked to take part in this study.
      Participants will be recruited for this study over a 2.5.
    
  