
    
      The use of ECMO has increased dramatically in the past decade with improvements in technology
      and survival. Whilst it is a potentially life-saving intervention in a group of patients at
      high risk of death, it is both highly invasive and expensive. ECMO poses a dramatic
      physiological burden on patients with major long-term consequences. Among these, severe
      prolonged neuromuscular weakness is perhaps the most significant complication. Described
      clinically as intensive care unit acquired weakness (ICUAW), it is associated with prolonged
      weaning from mechanical ventilation, delayed rehabilitation, increased hospital length of
      stay, and mortality with residual deficits in physical functional ability persisting up to 5
      years following the ICU admission. The health value, to both patients and society, could be
      substantially improved if more patients achieved a complete recovery.

      Muscle strength testing in the early stages of critical illness is limited, as it requires
      the patient to be awake, alert and cognitively intact, therefore delayed diagnosis of ICUAW
      due to inability of patients to complete muscle strength testing is common. Consequently,
      there is growing interest in the utility of ultrasound imaging to monitor the trajectory of
      muscle wasting and inform development of targeted interventions in these critically ill
      patients. Ultrasound imaging of skeletal muscle is a non-invasive, painless and radiation
      free technique that can provide objective, accurate and reliable data on skeletal muscle in
      these critically ill patients. This study will use ultrasound imaging to quantify the early
      change in skeletal muscle size and quality, and the relationship to strength and physical
      function in patients on ECMO. Risk stratification of patients with peripheral muscle wasting
      is vital for optimising clinical management, including development of improved rehabilitative
      strategies to improve recovery and optimise the risk/benefit profile of ECMO.
    
  