
    
      Diaries written for critically ill patients has previously been shown to protect patient and
      relatives from new cases of post traumatic stress (Jones et al. 2010, Jones et al. 2012,
      Garrouste-Orgeas 2012). Furthermore it has been described how relatives and patients use
      diaries written by nurses to process the time they stayed in the intensive care unit (Egerod
      et al. 2011). This study will investigate if there is a similar effect, when relatives write
      the diary for the critically ill patient instead of nurses doing it as patients find it very
      valuable when relatives has contributed to the diary or when relatives presence has been
      documented in the diary (Engström et al. 2009).

      The investigators hypothesis is that a diary written by relatives for critically ill patients
      will reduce the risk of developing symptoms of post traumatic stress in relatives and
      patients.

      Design: randomized controlled study. Relative and patient are randomized as a pair to either
      intervention group (diary intervention) or control group (standard care). Relatives will be
      recruited to the study while the patient is critically ill in the ICU, the patient will be
      recruited when he or she is able to receive information about the study.

      Intervention: Nurses guide the nearest relative (spouse, partner, child, parent or friend) to
      write a diary during the patients stay in the ICU and up to a month post discharge. The diary
      is a notebook which also contains a written instruction on how to write and use the diary
      during and after the time in the intensive care unit. At least two photographs of the patient
      is taken by the staff and added to the diary upon the patients consent.

      Blinding: Due to the nature of the intervention neither caregivers nor participants can be
      blinded to the intervention. However, steps will be taken to ensure that the outcomes
      assessor is blinded.

      Setting: the study will take place in the two ICUs (10 bed and 7 beds respectively) of the
      hospital unit Hospitalsenheden Vest, a 441 bed hospital serving 300.000 citizens. Both ICUs
      are mixed medical/surgical units.

      Primary outcome: Risk of post traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS-14 (Twigg et al 2008).

      Secondary outcomes: Anxiety and depressionsymptoms (HADS (Zigmond and Snaith 1983)) and
      general physical and psychological wellbeeing (SF-36 (Bjorner et al. 1998)).

      Baseline data: To compare groups the following parameters will be recorded on all eligible
      patients. Patients: age, sex, education, marital status, diagnosis, SAPS-II score (Le Gall et
      al. 1993), hours on ventilator, LOS-ICU. Furthermore the following data will be recorded on
      participating relatives: age, sex, relation to patient, education and working status.

      Sample size: Based on findings from a previous study (1) where the median PTSS-14 score was
      24 (SD 12), alfa 5% and beta 80% and a minimal relevant difference of 4 points, 71
      relative-patient pairs needs to be included in each group. To compensate for dropouts due to
      critical illness and death, 100 pairs will be included in each group. The data collection
      period is anticipated to last 24 months.

      Follow-up: 3 months post ICU discharge all participants receive a questionnaire to be
      completed and returned by mail or email.

      Statistical analysis will cover a comparison of mean and median values in the two study
      groups, supplemented by a stratified analysis to estimate risk reduction. Parametric and
      non-parametric test will be applied according to the nature of data.

      Dissemination: Results, positive, negative or inconclusive will be published in an
      international peer-reviewed journal.
    
  