
    
      The complex consequences of childhood obesity represent major concerns in most developed
      countries, largely contributing to metabolic complications with costly repercussions for the
      burden of disease. The burden is exemplified by high prevalence rates of overweight or
      obesity.

      The ADIBOX protocol was designed to provide a better understanding of the bone-adipocyte
      cross-talk in adolescents with obesity and the effects of physical activity-induced weight
      loss on this cross-talk.

      Obesity effectively leads to hormonal alterations favoring the accumulation of fat mass and
      loss of bone mass. Advancing the knowledge of the complex interactions between adipocyte and
      osteocyte activities may contribute to the mechanistic understanding of the body's responses
      to weight loss during adolescence and prevent cardiovascular risk. Indeed, the adipose-bone
      tissue cross-talk has been recently linked with cardiovascular diseases. Similarly as adipose
      tissue, released-products from bone tissue may act directly or indirectly on cardiovascular
      risk and diseases.

      The ADIBOX study, a 40 weeks longitudinal study (LS) with repeated measures on four occasions
      (baseline and every fourteen weeks), will allow us to understand the effects of physical
      activity-induced weight loss on this cross-talk in obese adolescents.

      Data will be analyzed using Stata (StataCorp, College Station, USA) and IBM Statistics SPSS
      version 22 (IBM Corp, 2013, Chicago, IL, USA) and significance will be accepted at a
      two-sided alpha level of p<0.05. After testing for normal distribution (Shapiro-Wilk test),
      data will be treated either by parametric or non-parametric analyses according to statistical
      assumptions.

      Student t tests or Mann-Whitney U test will be performed to compare adipose tissue (total,
      subcutaneous, visceral) variation reported to bone mass variation at lumbar spine between
      groups at baseline. Pearson (or Spearman when appropriate) correlation coefficient will be
      used and compared with Fisher test (command corcor Stata) to measure the link between
      exercise-inducing weight loss on adipose tissue and bone mass variations. Longitudinal data
      will be treated using a mixed model analyses in order to treat fixed effects group, time and
      group x time interaction taking into account between and within participant variability.
    
  