
    
      This project will combine advanced neuroimaging with detailed neuro-psychology evaluation,
      performed in both children and young adults affected by Sturge-Weber syndrome, in order to
      address two main aims, each of them with two research hypotheses:

      AIM 1. To determine the accuracy of a novel, rapid MRI approach for detection of early and
      advanced SWS brain abnormalities as compared to a standard MRI acquisition (current clinical
      standard).

      Hypothesis 1.1. In young children with SWS, rapid MRI using STAGE will detect the presence
      and extent of brain involvement with high accuracy when compared to standard MRI.

      Hypothesis 1.2. In children, adolescents, and young adults, rapid MRI using STAGE will have
      high accuracy to detect advanced brain vascular and parenchymal abnormalities as compared to
      standard MRI.

      Since the detrimental neurocognitive effects of SWS brain involvement are most robust during
      the early disease course, early interventions, including preventive antiepileptic treatment
      in children with high-risk port-wine birthmark are being considered. This paradigm changing
      therapeutic approach would greatly benefit from safe, accurate imaging for rapid screening
      not requiring sedation or contrast injection. In this aim, the investigators will evaluate a
      recently developed, rapid, multi-echo MRI acquisition protocol (STAGE: Strategically Acquired
      Gradient Echo) for its ability to detect early and late SWS-related vascular and brain tissue
      abnormalities.

      AIM 2. To assess the role of key vascular and neuronal compensatory mechanisms in
      neurocognitive outcome in unilateral SWS.

      Hypothesis 2.1. Extensive ipsilateral deep vein collaterals will protect the SWS-affected
      hemisphere as indicated by relatively preserved structural brain integrity and global
      neurocognitive functions.

      Hypothesis 2.2. In unilateral SWS, reorganized structural networks in the contralateral
      cerebral hemisphere will predict alterations in specific cognitive, motor, language, and
      executive functions.

      Recent studies revealed two, potentially powerful compensatory mechanisms that may offset the
      effects of SWS-related brain injury in unilateral SWS: (i) expanding ipsilateral deep venous
      collaterals, and (ii) contralateral brain reorganization associated with preserved verbal
      functions at the cost of non-verbal abilities ("crowding" effect) in left-hemispheric SWS.
      Here the investigators will use advanced MRI techniques (such as susceptibility-weighted and
      diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)-based connectome analysis) to evaluate the long-term global
      and specific neurocognitive effects of venous vascular remodeling and structural
      reorganization, respectively.
    
  