
    
      Background

      Acute chest pain triage in the Emergency Department (ED) may prove challenging, since similar
      symptoms can reveal both mild or life-threatening disorders, and the clinical presentation
      itself is known not to be reliable for evaluating the risk of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) .

      The first priority in patients with suspected ACS is to identify those with ST-elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI), since these patients require urgent reperfusion therapy. Both
      European and American cardiology guidelines recommend implementation of a 12-lead
      electrocardiogram (ECG) within 10 min of arrival in the ED.

      In contrast, in the absence of electrocardiographic changes consistent with ischemia, the ACS
      rate is low (1-8% depending on the number of risk factors) , and ACS are associated with
      lower in-hospital mortality.

      Emergency Department (ED) triage systems for acute chest pain are either based on clinical
      features or on a 12-lead ECG. A recent study showed the systems having a similar diagnostic
      performance but different characteristics since clinical-based triage had a higher
      sensitivity and ECG-based triage had a higher specificity. The lack of sensitivity of ECG
      based triage was explained by the fact that patients with a normal or non-ischemic ECG were
      assigned to a low-acuity triage score, defined as inadequate (false negative) for ACS
      patients. Conversely, the lack of specificity of clinical based triage was due to a large
      number of patients with benign pathology assigned to a high-acuity triage score to perform a
      12-lead ECG within the 10 minutes after the first medical contact as required.

      The investigators therefore hypothesized that combination of 12-lead ECG and cardiovascular
      risk factor could increase the sensitivity of ECG based triage for chest pain patients with a
      normal or non-ischemic ECG.

      Methods

      Selection of participants

      All consecutive patients above 18 years of age, presenting at ED with acute non-traumatic
      chest pain as main complaint will be systematically included in the study.

      Study design

      The investigators plan a prospective, single-center, observational study in a teaching
      hospital in Brussels, Belgium.

      Triage of chest pain patients will be performed using the "French Emergency Nurses
      Classification version 2" (FRENCH) triage system, which is currently used in our ED. FRENCH
      score is a 5-levels triage system classifying patients from category 1 corresponding to the
      "immediately life-threatening condition" to category 5 corresponding to the "less or
      non-urgent situations". Maximum authorized waiting period before first medical assessment
      according to severity category are respectively: immediate response, 20 minutes, 60 minutes,
      120 minutes and undefined. Initial triage of chest pain patients is based on vital signs,
      than if normal patients with a normal or unmodified ECG are sorted into category 3, those
      with an abnormal ECG without evidence of ischemia are classified into category 2, while those
      with ECG showing signs of ischemia (ST elevation, ST depression, new onset of a left bundle
      branch block, or T-wave inversions) are classified into category 1. Patients with lateral
      chest pain of a probable musculoskeletal nature are sorted into category 4 without performing
      an ECG.

      The FRENCH triage (ECG-based triage) will be compared to a modified FRENCH triage system
      (ECGScore- based triage) upgrading high-risk patients with a normal ECG from category 3 to
      category 2. The investigators defined high-risk patients as patients having a Systemic
      Coronary Risk Estimation (SCORE) above 10 % according to the 2016 European Guidelines on
      cardiovascular disease prevention in clinical practice. To facilitate calculation of the
      SCORE at triage, the investigators defined one major or four minor criteria required to
      upgrade the patients.

      The major criteria are:

        1. History of Cardio-vascular disease

             1. Acute coronary syndrome

             2. Stroke or IAT.

             3. Arterial revascularization procedure of peripheral artery.

        2. Diabetes

        3. End-stage renal disease or dialysis

      The minor criteria are:

        1. Man

        2. Above 60 years of age

        3. Hypertension

        4. Smoker

        5. Dyslipidemia

      The above criteria will be collected by the triage nurse using a computerized form designed
      for the study. On this basis, the computer will additionally sort the patients using the
      modified triage scale, with blinded result avoiding bias in the initial nurse triage. This
      modified triage will therefore not be taken into account and management of the patients will
      not be modified.

      Medical data will also be collected by physicians using a dedicated computerized form,
      particularly cardiovascular risks factors and complications occurring during the ED stay
      (arrhythmia, heart failure, shock).

      The final diagnosis will be determined at the end of a 30-day follow-up, by either reviewing
      patient's files or a phone call to patients or relatives. ECG interpretation and diagnosis of
      acute myocardial infarction will be based on the universal definition of myocardial
      infarction. Pulmonary embolism and aortic dissection will be substantiated by computed
      tomography (CT), chest infection by relevant positive biomarkers and a chest X-ray,
      gastroesophageal reflux by gastroscopy or positive therapeutic test with a proton pump
      inhibitor, and abdominal pathology by biology, imaging, or both. Musculoskeletal pain will be
      diagnosed if all of the above-mentioned investigations are normal, and movement and palpation
      enhanced superficial pain. Finally, patients with a normal physical examination, ECG, chest
      X-ray, and blood tests who did not report any event during the 30-day follow-up, and who
      therefore have no definite cause for their chest pain, will be sorted into a dedicated group
      called 'unclear diagnosis'.

      The local hospital ethics committee approved the study protocol (CEHF 2017/18AOU/407), and
      patients will provide their written informed consent to participate in this study.

      Statistical methods

      To evaluate triage system's diagnostic performance, the investigators will compare the triage
      score of patients with ACS (final diagnosis of STEMI, non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction
      [NSTEMI] or unstable angina [UA]) to a control group made up of patients with chest pain from
      mild severity diseases (including digestive diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) exacerbation, musculoskeletal chest pain, and all unclear diagnoses without any
      medical event in the follow-up period). Patients with other severe diseases, abnormal heart
      rate, abnormal blood pressure, respiratory distress, or hypoxemia will be excluded from the
      control group having a triage score driven by these conditions rather than by the ECG.

      Since for ACS most of the arrhythmic events occur within 12 h of symptom onset and ACS
      patients should be monitored, the investigators defined for ACS a triage Score of 1 or 2
      (high-acuity triage score) as adequate (true positive), and a triage Score of 3, 4, or 5
      (low-acuity triage score) as inadequate (false negative). Conversely, for the control group
      with mild severity diseases, the investigators defined a triage Score of 1 or 2 (high-acuity
      triage score) as inadequate (false positive), and a triage Score of 3, 4 or 5 (low-acuity
      triage score) as adequate (true negative). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves
      will be generated to assess each triage system's accuracy in classifying a patient in ACS
      versus control group.

      Capability of triage nurses to collect cardiovascular risk factors will be assessed comparing
      data collected at triage to these collected by the physician in the medical computerized
      file.

      Sample Size

      Based on a previous study, FRENCH score AUC under the ROC curve was 0.69. The investigators
      hypothesized a corelation of 0.9 between the two tests. To show a difference of 0.06 between
      the AUC of the tests with a power of 0.8 (alpha 0.05) we calculated a sampled size of 233
      patients. Given the uncertainty of the correlation, we planned to enrol 500 patients.
    
  