
    
      29.9% of persons aged 15-84 in Hong Kong are obese. Obesity poses significant detrimental
      consequences for one's health. Obese patients have an increased risk of mortality when
      compared with people with normal BMI. Obesity results in arterial hypertension,
      hyperlipidaemia, heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Low GI diets have been investigated for
      their impact on weight control. Evidence showed that low GI diets were effective in lowering
      body mass index. However, the evidence was usually generated from Western populations, thus
      excluding the influence of Chinese culture on diet.The aim of this study is to investigate
      the effects and the acceptability of low GI diet versus a conventional healthy diet on the
      BMI and other cardiometabolic risk factors of obese Chinese adults in Hong Kong.

      A prospective, two-arm randomized-controlled trial will be conducted to examine the effect of
      a low GI diet education program on cardiometabolic outcomes in Chinese adults with obesity.
      The intervention group will receive a low GI diet education, including a one-off, 60-minute,
      face-to-face, educational session conducted by the research nurse for GI knowledge input. An
      informational booklet will be given out during the education session.Three follow-up
      telephone calls of fifteen minutes will be conducted by the research nurse at the 2nd, 5th ,
      and 8th weeks after completing the face-to-face education session. While the control group
      will receive an education pamphlets on obesity and balanced diet.Three follow-up telephone
      calls of fifteen minutes will be conducted by the research nurse at the 2nd, 5th , and 8th
      weeks after receiving the pamphlets.

      At baseline, demographic and clinical data, including BMI, waist circumference, body fat,
      blood pressure, fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, lipid profile, 3-day food diary, International
      Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-C), and the sense of fullness will be collected.

      On the 12th week, data about the BMI, waist circumference, body fat, blood pressure, fasting
      plasma glucose, HbA1c, lipid profile, 3-day food diary, IPAQ-C, and the sense of fullness and
      a questionnaire on the evaluation process will be collected.
    
  