
    
      This observational validation trial involves patients from the prevalent dialysis population
      in London, Ontario. Investigators intend to validate the mobile CVInsight non-contact device
      to the standard contact version of this device for assessing hemodialysis induced circulatory
      stress. The CVInsight Patient Monitoring & Informatics System records a patient's pulse
      waveform to determine a patient's response to dialysis and alerts to several physiologic
      changes including pulse strength, pulse rate, pulse irregularity, oxygen saturation, and
      oxygen saturation variability. The CVInsight contact and non-contact devices will be used for
      two study visits. The first study visit will be on the patient's first dialysis session of
      the week (after the weekend - 72 hour inter-dialytic period) and the second study visit will
      be during the patient's second dialysis session of the week (mid week - 48 hour
      inter-dialytic period). This will allow investigators to see if there is a difference between
      these two intervals of time. The investigators will also be using other gold standard methods
      of validating components of this device including myocardial stunning using the GE Healthcare
      Vivid q cardiovascular ultrasound system. The echocardiographic ultrasound machine and
      finometer will be used for two study visits to take place during the patients' regularly
      scheduled dialysis sessions. The first echocardiogram will be done prior to the initiation of
      dialysis and the second at peak dialysis stress, which is 15 minutes before the end of the
      hemodialysis treatment. In addition, the finometer will be used continuously throughout
      hemodialysis.Validating the mobile CVInsight non-contact device to the CVInsight contact
      device will allow investigators to observe the degree to which these devices are able to
      detect hemodialysis induced circulatory stress, which will enable the healthcare provider to
      detect injury early enough to intervene prior to its occurrence. This is important because
      hemodialysis and the accompanying stress it induces increases mortality significantly in this
      population of patients.

      This study is investigator initiated and the study will continue until the investigators
      reach our target sample size.

      Each patient will have two study visits. Patients on a Monday, Wednesday, and Friday schedule
      will have study visits on Monday and Wednesday of the same week and patients on a Tuesday,
      Thursday, and Saturday schedule will have study visits on Tuesday and Thursday of the same
      week.
    
  