
    
      1. Patients and control subjects

           Patients are selected from the database of the Department of Haematology at University
           Medical Centre Ljubljana, Slovenia, who were diagnosed with JAK2 V617F positive ET
           between 2011 and 2014. There were 124 JAK2 positive ET patients, among those 61 did not
           have a personal history of clinically manifest atherosclerotic vascular disease
           (myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, peripheral arterial disease, aortic disease,
           transient ischemic attack or ischemic stroke). 40 patients (14 male and 26 female) with
           JAK2 V617F positive ET without clinically apparent cardiovascular disease signed the
           informed consent and were enrolled in the study in 2014 - 2015 for the first examination
           and 36 (12 male and 24 female) of them are expected to participate also in 2018-19.

           The control group is selected among healthy employees of the University Medical Centre
           Ljubljana and their relatives. It is matched with the patient group for age and sex
           distribution and classical risk factors for cardiovascular disease. 42 individuals (16
           male and 26 female) participated in the first examination and at least 38 (14 male and
           24 female) subjects are expected to paticipate in the second examination.

        2. Baseline measurements

           Each participant will complete a questionnaire about family history of cardiovascular
           diseases, personal medical history, smoking status and medications. A physical
           examination will be performed, including measurements of height, weight, waist
           circumference, systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Blood will be sampled for
           laboratory analysis of complete blood cell count, electrolytes, serum lipids, liver
           function tests, urea, creatinine, and inflammatory markers.

           The 10-year risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and general cardiovascular disease
           (CVD) will be calculated using the Framingham risk equation.

        3. JAK2 V617F/G1849T allele burden

           The ipsogen JAK2 MutaQuant Kit, Qiagen (ZDA) (Ref: No. 673523) will be used for the
           detection and quantification of JAK2 V617F/G1849T allele in genomic DNA extracted from
           peripheral blood of patients and also control subjects. A SNP specific primer
           selectively amplifies the JAK2 V617F allele which is detected with a real-time qPCR
           instrument that quantifies the PCR products. The JAK2 V617F allele burden will be
           calculated and expressed as the percentage of JAK2 V617F mutated alleles throughout the
           whole JAK2 record. Analysis will be done done in laboratory of the Department of
           Haematology at University Medical Centre Ljubljana for all samples.

        4. Carotid Artery Ultrasound Examination

           For examination of the extracranial carotid arteries an ultrasound machine Aloka
           Prosound α7 (Hitachi Aloka Medical, Ltd., Japan) will be used with a linear vascular
           probe working at a frequency of 5-13 MHz. The common, internal and external carotid
           arteries on both sided will be examined. At each examination, the measurements will be
           done twice and their average values will be calculated. The ultrasound examination will
           be done by the same ultrasonographer at both visits of all participants.

           The intima-media thickness will be measured 2 cm proximal to the bulb of common carotid
           artery on both sides. Screening of the extracranial carotid arteries for atherosclerotic
           plaques will be performed, with a plaque definition of a focal lesion, exceeding the
           intima-media thickness for at least 50% or reaching an absolute thickness of at least
           1.5 mm in two orthogonal projections. Scoring of atherosclerotic plaques is done
           according to the methodology from the Rotterdam Study. The presence of at least one
           plaque in each segment of the extracranial carotid arterial bed, (divided into the
           common carotid artery and the bulb, the internal carotid artery and the external carotid
           artery) on either sides is scored 1 point. Thus, the carotid plaque score ranges from 0
           (absence of plaques) to 6 (plaques present in all segments on both sides).

           Echo-tracking of the common carotid artery will be used to assess arterial stiffness
           expressed by the β-stiffness index and the pulse wave velocity. Measurements will be
           done at the common carotid artery 2 cm proximal to the bulb on both sides. The
           β-stiffness index will be calculated as: β = ln (P_max / P_min) / [(D_max - D_min /
           D_min)], where P_max = the systolic blood pressure, P_min = the diastolic pressure;
           D_max = the maximum arterial diameter and D_min = the minimal arterial diameter. Pulse
           wave velocity (PWV) will be calculated as: PWV = √ ((β x P_min) / 2ρ)); ρ = 1050 kg/m³.

        5. Assessment of Endothelial Function of the Digital Arteries

           Endothelial function of the digital arteries will be measured by digital plethymography
           with EndoPat 2000, Itamar Medical REF, Caesarea, Israel, Software Version 3.3.x and
           expressed as the Reactive Hyperaemia Index (RHI) and the Augmentation Index (AI).
           Changes in arterial tone are elicited by creating a downstream hyperemic response
           induced by a standard 5-minute occlusion of the brachial artery (using a blood pressure
           cuff, inflated to 60 mmHg above the arterial blood pressure). When the cuff is released,
           the surge of blood flow causes endothelium-dependent flow mediated dilatation (FMD)
           which is manifested as reactive hyperemia. A post-occlusion to pre-occlusion ratio is
           calculated by EndoPAT software and the and A) are determined. The results are normalized
           to a heart rate of 75/min.

        6. Measurement of the Coronary Artery Calcium Burden

           The calcium burden of coronary arteries is measured with a Biograph M 128-row PET-CT
           scanner (Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). Scanning is done from the base to the apex of the
           heart. A non-contrast protocol with sequential prospective ECG triggering is used. The
           rotation time is 0.33 sec, with a tube voltage of 120 kV, CARE Dose 4D and slice
           thickness 3 mm, with no slice overlap. Post-processing is done on the Syngo Leonardo
           workstation. The coronary calcium burden is expressed as the Agatston score. Evaluation
           of the dataset of every study subject is done three times and the average value is used
           for further analysis.

        7. Statistical analysis

      All sets of data will be tested for normality of distribution using the normal-quintile plot,
      calculating the correlation coefficient and checking it for the critical value that would
      warrant rejection of normal distribution with an α-error probability of 0.05.

      Normally distributed data will be presented as mean and standard deviation, while
      non-normally distributed data will be presented as median and range between the 1st and 3rd
      quartile.

      Differences between subjects with ET and control subjects at the first and second examination
      will be tested by the chi-square test for discrete variables, for normally distributed
      continuous variables by the paired Student's t-test for independent samples, and for
      non-normally distributed continuous variables by the Mann-Whitney test for independent
      samples. P-values of < 0.05 will be considered significant with a correction for multiple
      comparisons.

      Changes in vascular function and morphology in the 4-year observation period will be compared
      between the two groups by the log rank test. P-values of < 0.05 will be considered
      significant.

      The association between the parameters of vascular function / morphology and the JAK2 V617F
      allele burden will be assessed by the Pearson correlation coefficient.
    
  