
    
      Heart failure (HF) is estimated to affect at least 10% of adults aged over 70 years old, with
      a 12-month all-cause mortality rate of 7% in stable patients. Cardiac resynchronisation
      therapy (CRT) is an important intervention for patients with severe left ventricular (LV)
      systolic impairment and helps to improve well-being and reduce morbidity and mortality. CRT
      is achieved by placing endocardial pacing leads into the right atrium and right ventricle and
      then placing a third pacing lead through the coronary sinus (CS) to enable epicardial LV
      pacing, thus achieving ventricular resynchronisation. Although this is a successful therapy,
      overall 30-40% of patients will fail to respond. Additionally, even in those eligible for
      CRT, approximately 8-10% of patients cannot have it implanted due to anatomical abnormalities
      such as venous occlusion, inappropriate CS targets, diffuse scar resulting in inappropriately
      high pacing thresholds or phrenic nerve stimulation. In these circumstances other avenues to
      achieve biventricular pacing needs to be sought.

      The wireless CRT system (WiSE-CRT, EBR Systems) has been developed to overcome these issues.
      It uses an endocardial LV electrode to achieve biventricular pacing negating the need to
      implant a pacing lead through the CS. There are several advantages of endocardial LV pacing
      such as a greater selection of pacing sites, possibility of lower pacing outputs compared
      with conventional leads in the CS and it appears to be a more physiological way to pace. The
      WiSE-CRT system is used in conjunction with a single or dual-chamber pacemaker and is made up
      of several components. A transmitter is implanted subcutaneously, attached to a battery. This
      detects right ventricular pacing from the co-implant and then delivers ultrasonic energy
      which is received by an electrode placed in the LV endocardium to enable biventricular
      pacing. The transmitter must be placed in a position with an adequate "acoustic window,"
      which requires a line from the transmitter to the LV that is free of significant tissue or
      bone. Additionally, the endocardial electrode must be placed in close proximity to the
      transmitter. In a study of 35 patients, the WiSE-CRT system was successful implanted in 97.1%
      of cases, with 97% achieving biventricular pacing at 1 month and 84.8% showing an improvement
      in the clinical composite score at 6 months. These results are particularly encouraging given
      the device was used in patients who had failed conventional CRT, representing a difficult
      patient group.

      The major advantage of the WiSE-CRT system is that the LV electrode can be placed anywhere
      within the ventricle. Studies have shown that patient outcomes are improved by pacing at a
      site which avoids ventricular scar and targets an area of latest mechanical activation. These
      sites will vary according to the aetiology underlying HF. In addition, using conventional
      fluoroscopy to guide pacing lead implants has been shown to be inaccurate when compared with
      computed tomography (CT). Our group have previously shown that magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) can be overlaid on fluoroscopic images to help guide epicardial pacing to a specific
      location and improve outcomes. Many patients undergoing a WiSE-CRT implant will be unable to
      have a MRI due to their previous pacemaker implant. However, guidance may still be achieved
      using CT scanning.

      The proximity and orientation of the transmitter to the endocardial electrode is important in
      determining the battery life of the WiSE-CRT system. Yeh et al. showed that a large
      proportion of patients have at least two suitable acoustic windows for placement of the
      transmitter. This provides the operator with more opportunities to carefully select an ideal
      location. However, once implanted the endocardial electrode must be placed within the
      acoustic window which limits the number of sites the electrode can then be placed.

      Identifying the best location for both the transmitter and endocardial electrode is essential
      to target the most viable myocardium and improve patient outcomes. Ideally this should be
      achieved before the patient has undergone any procedure since implanting the transmitter
      limits the potential locations for the electrode. We believe CT guidance can provide
      satisfactory information to optimise the location for both the transmitter and electrode
      which will increase the patient response rate and improve outcomes.
    
  