
    
      Glioblastoma (GBM) represents about 15% of all primary brain tumors with approximately 19,000
      new cases diagnosed annually. The one-, five- and ten-year survival rates for patients with
      GBM is 37.2%, 5.1% and 2.6% from diagnosis respectively, making it one of the most lethal
      cancers known, among all cancers. GBMs can be challenging to treat and new cancer therapies
      are continuously being developed for GBM treatment.

      The high cost and potential risks associated with human trials for these experimental
      therapies have emphasized the need for sensitive monitoring of tumor response. Imaging
      approaches can play an important role in the evaluation and selection of potential new
      therapies with non-invasive longitudinal monitoring of treatment response. Currently, the
      radiological assessment of treatment outcomes predominantly relies on morphological (i.e.
      size) changes using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and other
      similar scores. This is a major limiting factor as the effects of many therapeutic agents at
      the microscopic level precede the eventual changes in tumor size. One such tumor property
      that has gained increased attention is angiogenesis, which has been shown to support tumor
      proliferation and infiltration. Increasing numbers of clinical trials have begun targeting
      tumor vascular supplies either directly inhibiting angiogenesis (e.g. antiangiogenic therapy)
      or indirectly disrupting cell proliferation and eventually angiogenesis (e.g. cytotoxic
      chemoradiation). Such clinical trials and the eventual clinical use of these therapies would
      be greatly assisted by the availability of robust imaging indicators of angiogenesis (i.e.
      tissue perfusion).

      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) using 15O-labeled water (15O-PET) is considered the gold
      standard for non-invasive measurement of tissue perfusion. However, the use of 15O-PET
      requires a cyclotron in close proximity to PET to produce short lived 15O-water (half life
      2.4 min), limiting its applicability in clinical settings. Alternative imaging techniques
      include ultrasound using microbubbles, perfusion computed tomography (CT) using iodinated
      contrast agent and perfusion MRI using gadolinium based contrast agents. All of these
      techniques require exogenous agents, restricting their use in longitudinal monitoring of
      treatment response.

      Arterial spin labeled (ASL) MRI has recently emerged as a quantitative imaging (QI) method to
      measure perfusion (or capillary blood flow) without the administration of exogenous contrast
      agents. ASL magnetically "labels" the highly permeable water in the blood as a tracer and
      measures their accumulation in the tissue of interest, without injecting any exogenous
      contrast. Various versions of ASL have been validated in animals using microspheres, and in
      humans using 15O-PET in the brain. ASL also has a number of advantages compared to dynamic
      contrast enhanced (DCE) and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) based MR perfusion
      measurements. Specifically, ASL does not require exogenous agent alleviating the concerns of
      gadolinium accumulation or nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) in patients with impaired
      renal function and, unlike DCE/DSC, the contribution of vascular permeability to ASL measured
      perfusion is negligible enabling absolute perfusion quantification in physiological units
      (ml/100g/min).
    
  