
    
      GOALS PRIMARY OBJECTIVE-Evaluate the PBS CIMMO cement as a single element in endodontic
      obturations of necrotic teeth, through the analysis of integrity of the hard blade throughout
      the perimeter of the root of the treated tooth, identified by Tomography Cone Beam, after 6
      months of treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE- Clinical evaluation of teeth treated after 6 months, with the purpose of
      identifying the absence of clinical signs and symptoms, through the finding of absence of
      fistula.

      METHOD-DESIGN A randomized, interventional, prospective, unicentric, double blind clinical
      trial.

      APPROVAL This work was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Vale do Sapucaí
      University (UNIVÁS) and is registered in the Brazilian Platform - Certificate of Approval for
      CAAE-number 77495717.7.0000.5102 CONSENT Relevant information from this study will be
      provided to all patients in an understandable way. Patients will have the opportunity to have
      their questions answered and will provide their consent by signing the free and informed
      consent form The study is being carried out in Brazil, in the urban area of the city of Pouso
      Alegre, state of Minas Geraes, in the Clinic of the Brazilian Association of Dentistry (ABO).

      Interventions

      The recommended techniques will be different for each group. GROUP A - CUTTING WITH CEMENT
      AHPLUS AND GUTTA HANGER

        1. First session

           Intra-channel medication and instrumentation procedures:

           Local anesthesia with lidocaine and phenylephrine 1: 100,000 (DFL® Industry and
           Commerce-Brazil) will be used a tube containing 1.8 ml. Absolute insulation with clamp
           W8A and 8ª (SSWhite ® -Duflex-Brasil), rubber sheet (Madeitex®-Brazil) and arch (JON®
           Brazil). The opening will be performed with a high-speed motor (Dabi Atlante®
           Equipamentos Odontológicos Brasil), low rotation (Dabi Atlante®) and endodontic probe
           (Duflex®) drill 1016 HL (KG®-Sorensen). Mechanized instrumentation will be carried out
           using the Endo Easy SI® motor in reciprocating module. The endodontic instrument for
           instrumentation will be the Logic Easy® file numbering (2505). Pre-crown-down
           instrumentation will be performed on the cervical, middle and apical thirds, with
           apparent measurements determined by the initial radiograph. Each channel will receive
           irrigation with 2.5% sodium hypochlorite through a 10ml disposable syringe with a
           0.55x20 24G hypodermic needle. 3/4 SR®. Then, the localization of the foramen with
           Novapex® foramen locator will be performed and the working length will be determined and
           then instrumentation with the same file will be determined. Through a reciprocating Easy
           Clean® device, PUI (Passive Ultrasonic Irrigation) with ethylene diamino tetraacetic
           acid, surfactant (EDTA T) Formula & Action® as well as sodium hypochlorite will be
           performed. Then, it will be installed in the channels, Callen PMCC SSWhite® (Calcium
           hydroxide paste with camphorated paramonoclorophenol) MIC (intra-canal medication) to
           perform disinfection of dentinal canaliculi. Such paste will temporarily seal these
           channels for 4 weeks.

        2. Second session -After 30 days The obturation with AHPlus cement and Gutta Percha (group
           A) will be performed in 43 teeth, according to the following sequence: test of the main
           gutta percha Dentsply®, after foramen calibration. Handling of the AH Plus Dentsply®
           cement will be carried out. The medium cone will be greased with cement and taken to the
           canal. Through an Easy-Compressor term, the cone will be cut and compacted "hot" in the
           channel. New cone will be placed in the space conquered by compaction, will be cut "hot"
           by term compactor and then condensed by condenser instrument Schilder Oddus De Deus®.
           Soon after, the teeth will be restored with Charisma Kulzer® photopolymerizable resin,
           Radi® light curing. Patients will be submitted to final radiographs and receive systemic
           medication with analgesic Lisador® 1 tablet every 6 hours while there is pain. The
           recommended anti-inflammatory will be Decadron 4mg, 1 tablet every 12 hours for 3 days,
           if the patient can not use it, Maxulid 400 mg, 1 tablet every 12 hours for 3 days will
           be given. The antibiotic of choice will be Sinot Clav® 875 mg, 1 tablet every 12 hours
           for 7 days. In case of allergy to Amoxicillin, Dalacin 300 mg, 1 capsule every 8 hours
           for 7 days will be given. After 6 months, the patients will return to the Clinic of the
           Brazilian Association of Dentistry to perform a Cone Beam CT scan and clinical
           examination.

      GROUP B - CUTTING WITH PBSCIMMO CEMENT SINGLE SESSION Instrumentation and filling procedures
      Local anesthesia with lidocaine and phenylephrine 1: 100,000 (DFL® Industry and
      Commerce-Brazil) will be used a tube containing 1.8 ml. Absolute insulation with clamp W8A
      and 8ª (SSWhite ® -Duflex-Brasil), rubber sheet (Madeitex®-Brazil) and arch (JON® Brazil).
      The opening will be performed with a high-speed motor (Dabi Atlante® Equipamentos
      Odontológicos Brasil), low rotation (Dabi Atlante®) and endodontic probe (Duflex®) drill 1016
      HL (KG®-Sorensen). Mechanized instrumentation will be carried out using the Endo Easy SI®
      motor in reciprocating module. The endodontic instrument for instrumentation will be the
      Logic Easy® file numbering (2505). Pre-crown-down instrumentation will be performed on the
      cervical, middle and apical thirds, with apparent, determined by the initial radiography.
      Each channel will receive irrigation with 2.5% sodium hypochlorite through a 10ml disposable
      syringe with a 0.55x20 24G hypodermic needle. 3/4 SR®. Then, the localization of the foramen
      with Novapex® foramen locator will be performed and the working length will be determined and
      then instrumentation with the same file will be determined. Through a reciprocating Easy
      Clean® device, PUI (Passive Ultrasonic Irrigation) with ethylene diamino tetraacetic acid,
      surfactant (EDTA T) Formula & Action® as well as sodium hypochlorite will be performed.
      Continuously, the PBS CIMMO® cement will be installed in the channels, as a single obturator
      element. The CBS® PBS Cement seal (Group B) will be made of 43 teeth as follows: the
      instruments used will be the number 40 nickel and titanium Macspaden Flex Pack® micro-motor
      capacitors coupled to the internal dental office system and nickel and titanium in numbers
      and standard colors: Green (0.35 and 0.70), Black (0.40 and 0.80), Yellow (0.50 and 1.00),
      Blue (0.60 and 1.20). Handling of CIMMO® PBS cement will follow manufacturer's
      recommendations: on sterile glass plate, a portion of the cement powder and a drop of
      distilled water will be dispensed. Through a flexible spatula, the powder will be mixed to
      the liquid and spatulate until the consistency of toothpaste. The Macspaden Flex Pack® 40
      instrument will then be coupled to the micro-motor and embedded in cement. When it is taken
      to the channel, the micro-motor will be activated and the channel will be in and out. Then,
      condensation will occur with the green condenser tip thinner and then thicker. In the same
      way, more cement will be brought to the channel with Flex Pack® number 40 and again condensed
      now with the black, thin point and then thick capacitors. These maneuvers will be repeated
      until the fine and thick blue capacitors are used and the absence of spaces is verified. Soon
      after, the teeth will be restored with Charisma Kulzer® photopolymerizable resin, Radi® light
      curing. Patients will be submitted to final radiographs and receive systemic medication with
      analgesic Lisador® 1 tablet every 6 hours while there is pain. The recommended
      anti-inflammatory will be Decadron®, 4mg, 1 tablet every 12 hours for 3 days, if the patient
      is unable to use it, Maxulid® 400mg, 1 tablet every 12 hours for 3 days will be given. The
      antibiotic of choice will be Sinot Clav® 875 mg, 1 tablet every 12 hours for 7 days. In case
      of allergy to Amoxicillin, Dalacin 300 mg, 1 capsule every 8 hours for 7 days will be given.
      After 6 months, the patients will return to the Clinic of the Associação Brasileira de
      Odontologia to perform a Cone Beam tomografy scan and clinical examination.

      Sample size: 86 patients The observed response will be dichotomous, the type of analysis will
      be by comparing two proportions. The investigators accessed the site www.lee.dante.br 25,
      Lee-Samples for verification of possible identification of n. The proportions were based on
      the literature.

      Proportion in group 1: 36% Proportion in group 2: 10% Level of significance: 5% Power of the
      test: 90% Hypothesis test: monocaudal Sample size calculated for each group: 43

      Allocation: Patients are allocated to the study or control group in a 1: 1 ratio using a
      software-generated randomizer - RANDOMIZATION.COM (http://www.randomization.com)26.
      Concealment Mechanism: Opaque, sealed and serial number envelopes containing the group as
      well as the material to be used will be used to maintain the confidentiality of the random
      allocation. The envelopes will be delivered to the professional who performed the
      intervention at the initial moment Patients will not know which research group will
      participate. After 6 months, a CT scan and clinical examination will be performed. The
      evaluations will be performed by professionals who did not participate in the intervention
      and have more than 20 years of experience in endodontics. These professionals will not know
      to which group the patient belongs.

      Recruitment of patients-waiting list of patients who seek the clinic of the Associação
      Brasileira de Odontologia (ABO) -UNIVÁS.

      Beginning of appointments: November 2017 Data collection: June 2018.
    
  