
    
      Background: Heart failure (HF) affects 1-2% of those under 70 years, and 10-20% of those over
      70 years in developed countries; approximately 900,000 people in the UK suffer with HF.
      Despite several promising pre-clinical targets, clinical translation has been disappointing,
      with very few successful phase 3 studies of new HF therapeutics. Dysfunction of the classical
      pathways that underlie endothelial nitric oxide (NO) production, with deficient cardiac
      constitutive NO supply, are thought to play a major role in the pathogenesis of HF. It has
      been mooted that novel strategies that replace/restore this diminished NO have therapeutic
      potential.

      The organic nitrates, as a method of NO delivery, provide an efficacious treatment in the
      acute HF setting. However, the development of tolerance, tachyphylaxis, and endothelial
      dysfunction with long-term use severely limits their utility in chronic heart disease.
      Alternative methods for sustained NO delivery without tolerance are therefore of interest.

      Recent clinical research demonstrates that inorganic nitrate offers this possibility through
      sequential chemical reduction, first via the enterosalivary circuit to nitrite, and
      subsequently from nitrite to NO. In particular, pre-clinical research suggests that delivery
      of NO via this pathway imparts benefit in HF models. Dietary inorganic nitrate is known to
      provide a safe and non-invasive method to elevate NO in humans, and a once daily dose
      (5-6mmol), in the form of a beetroot juice, can improve vascular function and reduce blood
      pressure in hypertensives.

      Inorganic nitrate as a HF treatment is particularly exciting since a key pathway involved in
      the generation of NO from nitrate is xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR); an enzyme upregulated in
      HF. Conventionally, XOR is considered detrimental as it generates superoxide and uric acid;
      both exert negative effects on cardiac function, and are associated with worse outcomes in
      HF. However, XOR also plays an important role in the second step of nitrate bioactivation:
      conversion of nitrite to NO in the heart. Importantly, we have hypothesised that in an
      environment of elevated XOR activity, such as HF, delivery of inorganic nitrate to the body
      would result in reductions in superoxide/uric acid with concomitant elevations in NO. This
      might prove more efficacious than simply inhibiting the enzyme using classical inhibitors.
      Importantly, a recent study (EXACT-HF) has shown a trend for reduced HF re-hospitalisations
      in those with XOR inhibition via allopurinol; it has been suggested that greater benefits
      might be seen if these effects are coupled with NO delivery.

      Research Hypothesis and Aims: We aim to investigate whether dietary inorganic nitrate
      provides benefit in patients with HF. We will determine whether inorganic nitrate delivery by
      elevating nitrite, delivers substrate to XOR resulting in a two-fold benefit: increasing NO
      production, whilst concomitantly reducing superoxide and uric acid levels.

      Plan of Investigation: a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled parallel two-limb study
      in New York Heart Association (NHYA) class II-III HF patients. Patients with left ventricular
      ejection fraction (LVEF) <50% and elevated NT-proBNP/ BNP levels will be enrolled and
      stratified by degree of hyperuricaemia. 92-patients will receive a once daily dose of
      nitrate-rich beetroot juice (versus nitrate-deplete beetroot juice) for 12-weeks. The study
      is powered for significant reductions in hyperuricaemia. Powered secondary outcomes include
      circulating nitrite/nitrate levels, nitrite reductase activity, and a difference in LVEF from
      baseline by contrast echocardiography. A number of mechanistic exploratory outcomes will also
      be reported, including assessments of oxidative stress, erythrocytic XOR activity, 6-minute
      walk test, quality of life questionnaire and levels of NT-proBNP/BNP as surrogate measures of
      cardiac dysfunction.

      Benefits: This trial if positive will identify a new, safe and easy-to-deliver therapeutic
      option for HF patients. The NHS would benefit by providing a new inexpensive pharmacotherapy
      for a disease with significant unmet need and increasing burden to the health service.
    
  