
    
      Objective:

      The overall objective of this study is to determine the effect that cocaine administration
      has upon the experience of reward in dependent individuals and the contribution of reward
      processing (or dysfunction) to the reinforcing effects of cocaine and the recidivism rates
      noted in cocaine-dependent individuals. The primary goal is to employ functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) to ascertain the function of neural systems that respond to cocaine
      in human participants and to determine the role that they play in the processing of different
      types of rewarding stimuli during episodes where individuals are drug-free and those where
      they are under the acute influence of cocaine.

      Study Population:

      The experimental population for this investigation will be non-treatment seeking,
      cocaine-dependent adults (i.e. 18 45 years old). A cohort of healthy, drug-free, individuals,
      matched for age, gender, ethnicity and IQ, will serve as a control group.

      Design:

      This experiment employs a mixed-measures, counter-balanced design. Participants will complete
      two measures of reward processing (i.e. the revised monetary incentive delay (MID) task and a
      temporal difference error task (TDE/juice) task) while undergoing BOLD EPI fMRI. The scanning
      procedure will be repeated for all subjects, such that each participant undertakes 2
      sessions. Cocaine-dependent individuals will receive either two injections of cocaine (30
      mg/70 kg body weight; intravenous (IV) administration) or two injections of saline during
      scanning. Within each session, each IV injection will be given approximately 10 minute prior
      to the start of one of the reward measures. The order of cocaine and saline scans will be
      randomized and participants will be blind to the experimental condition prior to
      participation.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measures will be the neural substrates of reward processing and how these
      differ between cocaine-dependent individuals and controls, and the impact of acute cocaine
      administration upon brain function associated with reward function.
    
  