
    
      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Stage III Chronic Kidney Disease (GFR 30-60ml/min per 1.73m2 calculated by using MDRD
           equation)

        -  Inpatients at Norton Community Hospital scheduled to undergo diagnostic CT Scan using
           contrast between the hours of 7am and 6pm

        -  18+ years of age

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Current clinical diagnosis of exacerbated congestive heart failure

        -  Creatinine >8 mg/dL

        -  Change in serum Cre of at least 0.5mg/dL during previous 24hours

        -  Pre-existing dialysis patient

        -  Multiple myeloma

        -  Uncontrolled hypertension (definition: treated SBP >160mmHg or DBP >100mmHg

        -  Exposure to contrast 48 hours prior to study

        -  Allergy to contrast dye

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Patient has received pressor agents, fendolapam, mannitol, or mucomyst at time of study

        -  Acute myocardial infarction

      Subjects: Consecutive samples of all CPSC inpatients who meet the above inclusion criteria

      Allocation Assignment: Patients who meet inclusion criteria and agree to participate in the
      study will pick a concealed number out of an open envelope. That number (between 1- 656) will
      correlate with a number on a sealed opaque envelope. Inside the opaque envelope will be a
      chart sticker. The chart sticker will have the words either normal saline or sodium
      bicarbonate. The envelope will not be opened until all patient information (ie. Patient ID
      sticker) is placed on the original chosen envelope. Then the chart sticker will be removed
      and placed on the chart

      Protocol Outline:

      This will be a randomized controlled trial closely following the original protocol in the
      previous study. Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups. Treatment
      group A will receive 1cc/kg/hour of 0.9% normal saline at least 2 hours prior to study
      beginning and will be continued during and for 6 hours post contrast. Treatment group B will
      receive 3cc/kg of sodium bicarbonate solution for one hour prior to procedure then drip rate
      will be decreased to 1cc/kg/hour during and for 6 hours post procedure. The sodium
      bicarbonate solution will be made by adding 3 amps of bicarbonate to 1L of D5W. Patients in
      both treatment arms weighing >110kg the initial fluid bolus and drip will be limited to those
      patients weighing 110kg. In both treatment arms, diuretics will be held before and after
      contrast administration on the day of the study. BMP will be checked the day of, 24 and 48
      hours post contrast administration. The greatest change in all readings will be used for
      treatment comparisons. Contrast induced nephropathy will be defined as a change in serum
      creatinine of more than 25% from baseline and/or 0.5mg/dL. Urinary pH will also be measured
      on first spontaneous void following bolus. Vital signs including blood pressure and oxygen
      saturation will be documented every 4 hours to monitor patients closely for signs and
      symptoms of volume overload
    
  