
    
      The oncological care is multidisciplinary. In the investigation phase for radiotherapy, the
      Ear-Nose-Throat (ENT) physician refer the patient for a dental examination. Any dental
      infections are treated to reduce the risk of radiation-related infections that may occur
      after cancer treatment. This may mean that infected but symptom-free teeth, which the patient
      experiences as healthy need to be removed. This prophylactic dental treatment is charged
      according to the Public Health Care fee system.

      The study will take place in one major and in four middle sized counties in Sweden. The
      intervention will include 30 patients with head and neck cancer recruited from a Department
      of Maxillofacial and Oral Surgery (the City of Jönköping, Jönköping County Council), and from
      the Department of Orofacial Medicine (the City of Stockholm, Stockholm County Council).
      Another 30 patients with the same disease will be matched controls recruited from another
      Department of Maxillofacial and Oral Surgery (the City of Linköping, County Council of
      Östergötland) and from five Departments of Orofacial Medicine (the Cities of Kalmar,
      Oskarshamn, and Västervik, Kalmar County Council; the City of Växjö, Kronoberg County
      Council).

      The project consists of three sub-studies: A quantitative study; a qualitative study; and a
      health economics study. About 30 patients will be included in the intervention group, as well
      as about 30 matched control patients. Data collection will take place with questionnaires
      (SF-36, EQ-5D, OHIP-14, GOHAI, JFLS-8, OAS) and interviews.

      Patients recruited to the intervention group will be treated prosthodontically with removable
      and later with fixed dentures, thus acting as their own controls.

      If possible but not necessary, those controls may be prosthodontically rehabilitated with
      temporary removable dentures.

      The inclusion criteria are patients with head and neck tumours considered to receive
      radiotherapy, with or without combination of chemotherapy or surgery, good oncological
      prognosis at baseline. After referral from an ENT-specialist, those patients being diagnosed
      with dental infections and therapy planned for dental extraction(s) will be included.

      The following general exclusion criteria will be applied: any communication problems; any
      comorbidity with poor prognosis; poor oncological prognosis at baseline; imminent risk of
      recurrence; any technical, biological, or any other reasonable obstacle of treating patients
      with fixed dentures; and finally patients in the matched control group financing fixed oral
      prosthesis themselves.

      Background data like sex, age, diagnosis, TNM-classification, hyposalivation, vertical jaw
      mobility, dysphagia, number and sites of extracted teeth, and weight will be investigated.

      Statistical analysis, quantitative and qualitative, will show differences in well-being and
      mouth-related quality of life between the different groups studied.
    
  