
    
      With the advent of enhanced screening (via tandem mass spectroscopy, MS/MS), the Northwest
      Regional Newborn Screening Program (NWRNSP) has identified a high incidence of carnitine
      palmitoyl transferase type 1A (CPT1A) deficiency in Alaska Native infants. Since October of
      2003 approximately 80 Alaska Native infants have been identified with this condition;
      previously only 30 published cases were known worldwide. All of the infants are homozygous
      for a c.1436C-T sequence variant in the CPT1A gene, which results in the substitution of a
      leucine for proline at amino acid position 479 (P479L), and an approximately 80% reduction of
      CPT1A activity (non-classic CPT1A deficiency) (7). The clinical implications of this very
      restricted level of enzyme activity are not known. However, patients with more severe
      reductions of CPT1A activity (as the result of other mutations) are known to be at high risk
      for hypoketotic hypoglycemia, liver dysfunction, and sudden unexplained death (1).
      Hepatomegaly with micro- and macro-vesicular steatosis is also common (16). Currently the
      treatment of Alaska Native infants and children with CPT1A deficiency is based on data from
      patients with more severe forms of CPT1A deficiency and other fatty acid oxidation (FAO)
      disorders. Our ultimate goal is to establish evidence-based guidelines for treatment of the
      form of CPT1A deficiency prevalent in the Alaska Native population. This pilot study
      addresses two specific questions and will provide the first glimpse of the physiologic
      effects of homozygosity for the c.1436C-T sequence variant in the CPT1A gene. These data will
      aid in the development of strategies for clinical management that can be evaluated in future
      prospective studies, and provide preliminary data required for applications for NIH funding
      for more in-depth characterization of the clinical consequences of this condition.
    
  