
    
      Background: Muscle electrostimulation (ES) appears as a promising alternative to general
      physical reconditioning in advanced COPD and its feasibility has been confirmed in this
      population. However, patients are not equal in tolerance to ES. Certain patients are not able
      to increase ES intensity during training, limiting its benefits. Furthermore, little is known
      about the effect of one ES training session on cardio-respiratory response, muscle fatigue
      and systemic inflammation in COPD patients.

      Objective: To evaluate the tolerance to ES in COPD patients and to identify the physiological
      parameters involved in ES tolerance.

      Method: We propose to conduct a prospective study including 21 COPD patients of different
      pulmonary severity (7 in each group of GOLD II, III and IV). Patients will be evaluated 3
      times: at day 1, day 2 and day 9. In the first session, patients will be initiated to ES and
      evaluated in walking distance. In the second session, patients will become autonomous with ES
      and they will be evaluated in muscle strength and body composition. In the third session,
      cardio-respiratory measurements will be performed during ES and patients will be evaluated in
      muscle strength and systemic inflammation (blood sampling) before and after ES. Between the
      2d and the 3d sessions, patients will have to perform 5 ES sessions at home (from day 3 to
      day 8). Tolerance (symptoms assessed with visual analogical scale (VAS)) and intensity of ES
      will be measured during each ES session.

      Planning analysis: The main outcome will be the change in ES intensity between session 2 and
      3 (delta intensity). The other end-points will be minute ventilation, heart rate, VO2 and
      SaO2 during ES, but also change in ES tolerance (VAS) during ES at equal ES intensity, leg
      muscle fatigue after ES, body composition and changes in plasmatic proteins after ES. Simple
      and multiple regressions analysis will be done between delta intensity and
      1/cardio-respiratory response during ES, 2/muscle fatigue after ES, 3/body composition,
      4/perception of pain at session 2 (VAS), 5/changes in plasmatic proteins after ES.
    
  