
    
      This is a randomised controlled multi-centre trial comparing the effect of diet
      supplementation of a human breast milk-based nutrient fortifier (H2MF®) with standard bovine
      protein-based nutrient fortifier in 222 extremely preterm infants (born before gestational
      week 28+0) exclusively fed with human breast milk (own mother´s milk and/or donor milk). The
      infants will be randomised to receive either the human breast-milk based H2MF® or the
      standard bovine protein-based nutrient fortifier when oral feeds have reached <100 ml/kg/day.
      If fortification with extra enteral lipids is needed during the intervention period, the
      infants receiving H2MF® will be supplemented with the human milk-based Prolact CR®, while the
      infants receiving standard bovine protein-based fortification will be supplemented with the
      standard lipid products used at the unit. The study subject will be enrolled at level III
      neonatal intensive care unit (NICU)s. Only infants with a home clinic with the logistics to
      maintain the intervention until gestational week 34+0 will be included.

      The randomised intervention, stratified by centre, will continue until the target gestational
      week 34+0. The infant must not be fed with formula during the intervention period. The
      allocation will be concealed before inclusion, but after randomisation the study is not
      blinded. It would not be possible to prescribe the fortifier and prepare of the breast milk
      in a blinded fashion, since the fortifiers are not exactly equal in nutrient content and also
      look different. Instead the assessment of several of the outcomes will be made blinded, such
      as the assessment of X-ray images in NEC cases.

      The enrolled infants are characterised with clinical data including growth, feeding
      intolerance, use of enteral and parenteral nutrition, treatment, antibiotics and
      complications collected daily in a study specific case report form from birth until discharge
      from the hospital (not longer than gestational week 44+0). A follow up focusing on
      neurological development, growth and feeding problems will be performed at 2 years of age
      (corrected).

      Since it is often difficult to distinguish between the diagnoses of NEC and sepsis, and their
      clinical consequences, the investigator's primary endpoint of the intervention is the
      composite variable NEC, sepsis and mortality. Secondary endpoints are feeding intolerance and
      other severe complication such as Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), Retinopathy of
      prematurity (ROP) and neurological impairment. Stool, urine and blood samples are also
      collected for microbiology, metabolomic and immunology analysis in order to study underlying
      mechanisms. Health economic analyses will be made to evaluate the costs and benefits of an
      introduction of human milk-based fortifier in NICUs in the Nordic countries.

      Analyses will be conducted using an intention to treat approach. An evaluation will be
      performed when 20 infants have been included to evaluate feasibility and make it possible to
      adjust the protocol for the remaining part of the study. Safety analyses will be performed by
      an independent data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) when 50, 100 and 150 infants have been
      included. A sample size re-estimation will be made by an independent statistician when 150
      infants have been included. Thus, the definitive sample size might be increased (never
      decreased) based on this interim analysis. The study can be terminated before 322 infants
      have been enrolled based on a decision of the sponsor and the DSMB, if the primary outcome is
      significantly lower (with a significance level <0.001) in the H2MF® than in the standard
      fortification group in the interim analysis made after 150 infants have completed the
      neonatal period. The study subject will be enrolled at level III NICUs in the Nordic
      Countries. All study subjects will be followed during the neonatal period until discharge
      (not longer than gestational week 44+0) and also be included in a follow up at 2 and 5.5
      years of age based on the national follow up program for extremely preterm infants.
    
  