
    
      Chronic subdural hematoma (CSDH) is not a benign disease. Morbidity and mortalities were high
      especially in those with recurrence requiring reoperations. The use of subdural drain after
      burr hole drainage is an excellent example demonstrating that by reducing CSDH recurrence, a
      significant improvement in functional outcomes can be observed.

      Pneumocephalus is very common after burr hole drainage for CSDH. The use of high-flow oxygen
      had been reported to be effective in small case series, showing effectiveness in clinical and
      radiological outcomes. However, no large, prospective, controlled trial has been conducted to
      establish the efficacy of oxygen therapy on functional outcomes for patients with
      pneumocephalus after burr hole drainage in CSDH.

      Bilateral CSDH has a different prognosis and is associated with a poorer outcome.

      In addition to treating pneumocephalus, the use of perioperative oxygen has been suggested to
      minimize tissue hypoxemia and infection. In a study published in the New England Journal of
      Medicine, the use of perioperative supplementary oxygen was shown to reduce surgical site
      infection.

      Hyperoxia with oxygen therapy has shown to be safe with minimal changes to the cerebral blood
      flow (CBF) from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Research Questions

        1. Does post-operative high-flow oxygen improve pneumocephalus in terms of volume reduction
           in CSDH patients after burr-hole drainage?

        2. Does post-operative high-flow oxygen reduce the recurrence rate of CSDH (radiologically)
           if pneumocephalus volume is reduced after oxygen therapy?

        3. Does post-operative high-flow oxygen reduce the recurrence rate of CSDH (clinically), as
           defined by symptomatic recurrence requiring reoperation, if pneumocephalus volume is
           reduced after oxygen therapy?

        4. Does post-operative high-flow oxygen improve CSDH patients' functional outcome in terms
           of modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months and 6 months?

      Hypothesis Oxygen therapy for CSDH patients with post-operative pneumocephalus will
      experience significant resorption of intracranial air within 24 hours. There is a reduction
      in recurrence rate in terms of the re-operation rates. There is an improvement in functional
      outcome in terms of mRS.

      Aim of the Study To evaluate changes in pneumocephalus volume and functional outcome after
      oxygen therapy in post-operative CSDH patients treated by burr hole drainage, as compared to
      the standard care by breathing in room air or low concentration oxygen during the
      post-operative period.

      Study Design Prospective randomized 1:1 parallel-arm study

      Methods and Randomization Patients will be recruited when they are considered fit for oxygen
      therapy as determined by the treating clinician. The timing of burr hole evacuation may vary
      according to the availability of the emergency operative time slot. The index intervention is
      postoperative oxygen therapy: 100% normobaric oxygen through a nonrebreather mask (NRM) at
      12-15 Litre/minute consecutively for 24 hours. Removal of the nonrebreather mask is allowed
      during meals or other activities such as physiotherapy. The duration of mask removal would be
      documented. Compliance with NRM is considered to be good if the mask is kept > 90% of the
      time during the 24 hours treatment period. The reference intervention is standard
      post-operative care: the patient would be breathing in normobaric room air. For the reference
      arm, if the patient has desaturation (i.e. SaO2 < 93%), supplemental O2 therapy can be given
      to keep SaO2 > 93%. Arterial blood gas would be obtained by the clinicians when deemed
      necessary. If there is a significant deviation from the study protocol occurs, the patients
      will be analyzed according to their originally assigned groups (intention-to-treat
      principle).

      Non-rebreather masks, when they are tightly applied, are associated with a lower aerosol
      dispersion distance (as compared to non-invasive positive pressure ventilation or venturi
      masks).

      Interim data analysis would be performed and the study would be terminated if a significant
      difference in the primary outcome is observed.
    
  