
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease with variegated clinical
      presentation resulting from involvement of multiple biologic pathways. The pathways that lead
      to loss of tolerance in SLE include: multiple autoreactive cell types (B, T, dendritic, Th17
      and regulatory T cells) and abnormal cytokine milieus, genetic factors, environmental and
      hormonal influences, all of which can influence cell differentiation patterns and reset
      tolerance checkpoints. In addition, recent studies indicate a putative role for neutrophils
      in lupus pathogenesis and associated end-organ damage. Currently available therapeutics are
      frequently inadequate to treat disease flares and simultaneously expose patients to
      potentially serious toxicities. Further, premature cardiovascular disease not explained by
      the Framingham risk equation has become one of the most important causes of morbidity and
      mortality in this patient population. To date, no treatment used in lupus appears to
      significantly decrease cardiovascular risk. Identifying a drug that has immunomodulatory
      effects and is also vasculoprotective is an unmet need in this disease.

      Tofacitinib is an orally administered Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor that has recently been
      approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of moderate to severe
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA).

      The JAKs are a family of intracellular enzymes (JAK1, 2 and 3 and TYK2) that mediate
      signaling via a broad range of cytokine receptors. Targeting JAKs is an attractive
      therapeutic possibility for SLE for many reasons. Many of the inflammatory cytokines
      implicated in the pathogenesis of SLE signal via the JAK-STAT pathways. JAK inhibitors have
      been found to have efficacy in various murine models of lupus. Mice treated with a JAK2
      inhibitor exhibited reduced serum levels of IL-6, and IL-17 along with reduced numbers of
      long-lived autoantibody producing plasma cells in the spleen and bone marrow. Furthermore, we
      have found that administration of tofacitinib reduced serum levels of ANA, IL-6, and
      IFN-gamma; and ameliorated glomerulonephritis (unpublished data).

      This study therefore represents an innovative investigative measure of the safety and
      efficacy of JAK inhibition in SLE that is predicted by genetic predisposition. We will also
      investigate effects of tofacitinib on vascular function in SLE subjects and identify
      biomarkers that may be useful as endpoints in future studies.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To determine the safety and tolerability of tofacitinib in patients with SLE and mild to
      moderate disease activity.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a Phase Ib, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled clinical trial of orally
      administered tofacitinib, 5 mg twice daily, for the treatment of SLE subjects with mild to
      moderate disease activity stratified by the presence or absence of STAT4 risk alleles.
    
  