
    
      Patients in this study will have an operation to remove their uterus, tubes, and ovaries with
      biopsies of the omentum and lymph nodes before entering this study.

      Before treatment starts, patients will have a chest x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan,
      blood tests, and a physical exam. Patients who have a history of hearing loss will have a
      hearing test.

      Within 8 weeks after surgery, patients will receive 5 weeks of combination radiation therapy
      and cisplatin chemotherapy. Radiation and cisplatin will be given on Day 1 or day 2 of each
      week followed by 4 days of radiation alone. An additional dose of radiation, directed at the
      surface of the vagina, will be given either during the last week (Week 5) of treatment or
      after the radiation and cisplatin chemotherapy is finished.

      Three to five weeks after radiation therapy and cisplatin chemotherapy is finished, patients
      will receive additional chemotherapy. Carboplatin and paclitaxel will be given every 28 days
      for 4 cycles. All chemotherapy is given into the vein through a catheter (tube).

      Patients will be taken off study if their disease gets worse or intolerable side effects
      occur. Patients will be seen one month after the last cycle of chemotherapy, then every 3-4
      months from then on for 2 years. At each visit, patients will have blood tests and a physical
      exam. Computed tomography (CT) scans will be ordered only if it is suspected that the disease
      has come back. All patients will be followed for a maximum of 2 years after their therapy is
      completed.

      This is an investigational study. Cisplatin, Carboplatin and Paclitaxel are FDA approved and
      commercially available. A total of 49 patients will take part in this study. Up to 25
      patients may be enrolled at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, up to 12 patients will
      be enrolled at MD Anderson Cancer Center, Orlando, and up to 12 patients will be enrolled at
      the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston.
    
  