
    
      ESPaCe was a cross-sectional national survey designed to collect data on Cerebral Palsy (CP)
      motor rehabilitation from individuals with CP and their families in France.

      Needs, barriers and expectations regarding PT services were identified in a series of
      standardised individual interviews and group discussions developed by a multidisciplinary
      group composed of individuals with cerebral palsy, families, professional organisation
      representatives, therapists and rehabilitation specialists, described as "ESPaCe working
      group". The issues identified in the preparatory qualitative work were structured in a
      questionnaire and tested in a feasibility study.This study was carried out in accordance with
      the Code of Ethics of the World Medical Association (Declaration of Helsinki). Informed
      consent was not required for this survey according to current French legislation.The study
      included all individuals with cerebral palsy aged 2 y.o. or more, whether they were receiving
      physiotherapy (PT) services at the time of the survey or not. CP features were self-reported.
      Eligibility was confirmed by cross-checking the responses to questionnaire items related to
      history, diagnosis and clinical description of CP. The questionnaire was completed either by
      individuals with cerebral palsy, a family member or a caretaker.

      Participants were described with the following characteristics: age, gender, Gross Motor
      Function Classification System (GMFCS) level, CP subtype, associated impairments, frequency
      of pain, mother education (as a proxy for socio-economic status), and PT service provider.

      Participation in the ESPaCe survey was promoted through local and national patient advocacy
      groups and professional networks. The questionnaire was completed online or mailed-in. Data
      collection was open from June 2016 to June 2017.Participation in the ESPaCe survey was
      promoted through local and national patient advocacy groups and professional networks.
    
  