
    
      The investigators will prospectively examine whether an aerobic training intervention will
      alter markers of immune cell aging (i.e. increase telomerase activity in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells, telomere length in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and leukocytes,
      mitochondrial function, epigenetic profiles, and mRNA expression), improve exercise capacity
      and blood pressure, and decrease psychological distress over 24 weeks in 32 caregivers
      compared to 32 age-matched wait list control caregivers. Our sample will be comprised of
      caregivers who provide unpaid care for a family member diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease or
      other dementia. Participants in the study will be highly stressed and inactive male and
      female caregivers of family members with Alzheimer's disease or other dementia. All eligible
      participants will complete one week of ecological momentary assessments (EMA) to examine
      whether (1) previously unfit, high-stressed caregivers benefit psychologically from becoming
      active, (2) this benefit is derived through changes in how caregivers react to and recover
      from stressful events, and (3) whether these salubrious psychological effects mediate changes
      in biological outcomes (e.g., cellular aging). Next, participants will participate in a
      one-week run-in period of stretching 30 minutes on 4 separate days prior to randomization to
      guarantee that the investigators are randomizing well-informed participants that are willing
      and able to complete the expected exercise. Next, participants are randomized into the
      aerobic exercise or wait list control arm. In the 24th week of the study, participants
      complete a second week of the EMAs sub-study, and return after week 24 for a final blood
      draw.

      Research study assessments consist of self-report questionnaires, body composition, physical
      performance and fitness tests, and a fasting blood draw. The follow-up visit, 24 weeks later,
      consists of a repeat of the same morning health visit.
    
  