
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the effects of REMICADE (infliximab) in preventing
      relapse of Crohn's disease after surgical resection. Patients will be assigned to a group
      that will initially receive either infliximab or placebo. Each patient who is allowed to join
      the study is put into a group by chance (randomly), like flipping a coin. There is a
      possibility that patients can receive both the study drug and placebo at different times in
      the study. If a patient is initially randomized to receive placebo, and their study doctor
      confirms that they have had a return of active Crohn's Disease symptoms, they can receive
      infliximab. If a patient is initially randomized to receive infliximab, and their study
      doctor confirms that they are experiencing symptoms of Crohn's Disease, they may receive an
      increase in their infliximab dose. Infusions will be administered at Week 0 and then every 8
      weeks thereafter through Week 200. The study will use a measure of Crohn's Disease activity
      that will be evaluated at each visit and at any time the patient has symptoms suggestive of
      their disease getting worse in order to capture recurrence. During the study, patients who
      meet the study definition of clinical recurrence will be eligible to have a blinded
      infliximab dose increase of 5 mg/kg. In other words, patients receiving placebo would receive
      infliximab 5 mg/kg, and patients receiving infliximab 5 mg/kg would have a dose increase to
      10 mg/kg. Approximately 175 sites will be utilized, and approximately 290 patients will be
      enrolled. The interval between the first and last dose of study agent is 200 weeks. The
      planned duration of study participation is a maximum of 209 weeks (with a 1-week screening
      period, a 200-week treatment period, and a final study visit at Week 208). Group I
      (infliximab infusions): infliximab (5 mg/kg) will be administered by intravenous (IV)
      infusion at Week 0 and every 8 weeks thereafter through Week 200. Group II (placebo
      infusions): placebo will be administered by IV infusion at Week 0 and every 8 weeks
      thereafter through Week 200
    
  