
    
      Chocolate, the main product deriving from cocoa beans (Theobroma cacao, from the Greek "food
      of the gods") has its origin in Mexico, where Maya, Inca and Aztecs practiced their
      cultivation. For centuries, it has been appreciated for its pleasant taste and for its
      beneficial effects on health, and it is one of the most sought-after worldwide, with a
      consumption greatly increasing in recent years thanks to a wide availability of products on
      the market.

      Dietary choices are strongly influenced by the taste and consistency of foods. Fat is largely
      responsible for the sensory properties of many foods and, therefore, contribute greatly to
      the pleasure of eating. Dark chocolate consists of ≈43% of lipids, mainly represented by
      cocoa butter, the latter consisting on average of 33% of oleic acid, 25% of palmitic acid and
      33% of stearic acid. Another component of chocolate is polyphenols, in particular flavonoids,
      substances with numerous beneficial effects for health, including antihypertensive,
      anti-inflammatory, antithrombotic, metabolic and prebiotic activity, playing a role in the
      change of human intestinal microbiota.

      Recent scientific studies show an inverse correlation between flavonoid intake in the diet
      and the incidence of diabetes, such as to hypothesize the use of flavonoid-rich foods as
      potential nutritional supplements in the management of diabetes. The cocoa flavonoids can
      bring benefits to the insulin-resistance condition by improving endothelial function,
      modifying glucose metabolism and reducing oxidative stress, which is considered the main
      cause of insulin resistance. In healthy individuals and patients with moderate cardiovascular
      risk, regular flavonoid intake improves levels of cardiovascular biomarkers, lowering serum
      LDL cholesterol and triglycerides and increasing HDL cholesterol. The flavonoids present in
      cocoa can also inhibit platelet aggregation by down-regulation of the cellular synthesis of
      eicosanoids.
    
  