
    
      This study will recruit 60 participants that are overweight/obese people suffering from
      metabolic syndrome. The participants will be asked to come to the Clinical Nutrition Research
      Centre (CNRC) for a screening session (1st visit) and given plenty of time to read this
      information sheet and the opportunity to ask questions. Once the participants are fully
      informed regarding the study and all their questions have been satisfactorily answered, the
      participants will be given a consent form to complete and sign in the presence of the
      researcher. Following this, in order to gauge their suitability for taking part in the study,
      an assessment will be carried out. This assessment needs to be carried out in a fasted state
      and participants would therefore have to come one morning following an overnight fast. The
      screening will include anthropometric measurements, blood pressure measurement and blood
      sampling. Anthropometric measurements taken will be height, weight, waist circumference and
      hip circumference. Body composition will be measured using an electrical impedance analyser
      (BIA). Blood pressure will be measured using an automatic blood pressure monitor. The
      participants will also undergo a blood sampling from their vein (6 mL or approximately 1.5
      teaspoons) to be tested for thyroid function, glucose and lipid profile. Pre-menopausal
      females will also undergo a urine pregnancy test to exclude pregnancy prior to participation
      at study entry. The participants who have been accepted into the study will be randomly
      assigned to one of the 3 parallel intervention groups below (20 subjects per group) via an
      online randomizer (www.randomizer.org). Randomization means assigning them to one of the
      three groups by chance, like tossing a coin or rolling a dice. The 3 parallel intervention
      groups (Week 0 to 12) are Group 1 (CS): Cold stimulation using cooling vest x 60 min once
      daily over 3 months, Group 2 (BN): Browning nutraceutical (2000mg curcumin) to be taken once
      daily over 3 months, Group 3 (CSBN): Cold stimulation using cooling vest x 60 min once daily
      and Browning nutraceutical (2000mg curcumin) to be taken once daily over 3 months. The
      participants will then be expected to come to the centre for a total of six separate test
      sessions, over a span of 6 months (2 test sessions each at week 0, 12 and 24 approximately
      +/-2 weeks). For each of the six test sessions,the participants will be required to fast
      overnight and avoid caffeine and alcohol for 8-10 hours, only plain water can be consumed
      during the fast before reporting at the CNRC in the morning between 8 to 9 am. The
      participants are to avoid any physical activity/exercise and alcohol on the day prior to the
      visit. The test sessions will be as follows: On the 2nd visit (first test session) at week 0,
      the participants will need come to CNRC in the morning and a fasting blood sample (40 mL or
      approximately 8 teaspoons) and urine sample will be collected before they undergo metabolic
      rate measurement with IRT focusing on their neck and area above the collar bone in a whole
      body room calorimeter for the next 45 minutes. The participants will then undergo a mild cold
      stimulation of about 14 degree Celsius by wearing a cooling vest for the next 45 minutes, in
      which metabolic rate measurement and IRT in the whole body calorimeter will be performed
      during this period. Please note that wearing the cooling vest may lead to some shivering, but
      it is generally considered safe. Upon exiting the whole body calorimeter, the participants
      will remove the cooling vest and then proceed to Clinical Imaging Research Centre (CIRC)
      located at the basement level of the same building, where an intravenous indwelling cannula
      will be inserted into an arm vein and 20 mL (approximately 4 teaspoons) of blood and another
      urine sample will be collected again. The participants will then wear the cooling vest again
      for approximately another 60 min and in between they will receive an intravenous injection of
      a radioactive labeled glucose called 18-FDG through the intravenous cannula. The cooling vest
      will be removed just prior to the start of the PET (Positron Emission Tomography) and MRI/MRS
      (Magnetic Resonance Imaging/Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy) that will take place over the
      next 1 hour to quantify BAT (Brown Adipose Tissue) and abdominal white fat including liver
      and muscle fat. The participants will also need to undergo a body composition evaluation
      using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) (approximately 20 mins duration) which allows
      quantification of fat, lean and bone mass. However, the participants will be given the option
      to do the DXA scan on their next/3rd visit according to their preference. After which, the
      participants will be free to leave. On the 3rd visit (second test session) at week 0, the
      participants will need come to CNRC in the morning for an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT).
      Anthropometric measurements taken will be height, weight, waist circumference and hip
      circumference. Body composition will be measured using an electrical impedance analyser
      (BIA). Blood pressure will be measured using an automatic blood pressure monitor. A fasting
      blood sample (4 mL or less than 1 teaspoon) will be collected and participants will then be
      required to consume a glucose drink (75g of glucose) within 5 minutes. Subsequently after 120
      min, another blood sample (4 mL or less than 1 teaspoon) will be collected. During the entire
      test session, the participants will have to stay rested and in the laboratory. Television and
      a workspace will be provided for the participants use if required. At the end of 2 hours of
      testing, for participants who have not undergone for the DXA scan on the 2nd visit, they will
      then proceed to complete the DXA scan (approximately 20 mins duration). After which,
      participants will be free to leave.The above 2 test sessions may be scheduled in any
      order,but to be completed no more than 2 weeks apart. The participants will now start the
      study intervention procedures as per the intervention group randomly assigned to them for the
      next 12 weeks or 3 months. Participants who are assigned to group 1 / cold stimulation (CS),
      will be expected to undergo a mild cold stimulation of about 14 degree Celsius by wearing a
      cooling vest for approximately an hour daily for the next 12 weeks or 3 months. Participants
      who are assigned to group 2 / browning nutraceutical (BN), will be expected to consume 2000mg
      of curcumin (in forms of capsules) daily for the next 12 weeks or 3 months. Curcumin is a
      naturally-occurring polyphenol antioxidant that is found in turmeric ginger rhizome root and
      has been widely known in Asia to have health benefits. Since both substances are commonly
      consumed among Asians, it is relevant to study their combined chronic clinical effects on
      BAT. Use of curcumin to stimulate BAT is essentially safe as both are naturally occurring
      plant derived substances from Curcuma longa rhizome. It is generally recognised as safe for
      human consumption. The US FDA has approved curcumin as 'Generally Recognised as Safe' (GRAS)
      status and allows these to be taken as foods ingredients. Participants who are assigned to
      group 3 / cold stimulation and browning nutraceutical (CSBN), will be expected to undergo a
      mild cold stimulation of about 14 degree Celsius by wearing a cooling vest for approximately
      an hour and, consume 2000mg of curcumin (in forms of capsules) daily for the next 12 weeks or
      3 months. The participants will then be required to come for the 4th visit (third test
      session) and 5th visit (fourth test session) at week 12 (after completing the 3 months of
      intervention), as per follows:

      On the 4th visit (third test session) at week 12, participants will need to come to CNRC in
      the morning in a fasted state and proceed first to CIRC for a 30 min MRI/MRS only scan of
      BAT/WAT to study the dynamic fat mobilization. Subsequent procedures will be the same
      procedures as per that of the 2nd visit (first test session). For the 5th visit (fourth test
      session) at week 12, participants will repeat the same procedures as per that of the 3rd
      visit (second test session). After which, there will be no more intervention and participants
      will continue with their usual lifestyle and diet for the next 3 months (week 12 to 24).The
      participants will lastly be required to come for the 6th visit (fifth test session) and 7th
      visit (sixth test session) at week 24 (6 months from start of study), and repeat the same
      procedures as per that of the 2nd visit (first test session) and the 3rd visit (second test
      session) respectively.
    
  