
    
      After given prior informed consent, volunteers will be submitted to six pseudorandomized
      sessions using a website (randomization.com) by a non-involved researcher. At study
      beginning, volunteers will be evaluated through structured questionnaire and each session,
      will comprise the following experimental sequence:

        1. Quantity and quality of sleep: It will be enquired how many hours the volunteer slept in
           the last night. The quality of the sleep will be measured through an analogue scale
           graded from 0 (worst quality of sleep) to 10 points (best quality of sleep).

        2. Type of eating: All the individuals will be asked about ingestion of food and drinks
           that could change the cortical excitability ( e. g.; coffee, chocolate, energetic, soda
           e etcc). If positive, researchers will record the time since of ingestion and quantify
           the amount of food.

        3. Fatigue and motivation level: Fatigue and motivation level: Fatigue and motivation
           levels: It will be measured through an analogue scale graded from 0 (lower fatigue or
           motivation levels) to 10 points (greater fatigue or motivation levels).

        4. Cortical excitability: the cortical will be measured through the motor evoked potential
           (MEP), short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF). All
           the measures will be evaluated through transcranial magnetic stimulation (Neurosoft,
           Russia). Initially, rest motor threshold (RMT) will be determined by finding the lowest
           stimulator output that elicit motor evoked potential (MEP) at least 50 microvolts (μV).
           For RMT measure, a figure-eight coil connected to the magnetic stimulator held manually
           at 45 degrees from the midline, will be placed over the right primary motor cortex (C3 -
           10/20 System). The short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation
           (ICF) will be evaluated by paired pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation. A
           subthreshold conditioning stimuli (80% of RMT) and suprathreshold test stimuli (130% of
           RMT) will be delivered at an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 2 milliseconds for SICI and
           10 milliseconds for ICF. Ten stimuli will be applied at each condition (unconditioned
           pulse and pairs of stimuli with ISI of 3 and 20 milliseconds). Stimuli order delivery
           will be pseudo-randomized and SICI and ICF will be expressed as conditioned stimulus
           percentage regarding unconditioned stimulus. The MEP value will be obtained through
           single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation. Ten suprathreshold (130% of RMT) stimuli
           will be delivered on primary motor cortex (C3).

        5. Spinal cord activity: the level of excitability of spinal cord will be measured through
           the following outcomes:

             -  Hoffman reflex (H reflex): the H reflex will be elicited by a percutaneous
                electrical stimulation on tibial nerve delivered on popliteal fossae and recorded
                the electromyographic responses from the soleus muscle. The values of maximal H
                reflex, M wave and maximal H reflex and maximal M wave ratio (H/M ratio) will be
                obtained through a recruitment curve. The recruitment curve will start with a
                stimulus intensity delivered from 2 milliampere (mA) and increasing on steps of 1
                mA until to M wave curve stabilization (no increasing of the M wave amplitude).

             -  Homosynaptic depression (HD): the HD will be obtained through a serie of two
                consecutive stimuli separated by a interstimulus interval (from 30ms until
                10.000ms). The stimuli will be delivered on popliteal fossa and the
                electromyographic responses from soleus muscle will be recorded. The stimuli will
                be delivered with the intensity necessary to produce the maximal H reflex (this
                information will be available in the recruitment curve as stated before). The
                difference between the first and the second stimuli for each interstimulus interval
                will give rise to the recovery curve.

             -  Nociceptive component of Withdrawal reflex (RIIIr): The RIIIr wil be elicited by
                delivering percutaneous electrical stimulation on sural nerve (behind the right
                lateral malleolus) and recording responses from the ipsilateral brevis head of the
                biceps femoris muscle. For the reflex threshold (RT) record, the initial current
                intensity will be adjusted to 2 mA and increased on steps of 1 mA, until obtain a
                response of at least 20 µV, accompanied by pain report. Then, 5 stimulus (130% RT)
                will be applied to obtain the latency and area average. Besides, pain perception
                will be controlled through an analogue scale graded from 0 (without perception of
                pain) to 10 points (greater pain already felt).

        6. tsDCS: transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation will be delivered through a direct current
           (DC) stimulator (NeuroConn Plus, Germany) using a pair of saline-soaked sponge
           electrodes (35cm²). The active electrode (anode or cathode) will be placed between the
           eleventh and the twelfth thoracic vertebra) and the reference electrode, over the right
           arm (deltoid muscle). Will be delivered a current intensity of 2.5 mA, fade in and fade
           out of 10 seconds, during 20 minutes. Sham tsDCS has been used in several studies to
           evaluate active tsDCS effects. Sham tsDCS will be applied using the same electrodes
           placement and parameter settings of anodal tsDCS however, stimulation will last only 30
           seconds but the volunteers will continue with electrodes montage for 20 minutes.Thus,
           early sensations (eg. mild to moderate tingling or itch) on stimulation site will be
           experienced without inducing any modulatory effects. Moreover, after each tsDCS session,
           an adverse effects questionnaire will be applied.

        7. rTMS: Initially, the higher cortical representation area (hotspot) of first right dorsal
           interosseous (FDI) muscle will be determined through a figure-eight coil connected to
           the magnetic stimulator (Rapid2, Magstim, UK) held manually and positioned over the
           scalp (C3 - 10/20 System) at an angle of 45 degrees from the midline pointed to the
           target muscle (FDI). Thereafter, RMT will be measure. rTMS protocols was based on
           previous studies. Low frequency protocol: 1 hertz (Hz), 90% RMT, 1500 stimuli (1 train).
           High frequency protocol: 20 Hz, 90% RMT, 45 trains, 40 stimuli per train, inter interval
           of 28 seconds, 1800 stimuli. Sham rTMS will be performed with low frequency protocol
           using two coils. The first one - connected to the stimulator - will be positioned on a
           coil support close to the volunteer but not visible. Therefore, characteristic
           stimulation noises will be audible. The second - disconnected to the stimulator - will
           be placed over left primary motor area. After each rTMS session, presence of adverse
           effects will be computed.

        8. Gait training: It consists of moderate gait training exercise for 20 minutes. To ensure
           that the exercise will be performed at moderate intensity will be used the 64% - 76% of
           maximum heart rate (HRmax = 220-age). Heart rate will be monitored every three minutes
           through a heart polar. In addition will be monitored perceived effort, gait speed and
           incline of the treadmill. The Borg scale will be used to evaluate perceived effort. This
           is an analogue scale graded from 6 (light exercise) to 20 points (exhaustive exercise).
           Information about the exercise on the treadmill will be noted in the evolution record.

        9. Spinal cord activity: this evaluation will be performed immediately after (T0), thirty
           minutes after (T1) and 1 hour after (T2) the gait training. The procedures will be
           conducted following the same protocol.

       10. Cortical brain activity: this evaluation will be performed after each revaluation of
           spinal cord activity (T0, T1 and T2). The procedures will be conducted following the
           same protocol.
    
  