
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the cardiac safety of adjuvant concurrent bevacizumab and dose-dense
           doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide followed by dose-dense paclitaxel
           albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation and maintenance therapy comprising
           bevacizumab alone in patients with early-stage breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the noncardiac toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of time to tumor recurrence and overall
           survival, in these patients.

        -  Explore changes in circulating endothelial cells and circulating tumor cells from
           pre-treatment levels in patients with no evidence of disease.

        -  Prospectively explore the use of serial troponin I as a predictor of cardiac toxicity in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Prospectively explore the relationship between plasma renin activity and hypertension in
           patients treated with bevacizumab and chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, pilot, multicenter study.

      Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, cyclophophamide IV, and bevacizumab IV over
      30-90 minutes on day 1 and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 2. Treatment repeats
      every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients then receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30
      minutes on day 1 and pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment with paclitaxel albumin-stabilized
      nanoparticle formulation and pegfilgrastim repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive maintenance therapy
      comprising bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with maintenance therapy
      repeats every 3 weeks for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study treatment. Samples are
      analyzed for circulating endothelial cells (by flow cytomery [FC]), circulating epithelial
      cells (by immunocytochemistry and FC), troponin I concentrations (by enzyme immunoassay or
      chemiluminescent microparticle immunoassay), and plasma renin activity (by radioimmunoassay).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 4-6 months for 3 years,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  