
    
      A randomized controlled intervention program trial was carried out in 14 females' schools in
      East Jerusalem, selected randomly by a stratified sampling of four groups of schools. The
      primary target population was the students, while the secondary target populations were the
      mothers and the teachers at these schools. From the schools operating in East Jerusalem
      (Palestinian Authority, Jerusalem Municipality, private, and United Nations Relief and Works
      Agency) grades 4 and 5 were considered eligible to participate in the pre- and
      post-intervention studies.

      The study process was designed, using the ecological model, in three stages; Stage one: Need
      assessment stage (pre-intervention, March-Jun 2011): A semi-structured interview was used
      with all 14 school principals, and a structured self-administered questionnaire was used with
      all teachers. A random sample of a 4th and 5th grade classes was selected, in which all
      mothers and their daughters were eligible to answer a self-administered questionnaire. The
      height and weight of the children were measured during this stage. These measurements were
      the baseline for assessing the current situation. In addition to school inspection tours was
      done to assess the school's health environment.

      Stage two: Action stage (intervention, September 2011-June 2013): A random allocation of
      schools into intervention and control groups was done, followed by participatory planning and
      administration of the intervention in each of the 7 schools based on their needs assessments
      and assets. The program was implemented and administered by a steering committee in each of
      the schools, consisting of teachers, mothers, and children. Teachers underwent trainings in
      nutrition and physical activity. The program activities were monitored by regular visits
      twice a month. The implementation team met every four to six weeks to review the progress.

      Stage three: Evaluation (post intervention, February-April 2013): Evaluation of the program
      was done after eighteen months of intervention using the same assessment questionnaires for
      both intervention and control schools among a different sample of children from grades 4 and
      5, their mothers, and all of the teachers.
    
  