
    
      Currently the most commonly performed definitive treatment for symptomatic esophago-gastric
      junction outflow obstruction is a laparoscopic esophageal myotomy (LEM). In this procedure
      the outer longitudinal and inner circular muscle fibers of the distal esophagus and proximal
      stomach are divided, releasing the spasm and resulting in an open lumen. Although this
      procedure is effective in relieving troubles swallowing and in improving esophageal emptying,
      it is often accompanied by the development of GERD (as the muscle division results in
      incompetence of the antireflux barrier, the lower esophageal sphincter). For this reason a
      laparoscopic esophageal myotomy is most often accompanied by a fundoplication, in which part
      of the fundus of the stomach is folded around the distal esophagus and sutured in place,
      recreating a flap-valve mechanism. (It is best to perform this at the time of the
      laparoscopic myotomy as reoperation in that area is difficult). The fundoplication however
      may be imperfect, and may result in some degree of outflow obstruction itself or fail to
      control reflux. LEM results in 80% to 90% global patient satisfaction; but 10-20% continue to
      experience moderate dysphagia and 10-35% will have GERD by esophageal pH testing.

      Others have evaluated the possibility of surgically dividing the muscle fibers from within
      the esophagus, using an endoscope rather than a laparoscope, in an animal model. The first
      human experience was reported in Japan using a per-oral endoscope to (a) incise the mucosa in
      the proximal esophagus as an entry point, (b) create a submucosal tunnel downwards, (c)
      perform an esophageal myotomy of the distal esophageal circular muscle, and (d) close the
      mucosal entry site with clips. The creation of the submucosal tunnel for some distance before
      the myotomy is a safety measure, so that should the mucosal closure fail, native tissues will
      appose and help seal any leak (rather like the Z-entry for a thoracentesis). Subsequent to
      this initial report, multiple single-arm studies have reported that the technique is safe and
      is associated with excellent medium-term relief of dysphagia..

      In the POEM technique no fundoplication is performed. By the endoscopic creation of an
      esophageal submucosal tunnel the inner circular muscle layer could be easily visualized and
      in contrast to conventional laparoscopic esophageal myotomy, the authors described the
      division of only this inner circular esophageal muscle layer leaving the outer longitudinal
      muscle layer intact. The distal esophagus is exposed in LEM, hence disrupting the attachments
      to the diaphragm. These attachments contribute to the overall antireflux mechanism. It is
      hypothesized that by only dividing the inner circular muscle, and not disrupting the
      contribution of the outer longitudinal muscle or the diaphragmatic attachments to the
      antireflux mechanism, POEM may not have the same potential for reflux as a LEM. If this is
      the case then an antireflux procedure may not be needed after the POEM procedure.
    
  