
    
      Forty adolescents will participate in the following randomized crossover-design study. Prior
      to the start of the study, the participants will be asked to document their habitual
      breakfast, lunch, and afternoon snack times. The snack patterns and associated testing days
      will be scheduled so that each participant consumes the afternoon snack (or refrains from
      snacking) 3 hours after lunch; however, the time of day when this occurs is based on the
      participant's previous, habitual snack time. Once this is determined, each participant will
      randomly acclimate to the following snack pattern for 3 consecutive days: 1) Higher Protein
      Soy-based Snacks (250 kcal; 40% Protein; 40% Carbohydrates; 20% Fat); 2) Typical, Low Protein
      Snacks (5% Protein; 50% Carbohydrates; 45% Fat); and 3) No Snack.

      On day 4, the participants will consume a standard breakfast, at home, and lunch, at school,
      and will come in to our facility 1 hour prior to their habitual snack time. The participants
      will be placed in a window-less, comfortable room, void of all time cues. They will be
      informed that they will remain in this room for the next 6 hours. The participants will begin
      the testing day by completing baseline questionnaires assessing appetite, satiety, mood, and
      cognitive function. A brain scan will be completed using functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI) to identify brain activation patterns in response to food stimuli. Following
      the fMRI scan, the respective snack will be given to the participants; they will have 15
      minutes to eat the snack. A second fMRI scan will then be performed. The participants will
      continue to complete the previous questionnaires until they voluntarily choose to eat. At
      this time, the volunteers will be presented with an 'all you can eat' snack buffet. They will
      be permitted to eat as much or as little as they would like to eat over the next 3-hour
      period. The participants will remain in the facility until the full 8-hour testing day is
      completed, regardless of when they requested to eat. Following the 6 hours, the participants
      will be permitted to leave the facility.
    
  