
    
      Patients will be randomised into one of two groups, with group A acting as the control group
      using the investigators' standard 3--point closed--face shell, and group B using the 3--point
      open--face shell (experimental group). Each procedure is discussed with the patient before
      commencement. Patients will be positioned into the optimal treatment position and the shell
      will be fabricated as per manufacturer instructions by pre-treatment radiographers. This is
      followed by the patient having a planning CT scan of their head while wearing their shell to
      allows radiographers and doctors to localise and plan the treatment. At the end of this
      appointment, the patient will be asked to complete the first of three questionnaires
      regarding their experience of wearing the shell. Radiographers will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire of their experience of using the shell, and complete timing data for the
      procedures.

      On the first day of treatment, radiographers will discuss the treatment process and side
      effects of treatment with the patient, and treatment will be delivered under current
      department protocols using linear accelerators (linacs). During the course of the treatment,
      radiographers will obtain 5 sets of verification images for the study, and these will be
      assessed for set-up errors as per current department policy. Where possible, treatment fields
      will be used to verify patient position to keep radiation doses from verification imaging as
      low as reasonably practicable (ALARP). Patients will be asked to complete two more
      questionnaires on their experience, one on their first day and one on their last day of
      treatment. Radiographers will also complete questionnaires on these days. Timing data will be
      obtained for all treatment fractions.

      The patient's perspective of the planning and treatment processes will be almost identical to
      that of patients having cranial radiotherapy that are not in the trial. The only differences
      that will be observed will be the use of an open-face shell (for patients in group B),
      completion of three questionnaires, and additional verification imaging.
    
  