
    
      The proposed study is the first effort to test a manualized cognitive-behavioral therapy
      intervention for chronic pain delivered by behavioral health providers working in primary
      care clinics. If successful, findings from this study will inform Defense Health Agency (DHA)
      policy nationwide. The study teams' DHA collaborators write these policies and the PIs are
      active participants in the DHA MHS Stepped Care Pain Pathway workgroup. Data from this study
      will inform military, VA and civilian primary care services about the contribution of
      integrated behavioral health pain management to pain outcomes, healthcare utilization, and
      satisfaction with care.

      The purpose of this randomized pragmatic trial is to assess the effect of monthly booster
      contacts on long-term Brief Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain (BCBT-CP) pain
      outcomes compared to BCBT-CP without a booster in 716 Military Health Systems (MHS)
      beneficiaries referred to a Behavioral Health Consultant (BHC) for pain management using
      BCBT-CP.

      Active Comparator: Standard BCBT-CP

      Brief Cognitive Behavior Therapy for Chronic Pain (BCBT-CP) is a seven-module intervention
      for chronic pain based on the efficacious specialty-care, ten-session version of this
      treatment called Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain (CBT-CP). CBT-CP has been
      disseminated throughout the VA healthcare system as a manualized, non-pharmacological
      intervention for chronic pain (Stewart et al., 2015). Preliminary studies of CBT-CP found
      that most patients completed all ten CBT-CP modules (Stewart et al., 2015) and better
      outcomes were associated with home-based skills practice (Edmond et al., 2017). One study of
      CBT-CP in the VA found that over 50% of patients who were offered the treatment declined and
      individuals with a history of opioid use were under-engaged for this efficacious treatment
      (Higgins et al., 2018). Thus, the DHA abbreviated CBT-CP to only seven modules for
      implementation in primary care, where most patients with pain are seen (including those with
      active and past opioid use). The seven modules are:

      (A) Assessment, engagement and goal setting, (B) Education on chronic pain and relaxation
      training, (C) Discussion of the importance of activity engagement and pacing, (D) Progressive
      muscle relaxation and guided imagery, (E) Identifying thoughts that negatively impact pain,
      (F) Modifying thoughts that negatively impact pain, and (G) Developing an action plan.

      Patients are encouraged to complete a minimum of four modules with their provider (i. e., A,
      B, G, and at least one additional module). BCBT-CP was developed in collaboration with the
      developers of CBT-CP to establish a brief version of protocol suitable for delivery by BHCs
      working in MHS Primary Care clinics.

      Each module appointment lasts approximately 30 minutes and includes the following treatment
      components:

      Introduction to the module and confirmation of session agenda Check on mood and completion of
      patient measures (DVPRS, PEG-3, BHM-20, PHQ-9, PCL-5) Review of material from previous
      modules, including home practice Introduction of the new material and answer questions Module
      wrap-up BHCs are trained by the DHA on how to effectively introduce and "sell" BCBT-CP to
      patients and have access to supplemental and appended materials to address comorbidities.

      BCBT-CP Booster Contacts are intended to refresh BCBT-CP content without introducing new
      skills. To accomplish this, Booster Contacts are manualized (see appended Booster Protocol
      form) to cover: assessment of pain since last BCBT-CP appointment, refresh BCBT-CP module
      content, and remind about next BCBT-CP appointment.

      Booster contacts will be scheduled 1-week following each BCBT-CP module. Booster contacts
      will occur at least one week after a BCBT-CP module but no more than 2 weeks after a BCBT-CP
      module. Following completion of care on the BCBT-CP pathway, booster contacts will continue
      monthly through month 12 of study participation. Depending on how often the BHC can meet with
      the patient-participant to receive module care, participants could have a varying number of
      booster calls, but based on the investigators' pilot study when patients could only meet with
      their BHC on average once a month, the investigators believe that most patients will receive
      12 booster contacts. The booster contacts may occur via telephone or video conferencing and
      will be audio-recording using and independent device (separate from the conferencing
      platform, e.g. Zoom).

      All Booster providers (research staff) will receive a two-hour training on conducting Booster
      Contacts from the study PIs including description of how to complete the BCBT-CP Booster
      Protocol Form.
    
  