
    
      Inclusion criteria:

        -  70 years or more

        -  Cancer of the head and neck (HNC), lung (LC), upper gastro-intestinal- tract (UGI) or
           colo-rectal cancer (CRC)

        -  Referred to the Outpatient Clinic at department of oncology at Aarhus University
           Hospital for cancer treatment.

        -  Living in Aarhus, Favrskov, Odder or Skanderborg Municipalities

      Exclusion:

      - Referred for specialised palliative care

      Patients with both newly diagnosed cancer disease and patients with a relapse of previously
      treated cancer disease are included. Patients qualify for participation regardless of the
      stage of the cancer disease and regardless if specific cancer treatment is initiated.

      The oncology department is responsible for identifying patients and informing of the planned
      CGA.

      All potential patients referred to the oncology outpatient clinic are identified by
      retrospective review of lists of planned consultations in the oncology department out patient
      clinic available in the electronic medical file approximately once a week. By this procedure
      patients who were not informed of the possibility of having a CGA are identified (Group1)
      Patients who are referred for geriatric evaluation have a complete CGA at baseline. The CGA
      comprises 7 instruments for assessing health: Activities of Daily Living (ADL) and
      Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) for autonomy, Mini Nutritional Status (MNA)
      for nutritional state, Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) for Cognitive state, Geriatric
      Depression Scale 15-item (GDS) for mood and Cumulative Illness Rating Scale - Geriatrics
      (CIRS-G) for comorbidity and number of daily medication for polypharmacy as previously
      published. According to CGA, patients were given a CGA-status of "fit", "vulnerable" or
      "frail". In order to be "fit" all of the following should be present: Independence in ADL and
      IADL, less than 5 daily medications, no severe comorbidity and no more than 2 well controlled
      comorbidities, normal cognitive ability and no indications of depression or malnutrition.
      Information on whether or not the multidisciplinary team initiated any individual
      action/advice based on the CGA in group 1 and group 2 was registered as well. Interventions
      initiated by the multidisciplinary team were recorded in four categories: medical changes,
      nutritional intervention, physical intervention or social intervention. These interventions
      were registered before randomization was performed Frail and vulnerable patients are offered
      participation in a controlled randomized study (Clinical trialsID: NCT02837679). Patients are
      randomly and 1:1 assigned to either: No tailored follow-up (Group 2) or 90 days tailored
      follow up (group 3). Randomization were performed by REDcap and allocated equally by
      CGA-status (frail/vulnerable), gender and index tumor site (CRC or no-CRC).

      It is not possible to blind patients or the multidisciplinary team of the randomization.

      Group 2 has no tailored follow up on the problems found during CGA. Group 3 has 90 days
      tailored follow-up on problems that were identified during CGA and problems that evolved
      during the follow-up period.

      Tailored follow-up The tailored intervention consists of phone calls, home visits, or contact
      to community care-takers. A multidisciplinary team consisting of a trained geriatric nurse
      and a geriatrician specialist performs the follow up. The team can perform clinical
      investigation of patients, initiate changes in medication, or referral to further
      investigation. Furthermore transfusion of blood, fluids or i.v. antibiotics could be
      performed either at home or in the geriatric out patient clinic.
    
  