
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 of patients with advanced leiomyosarcoma of the uterus (ULMS) treated with
      nivolumab.

      II. To evaluate the objective response rate per RECIST 1.1 of patients with advanced ULMS
      treated with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity of nivolumab in patients with advanced ULMS. II. To evaluate the
      toxicity of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab in patients with advanced ULMS.

      III. To evaluate the progression-free survival of ULMS treated with nivolumab. IV. To
      evaluate the progression-free survival of ULMS treated with nivolumab in combination with
      ipilimumab.

      V. To explore the relationship between PDL1, PD1 in infiltrating lymphocytes and PD2 status
      in archival tumor, and pre/post treatment biopsies in a minimum of 10 patients.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship between general immune response and specific markers of
      immunomodulation and response to nivolumab.

      II. To explore the relationship between tumor inflammatory gene signature and response to
      nivolumab in archival material.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      Cohort A (closed to accrual on 21-Oct-2015): Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV)
      over approximately 60 minutes once every 2 weeks for up to 46 doses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohort B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over approximately 60 minutes followed by a saline
      flush and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days.
    
  