
    
      TTP is a disorder that causes blood clots to form in the small blood vessels throughout the
      body. If the clots in fact block the blood vessels, blood flow is restricted to various
      organs, including the brain, kidneys, and heart. This can lead to neurological problems,
      stroke, abnormal kidney function, and heart problems. Because a large number of platelets are
      used in the blood clotting process, people with TTP have a reduced number of platelets
      circulating in their blood. They also have fewer red blood cells circulating in their blood
      because the red blood cells break down prematurely as blood squeezes past a blood clot.

      The primary treatment for TTP is plasmapheresis, also called plasma exchange, which is a
      procedure that circulates a person's blood through a machine that first removes the damaged
      plasma and then adds healthy donor plasma into the blood. Next, patients receive a blood
      transfusion with the new blood. Corticosteroids, a type of medication that reduces the amount
      of antibodies a person's body makes, are also commonly used in conjunction with plasma
      exchange to treat TTP. Plasma exchange is usually effective, with platelet and red blood cell
      counts returning to normal after the procedure is complete. However, some people do
      experience a relapse of TTP and will require repeat plasma exchanges. Rituximab, an antibody
      currently used to treat lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis, may improve immune system response
      and decrease the number of days needed to undergo the plasma exchange procedure. The purpose
      of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of rituximab in combination with plasma
      exchange at improving an early treatment response in people with TTP and decreasing the
      likelihood of a relapse of TTP.

      This 3-year study will enroll people who have recently been diagnosed with TTP or recently
      experienced a relapse and have not yet had six plasma exchanges during the current episode of
      TTP. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either plasma exchanges and
      corticosteroids or plasma exchanges, corticosteroids, and rituximab. Blood will be collected
      from participants at baseline and each day they undergo the plasma exchange procedure. All
      participants will receive a plasma exchange every day until their platelet counts are normal
      and signs of tissue damage have improved. Participants will receive corticosteroid medication
      every day until plasma exchange is stopped, at which time the dosage will be gradually
      tapered until 7 weeks after the last plasma exchange. Participants receiving rituximab will
      receive the first dose intravenously within 7 days of the first plasma exchange; they will
      continue to receive rituximab once a week for 4 weeks. After the plasma exchanges are
      completed, all participants will have routine follow-up care with their doctors to make sure
      there is no TTP relapse. In the 1 year after study entry, additional blood collections will
      occur at varying times. Study researchers will monitor participants' health in the 3 years
      after study entry by following up with their doctors or through periodic phone calls. A
      portion of blood will be collected and stored for future TTP research purposes; this is
      optional.
    
  