
    
      Background: Type 1 diabetes is characterized by complete or near-complete absence of insulin
      secretion, generally due to autoimmune disease. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in type 1
      diabetes is just as great as in type 2 diabetic individuals of the same age, even though type
      1 diabetic individuals usually have fewer additional CVD risk factors. This is likely due to
      earlier age of onset of diabetes and therefore much longer exposure to hyperglycemia. The
      incidence of type 1 diabetes is increasing throughout the world. The reasons for this are
      thought to be environmental although the exact nature of the environmental precipitants is
      not well understood. In contrast to type 2 diabetes, in which it is clear that aerobic
      exercise improves glycemic control, studies in type 1 diabetes have generally not found a
      significant beneficial effect for aerobic exercise on glycemic control, even though there is
      often reduction in insulin requirements and improved insulin sensitivity. This paradoxical
      finding may be because individuals with type 1 diabetes are at much higher risk of
      hypoglycaemia than type 2 and tend to increase their carbohydrate intake in an effort to
      avoid exercise-induced drops in glucose.

      The acute effects of resistance exercise on glycemia in type 1 diabetes have not been
      established; it is possible that resistance exercise results in a smoother or more
      predictable decline in blood glucose than aerobic training does, which might reduce fear of
      hypoglycemia and consequent overcompensation. Resistance exercise training increases insulin
      receptor protein expression, which is not true of aerobic exercise training .

      Study Design: This will be a randomized, controlled trial with a 2 by 2 factorial design
      (resistance training versus no resistance training; aerobic training versus no aerobic
      training) in previously inactive subjects with type 1 diabetes. After screening, qualifying
      subjects will enter a 5-week stabilization/run in period prior to randomization. During this
      period their diet and insulin therapy will be assessed and optimized, and in weeks 2-5 they
      will also undergo three supervised sessions of low-intensity exercise per week. Those
      demonstrating adequate compliance during the run-in period will then be randomized in equal
      numbers to Aerobic Training (A) progressing to 45 min 3X/wk at 75% of maximum heart rate,
      Resistance Training (R) 3X/week progressing to 3 sets, 8 repetitions of 8 exercises at the
      maximum load that can be lifted 8 times (8RM), both Aerobic Training and Resistance Training
      (AR) or waiting-list control (C). The exercise intervention will take place at YMCAs in
      metropolitan Ottawa. Subjects cannot be blinded as to group assignment after randomization,
      but the main study outcomes will be measured by blinded individuals (lab technologists) using
      objective methods. Subjects randomized to waiting list control will begin a program of their
      choice (A, R or AR) after all 6-month outcome measures are collected.

      Significance: This study addresses questions of clinical and scientific importance. It will
      help clarify the benefits and risks of aerobic and resistance exercise training in people
      with type 1 diabetes. Depending on the strength of any differences found, the study will
      either stand alone or provide pilot data that will set the stage for a larger definitive
      study. Even if results are substantially different from our expectations, this study will
      provide valuable new information on the effects of different exercise modalities on metabolic
      control, body composition, cardiovascular risk factors, and quality of life in this high-risk
      population.
    
  