
    
      Background: Stroke is a leading cause of adult disability among Canadians, with about 405,000
      individuals living with the effects of stroke and this number is expected to rise by 80% in
      the next 20 years [1]. Guidelines on activity promotion in people with stroke emphasize the
      attainment of 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous intensity activity per week [2].

      Moving fast enough to 'break a sweat' is challenging for people with stroke who often have
      mobility deficits. Stroke survivors spend over 80% of their day in sedentary behaviours (too
      much sitting) [3-5]. Accumulating evidence indicates that sedentary behaviour has deleterious
      effects on health, regardless of exercise levels [6]. Targeting sedentary behaviour might be
      a feasible and sustainable way to change activity behaviour in people with stroke.

      Purpose: This research aims to test the feasibility of a social cognitive theory-based
      intervention to reduce sedentary behaviour and improve light-intensity activity (such as
      standing and walking around frequently). The focus is on improving activity behaviour and
      will allow a systematic and staged reduction of contact with organised hospital care.

      Methodological approach: Thirty-five persons with stroke will be enrolled. Outcomes including
      sedentary behaviour, physical activity and function will be measured at baseline (week 0),
      post-intervention (week 9) and follow-up (week 16). Activity behaviour (i.e. time sedentary,
      standing, and stepping) will be recorded for 7 days at each time point using activPAL
      activity monitor, validated in people with stroke [7]. Impairment from stroke will be
      assessed using Chedoke McMaster Stroke Assessment, which is a valid and reliable tool to
      measure impairment after stroke [8]. Cognitive status will be assessed using Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment scale, validated in stroke [9].

      At the end of the intervention, feasibility outcomes such as reach (number enrolled / number
      eligible), retention (% enrolled who complete study), and satisfaction (exit interviews) with
      the program will be determined. Changes in sedentary, physical activity and functional
      outcomes across time (weeks 0, 9 and 16) will be tested.

      Intervention: For the intervention, output from baseline activity monitoring (using activPAL
      activity monitor) will provide data on usual activity behaviour. Action plans targeting areas
      of high sedentary behaviour throughout the day will be developed. A wrist-worn activity
      Misfit monitor - a motivational tool that will track adherence to the intervention will be
      used throughout the intervention period (i.e. 8 weeks). This device provides activity
      feedback for the user in real time. A checklist will be used to address: 1) use of walking
      aids; 2) incidence of falls; 3) review and progression of home exercise program; and 4)
      quality of walking.

      Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize baseline data. Feasibility
      measurements (reach, retention, and satisfaction) will be evaluated as percentages. Changes
      in activity and functional outcomes across time (weeks 0, 9 and 16) will be tested using
      repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA). All analysis will be done with STATA and
      significance level set at P < 0.05.
    
  