
    
      Prolonged-exposure (PE) therapy is the treatment of choice for posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD). Despite its efficacy, a significant number of individuals will not benefit from it or
      might drop out before the completion of all sessions. This underlies the importance of
      findings ways to enhance the efficacy of PE in order to improve the life quality of
      individuals suffering from PTSD. It is now widely accepted that extinction learning paradigms
      used in fundamental studies are useful laboratory analogs to PE. Studies in healthy controls
      have suggested that elevated estrogen levels benefit extinction learning by promoting its
      consolidation and thus enhancing its recall when tested later for it. This is also being
      reflected by changes in the activation of brain regions forming the fear extinction network,
      including the amygdala, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) and ventromedial prefrontal
      cortex (vmPFC). It is still unknown whether estradiol (E2) administration can modulate the
      activation of the fear extinction network in oral contraceptive (OC) users and which E2 dose
      could yield the best results. During the R61 phase of the study, we found that both doses of
      E2 were effective in engaging the functional activation of the fear extinction network.
      Therefore, we will use the lower dose (2mg) for the R33 phase. We will combine E2
      administration with PE sessions to see if administration of PE can significantly improve
      clinical outcomes (reduced PTSD symptoms) and engage the fear extinction network in the
      brain.

      Hypothesis: A general improvement is expected after 3 weeks of treatment in both groups given
      the anticipated benefits of PE alone. But the benefit of the Estradiol-treated groups is
      hypothesized be larger; with this group exhibiting significantly higher activation in brain
      regions associated with fear extinction. This will be noted at the follow-up scan compared to
      the baseline scan.

      PTSD symptom severity expected be significantly lower in the Estradiol and PE group relative
      to the Placebo+PE group following acute treatment after three weeks of treatment.

      The degree of PTSD symptom reduction post- compared to pre-PE after 3 weeks of treatment is
      expected be associated with BOLD changes in the fear extinction network and reduction in SCR
      during the extinction recall test after PE. The magnitude of BOLD and SCR changes will be
      significantly larger in the E2+PE group compared to the Plc+PE group.
    
  