
    
      Peri-implantitis is a major complication for dental implant patients, with its prevalence
      estimated in the order of 10% of implants and 20% of patients after 5 to 10 years of implant
      placement. When left untreated, peri-implantitis may cause progressive tissue destruction,
      esthetic complications and, eventually, implant loss. Despite numerous clinical trials and
      systematic reviews, studies have failed to identify a standardized protocol for the treatment
      of such conditions. Still, current literature and expert opinions recommend mechanical
      debridement of the implant followed by early evaluation and surgical intervention, implant
      decontamination using a wide variety of mechanical and chemical methods, then adjunctive
      systematic antibiotics. However, given the aggressive nature of surgical interventions, the
      inherent difficulty of decontaminating the implants' rough surfaces with conventional
      methods, in addition to the growing concerns over antibiotic resistance, the search for
      alternative approaches has become imperative. Since implant decontamination is the key aspect
      to resolution of peri-implantitis, different mechanical and chemical methods have been tested
      in that respect. In recent years, lasers have been attracting significant attention in this
      particular field. Diode lasers, in particular, have been shown to have potent bactericidal
      and photobiomodulatory effects promoting wound healing and tissue regeneration. Therefore,
      the aim of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to evaluate the clinical and
      patient-centered outcomes of non-surgical debridement with adjunctive repeated diode laser
      application in comparison with conventional surgical treatment with adjunctive systemic
      antibiotics for treatment of peri-implantitis lesions following an observation period of one
      year.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the clinical and patient-centered outcomes of
      non-surgical mechanical debridement with adjunctive repeated diode laser application (test)
      in comparison with conventional surgical treatment and adjunctive systemic antibiotics
      (control), for treatment of peri-implantitis lesions, following an observation period of one
      year.

      40 subjects will be randomly distributed into two parallel groups:

        1. Test group (n= 20); receiving non-surgical mechanical debridement and adjunctive diode
           laser application at days 0, 7 and 14.

        2. Control group (n= 20); receiving initial mechanical debridement at day 0, followed by
           open flap debridement and prescription of post-operative systemic antimicrobials at day
           14.
    
  