
    
      Older adults suffer from mild cognitive impairments with a prevalence rate of 3% to 22% and
      an incidence rate of 1% to 6% per year in the United States. Along with age associated
      locomotor-balance impairments, such cognitive decline among the elderly is known to increase
      the risk of falls, reduced physical activity and community integration, thus contributing to
      long-term disability. Daily living activities comprises of several concurrent motor and
      cognitive performances (dual-tasking) such as shopping in a supermarket, that requires higher
      executive cognitive functions and intact locomotor-balance control abilities. Falls during
      dual-tasking occur mostly due to the interference caused, i.e. during dual-task performances,
      either one or both task (motor or cognitive) performance is deteriorated that is known as
      cognitive-motor interference. Given that dual-task performances decline due to age-associated
      factors, daily living activities are highly challenging and difficult to perform for older
      adults with mild cognitive impairment. Although there are several conventional methods that
      incorporate locomotor-balance training, the nature of such interventions does not result in
      pronounced cognitive gains. Additionally, these interventions lack multi-sensory feedback,
      and due to the monotonous and repeated task practice of exercises characteristic, individuals
      do not seem to adhere to therapy leading to less compliance and decreased motivation to
      exercise training. In order to overcome such barriers, alternate form of therapy with the
      help of Virtual-reality devices, especially off the shelf commercially available exercise
      platforms emerged for training purposes. Although there is evidence that VR based training
      improves locomotor-balance control and is known to implicitly address cognitive functions,
      there is no knowledge that such VR based training can explicitly address higher executive
      cognitive functions. Therefore, based on preliminary studies tested the efficacy of cognitive
      training along with exergaming delivered via the commercially available off the shelf device-
      Wii-fit Nintendo and demonstrated promising results in improving balance control and
      cognitive function among the individuals with Chronic Stroke. The study resulted in decreased
      cognitive-motor interference during dual-task performance thereby exhibiting an improved
      performance on both cognitive and balance control function. Currently, there is lack of
      knowledge in determining specific interventions for improving dual-task performances among
      the older adults with MCI. Given that mild cognitive impaired older adults suffer from both
      motor and cognitive impairments, there is a need for testing the feasibility of a similar
      intervention among them and determine the change in the underlying neural biomarkers.

      Aim 1: The study is designed to test the feasibility (tolerability, compliance and
      effectiveness) of VR-CogMoBal training to improve physical function and reduce fall-risk in
      community-dwelling older adults with mild cognitive deficits by lowering cognitive-motor
      interference and dual task costs.

      Hypothesis: Participants will tolerate the training paradigm and will demonstrate significant
      improvements in balance, gait, cardiovascular and cognitive performance under dual-task
      conditions.

      Aim 2: To examine if the (VR-CogMoBal) will lead to higher cognitive function
      post-intervention.

      Hypothesis: Post-training compared to pre-training participants will show significantly
      greater global cognitive function, executive and working memory and decreased cognitive-motor
      load.

      Aim 3: To examine effect of VR-CogMoBal Training on changes in structural and functional
      connectivity within the cognitive-motor areas in the brain.

      Hypothesis: Post-training compared to pre-training, participants will show increased
      structural and functional connectivity at rest in the default mode network (memory
      consolidation, self-referential memory), fronto-parietal and supplementary motor areas (motor
      planning and execution, attention).

      Pilot Sub-study aim:

      The study aims to monitor the change in the number of steps taken a day before undergoing VR
      training and 4 weeks post-training.
    
  