
    
      Background:

      This protocol is designed to evaluate patients with tumors of the central nervous system
      (CNS) who appear to be probable candidates for future protocol entry or have disease
      manifestations that are of unique scientific interest, importance, and/or educational value.

      Objective:

      To evaluate patients with tumors of the central nervous system (CNS) who are probable future
      candidates for NCI Phase I and II protocols.

      To follow patients with tumors of the CNS that are representative of important scientific
      and/or clinical principles.

      To allow a steady flow of patients with tumors of the CNS at the NIH for the purpose of
      educating nurses, medical students, residents, clinical fellows, and physicians in the
      management and care of this specialized subgroup of cancer patients.

      Eligibility:

      All patients greater than 12 months of age with tumors of the CNS of interest to the NOB, who
      may be candidates for another NOB trial at some point in the future.

      Patients with tumors of the CNS that are of particular interest to members of the NOB because
      they pose important clinical and/or scientific questions and/or shed light on important
      aspects of the disease.

      Patients with tumors of the CNS who offer an important educational benefit to neuro-oncology
      trainees and staff.

      Ability of subject or Legally Authorized Representative (LAR) to understand and the
      willingness to sign a written informed consent document. Availability of a parent or legal
      guardian to give informed consent for children.

      Design:

      All patients will undergo an initial evaluation at the Clinical Center by a member of the NOB
      where past medical and oncologic histories will be obtained as well as relevant data such as
      neuroimaging and pathology review. A total of 3,000 patients will be accrued to this study.

      Patients may be seen at the NIH Clinical Center at varying intervals depending on the
      clinical situation but data related to the natural history of their disease course and
      outcome will be collected at least every six months.
    
  