
    
      Background: Critically ill patients with acute kidney injury (AKI) have a high risk of dying,
      especially if renal replacement therapy (RRT) is needed. It remains uncertain whether
      essential trace elements, vitamins and amino acids are lost during RRT in sufficient amounts
      to result in clinically significant deficiencies. At present, nutrition guidelines for
      patients with AKI on RRT do not account for any potential losses of micronutrients across the
      filter.

      Hypothesis:

      Critically ill patients with AKI have inadequate plasma nutrient levels. If continuous renal
      replacement therapy (CRRT) is required, there are additional losses of essential nutrients.

      Aims:

      To serially measure plasma levels of essential vitamins, trace elements and amino acids in
      critically ill patients with severe AKI and to evaluate whether there are any additional
      losses into the filtrate during CRRT

      Objectives:

      To perform serial measurements of plasma levels of selenium, zinc, copper, iron, vitamins B1,
      B6, B12, C and D, folic acid and essential amino acids in all patients with severe AKI and to
      measure any losses of the same nutrients in the filtrate in a cohort of patients on CRRT for
      >24 hours.

      Patient population:

      level 3 critically ill adult patients with severe AKI

      Study size:

      40 patients of whom 20 patients are treated with CRRT for >24 hours.

      Study design:

      observational non-interventional study in at least 2 large tertiary care centres in the
      United Kingdom

      Outcomes:

      Primary outcome: difference in plasma concentrations of essential trace elements and vitamins
      between patients with and without CRRT.

      Secondary outcomes: a) concentrations of trace elements, vitamins and amino acids in filtrate
      in patients on CRRT; b) differences in filtrate losses between patients on CRRT ≤30ml/kg/hr
      versus >30ml/kg/hr.

      Laboratory measurements:

      Measurement of baseline plasma Selenium, Zinc, Copper, iron, Vitamins B1, B6, B12, C and D,
      folic acid and essential amino acids levels and repeat serial measurement of the same panel
      of nutrients in all patients for up to 6 days with additional concomitant measurement of
      nutrient levels in filtrate in cohort of patients on CRRT. In addition, daily measurement of
      serum electrolytes, liver profile, serum albumin and c-reactive protein.

      Data collection:

      Recording of the following potential confounders: type of nutrition, dose of CRRT, type of
      membrane.

      Statistics:

      Determination of the change in plasma nutrient levels over 6 days, and between baseline and
      24 - 144 hours after initiation of CRRT. The estimates will be used to inform the design of
      an intervention study exploring the value of nutrient supplementation.
    
  