
    
      Introduction

      Biliary obstruction is the most relevant life limiting factor in patients suffering from
      primary or secondary bile duct malignancies. Underlying tumors, such as extrahepatic
      cholangiocarcinoma (CCa) of Klatskin type, pancreatic adenocarcinoma or metastases of
      colorectal cancer, are often diagnosed at an advanced stage when presenting with biliary
      obstruction. This mostly restricts treatment strategies to palliative management. Within this
      setting the prevention of biliary complications like jaundice, cholangitis or cholangiosepsis
      is one of the therapeutic key factors to extend survival and maintain quality of life [De
      Groen, Skipworth]. Endoscopic stenting of the biliary tract is an easy and safe approach to
      restore biliary drainage [Smith]. Self-expanding metal stents are preferred to plastic stents
      because of the lower risk of stent occlusion [Kaassis, Soderlund]. In addition to stenting
      endoscopic therapies that directly affect the local tumor mass, have been developed within
      the past years. First of all, photodynamic therapy using different photosensitizers has shown
      promising results for the reduction of tumor size and maintenance of biliary drainage
      [Ortner, Zoepf]. However, the patient management for this treatment involving
      peri-interventional photosensitivity remains cumbersome.

      Recently, an endoscopically applicable radiofrequency catheter for the biliary tract, the so
      called HabibTM EndoHBP catheter, was introduced into the market. It uses bipolar electrical
      energy for tissue coagulation and can be applied without any special patient preparation in
      the context of an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) examination. RFA is
      well known from transcutaneous applications, where it already proved to be effective as a
      treatment option for hepatocellular carcinoma or intrahepatic CCa [Minami]. The new HabibTM
      EndoHBP catheter was already evaluated ex vivo [Itoi] and showed promising results concerning
      safety and prevention of stent occlusion in the context of one small retrospective clinical
      study [Steel].

      Primary objective

      Feasibility and safety of endoscopic radiofrequency ablation with the HabibTM EndoHBP
      catheter for the treatment of malignant biliary obstruction

      Study Design

      Retrospective analysis of prospectively gained clinical data

      Primary endpoint

      Technical failures during the RFA procedure

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Complications during the RFA procedure

        2. Hospital stay

        3. Adverse events during hospital stay and unil first clinical control after discharge (an
           expected average of 4 weeks after RFA procedure)

        4. 30-day and 90-day mortality

      Study Population

      All patients who underwent endoscopic radiofrequency ablation with the HabibTM EndoHBP as a
      treatment for malignant biliary obstruction between November 2010 and December 2012 in
      Austria.

      Methods

      Endoscopic examination report databases will be screened for "radiofrequency ablation" in the
      context of an "endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography" to identify the mentioned
      study population. Examination reports, discharge letters and patient curves of the study
      patients will be screened to yield the following parameters:

        -  Demographics

             -  Sex

             -  Age at first RFA-intervention

        -  Underlying disease that led to malignant biliary obstruction

             -  Type of underlying disease

             -  Time from diagnosis to first RFA-intervention

             -  Previous treatment attempts (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, photodynamic therapy)

        -  Procedure related parameters

             -  Prior biliary stents (type, amount)

             -  Date of RFA procedure

             -  Amount of RFA-applications during the procedure (energy, time)

             -  Technical failure of the RFA catheter during the RFA procedure (defined as any
                technical problem that hinders the satisfactory application of RFA)

             -  Complications during the RFA procedure (defined as any adverse change from the
                subject's baseline condition, i.e. any unfavorable and unintended sign including an
                abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease which is considered to be
                clinically relevant by the physician, whether or not considered related to the
                medical device)

             -  Stenting after the procedure (type, amount)

        -  Post-interventional parameters

             -  Days of hospitalization after the RFA procedure

             -  Adverse events during hospital stay and until first clinical control after
                discharge (an expected average of 4 weeks after RFA procedure) defined as any
                adverse change from the subject's baseline condition, i.e. any unfavorable and
                unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease which
                is considered to be clinically relevant by the physician, whether or not considered
                related to the medical device

             -  Survial status (dead/alive) at the time of the data collection

             -  (Cause of death)

             -  (Time between first RFA procedure and death)

      Data processing will be done after pseudonymization using continuous patient identification
      numbers. All parameters will be assessed descriptively. For scaled parameters (e.g. age)
      median and range will be calculated, for nominal parameters (e.g. type of underlying disease)
      the proportions of sub-items will be reported. Mortality will be assessed creating a Kaplan
      Meyer curve. 30-day and 90-day mortality will be extrapolated from this curve. All data
      processing will be done with SPSS 19.0.

      Risk/Benefit assessment

      Due to its retrospective design this study does not inherit any risk for the study patients.

      Expected impact and Outlook

      The results of this study may help to better understand the feasibility and safety profile of
      endoscopic radiofrequency ablation with the HabibTM EndoHBP catheter with potential effects
      on future applications.
    
  