
    
      The aim of this project is to create a registry of diabetic patients, containing a detailed
      clinical profile of each patient, along with omics data, which will be analyzed using
      artificial intelligence algorithms, and their results will be implemented in the form of new
      recommendations of care for high-risk patients and those already suffering from diabetes.

      The study will be conducted prospectively. The project participants will be patients with
      diabetes, patients at high risk of developing diabetes and a control group of normoglycemic
      patients who will participate in study visits at the Clinical Research Center of the Medical
      University of Bialystok.

      As part of the project, each patient will take part in one visit at the research center.
      During the visit, each patient will undergo a detailed medical interview regarding the
      current health condition, the course of previously diagnosed diseases, family history,
      physical activity and diet. In addition, venous blood will be taken for each patient, from
      which the basic metabolic parameters will be determined (including glucose, lipid profile,
      HbA1c, AST, ALT, GGTP, electrolytes, blood count with smear, presence of antibodies against
      beta-cell antigens, TSH, ACTH) and omics analyzes will be performed (including genotyping and
      sequencing of DNA, transcriptomics, metabolomics, proteomics and lipidomics). Additionally
      from each patient saliva, urine, stool sample, and skin and nasal swabs to assess the
      microbiome, will be collected. Each patient will also receive a detailed body composition
      analysis using bioimpedance and densitometry (DXA) and grip strength analysis. Non-diabetic
      patients will also undergo an oral glucose load test (OGTT).

      In addition, patients who give additional consent will be able to participate in additional
      visits including abdominal MR imaging with the assessment of liver steatosis, a biopsy of the
      vastus lateralis muscle, cardio-pulmonary exercise test, metabolic clamp (euglycemic -
      hyperinsulinemic) and glycemia assessment using the continuous glucose monitoring system (
      CGM).

      As part of the project, we plan for follow-up each participant with re-visits in the study
      centre every two years, covering exactly the same schedule of visits as the patient will make
      the first time.
    
  