
    
      The overarching goal is to develop new dietary strategies to help postmenopausal women
      maintain a healthy weight by improving the availability of nutritious snacks that contain
      added health benefits and will be used to assess the impact of a functional snack on snacking
      behavior. The primary objective is to evaluate safflower oil delivered in a wheat pretzel
      compared to a wheat pretzel enhanced with soy will have a greater affect on blood
      triglyceride and glucose levels thereby affecting satiety and snacking behavior. The
      investigators hypothesize that a functional snack food such as a soft pretzel containing
      safflower oil either with or without soy compared to the control pretzel (wheat pretzel with
      no safflower oil) will reduce postprandial blood triglycerides and glucose.

      This proposed multidisciplinary study is a randomized cross-over trial involving 20
      overweight (BMI > 25 kg/m2) postmenopausal women with metabolic syndrome will participate in
      a dietary intervention study for a total of 14 weeks (two weeks of washout and three 4 week
      interventions). The study will require five visits to the Ohio State University Clinical
      Research Center (CRC), part of the Center for Clinical and Translational Sciences, Figure 5.
      Women will visit the CRC to be screened (Day-14) and their eligibility will be determined
      using a health and lifestyle questionnaire and results from a 12 hour fasting lipid panel
      (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides). Those meeting the National Cholesterol
      Education Program criteria for metabolic syndrome and having no other excluding conditions
      will be enrolled. Prior to their oral triglyceride tolerance tests (OTTT), women will be
      instructed to abstain from a. alcohol consumption for 72 hour, b. consume ≥150g of
      carbohydrates for 24 hours, c. abstain from vigorous exercise for 24 hours, d. collect urine
      for 24 hours, e. fast for 12 hours prior to all their clinic visits. When women arrive at the
      CRC for their clinic visits, weight and vital signs will be collected and a venous catheter
      placed for timed blood collections. Blood will be collected for serum triglycerides and
      glucose prior to (-5 minutes) and at 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 240, 300, and 360 minutes
      after consumption of the test meal. At their run-in visit (Day 0), subjects will consume a
      control pretzel with a flavored oil dip containing a standardized quantity of triglycerides
      (50 g long chain fatty acids). At the first treatment period (Day 28) visit, women will be
      randomized to one of the two intervention groups (wheat or soy pretzel with safflower oil)
      and then crossover to the other safflower oil pretzel at their second treatment period visit
      (Day 56). The two intervention pretzel meals will be accompanied with the same oil dip
      provided before. At the end of each OTTT visit women will be instructed to continue eating
      the test pretzels (12 pretzel bites/day) for the next 28 days as a snack. Subjects will be
      instructed to complete questions pertaining to their satiety during their 7 hour stay. Women
      will return for their last visit on Day 84 to submit all completed study materials (survey,
      dietary recall, and daily intake journal), completed 24 hour urine collection, and blood
      collection.
    
  