
    
      Interventions to Attenuate Cognitive Decline: Keys to Staying Sharp.

      The primary objectives is to examine the efficacy of music training to improve central
      auditory processing (CAP), cognition, and everyday function among older adults.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To examine the moderating effects of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) on music training
           efficacy.

        -  To explore mediators of intervention effects.

      Design The design is a two arm randomized clinical trial examining the efficacy of music
      training to improve CAP, cognition, and everyday function in older adults with and without
      MCI across two time points (baseline and immediate post-test).

      Outcomes The effects of of music training on CAP, cognition, and everyday functional
      performance will be quantified.

      CAP processing measures will include: Time Compressed Speech 65%, Words-in-Noise, Dichotic
      Digits Test, Dichotic Sentence Identification, and Adaptive Tests of Temporal Resolution. A
      composite will be derived from principal components analyses.

      Cognition measures will include: Verbal Fluency Test (phonemic fluency, category fluency, and
      category switching), Trail Making Test, and Digit Coding. A composite will be derived from
      principal component analyses.

      Everyday Function measures will include: Timed Instrumental Activities of Daily Living and
      Test of Everyday Attention. A composite will be derived from principal component analyses.

      Interventions and Duration Two types of music training will be investigated. The two training
      conditions will be equivalent in terms of frequency and duration of each session (90 min/day,
      two days/wk, 10 weeks) and social contact (led by trainer and conducted in groups of up to 10
      persons).

      Sample Size and Population In-person screening of a maximum of 500 potential study
      participants are planned to enroll up to 400 participants. The goal is to have at least 200
      participants complete the study. Individuals with normal cognition and those with a clinical
      diagnosis of MCI will be included in the study.
    
  