
    
      Rationale: Recent changes in medical training environments have resulted in many trainees
      lacking sufficient opportunity to acquire specific skills necessary for their specialty. New
      methods to enhance the acquisition and retention of medical and surgical skills are required
      to ensure the quality of the future physician workforce. Transcranial direct-current
      stimulation (tDCS) is an emerging method of non-invasive brain stimulation that has been show
      to safely enhance motor learning in adults and children. Even a modest enhancement of
      acquisition and retention of medical-surgical skill with tDCS carries the potential to
      accelerate skill training for health care providers, thereby contributing to greater training
      efficiency and improved patient outcomes.

      Objectives: The objective of this study is to assess whether tDCS can enhance the acquisition
      and retention of neurosurgical ability.

      Ethics:This study has been approval by the University of Calgary Research Ethics Board

      Design: Randomized, double blind, sham-controlled trial to evaluate the ability of tDCS to
      enhance learning and retention of neurosurgical skills.

      Transcranial Direct-Current Stimulation: The tDCS methods used are based on best-available
      evidence and practices, and will be applied in a standardized fashion by experienced
      investigators. Anodal tDCS will be delivered through saline-soaked sponge electrodes using a
      NeuroConn Direct-Current Stimulator (NeuroConn, Ilmenau, Germany). The anode will be centered
      over the left primary motor cortex (localized using the 10-20 EEG System), with the cathode
      over the contralateral supraorbital area. Both anodal and sham tDCS groups will have the
      current ramped-up to 1milliamp over 30 seconds. In the anodal tDCS group, the current will be
      held for 20 minutes. In the sham tDCS condition, the current will be held for only 60 seconds
      (no changes in cortical excitability) followed by a 30 second ramp-down.

      Participants: Medical students (years 1-3) from the Cumming School of Medicine (University of
      Calgary) will be recruited. To ensure comparable baseline skills, trainees will be excluded
      if they have undergone formal neurosurgical training in the past 3 months.

      Sample size calculations are based on the performance measures for the percentage of virtual
      tumor resected, determined through pilot studies. Based on 20% more tumor being resected at
      post-training, power of 90% and type-1 error of 0.05, the investigators estimate a sample
      size of a minimum of 24 participants (n=12 per stimulation condition).

      Study Design: A short questionnaire will be completed to determine demographic
      characteristics, including: gender, age, level of training, how many times participants have
      performed on a virtual surgical simulator, how often participants play video games, and how
      often participants play a musical instrument.

      Participants will be recruited at the Project NeuroArm Laboratory (University of Calgary) and
      be oriented to the workspace. Participants will complete virtual tumor resections on a
      NeuroTouch (National Research Council of Canada) surgical simulator. Participants will view a
      standardized training video, created by an expert in neurosurgery, demonstrating a virtual
      tumor resection using the simulator. Participant will have 3 minutes to resect a virtual
      tumor, avoiding resection of healthy tissue. Recorded outcome metrics will include: % tumor
      resected, volume of healthy tissue resected, time of excessive force on tumor and time of
      excessive force on healthy tissue.

      Participants will perform one resection at baseline, establishing baseline skill.
      Participants will be randomized to receive sham or active tDCS by blinding selecting a code
      from the envelope, corresponding to a particular stimulation condition. Participants will
      perform eight training repetitions, taking approximately 30 minutes. Following approximately
      30 minutes of training (eight training repetitions) the tDCS electrodes will be removed, and
      a final resection will be performed. Six weeks following the training the participants will
      return to assess retention of skill, performing a single resection. Emerging evidence
      suggests that a significant decay in surgical skill is present six weeks following training.

      Data Analysis: Independent samples t-test will evaluate difference in outcome metrics at
      post-training between stimulation conditions. Two-way repeated-measures ANOVA for factors
      "stimulation type" and "training block" will explore the interaction between tDCS and
      training for each outcome metric. Retention of skill will be assessed using a paired t-test
      for each stimulation group.
    
  