
    
      Radiation therapy (RT) after breast conserving surgery to improve local control and survival
      is the current standard of care for patients with early breast cancer. However, breast cancer
      is a heterogeneous disease, and the absolute benefit of RT in individual patients varies
      substantially. Thus, a pressing priority in contemporary breast cancer management is to
      tailor RT utilisation to the individual recurrence risks by identifying patients who are
      unlikely to benefit from RT, thereby avoiding the morbidity and costs of over-treatment.

      It is recognised that selected patients with early breast cancer are unlikely to derive
      benefits from RT after breast conserving surgery. However, randomised trials have not
      consistently identified patients who may safely omit RT using conventional
      clinical-pathologic characteristics.

      Breast cancer intrinsic subtypes distinguished by gene expression profiling are shown to be
      associated with distinct clinical outcomes. There is substantial evidence supporting the
      clinical validity of multigene assays including the PAM50-based Prosigna Assay that
      identifies intrinsic subtypes and generates a Risk of Recurrence score (ROR) to quantify
      individual risks of distant relapse. Multigene assays are increasingly integrated into
      clinical practice to inform chemotherapy decision, highlighting their substantial practice
      changing potential in personalising the use of RT for early breast cancer.

      A recent analysis of archived tumour specimens of 1,308 patients with early breast cancer has
      shown significant associations between local recurrence risk and the PAM50-defined intrinsic
      subtypes and ROR score. EXPERT presents a unique opportunity of clinical and public health
      importance to optimise personalised local therapy for early breast cancer through precise,
      individualised quantification of local recurrence risk to identify low-risk patients for whom
      RT after breast conserving surgery may be safely omitted.
    
  