
    
      Background:

        -  Starting in 2011, analysis of circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in the blood of pregnant
           women began to be offered clinically as a prenatal screen for trisomies 13, 18, and 21.
           Owing to its superior sensitivity and positive predictive values compared to serum
           biochemistry and ultrasound markers, the cfDNA test became rapidly incorporated into
           prenatal clinical care.

        -  By 2013, however, reports began to appear that described examples of false-positive test
           results.

        -  cfDNA analysis is performed on maternal plasma samples taken any time between 10 and 40
           weeks of gestation and called noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT). The maternal plasma
           contains circulating DNA from the placenta (which serves as a proxy for the fetus) as
           well as the maternal hematopoietic system.

        -  Retrospective studies evaluated the DNA profiles of women in whom a clinical diagnosis
           of malignancy was already known. Solid tumors shed cfDNA into the circulation. With
           increased understanding of maternal malignancy as the underlying basis for unusual cfDNA
           analysis, case reports have been published that suggest that the tumor cfDNA is the
           underlying basis for the false-positive test results.

        -  Prenatal genomic testing provides proof-of-principle that cfDNA analysis works as a
           screen to detect neoplasia, even when it was not designed to do so; and, clinical
           sequencing laboratories can find the women who are potentially at risk. There are clear
           and consistent professional guidelines regarding follow-up of the fetus with a
           diagnostic test such as an amniocentesis or a chorionic villus sampling (CVS). However,
           if the fetus has a normal karyotype, there are no guidelines as to follow-up of the
           pregnant woman. We propose here a study to determine the best approach for clinical
           follow-up if the test results are suggestive of cancer.

      Objective:

      - To study the natural history of women with prenatal testing results that suggest an
      incidental detection of maternal neoplasia

      Eligibility:

      - Women who had prenatal cfDNA tests during pregnancy to screen for fetal chromosomal
      aneuploidies,with non-reportable or abnormal results inconsistent with a viable fetus. Follow
      up testing shows a normal-appearing fetus on ultrasound examination and/or a normal fetal or
      neonatal karyotype.

      Design:

        -  Participants will undergo an initial evaluation at the Clinical Center to diagnose
           possible neoplasia.

        -  All collected information will be discussed in multidisciplinary meetings. If neoplasia
           is discovered, the results will be shared with participants and referring physicians.

        -  Participants will be followed to collect all available medical information.
    
  