
    
      The objectives of the study are:

        1. To evaluate the GH/GF-I status is correlation with body composition in very severe obese
           patients. IGF-I levels were classified as deficient when the standard deviation score
           from the mean was <-2 for age and gender.

        2. To evaluate the efficacy of a medical treatment with recombinant GH replacement therapy
           in very severe obese patients after LASGB on the Fat mass (%), free fat mass (%),
           percent decrease of fat mass. In line with GHD diagnosis, obese patients with persistent
           GHD after bariatric surgery will be randomized to be treated with or without recombinant
           GH therapy with replacement doses, in addition to the controlled trial of dietary
           management, as routinely performed after LASGB.

      Study protocol The study protocol includes two different arms: a correlation observational
      longitudinal open study (Phase I), and a treatment study (Phase II).

      PHASE I: In the correlation study a clinical, biochemical and instrumental evaluation will be
      performed in 20-30 patients with very severe obesity (grade III) with GHD followed-up in a
      multi-disciplinary approach at the Unit of Endocrinology of the Departments of Molecular and
      Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology and at the Physiology Nutrition Unit of the Department of
      Neuroscience and the Department of Surgery of "S. Giovanni Bosco" Hospital of Naples,
      according to the current criteria of the National Institute of Health (27). The clinical
      examination will focus on the GH/IGF-I status effects on body composition changes before and
      after LASGB. The clinical examination will determine anthropometric indexes (weight, height,
      BMI, waist circumference). The biochemical evaluation will include the measurement of lipid
      profile, fasting plasma glucose and insulin, liver test function, FT3, FT4, GHRH + Arginine
      test to detect GHD, plasma IGF-I levels. The instrumental evaluation will include DEXA Total
      Body and bioimpedance analysis to determine body composition, and liver ultrasounds.

      PHASE II: In the medical treatment protocol very severe obese patients with persistent GHD
      after LASGB will be inclosed. Starting from 15-day, GHD patients were re-evaluated by GHRH +
      Arginine test. After evaluation, the patients with persistent GHD will be randomized to be
      treated with Recombinant GH replacement therapy (Group A: Recombinant GH replacement therapy
      at the initial dose 0.15-0.30 mg/die; dose adjustment will be made according to IGF-I levels;
      Group B: no GH treatment). In both subgroups, the diet will arranged to fit an energy intake
      of 5.7 MJ/day (55% carbohydrate, 25% fat, 20% protein, 30 g fiber) and a moderate-intensity
      activity (brisk walking for 30-45 min/day) will be encouraged.

      The evaluation of medical treatment efficacy will be based on the analysis of changes in
      anthropometric indexes, IGF-I levels, liver function test, body composition assessed by DEXA
      Total Body and bioimpedance analysis, liver ultrasounds. At 3 and 6 months, the patients of
      both subgroups A and B will be clinically re-evaluated, plasma samples for metabolic, liver
      function tests, and endocrine profile will be obtained, body composition and liver
      ultrasounds will be determined. At the end of the 6-months period of treatment and
      observation, the GH response to a subsequent GHRH + Arginine will be re-tested to confirm or
      to exclude GHD. All the patients with persistent GHD will continue recombinant GH therapy.
    
  