
    
      Background: fluctuation of cerebral blood flow and oxygenation in neonates who undergo
      intensive care is an important risk factor for risk of neurodevelopmental impairment. Near
      infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) allow direct measurements of cerebral tissue oxygenation.
      Automated FiO2 adjustment can maintain arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) within a target
      range and may reduce risk of fluctuation of cerebral oxygenation.

      Aim of this study: to evaluate the efficacy of automated FiO2 adjustment in maintaining SpO2
      within a target range and in reducing the risk of cerebral tissue hypo-oxygenation due to
      SpO2 fluctuations in preterm infants on invasive or non invasive respiratory support with
      supplemental oxygen.

      Methodology: multicenter randomized cross-over clinical trial. The study will be carried out
      for almost 1 year .

      Study centers: 7 Italian Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICUs) Number of subjects: 60 infants
      to have a >90% power, with an alpha of p=0.01, of detecting a 5% difference in %-time in the
      target range and a 50% difference in both SpO2 hyperoxic and hypoxic %-time.

      Diagnosis and main inclusion criteria: preterm infants of 25+0-28+6 weeks of gestational age,
      requiring invasive or non invasive respiratory support and supplemental oxygen.

      Other enrollment requirements: All infants will be enrolled between >72 hours (end of
      transition period) and </= 7 days. Expected to remain of the current mode of support for the
      48-hour intervention period. Infants with major congenital anomalies, haemodynamic
      instability (patent ductus arteriosus-PDA) or requiring catecholamines treatment, clinical
      evidence of seizures or ongoing sepsis (positive blood culture) during the study, or within
      24 hours prior of enrollment, will be excluded.

      Study product:AVEA ventilator with closed-loop inspired oxygen control (CLiO2) automated FiO2
      control option. An additional sensor will be attached to the infant's forehead for continuous
      measurement of cerebral tissue oxygen saturation (rStO2) with 5100C NIRS oximeter, Covidien.

      Duration:24 hours each of manual control and CLiO2 control. Reference therapy:Manual control
      of FiO2 provided according to standardized guidelines.

      Statistical Methodology: repeated measures mixed linear model with control from sequence and
      ventilation mode.

      Concurrent safety oversight:Independent Data Safety Monitoring Board, with blinded review
      every 6 months or 50% enrollment, and after 15 subjects.
    
  