
    
      Individuals who are sex-trafficked experience a combination of sexual violence, emotional
      trauma, and physical injuries that lead to high rates of depression, anxiety and post
      traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Prolonged stress and adverse learning experiences can also
      cause use-dependent brain changes that influence executive functioning (EF) development.
      Other distressing situations, such as living in poverty or in dangerous environments and
      experiencing early sexual trauma, can result in interrupted development of executive
      functioning skills Although the current OT literature in the area of human and sex
      trafficking provide recommendations regarding areas of advocacy, education and
      occupation-based interventions, there is no empirical evidence to date investigating the
      efficacy of occupation-based interventions with survivors of sex trafficking (SST). The
      research question addressed in this pilot study was whether occupation-based interventions
      would improve the overall occupational performance of SST living in a residential program.
      Therefore, the purpose was to objectively determine the efficacy of occupation-based activity
      to improve EF skills in SST; the researchers expected that an improvement in EF skills would
      translate to improved occupational performance.

      This pilot study used a one-group, pretest-posttest design. Participants in the study were
      residents of a local residential program for survivors of sex trafficking (SST). Eight women,
      average age, 20 to 50 years who were living in the home during the eight-month project
      period, engaged in the occupation-based intervention groups provided and completed assessment
      outcome measures (Canadian Occupational Performance Measure and the Executive Function
      Performance Test) before and after completing the program. Group behavior was scored at each
      session attended with the Occupational Therapy Task Observation Scale (OTTOS). Group sessions
      consisted of specific tasks performed to completion that emphasized problem-solving,
      decision-making, frustration tolerance and cooperation.

      Current performance level rating and performance satisfaction scores from the COPM, as well
      as scores from each area of the EFPT, were collected upon initial evaluation and at the end
      of the eight-month intervention period. OTTOS scores were recorded during each group
      intervention for individual clients and graphically recorded to demonstrate individual
      changes over time; day one OTTOS scores were compared to the OTTOS score of the final
      intervention. All comparisons were completed using two-tailed, paired t-tests with a .05
      alpha level for significance.
    
  