
    
      Study Methods The study will involve non-clinical validation with no patients and no
      interventions. The study will investigate usability, presence, satisfaction and reliability
      data for 3D telemedicine, and provide subjective feedback in the form of a semi-structured
      interview.

      Participants Healthy volunteers from the staff at Canniesburn Regional Plastic Surgery and
      Burns Unit, Glasgow Royal Infirmary and West Glasgow ACH, Greater Glasgow and Clyde.

      Inclusions and exclusion Healthy staff/students. Recruitment from all contacted, eligible
      participants will be recorded. Exclusion criteria include visual problems not correctable
      with glasses/dyslexia.

      Consent Participants will be consented in writing for inclusion in the study. The consent
      will specify that data may be recorded for research and further analysis by the research
      team, and be available for technical purposes by the research team's industrial partner

      Sample Size

      30-40 participants for Presence and Usability Questionnaires.

      Participants will examine other participants (where one acts as a "doctor" and one acts as a
      "patient") to provide indicators of usability, presence and task load index. All participants
      will assess other participants using the screening tasks below (estimated 10 mins maximum):

      Screening Tasks: asking "patient" to follow instructions Upper Limb: Functional screening
      upper limb - hands above head, brush teeth, hands behind back, pro-supination, wrist,
      prehension grips (power, span, pinch, key, tripod) Lower limb: Functional assessment of lower
      limb - walk, straight leg raise, take shoes off and examine sole of feet Head: examine worm's
      eye view of nose, side of nose and top of scalp.

      Performing a "task" Perform a form of physiotherapy or equivalent task (chosen at random)
      such as describing to patient the use of an anterolateral thigh flap for tumour
      reconstruction.

      Outcomes assessed: validated questionnaires, time taken to complete screening tasks, NASA
      task load index

      Randomisation Participants will be randomized to see "patients" in 3D or 2D first. This will
      be by blocked randomisation using a list and sealed envelopes.

      Outcome Measures

      Multiple measures of usability and presence will be used. This will be to form baseline data
      on the 3D telemedicine system (e.g. System usability score >68 is "good"), but also to
      determine the sensitivity of the various instruments to record overall satisfaction with the
      systems. This will help to determine the most appropriate instruments for the clinical
      validation.

      Mental Effort Rating Scale - single instrument Likert scale (Paas 1996) University of North
      Northway - 5 item - telemedicine questionnaire (Buvik 2016) System Usability Scale - 10 item
      scale - industry standard for usability of technology (Brooke 1986) Presence Questionnaire -
      29 item scale - assessment of presence in the system/virtual environment (PQ, Witmer 2005).

      Telehealth Usability Questionnaire - 21 item scale - assessment of telemedicine NASA TLX -
      task load index - 5 item modified scale - an indication of the ease of performing a task and
      frustration levels.

      Overall Telemedicine Satisfaction - VAS Semi Structured exit interview - will discuss with
      participant their views on the telemedicine system and how we can improve.

      Statistics and Analysis

      The values obtained for the different rating scales will be summarised, in order to provide a
      basis for future sample size calculations. With a sample size of 40, the confidence interval
      around an estimated standard deviation s would be 0.819 s to 1.284 s. With a sample size of
      50 it would be 0.835 s to 1.246 (Sim 2012).

      The relation between the various rating scales and overall telemedicine satisfaction will be
      assessed using linear mixed effects regression analysis predicting overall telemedicine
      satisfaction from the rating scale and type of telemedicine, including a random effect for
      participant.

      The research team will examine whether higher "presence" scores (on Presence Questionnaire)
      translate to less "frustration" (on NASA TLX), and whether this results in less error/time
      taken to complete tasks. This will be done using linear mixed effects regression analyses.
    
  