
    
      The US has the highest incarceration rate in the world-imprisoning 693 people per 100,000.
      The older adult segment of the prison population has more than tripled since 1990 and their
      health issues are common to free people who are 10-15 years their senior. Inmates over the
      age of 55 have a death rate that is 10 times that of prisoners aged 25-34. US prison systems
      are facing sharply increased demands in caring for aged and dying inmates. A recent
      systematic review revealed that inmate peer caregivers can figure prominently in delivery of
      end-of-life (EOL) care in prison. However, the degree of training received by inmate peer
      caregivers varies widely. The lack of consistent training, both in content and duration
      points to a need for evidence based, current, and readily accessible training for this
      abundant human resource for meeting a growing need in US prisons. In response to this need,
      this Phase I STTR project, titled E-training of Inmate Peer Caregivers for Enhancing
      Geriatric and End-of-Life Care in Prisons, will demonstrate the scientific merit and
      feasibility of developing cutting edge, media rich learning modules to train inmate peer
      caregivers in geriatric and EOL care. The specific aims of the project are to (1) transform
      best practices in inmate peer caregiving into a comprehensive training program that consists
      of media-rich and highly interactive computer-based learning modules for providing geriatric
      and EOL care to their peers; and (2) conduct in-person usability testing of the media-rich
      and highly interactive web-based prototypes with inmates who are currently Mental Health Peer
      Support Specialists (i.e., prisoners who are experienced caregivers, but naïve to geriatric
      and EOL care) to evaluate the user interface, ease of use, and perceived barriers in order to
      refine and optimize the product. In collaboration with an advisory board of experts in prison
      healthcare, geriatrics, ethics, palliative/hospice care, and oversight of an inmate peer
      support program, the investigators plan and develop discussion guides and then conduct focus
      groups with three groups of prison stakeholders: inmates who serve as peer caregivers for
      aged or dying peers; interdisciplinary staff who care for, or oversee care of aged and dying
      inmates; and training and information technology staff. One focus group with each of the
      above three constituent groups will be held at a men's and a women's prison. Focus groups
      will permit investigators to ensure that the design and technology plans match what is
      allowable for inmate training and will allow us to isolate essential geriatric and EOL
      content for specification in the development of the comprehensive training program. Finally,
      the investigators will create and evaluate prototypes of media rich, interactive
      computer-based learning modules for inmates serving as peer caregivers. At the end of Phase
      I, the investigators will have a specifications document for the design of modules that: fit
      with the technology available in corrections settings; is permissible to be used by inmates;
      represents the critical learning needs of inmate peer caregivers for assisting with geriatric
      and EOL care; and further develops the collaborative relationships in preparation for
      commercialization of the product.
    
  