
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPC) are common after lung resection surgery, with an
      incidence that ranges between 11-32%. As PPC are associated with worse outcomes, many studies
      aim to find predictors that identify high risk patients and prompt specific interventions
      and/or monitoring and hence, improve outcomes. PPC result from lung injury inherent to lung
      resection surgery. Lung aeration changes seen with lung ultrasound (LUS) could detect lung
      injury and thus, identify patients at high risk of PPC. The underlying mechanisms of lung
      injury are different in the dependent and non-dependent lung; oxidative stress in both lungs,
      lung injury associated with one-lung ventilation in the dependent lung and
      ischemia/reperfusion or surgical manipulation in the non-dependent lung. LUS evaluates the
      operated and non-operated lung separately and so it can be valuable in understanding the
      characteristics and intensity of lung injury in each lung specifically.

      This is a prospective, single-centre, observational study in which 30 consecutive
      participants with non-small cell lung cancer scheduled for lung resection via VATS will be
      recruited. Participants will be divided in two groups depending on the size of the resection.
      First group will be resection less than lobectomy. Second group will be resection equal to or
      greater than lobectomy. Participants will be recruited consecutively until there are 15
      patients in each group. LUS will be performed in each participant's dependent and
      non-dependent lung at three predefined time points: before surgery, after extubation and 24 h
      after surgery. Each hemithorax will be divided into 6 areas: anterior, lateral and posterior,
      separated by the anterior and posterior axillary lines, each divided into upper and lower
      zones. For each echographic examination, cineloops of the most pathological findings in each
      area will be stored and analysed offline by two independent and blinded anesthesiologists.
      From these, a semiquantitative score, the modified lung ultrasound score (mLUSS), will be
      calculated for each hemithorax to assess lung aeration at each time point. The level of
      agreement for mLUSS will be tested. At the same predefined time points blood plasma samples
      will be collected, flash-frozen and stored in order to measure levels of the inflammatory
      mediators IL-6, IL-10 and TNFα.

      The invertigators hypothesise that LUS can detect lung injury after lung resection surgery.
      The primary objective of the study is to assess changes in lung aeration after lung resection
      with mLUSS. Secondary objectives are, first, to describe LUS findings after lung resection
      surgery, second, to assess the ability of mLUSS to detect oxygenation changes after lung
      resection and third, to compare the behaviour of inflammatory mediators in plasma with mLUSS
      changes.
    
  