
    
      The investigators aim is to determine whether revising standard targets for blood oxygen
      levels in patients requiring artificial ventilation on a critical care unit is feasible and
      whether this affects specific blood biomarker levels.

      Investigators in this area of expertise currently lack the information necessary to determine
      how much oxygen should be given to adult critically ill patients on a mechanical ventilator
      to assist their breathing in order to achieve the best clinical outcomes i.e. minimal
      morbidity and mortality. Excessive oxygen administration (both its concentration and
      duration) and hyperoxaemia (an excessively high blood oxygen level) are known to be harmful
      to critically ill patients. The reason for this is that oxygen in high concentration is
      toxic, because it results in the release of molecules called reactive oxygen species (ROS).
      ROS lead to a state known as 'oxidative stress', in which cells and tissues are rapidly
      destroyed by these destructive molecules.

      The difficulty with treating critically ill patients is that they are usually extremely
      unwell, requiring artificial ventilation to support their breathing. Unfortunately, these
      patients appear to be exceptionally prone to the harms of oxidative stress, leading to
      permanent damage of their lungs. Yet it is precisely this group of patients who require high
      concentration oxygen to keep their blood oxygen levels within the normal. It has therefore
      been hypothesised that using lower blood oxygen targets than usual may be beneficial to these
      patients through the avoidance of excessively high concentrations of oxygen. The investigator
      proposes that in mechanically ventilated critically ill patients harm (morbidity and
      mortality) will be reduced by using 'targeted oxygen therapy' (TO2T) to achieve lower blood
      oxygen levels than normal when compared to standard practice (normal blood oxygen levels).
      The levels are only moderately lower than normal and well within what most clinicians would
      consider to be safe in these patients.

      Prior to any large-scale study, it is important to understand if this approach to managing
      critically ill patients is feasible. This prospective, dual site randomised controlled trial
      will therefore establish whether it is possible to conduct a trial in which blood oxygen
      levels are carefully titrated by the critical care team, to achieve specific targets.
      Participants will be allocated into one of two groups: i) normal blood oxygen levels, and ii)
      low blood oxygen levels. For the time that participants are artificially ventilated by a
      breathing (endotracheal) tube, they will remain in their allocated treatment group.
      Information will be collected from the patient's charts and records during their stay on the
      CCU to assess the impact of the treatment. A series of blood samples will also be collected
      from participants to quantify the degree of oxidative stress through the measurement of
      several specific biomarkers. A total of 60 patients will be enrolled at two sites.

      As oxygen is a drug that is administered to almost every patient admitted to a critical care
      unit (CCU), it is imperative that decisions regarding oxygenation are based upon evidence
      rather than conjecture. Limited work has been undertaken to date to understand whether
      lowering blood oxygen levels is achievable in this complex patient group. The information
      from this study will be used to design a subsequent much larger study to fully evaluate
      whether TO2T to achieve lower blood oxygen levels saves lives in critically ill patients. If
      lower blood oxygen levels improve survival in critically ill patients implementation of this
      intervention could have an immediate and cost-effective impact across the entire National
      Health Service.
    
  