
    
      To date, studies of screening for tuberculosis have used relatively weak designs. A
      randomised trial would give stronger evidence as to whether screening is worthwhile and
      therefore would be welcome. We have tested the feasibility of screening in two general
      practices in Hackney; our results suggest that it is simple and straightforward, that the
      people screened were comfortable taking part, and that screening does indeed identify people
      with tuberculosis.

      How (or indeed whether) to screen for tuberculosis constitutes a major policy issue for inner
      city public health care. Our work will go some way toward answering this important question
      and will have local, national and international relevance. There are important benefits for
      those taking part. First, the project is part of a local health development scheme which
      encourages GPs to register refugees and asylum seekers. This means that a group of people who
      find it difficult to get health care will be more likely to be able to find a GP. Second,
      people registering with general practices who are screening will all have a brief discussion
      about tuberculosis when they attend a health check at the surgery. This will make people more
      informed about tuberculosis and help to remove the stigma that attends tuberculosis. Third,
      screening is likely to identify people with tuberculosis, or who need BCG vaccination to
      prevent tuberculosis. These people will benefit from early treatment or immunisation.

      We will invite all general practices in Hackney to take part. Practices that agree will then
      be randomly allocated (by a computer programme) into two groups: practices who will screen
      and those who will carry on as usual without screening. The project researcher responsible
      for data collection will not know to which group the practices have been assigned. Practices
      allocated to the screening group will be offered a programme designed to encourage screening
      as part of the new patient registration checks (by practice nurses and GPs) and during
      children's transfer-in visits (by health visitors). The programme is founded on proven ways
      of helping people change how they work and includes the following: an education programme run
      by the primary care research team, with a local chest consultant as opinion leader; Heaf
      guns, Heaf heads, and tuberculin (to test for presence of TB); TB screening guidelines;
      regular support and advice from the local TB specialist nurse; incorporation of a TB
      screening template into the practice computer consulting system; and an incentive fee paid to
      the practices for carrying out the Heaf tests. TB identication rates for both groups will be
      ascertained after 25 months of screening. The cost of implementing the screening process will
      also be measured.

      Patients / public involvment (subjects and partners):

      People attending for new registration checks and children seen at transfer-in visits are the
      study participants. They will be informed about the study (using information sheets in
      various languages); they can decline to take part if they like. Public involvement in the
      design and execution of the study comes in three forms. First, the East London Refuge and
      Asylum seeker worker has contributed to the study design and will be involved throught the
      study. Second, the work is part of an East London Health Improvement Plan, which itself has
      public support. Third, the study has approval from the East London and Esssex Network of
      Researchers' Research Advisory Committee, which has two consumer representatives
    
  