
    
      Background:

      -Patients who are being evaluated and/or treated at the NIH Clinical Center (pediatric and
      adult) and adult patients at participating sites will be entered onto this tissue procurement
      protocol for collection of tissue specimens.

      Objectives:

        -  To obtain samples from adult and pediatric patients for research purposes from tests and
           procedures that are done as required by the primary research protocol(s) to which a
           patient is enrolled or as part of their standard-of-care treatment.

        -  To obtain samples for research purposes from non-surgical procedures, such as
           percutaneous biopsies, performed for the sole purpose of obtaining tissue specimens or
           biological fluids for this protocol.

      Eligibility:

      -Adult patients (18 years of age and older) and pediatric patients (younger than 18 years of
      age) who are being evaluated for and/or treated for cancer at the NIH Clinical Center and
      adult patients from participating sites.

      Design:

        -  This is a multicenter tissue procurement protocol with NCI as the coordinating center.

        -  For adult patients: specimens for research purposes, as outlined in this protocol, will
           be obtained from tests and procedures that are done as required by the primary research
           protocols to which a patient is enrolled or as part of their standard-of-care treatment.
           Non-surgical procedures, such as percutaneous biopsies, may also be performed on adult
           patients at the NIH Clinical Center for the sole purpose of obtaining tissue specimens
           or biological fluids for this protocol. Tissues and biological fluids to be procured may
           include but are not limited to blood, serum, urine, tumor tissue, normal tissue, pleural
           fluid, CSF, saliva, bronchial alveolar lavage (BAL), circulating tumor cells, hair
           follicles, and bone marrow. These specimens will be stored with unique identifiers and
           used to perform only those research studies that are outlined in this protocol.

        -  For pediatric patients: tumor biopsy/resection tissue used for pediatric preclinical
           model development will only be from tissue already being obtained as part of a procedure
           necessary for the patient s clinical care or as part of a primary research protocol;
           blood specimens will be collected as part of a blood collection already scheduled for
           the patient s clinical care or as part of the planned pre-procedure bloodwork; volumes
           collected will not exceed institutional research limits.

        -  Given the risks associated with any invasive procedure, such as tumor biopsy, the
           procedure will be discussed in detail with the patients and their parents/guardian (as
           indicated), including the side effects, prior to obtaining a separate consent for each
           procedure. A separate consent will not be signed prior to obtaining samples by minimally
           invasive measures, such as venipuncture.

        -  This study has three separate consent forms: one for adult patients at the NIH Clinical
           Center to opt to donate their samples for ongoing research on assay development and
           studies of molecular pathways as listed in Section 8.2; and two for the generation of
           preclinical models (adult and pediatric). Adult patients at the NIH and participating
           sites, and also pediatric patients (NIH Clinical Center only), can opt to donate
           specimens to create preclinical models to study tumor biology and genetics, and to
           develop new therapies for cancer as described in Section 8.1.

        -  Patients may remain on study for the duration of their consent or completion of the
           planned procedure, whichever comes first.
    
  