
    
      Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most common cancers in the world, with more than 456,000
      new cases and 400,000 deaths occurred annually worldwide. Every year in China, no matter new
      cases or deaths account for more than half of the world. Besides, over 90% of Chinese
      patients have esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).

      Preoperative chemoradiotherapy (CRT) followed by surgery can hopefully improve the survival
      of ESCC. The CROSS trial has demonstrated that preoperative chemoradiotherapy can
      significantly increase the overall survival of patients with EC compared with surgery alone.
      The therapeutic effects were also found in 84 ESCC cases enrolled in this trial. Previously,
      the investigators performed a phase III, randomized clinical trial (NCT01216527) to compare
      the overall survival of stage IIB-III ESCC patients treated with or without neoadjuvant CRT,
      in which vinorelbine plus cisplatin was used as chemotherapy regime. The enrollment was
      completed in 2014. The outcomes will hopefully prove the survival benefit of neoadjuvant CRT
      to ESCC.

      However, the investigators also observed that some patients suffer from the toxic response of
      neoadjuvant therapy, such as myelosuppression (45.2%), pulmonary toxicity (42.9%), and
      esophagitis (59.5%). The toxicity caused by CRT will decrease the patient compliance;
      moreover increase the perioperative complications and deaths, which may totally offset the
      survival benefit. Therefore, it is important to improve chemoradiotherapy effect and reduce
      toxicity, so as to achieve better survival in ESCC patients.

      Docetaxel draws increasing attentions with its high effective rate and low toxicity. Several
      Phase II clinical trials and retrospective studies suggested that docetaxel showed better
      survival benefits in both monotherapy and combined-therapy in EC patients. Therefore, the
      investigators intended to conduct a phase III, randomized clinical trial to further explore
      whether docetaxel plus cisplatin would be an effective therapy with lower toxicity.

      The investigators are to carry out a phased III clinical trial to compare the effect and
      toxicity of docetaxel plus cisplatin with vinorelbine plus cisplatin in neoadjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
    
  