
    
      Background:

      The reduction of mortality in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is achieved by the efficacy
      of the current therapeutic strategies focused on an early reopening of the culprit coronary
      artery, by either medical or mechanical reperfusion. Primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) represents the most effective way to limit infarct size and reduce
      transmural extension of necrosis. Although coronary artery recanalization represents the most
      effective way to reduce infarct size, the process of reperfusion may itself produce a series
      of consequences including intramyocardial haemorrhage (IMH) and microvascular injury (MVO)
      contributing to the 'no reflow' phenomenon. MVO is an early event followed by intramyocardial
      haemorrhage that plays a role later in reperfusion injury. Both luminal obstruction
      (microvascular damage by neutrophil plugging, platelets and emboli) and external compression
      (by oedema and haemorrhage) are allegedly linked with no-reflow, however, the real mechanism
      underlying this complex time-sensitive phenomenon remains to be fully understood. MVO and IMH
      in ST-elevation myocardial infarction are independent predictor of adverse left ventricle
      remodelling, independently of the initial infarct size, and predict MACE.

      The diagnosis of no-reflow is usually made when post-procedural thrombolysis in myocardial
      infarction (TIMI) flow is <3, or in the case of a TIMI flow of 3 when myocardial blush grade
      is 0 or 1, or when ST resolution within 4 h of the procedure is <70%. It can be assessed
      using cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) techniques, where they appear as dark zones on delayed
      post-contrast sequences or contrast echocardiography.

      FXIII is a protransglutaminase that becomes activated by thrombin and catalyses the formation
      of crosslinked fibrin mesh in the final stage of the clotting cascade. Blood coagulation
      FXIII is thought to play a role in wound healing and tissue repair. FXIII is present in
      plasma, platelets, monocytes, and macrophages, all of which are involved in infarct healing.
      In an experimental model, mice lacking FXIII suffer from impaired wound healing and fatal
      rupture of the left ventricle after myocardial infarction. This phenomenon was observed in
      100% of homozygous and, interestingly, in 100% of the heterozygous FXIII-knockout mice,
      despite a FXIII plasma level of 70%. Replenishment of FXIII during the 5-day acute and
      subacute period of infarct healing restored survival rates of FXIII-deficient mice to that of
      wild-type mice. In addition, reduced FXIII activity imaged via single photon emission
      computed tomography predicted adverse infarct healing after MI in mice. In contrast,
      increased intracardiac FXIII activity via induction of high FXIII zymogen plasma levels
      improved cardiac healing. Moreover, FXIII levels were significantly diminished in myocardial
      biopsies of human ruptured MI. In a case series of 25 patients with acute MI, a mean decrease
      of initially normal FXIII plasma values by 25% was reported during the first week after the
      ischemic event. During the first week after MI, an acute phase reduction in FXIII plasma
      levels has been described, with the nadir of reduction on day 3-6 after the acute event.

      FXIII thus seems to mediate the formation of a well-cemented scar, reducing MVO and IMH and
      improve healing and left ventricle remodelling.

      Aim of the study:

      We will perform a prospective observational study to identify how the differences in FXIII
      levels in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients relate with intramyocardial haemorrhage
      and microvascular damage as detected by cardiac magnetic resonance.
    
  