
    
      In this double-blinded (physician and patient) randomized controlled clinical trial, the
      patient's left and right brows are randomized to either the placebo or treatment arm of the
      study and maintain this designation for the entirety of the study. This randomization is
      performed and recorded by the study nurse in the physician's office. This study nurse also
      will be responsible for preparing the placebo 0.9% Normal Saline (0.9%NS) and the 50mg/mL
      5-Fluorouracil (5-FU). Both placebo and 5-FU are placed into identical syringes with 30 gauge
      needles, both materials are identical in color and clarity, making it impossible for
      physician or patient to correctly identify which injection is which without a label. Only the
      study nurse will be aware of which injection is which, and the nurse will ensure that the
      correct injection is placed into the correct brow at each visit via the study log that the
      nurse maintains.

      A patient who has undergone bilateral direct brow ptosis repair who has agreed to participate
      in the study will first return for the post-operative day 10 visit where sutures are removed
      from the brow incisions. The patient returns on post-operative week three for their first
      injections, the details of which are below:

      Starting on post-operative week three, the patient will receive 0.05mL aliquots of each
      injection (0.9%NS and 5-FU) sub-dermally into the brow incision spread out evenly over the
      brow, totaling 0.3-0.6 mL of each injection over each respective brow. Photos of the
      patient's brows will be taken, and then both the physician and patient will fill out a survey
      recording their impressions, the contents of which are listed in subsequent sections of this
      protocol. This same procedure will be repeated every three weeks for a total of up to four
      rounds of injections, thus the final round of injections will be given on post-operative week
      twelve. At each of these post-operative visits, incidence of any side effects is recorded,
      and if an unacceptably high rate of side effects occurs, the study will be precociously
      terminated.

      At post-operative week fifteen, the blind is broken, and again photos are taken and physician
      and patient impressions are recorded via survey. After the blind is broken, if desired, the
      patient can opt to undergo a similar series of injections on the placebo arm of 5-FU.
    
  