
    
      This is a one-arm pilot study with a pretest/posttest design. Thus, participants' (n=20)
      baseline scores were compared to their final outcome assessment scores (i.e., change scores.)
      There was no control group.

      This study is an intervention using peer coaches to deliver pain self-management instruction
      to patients. Peer coaches thus delivered the intervention and underwent a 3-hour training
      session prior to initiation of the study. Because peers served as intervention facilitators
      and not as recipients of the intervention, this study was not focused on peer outcomes.

      Patients (n=20) attended a 2-hour didactic session led by the study nurse. Then patients were
      assigned a peer (2 patients per peer). Patients met with their peers for 4 months to discuss
      pain self-management with the guidance of a study manual. Peers were asked to contact
      patients a minimum of bi-weekly via telephone or in-person.

      Peers reviewed each of the topic areas covered in the self-management manual. Peers reviewed
      a different topic each session, ask if the patient has questions, and discuss his or her
      personal experience with the topic being covered during that session. Modeling what the nurse
      care manager has done in prior studies, peers worked with patients to help them to set goals
      and to evaluate whether these goals are realistic. A new goal was set at each session, with
      the peer following up on the previous goals with the patient, whether they were accomplished,
      and if not, possible courses of action (e.g., modifying the goal or offering other advice to
      accomplish the goal). Throughout these sessions peers were encouraged to draw on their own
      experiences and how they personally overcame obstacles and handled setbacks and frustrations.
      Peers did not advise on or discuss medications or medical questions with patients.

      Participating patients (n=20) were given outcome assessments at baseline and at 4-month
      follow-up.
    
  