
    
      Anxiety disorders are prevalent, impairing, and often precede other psychiatric and medical
      comorbidity (Kessler et al, 2005). Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) and Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy (ACT) are effective, evidence-based treatments for anxiety disorders that
      can be delivered in either a group or individual format (Deacon & Abramowitz, 2004; Arch et
      al 2012). Traditionally, group therapy has been delivered a single diagnosis at a time. This
      presents challenges to care delivery, however, because a sufficient number of patients with
      the same diagnosis and the same availability in their schedule must be assembled in order to
      start a group. Fortunately, CBT and ACT can be used to target key trans-diagnostic constructs
      such as excessive worry, avoidance, and fear of negative evaluation that may occur in many
      anxiety diagnoses. Indeed, emerging research suggests these constructs may be closer to the
      etiological dysfunction in anxiety disorders than the diagnoses themselves and may therefore
      be the best treatment targets (Craske, 2012). Because of this, there is now movement towards
      trans-diagnostic approaches that flexibly apply core principles of CBT and ACT to any anxiety
      disorder.

      Group therapy is a cost-efficient and effective care delivery model that is also generally
      acceptable to patients with anxiety disorders. However, individual therapy is often preferred
      (Sharp et al, 2004), perhaps due to greater personalization of care relative to standard
      group therapy. To address this concern the investigators aim to use a pre-treatment
      assessment to develop a personalized plan for each patient entering a trans-diagnostic
      anxiety group.

      In order to evaluate the effectiveness of this approach, patients enrolled in the group who
      consent to participate in research will complete assessments of anxiety and related symptoms,
      quality of life, and cognitive function before and after therapy.
    
  