
    
      This study will evaluate the acceptability and effectiveness of class-based psychoeducation
      as the first step of a stepped care model in a community mental health program. In April of
      2019, the Prairie Mountain Health (PMH) Adult Community Mental Health programs (both Northern
      and Southern regions) instituted a change to their existing service model. Previously, all
      individuals who sought access to public mental health services underwent an intake interview
      and were subsequently assigned a community mental health worker (CMHW) with whom they met for
      individual counselling. Due to the ever-increasing demand for services, CMHWs were required
      to manage large caseloads which resulted in extended periods between counselling appointments
      and strain on care providers. In an effort to introduce a stepped-care framework to mitigate
      workload, the Adult Community Mental Health programs in PMH North and South began to offer
      psychology-led psychoeducation classes as a step below individual counselling. Specifically,
      the Cognitive Behavioural Therapy with Mindfulness (CBTm) classes, developed at the
      University of Manitoba by Sareen, Sala, Wong, Whitney, and Kinley (2016), were delivered.
      This program is comprised of four 90-minute sessions that deliver information about basic
      cognitive and behavioural therapy principles and effective self-help resources. It was
      developed to offer services to clients on the waitlist for outpatient mental health services
      in Winnipeg and preliminary research on this program has demonstrated that it is an
      acceptable form of treatment and effectively reduces symptoms of anxiety and depression (with
      a small to medium effect).

      As the change in the service delivery model and the introduction of large psychoeducation
      classes in PMH's Adult Community Mental Health programs is novel, evaluation of this change
      is warranted. This study will examine foundational program variables including retention,
      acceptability, and effectiveness (see Thakur, Bolton, & Sareen, 2018). Assessing these
      factors will provide critical information about the potential for further development of a
      stepped care model, including the CBTm program, in this rural health region and afford the
      opportunity to compare outcome measures in a rural setting to those from an urban centre
      (data published by Thakur et al., 2018). In order to further increase access to services, the
      program was also intended to be delivered to remote rural sites via telehealth; exploration
      of the acceptability and efficacy of telehealth use in service delivery also merits
      assessment. However, at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, in-person and MBTelehealth CBTm
      classes were suspended to abide by provincial physical distancing guidelines. Moving forward,
      the CBTm classes will be offered via MS Teams, a virtual videoconferencing platform for all
      attendees, allowing individuals to participate via videoconference or telephone from their
      preferred location within Manitoba.

      The research questions and hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Is the implementation of CBTm as the first step in a stepped model acceptable to rural
           clients? The investigators hypothesize that class-based clinical service will be
           acceptable to rural clients as it will increase their access to valuable mental health
           services in their region; this will be demonstrated in a high rate of retention and
           positive feedback from participants.

        2. How are issues unique to rural settings, such as concerns about confidentiality and
           virtual delivery of programming, in a class-based setting viewed by rural clients? The
           investigators anticipate initial concerns about confidentiality and virtual service
           delivery related to the nature of the rural setting.

        3. Are class-based clinical services (i.e., CBTm) effective for reducing symptoms of
           depression and anxiety for participants living in rural areas? Consistent with previous
           research, the investigators anticipate a small to medium effect size in the decrease of
           symptoms of depression and anxiety and increased incorporation of cognitive behavioural
           strategies into daily life.
    
  