
    
      Primary objective : Determine whether AGEs could serve as long-term retrospective indicators
      of glycemic control of type 1 diabetic patients and determine how to use these markers in a
      clinical practice for therapeutic purpose and patient monitoring.

      For this purpose, it is necessary to determine baseline and pathophysiological ranges of
      concentrations for serum AGEs and to find a link between AGEs and glycemic control Secondary
      objectives: (1) Evaluation of the early predictive potential of AGEs for the onset of
      diabetes complications. (2) Measurement of fructosamine-3-kinase erythrocyte activity and
      evaluation of its effect on glycemic control in diabetic patients and on the accumulation of
      AGEs. (3) Ancillary study: development of new methods of evaluation of glycation of serum
      proteins based on the use of innovative technologies such as vibrational spectroscopy (Raman
      and infrared).

      Protocol design: Cross-sectional and single-center study using a cohort of diabetic children
      who will be followed over a period of 5 years. Population / patients: 118 children with type
      1 diabetes children without clinical complications and 33 non-diabetic children. The group of
      patients will be stratified on the duration of diabetes: enrolled at the time of the
      discovery of diabetes or during follow-up of a previously known diabetes. Control subjects
      will be recruited among siblings of diabetic patients followed at the University Hospital of
      Reims and among non-diabetic patients treated at the Hospital of Reims for a disease that
      does not interfere with the protocol, with a matching on age ± 2 years.

      Plan of investigation: First phase: after collecting information and informed consent of the
      child and the holders of parental authority, inclusion of patients achieving blood samples
      for all children (control and diabetic). For diabetic patients, this blood collection is
      included in their follow-up. Thus, no additional sample is necessary for the protocol. Second
      phase: monitoring of diabetic children with blood and urine samples and measurement of skin
      fluorescence at 5 years after inclusion. No follow-up is planned for control subjects.

      Conduct of the study: Inclusion of patients and blood collection. Determination of AGEs
      (pentosidine, carboxymethyllysine and MG-H1) by high performance liquid chromatography
      coupled with tandem mass spectrometry by the Laboratory of Biology and Pediatric Research.

      Statistical Analyses: Find a link between type 1 diabetes and AGE concentrations and a link
      between diabetes duration and concentrations of AGE by a Student test.ROC Curves to propose
      reference values for concentrations of AGE. Find a link between AGE concentrations and HbA1c
      values by Spearman correlation test and a link between AGE concentrations and HbA1c values
      (HbA1c <7.5% / 7.5% <HbA1c <8.5% / HbA1c> 8.5%) by a simple linear regression or a Kruskal
      Wallis test. Find a link between AGE concentrations and magnitudes of change in HbA1c by
      Spearman correlation test or Pearson.
    
  