
    
      Percutaneous coronary interventions, mostly with implantation of bare-metal or drug-eluting
      stents, are commonly used to treat patients with coronary artery disease. Various
      periprocedural adjunct antithrombotic therapies have been investigated and are being used.
      Unfractionated heparin (UFH) has been the standard adjunctive antithrombin therapy during PCI
      for more than 25 years. Combined antiplatelet treatment consisting of aspirin and a
      thienopyridine has significantly reduced early ischaemic events following coronary stenting
      (1). Thienopyridines act by irreversibly inhibiting the platelet adenosine diphosphate (ADP)
      P2Y12 receptor. Compared to ticlopidine, clopidogrel has the advantage of a more favourable
      side effect profile (2) and more rapid onset of action.(3,4) Pretreatment with a loading dose
      of 300mg clopidogrel improved outcomes (5-7) and is recommended by current guidelines for
      patients undergoing PCI. (8) More recently, trials have shown that the larger loading dose of
      600mg achieves more rapid and more potent inhibition of platelet aggregation than 300 mg
      do.(9-11) The results of several randomized controlled trials suggest that pretreatment with
      600mg clopidogrel might obviate the need for IIb/IIIa inhibitors in a broad spectrum of
      patients undergoing PCI (12-14) although no formal direct comparison of different clopidogrel
      doses has been assessed by trials sufficiently powered for clinical endpoints. The
      Intracoronary Stenting and Antithrombotic Regimen-Rapid Early Action for Coronary Treatment
      (ISAR-REACT) trial showed that after pretreatment with 600mg clopidogrel for at least 2 hours
      before the intervention, additional use of abciximab was not associated with any clinically
      measurable benefit among low-to-intermediate risk patients who underwent PCI.(12) Even in
      higher risk settings such as small vessel size (14) and the presence of diabetes
      (13)additional use of abciximab was not associated with a measurable clinical benefit in
      patients pretreated with 600mg clopidogrel. An important exception is the group of patients
      with non-ST-segment elevation ACS. In the ISAR-REACT-2 trial that enrolled this category of
      patients those with an elevated troponin level did benefit from abciximab even after
      pretreatment with 600mg clopidogrel.(15) The recently completed ISAR-REACT-3 trial compared
      unfractionated heparin with the direct thrombin inhibitor bivalirudin in biomarker negative
      patients with stable and unstable angina undergoing contemporary PCI. Bivalirudin did not
      provide "net clinical benefit" - did not reduce the quadruple endpoint - at 30 days compared
      to unfractionated heparin. However, there was a significant reduction in bleeding with
      bivalirudin (16) The heparin dose regimen used in ISAR-REACT-3 diverges from current US
      practice insofar as the majority of patients received a bolus dose of 140 U/kg with no follow
      up ACT measurement and no additional heparin doses. Although heparin has been the standard
      antithrombin therapy in interventional cardiology for decades, its optimal dose is still not
      known. During the last years there has been a trend towards using lower heparin doses. In
      most interventional trials in the United States it is now current practice to use a bolus of
      not more than 100 U/kg. (8) Many interventionalists believe that a dose lower than 140 U/kg
      is associated with a better clinical outcome. However, no studies have been performed to
      identify the most appropriate dose of heparin. Since pretreatment with clopidogrel has proven
      to reduce ischemic events, a heparin dose of 140U/kg might conceivably be too high. A lower
      dose might prove to be as effective in preventing ischemic endpoints while reducing the risk
      of bleeding if patients were pretreated with 600mg clopidogrel prior to the intervention.
      Therefore the aim of this trial is to evaluate whether a reduction in the heparin dose from
      140 to 100 U/kg is associated with a better net clinical outcome in patients undergoing PCI
      after pretreatment with 600mg clopidogrel. The hypothesis to be tested is whether a reduced
      dose of 100U/kg heparin is superior to the higher dose of 140U/kg used in the ISAR-REACT-3
      trial (historical control) regarding the combined incidence of death, myocardial infarction,
      urgent target vessel revascularization within 30 days and in hospital major bleeding. The
      ISAR-REACT-3a trial will enroll a patient population with a similar risk profile to that of
      patients included in ISAR-REACT-3. Biomarker negative patients with stable or unstable angina
      undergoing PCI will receive a reduced dose heparin bolus of 100U/kg. Results will be compared
      with the ISAR-REACT-3 trial (historical control). Primary comparison will be with the heparin
      arm of ISAR-REACT-3 regarding the primary endpoint ("Net clinical benefit", the combined
      incidence of death, myocardial infarction, urgent target vessel revascularization within 30
      days and in hospital major bleeding). A secondary aspect will be the comparison with the
      historical bivalirudin group of the ISAR-REACT-3 trial.
    
  