
    
      This study will measure objective clinical endpoints in DTI breast reconstruction. A total of
      152 patients (76 for both ADM and non-ADM cohorts) will be followed in a prospectively
      recorded database. The clinical care of the patient will be safe-guarded to proceed entirely
      unaffected by the study. Enrollment will be limited to patients of Dr. Liao and Dr. William
      Austen at the Massachusetts General Hospital who are scheduled to undergo immediate, DTI
      breast reconstruction. Patients may undergo immediate, DTI breast reconstruction if they have
      mastectomies for the purpose of either removing breast cancer or prophylactic removal of the
      breasts following diagnosis of genetic predisposition for breast cancer based on family
      history or genetic testing. All patients will be women. The age minimum is 18 years. There is
      no age maximum.

      The study will involve only recording of data (patient characteristics, clinical data,
      reconstructive parameters (size of ADM and implant used), drain placement, number and caliber
      of drains, outcomes of surgery). At initial consultation, per the standard routine for Dr.
      Liao's patients, digital photographs and 3D photographs will be obtained below the neck,
      eliminating any patient identifiers. Patients will be followed per routine care protocol. A
      typical patient will be followed weekly for 6 weeks, then at 3 months, 6 months, and 12
      months. All photographs are de-identified and taken below the neck, and are kept in a secure
      photograph database maintained by the Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. The
      clinical care of the patient adheres strictly to the existing standard of care by the surgeon
      (Dr. Liao). The study will involve only the recording of data without any additional
      interaction with the patient.

      The primary clinical endpoint to be measured is breast form. Secondary clinical endpoints
      include: seroma, infection, skin necrosis, wound problems, explantation, and any other minor
      or major complications. Breast thickness and landmark positioning will be recorded as
      quantitative measures of breast form. The investigators will determine tissue thickness in
      the following areas: (a) point of maximal projection, (b) inferior pole of the breast, and
      (c) the midpoint between the aforementioned areas, a and b. Measurements will be made using
      transcutaneous ultrasound (GE NextGen LOGIQ e R7 compact digital ultrasound). Landmark
      mapping will be conducted via Vectra imaging software. The positioning of the nipples and
      inframammary fold (IMF) relative to the sternal notch will be determined through a
      predetermined Vectra algorithm. Post-operative imaging will be conducted at 6 weeks, 3
      months, 6 months, and 12 months. Digital images will provide objective information on
      aesthetic outcomes and evidence of ptosis, pseudoptosis, symmetry, chest position, or nipple
      position (if nipple sparing) for both cohorts.

      In addition to objective clinical outcomes, patient reported outcomes (PRO) will be measured
      with the Breast-Q questionnaire. The survey will be administered during the initial consult
      (pre-mastectomy module) and then reassessed (post-mastectomy module) at 3 months (early
      recovery) and 12 months (late recovery) to track changes in quality of life (QOL). The PRO
      will be compared between the ADM and non-ADM cohorts.

      The investigators expect to reach the goal of 152 patients within 6 to 12 months, and
      complete the study with a minimum of 6 months of follow-up within 24 months.
    
  