
    
      This study involves a randomised controlled trial: study participants will be randomly
      allocated to either a group who will receive the care that they would normally have received
      if they would not have been in the study (control group), and a group who will receive the
      same standard care but will also be asked to follow a novel supervised exercise routine three
      times per week before their surgery and for up to 6 weeks after surgery, as well as some
      psychological support.

      Up to 30 newly-diagnosed female breast cancer patients will be recruited. Following written
      informed consent, participants will be invited for a baseline testing session. This will
      involve a fasting blood sample (ideally at a time when the patient's medical team would take
      a blood sample anyway). The investigators will analyse this sample for a number of markers of
      health, such as blood sugar and fat levels, and markers of inflammation. The investigators
      will measure the patients' height with a stadiometer, and weight and body fat percentage
      using a special set of scales. The investigators will ask patients to complete several
      questionnaires that ask questions about their current well-being. Finally the investigators
      will measure the patients' handgrip strength as well as their fitness levels. The grip
      strength test involves squeezing a handheld device as hard as possible for a few seconds. The
      fitness test involves cycling on a stationary bike with a gradually increasing resistance
      until the patient cannot continue any longer because of fatigue. In this test the
      investigators will ask patients to breathe through a tube to determine the maximal amount of
      oxygen they can take up during exercise. This measure (termed VO2max) is one of the best
      health markers that can be measured: it is the best predictor of future risk of chronic
      disease or premature death. All testing sessions will be performed at the Manor Hospital in
      Oxford (unless the equipment required for the analysis of VO2max is not available for a
      period of time, in which case patients will be invited to attend Oxford Brookes campus for
      the fitness test; this is a 4-minute drive from the Manor Hospital).

      Ideally, the blood samples will be taken in a fasted state (i.e. in the morning without
      having had breakfast), whereas the fitness test will be done after the patient has last had
      some food. The investigators will therefore provide the participants with a light snack after
      the blood sample has been taken. In case a patient cannot attend the hospital in the morning
      in a fasted state then they will arrange the session at a later time of day and the patient
      will not be required to be fasted (leading to loss of some of the secondary outcome measures
      which require a fasted state).

      After the baseline testing has been completed the investigators will tell patients whether
      they will be in the control group or in the exercise group. Patients in the control group
      will receive their standard care as if they would not have participated in the study. The
      research team will not interact with these patients until the second testing session.
      Patients in the exercise group will be invited to perform 3 fully supervised exercise
      sessions per week at the Manor Hospital. These exercise sessions will involve 10 minutes of
      cycling at a low intensity, but with 2 brief cycle sprints after 2 and 6 minutes. The sprints
      will last 10 seconds in the first week of training, 15 seconds in the second week, and 20
      seconds from week 3 onward. Training sessions will be stopped at least 2 days prior to the
      scheduled surgery date.

      Surgery will interrupt the exercise programme. Between 7 and 10 days post-surgery, or when
      the consultant breast surgeon deems appropriate, all patients will undergo post-surgery
      testing. Testing procedures will be identical as those for baseline testing.

      Following post-surgery testing, patients in the exercise group will resume the exercise
      programme. The duration of the sprints will restart at 10 seconds in the first week, 15
      seconds in the second week, and 20 seconds in the remaining weeks. The exercise routine will
      be continued until follow-up treatment or for a period of up to 6 weeks. Before or after one
      of the 3 weekly exercise sessions, patients will receive a 30/40-minute face-to-face session
      with a psychologist. The aim of these sessions will be to reduce emotional distress, improve
      mental adjustment, promote a sense of personal control over current experience, develop
      effective coping strategies for dealing with cancer-related difficulties, and open expression
      of emotion. If patients cannot attend psychological support sessions then they will be
      offered the opportunity to catch up through a session over the phone.

      Approximately 3 days following the final training session patients will undergo end-of-trial
      testing, identical to the previous two testing sessions. Patients in the control group will
      undergo this testing session at a time-point equivalent to that of patients in the exercise
      group.
    
  