
    
      Specific aims and hypotheses:

        1. Conduct formative research with community partners (via focus groups and interviews with
           key stakeholders and a small pilot) to assess community, systemic, technology, and
           structural level barriers to implementation of a virtually-delivered Diabetes Prevention
           Program.

           Hypothesis: These efforts will identify individual and community needs, barriers, and
           resources affecting the feasibility of v-DPP implementation. In addition, strategies for
           facilitating the delivery of the v-DPP to low-income communities will be developed.

        2. In collaboration with community partners, utilize strategies identified in Aim A1 to
           maximize impact of the v-DDP in target communities, as evidenced by measures of reach,
           effectiveness, adoption, implementation, and maintenance (RE-AIM) and assess factors
           influencing RE-AIM outcomes (e.g. social determinants of health, demographic variables,
           self-efficacy).

           Hypothesis: The v-DPP facilitated by community-based care coordination will produce
           favorable RE-AIM outcomes. Factors influencing these outcomes will be explored as well.

        3. Demonstrate improvements in body weight, blood pressure, diet quality, and physical
           activity in low-income individuals at risk for type 2 diabetes who participate in a
           v-DPP facilitated by community-based care coordination.

           Hypothesis: The v-DPP, facilitated by community-based care coordination provided by CHWs
           and HCNs, will improve body weight, blood pressure, diet quality, and physical activity
           levels in the study communities.

        4. Collaborate with community partners to develop and implement a strategic approach to
           sustain the v-DPP facilitated by community-based care coordination in the study
           communities and translate it to other community settings.

      Hypothesis: The implementation approach will be packaged, including strategies for
      implementation in different settings and related costs, providing a process for
      implementation in other low-income communities in our region and nationally.
    
  