
    
      The burden of smoking tobacco on the Canadian public is well-documented. Typically, two
      thirds of Canadian smokers will consider a quit attempt over the next six months. When an
      individual who is addicted to nicotine stops administering the psycho-stimulate cognitive
      deficits and tobacco cravings arise and are at the forefront of an unsuccessful quit attempt.
      Studies have shown that smoking or nicotine administration enhances alerting and orienting
      attention, short-term episodic memory, and working memory in smokers who were deprived or
      minimally deprived of nicotine. Moderate intensity exercise has been shown to increase many
      cognitive functions of the brain in non-smokers. Moderate intensity exercise also has been
      shown to increase cognition more than nicotine in a non-smoking population. Research
      regarding the effects of moderate exercise on cognition of non- deprived, as well as
      nicotine- deprived smokers is unknown.

      The study will begin in April of 2017. The main purpose of this project is to examine if
      exercise could be a pragmatic alternative to smoking in cognitive deficits that arise during
      a quit attempt.

      Thirsty four adult smokers will follow the protocol listed below:

      Stage I will utilize a within subjects counter-balanced design. Previous to arrival for phase
      I participants will be asked to keep consumption of coffee to half a cup the day of testing,
      abstain from alcohol and drugs for at least 18 hours prior to testing, and smoke a cigarette
      of choice 30 minutes prior to arrival (for standardization). Participants will be urged to
      arrive at the same time for each visit. Upon arrival to the Exercise and Health Psychology
      lab (located in room 408 of the Arthur and Sonia Labatt Health Science Building at Western
      University) participants will be verified as smokers (based on the reading from the piCO+
      Smokerlyzer being greater than 10 P.P.M.), given the letter of information and sign the
      informed consent form. Participants will also be asked to complete a demographic survey,
      smoking history questionnaire, PAR-Q readiness for exercise, Godin Leisure-Time Exercise
      Questionnaire, Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence, and pre nicotine or pre exercise
      questionnaire. Vitals (heart rate and blood pressure) will be assessed following the
      completion of the questionnaires as well as post intervention in the seated position. Prior
      to evaluation on the N-back task (cognitive memory task described below) a practice stage
      with be conducted until the participant can consistently score 75% or higher on three
      consecutive trials to eliminate a learning effect. After establishing familiarity a baseline
      cognition score will be conducted. The subject will then be given a 5 minute break (i.e., to
      use the lavatory). Following the break the participants will be randomized into either the
      exercise or nicotine inhalation group. The interventions are as followed; Moderate Intensity
      Exercise will persist of a 20-minute bout of moderate intensity aerobic exercise. Exercise
      consisted of a 2-minute warm-up, followed by 15 min of walking at a rate, which will allow
      you to reach 2/3 of your max heart rate, and then a 3-minute cool down on a treadmill
      equaling 20 minutes. The Nicotine inhalation group will smoke a cigarette to completion of
      their choice, in the 20 minute time period allocated. During this time the participant will
      refrain from conversation. The post intervention assessment will begin within two minutes of
      the completion of either intervention. The second visit of phase I will take place the
      following day at the same time (if possible). During the second visit the participant's will
      complete the pre nicotine or pre exercise questionnaire and vitals will be monitored pre and
      post intervention. The participants will participate in the intervention that they have not
      received on the first visit (for example, if the participant received nicotine inhalation on
      the first visit the participant will receive moderate intensity aerobic exercise on the
      second visit). Within two minutes of completion the post treatment N-back task assessment
      will begin. Previous to arrival for stage II participants will be asked to keep consumption
      of coffee to half a cup the day of testing, abstain from alcohol and drugs for at least 18
      hours prior to testing, and to abstain from smoking for at least 12 hours (overnight
      abstinence). Stage II will utilize the same participants as phase I but they will be examined
      in a nicotine-deprived state (12 hours) for baseline N-back scores and then randomized into
      nicotine inhalation group or exercise treatment group where post intervention N-back scores
      will be obtained. Pre nicotine or pre exercise questionnaire will be completed and vitals
      (heart rate and blood pressure) will be assessed pre and post intervention. Smoking
      abstinence will be validated with the piCO+ Smokerlyzer reading being less than 10 P.P.M.

      This study will (a) provide information about the cognition of non-deprived smokers and
      nicotine deprived smokers (b) demonstrate if moderate intensity exercise would be a pragmatic
      alternative to nicotine for replenishing working memory deficits in these populations (c) add
      to the literature on moderate intensity exercise being a valid aid for smokers attempting a
      real quit attempt (d) assist in the development of new cessation programs involving exercise.
    
  