
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a considerable change in the infection control
      protocols in the hospitals, especially ICU. The ICU management of these patients requires
      robust infection control measures in order to prevent cross-transmission of SARS-CoV-2 (to
      healthcare workers (HCWs) and other patients) and hospital acquired bacterial or fungal
      infections. The understanding of epidemiological characteristics of SARS-CoV-2 and
      pathophysiology of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) along with evidence on transmission of
      SARS-COV-2 in controlled healthcare-setting is still evolving. The mode of transmission of
      SARS-CoV-2 is airborne, through droplets or fomites. Respiratory interventions performed in
      these patients in ICU, such as non-invasive ventilation, high flow nasal oxygen or tracheal
      intubation are considered to be aerosol generating procedures and may lead to airborne
      transmission of SARS-CoV-2. In the absence of the robust evidence, there are no specific
      recommendations available on infection control of SARS-CoV-2 in ICU.

      The objective of this study is to achieve consensus statements on the infection control
      management of SARS-CoV-2 in ICU.

      The whole process of this study will be done in the form of three-four rounds of Google
      Forms-based Delphi surveys. The survey questionnaire, will be prepared by the investigators
      after systematic search of available literature and concern areas in the infection control of
      SARS-CoV-2 in ICU. The objective is to achieve consensus statements on the infection control
      management of SARS-CoV-2 in ICU.

      The survey questionnaire is divided into five sections: 1.Design and engineering
      2.Health-care workers and visitors 3. Personal protective equipment 4. Patient and procedures
      5. Disinfection and sterilisation.

      The majority of these questionnaire statements are to be rated on Likert scale and others
      have multiple choices. The participating experts comments and feedback will be collected
      through comment section after each question in round one. All the subsequent surveys will be
      iterative and the experts can give their opinion in each round using either open text or
      directly to steering group of investigators.
    
  