
    
      Subjects: A total of 40 participants will be enrolled in this double-blinded prospective,
      randomized controlled trial. All participants will sign a written consent after details of
      the study have been fully explained to them. Later on, they will be randomly allocated into
      two study groups; intervention group (IG, n=20) and placebo group (PG, n=20).
      Computer-generated random numbers will be used to randomize the participants into one of two
      intervention groups. The study protocol will be approved by the IRB committee in King Khalid
      University Hospital, King Saud University Medical city. This clinical trial will be
      registered in the clinicaltrials.gov registry.

      Settings: All participants will be SARS-CoV-2 positive cases admitted to King Khalid
      University Hospital.

      Study protocol: All study participants will be instructed to either consume one capsule of
      oral supplement enriched in antioxidants vitamins or placebo. The OS will be served in opaque
      capsules of the same size, shape and color and should be ingested in the morning under the
      supervision of a nurse. The OS should not be consumed before the time of a meal. The
      composition of one capsule of the intervention-OS includes: enriched in vitamin A, C, E,
      Selenium and Zinc. The composition of one capsule of the intervention-supplement includes:
      1500 mcg vitamin A (as β-carotene), 250 mg Vitamin C, 90 mg vitamin E, 15 ug Selenium, and
      7.5 mg Zinc. The composition of the placebo will have the same weight of cellulose, and zero
      concentrations of vitamin A, C, E, Selenium and zinc.

      All participants will be assessed at the start and reassessed again after 1 week and after
      14-days period. The assessment will include nutritional screening by Nutritional risk
      screening 2002 (NRS-2002), Subjective global assessment (SGA), and Global Leadership
      Initiative on Malnutrition (GLIM) criteria. Besides anthropometric measures, clinical Global
      Leadership Initiative on Malnutrition (GLIM). also, anthropometric measurements, clinical
      assessment, and biochemical data will be measured. Statistical analysis: The Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 25 will be used for analysis. The descriptive
      statistics for continuous variables will be presented as mean ± standard deviation, while
      other categorical variables as percentages. The independent sample t-test will be used for
      comparison between the IG and PG groups. For repeated measures at multiple points of time
      will be tested by Friedman's two-way ANOVA. The Pearson correlation coefficient will be
      applied to correlate some relevant variables. All these tests were performed with 80% power
      and a 5% level of significance.
    
  