
    
      ECT is a well-established and effective method for the treatment of severe depression. During
      the last decades, rTMS has appeared as a potential new non-invasive antidepressant method,
      which may be a potential alternative to ECT due to fewer side effects.

      Both methods expose the brain to an electric current. But while ECT is associated with global
      cerebral stimulation elicited by an epileptic seizure, rTMS implies non-convulsive focal
      stimulation through a time varying magnetic field. Thus, the antidepressant effect of rTMS
      does not depend on seizure activity and consequently requires no anesthesia. In addition,
      rTMS seems not to be associated with cognitive disturbances.

      Previous research indicates that the antidepressant effect of rTMS is associated with
      specific stimulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The majority of clinically
      controlled studies have used high frequency stimulation of the left frontal cortex (1-4). Few
      have used right prefrontal low frequency rTMS, which has less side effects, such as local
      discomfort and a lower risk of releasing epileptic seizures, than high frequency stimulation
      (5-10). Both models have been used with varying results. Meta-analysis of the antidepressant
      effect of rTMS (11,x) have found a modest, statistically significant antidepressant effect
      but generally definite conclusions on the antidepressant effect of rTMS has been difficult to
      draw, probably because of small and selected study populations, varying ways of stimulation
      and other confounding factors in the clinical setting.

      The important clinical question of whether rTMS may substitute ECT in the treatment of
      depression has almost exclusively been elucidated in studies using high frequency stimulation
      of the left frontal cortex. Some of these suggest that the effectiveness of rTMS is equal to
      that of ECT in non-delusional patients (12-19). However, a recent investigation has compared
      the antidepressant efficacy and side effects of right prefrontal low frequency rTMS with ECT.
      In this study the mean Hamilton total 17-item (HAM-D score) scores were reduced significantly
      over time in both groups (ECT: p<0.001, rTMS: p<0.001); but ECT was more effective than rTMS
      on a short term after 3 weeks of treatment. The outcome did not point to right frontal low
      frequency rTMS as a first line substitute for ECT, but it might have place in the treatment
      of depression as add on to other types of treatment.

      ECT is normally administered 3 times a week for 3-4 weeks. Daily treatment sessions might
      accelerate remission, but is impossible because of cognitive side effects. However, rTMS
      seems not to be associated with reduction in cognitive performance and might potentiate the
      antidepressant efficacy of ECT. Therefore the investigators have found it clinical
      interesting to investigate in which degree low frequency right prefrontal rTMS used ad add-on
      may potentiate the antidepressant effect of unilateral ECT and accelerate remission .

      In addition we want to investigate te correlation between change in depressive symptoms and

      -blood concentration of specific inflammation CNS- makers
    
  