
    
      PE is the second leading cause of sudden, unexpected death in the United States. In 90% of
      the cases, it is caused by deep vein thrombosis: a blood clot forms in a vein, travels
      through the bloodstream, and lodges in the lungs. PE symptoms vary, and can include cough,
      shortness of breath, chest pain, rapid breathing, or increased heart rate. Some medical
      procedures and diseases activate inflammation and blood coagulation, thereby making
      individuals more vulnerable to PE. Surgery, kidney dialysis, cancer, connective tissue
      diseases, infectious diseases, and being over 70 years old put individuals at increased risk
      for developing PEs. A common screening test for PE is the D-dimer blood test, which measures
      the level of a specific protein that is released following a PE. This test, however, has
      proven to be an unreliable diagnostic tool for individuals who are at high risk for PE. A
      more reliable diagnostic tool is needed. The Carboximeter is a new device that measures the
      ratio of CO2/O2 pressure in an individual's expired breath. By monitoring these components,
      researchers may be able to accurately diagnose PEs in high risk individuals. The purpose of
      this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the Carboximeter at diagnosing PE in
      individuals at risk for developing PEs.

      This study will be conducted in two phases. In Phase I, CO2/O2 ratio and D-dimer levels will
      be measured prior to and following orthopedic or cancer-related surgery in 100 individuals at
      risk for developing PEs. In Phase II, the same measurements will be carried out on 350 high
      risk individuals who are experiencing PE symptoms. These individuals will also undergo
      computed tomography (CT) angiography and venography, in which blood flow will be visualized
      using x-rays. A follow-up evaluation will occur 30 days later. If any participant from Phase
      I or II experiences a PE or a medical condition that affects their lungs, such as asthma or
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), researchers may schedule a follow-up evaluation
      to obtain repeat measurements.
    
  