
    
      Background: Rehabilitation and recovery services for individuals with psychiatric disorders
      are an important focus of the Veterans Health Administration. In FY 2004, 847,131 veterans
      (17.4% of VHA patients) received specialized VHA mental health services at a cost of almost
      $2 billion. In June 2004, Secretary Principi initiated a Mental Health Task Force to improve
      mental health care for veterans. The resulting comprehensive strategic plan, A Road Map for
      Transforming VA Mental Health Care" presented two central recommendations: 1) emphasize the
      recovery model at every medical center, and 2) develop and implement the full continuum of
      recovery-oriented mental health services. A recovery oriented mental health system is one
      that fosters self-determination, hope, and empowerment. Peer/consumer support groups, which
      provide a forum for mutual acceptance, empowerment, information, education, advocacy, skills
      training, and community reintegration are an important component of this plan, and have been
      implemented in a number of VHA centers.

      Objectives: The objectives of the proposed research are to assess the content and impact of
      VHA mental health peer support groups for recovery from mental illness. Specifically, we
      will: a) examine the structure, process and outcome of two models of recovery-oriented group
      treatment for mental health-peer/consumer support groups led by peer facilitators (Vet-to-Vet
      program), and recovery-oriented groups led by a clinician; b) assess and compare empowerment,
      social support, traditional outcomes (psychiatric and substance abuse symptoms, community
      functioning) and recovery-oriented outcomes (hope, strength/resiliency) in each type of
      program; and c) test a model in which recovery-oriented outcomes are mediated by empowerment
      and social support.

      Methods: The study will use a research design in which participants are randomly assigned to
      attend an existing peer facilitator-led support group, a clinician-led recovery-oriented
      group, or "treatment as usual". The sample will include 300 individuals receiving outpatient
      mental health services at one of two VA sites: Bedford, MA or West Haven, CT. Qualitative and
      quantitative methods will be used to address the research objectives. We will observe and
      tape record a sample of group meetings, and interview participants and group leaders
      (consumer-facilitators or clinicians) to analyze and understand the "ingredients" (structure
      and content) of these groups. We will use standardized measures of self-efficacy, empowerment
      and social support to determine effects of group type on participants' feelings of
      empowerment and social support, and whether empowerment and social support result in better
      outcomes. We will assess recovery-oriented (hope, optimism, strength and resilience) and
      traditional (symptom and functioning) outcomes. Qualitative data from group observations and
      interviews will be used to explore what other factors might explain the effects of
      participation in peer-support and clinician-led groups. Quantitative measures will be
      analyzed using regression modeling in an "intent to treat" approach. Path analysis that
      entails a series of regression models will be used to test the hypothesized mediation effect.

      Significance to VA: The VA has made a clear commitment to implementation of peer-support
      programs as part of a recovery-oriented transformation of its mental health service system.
      However, there is currently no published research reporting the processes or outcomes of
      these programs. This study will provide valuable information regarding if, why and how peer
      support groups, as well as clinician-led recovery-oriented groups, benefit veterans with
      mental illness. This information will be valuable in guiding implementation of such programs
      across the country.
    
  