
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability and to estimate the MTD of ATLCAR.CD30 post
           ASCT in patients with CD30+ lymphoma at high risk for relapse

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To measure the survival of ATLCAR.CD30 in vivo

        -  To estimate PFS after infusion of ATLCAR.CD30 post ASCT in patients with CD30+ lymphoma
           at high risk for relapse

        -  To determine the overall survival after infusion of ATLCAR.CD30 post ASCT in patients
           with CD30+ lymphoma at high risk for relapse

      Exploratory Objective

        -  To measure patient-reported symptom, physical function, and health-related quality of
           life at baseline and over time in patients treated with ATLCAR.CD30 cells.

      ENDPOINTS

      Primary Endpoint

        -  Toxicity will be classified and graded according to the National Cancer Institute's
           Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 4.0) and CRS toxicity
           will be graded according to the toxicity scale outlined in 11.6 (Appendix F: CRS
           Toxicity Grading Scale and Management Guidelines). The MTD will be based on the rate of
           dose-limiting toxicity

      Secondary (Clinical) Endpoint

        -  PFS is defined from day of ASCT to relapse (in subjects with a documented complete
           response after ASCT) or progression (in subjects with documented stable disease or
           partial response after ASCT), or death as a result of any cause as per the Revised
           Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma.

        -  Overall survival will be measured from the date of administration of CAR.CD30 transduced
           ATL to date of death

        -  Persistence of CAR.CD30 T cells in vivo will be determined by quantitative PCR and flow
           cytometry in peripheral blood samples.

      Exploratory Endpoint

        -  Patient reported symptoms will be measured using selected symptoms from the NCI
           PRO-CTCAE. Patient-reported physical function will be measured using the PROMIS Physical
           Function Score derived from the PROMIS Physical Function Short Form 20a v1.0.
           Patient-reported health-related quality of life will be measured using the PROMIS Global
           Health Score derived from the PROMIS Global Health Short Form v1.0-1.1.

      OUTLINE

      Patients scheduled to undergo an autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) for treatment of
      lymphoma will be approached for consent to screening and potential enrollment into LCCC1524.
      Peripheral blood cells will be collected from consenting patients who meet eligibility for
      cell procurement for creation of ATLCAR.CD30 cells prior to ASCT. The ASCT, including
      mobilization and collection of PBSCs, administration of myeloablative therapy, reinfusion of
      PBSCs and supportive care following transplant will be as per routine standard of care, and
      not expected to be impacted by enrollment into LCCC1524. Post ASCT, patients who meet
      eligibility criteria for treatment will receive one infusion of ATLCAR.CD30 cells once there
      is evidence of hematologic recovery. Research personnel will keep track of any patients who
      undergo procurement but do not undergo treatment with ATLCAR.CD30 cells, and the reason for
      withholding treatment.

      Cell Procurement

      Peripheral blood, up to 300 mL total (in up to 3 collections) will be obtained for subjects
      for cell procurement. In patients with low (CD3 count as assayed by flow cytometry less than
      200/μl) T-cell count in the peripheral blood, a leukopheresis may be performed to isolate
      sufficient T cells. The parameters for pheresis will be up to 2 blood volumes.

      For pediatric patients (patients under 18 years of age), the total amount of blood drawn will
      not be more than 3 mL (less than 1 teaspoon per 2.2 lbs. that the child weighs.

      ATLCAR.CD30 Cells Administration

      Post ASCT, once the patient has started to experience hematologic recovery (defined as ANC
      ≥500 cells/mm3 for 3 consecutive days, AND platelet count ≥25 cells/mm3 without transfusion
      over the preceding 5 days, AND Hg ≥8g/dL without transfusion support over preceding 5 days),
      ATLCAR.CD30 cells will be admnistered. This will generally occur between 14 and 20 days
      following infusion of autologous stem cells following high-dose chemotherapy.

      Duration of Therapy

      Therapy in LCCC1524 involves just one infusion of ATLCAR.CD30 cells. Treatment with one
      infusion will be administered unless:

        -  Patient decides to withdraw from study treatment, OR

        -  General or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

      Duration of Follow-Up

      Patients will be followed for up to 15 years or until death, whichever occurs first. Patients
      removed from study for unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or
      stabilization of the adverse event.
    
  