
    
      Each year, some 210 million women throughout the world become pregnant and nearly one in five
      chooses to terminate the pregnancy (Singh et al., 2009). Approximately, 22 million
      pregnancies are terminated unsafely; of these, the vast majority (98%) take place in
      developing countries (WHO, Forthcoming). Access to safe abortion services is a challenge for
      many women with unwanted pregnancies in developing countries because of restrictive
      legislation, a shortage of skilled staff or other barriers.

      Non-surgical methods of abortion, known as medical abortion, have been developed that use
      safe and effective drug-based methods for induced abortion. Prescribing authority is
      generally limited to doctors, however. As a result, medical abortion remains under-utilized
      and is often inaccessible for many women in developing countries seeking public sector
      providers trained in medical abortion in areas where there are no doctors.

      Midlevel providers (non-physician clinicians such as nurses and midwives) have the potential
      to provide accessible, low-cost, and safe abortion services in many countries, especially in
      the developing world. They are more cost-effective to employ than doctors and often work in
      areas where doctors are in short supply, providing much needed health services to
      under-served areas while conserving resources. Training midlevel providers in the independent
      provision of medical abortion with appropriate referral systems would expand access to safe
      abortion services to lower levels of the health care system where there is no doctor and
      complement a global health systems trend towards task-shifting where doctors are costly and
      scarce (WHO, 2007).

      The overall objective of the study is to obtain evidence on the safety and effectiveness of
      medical abortions performed by government trained and certified midlevel providers and
      physicians to inform policy makers interested in or committed to expanding and decentralizing
      medical abortion services.
    
  