
    
      The lack of highly sensitive clinical neuroimaging and neuropsychiatric markers of subtle
      changes due to mTBI makes it difficult to characterize injury severity and to predict
      outcomes. White matter tracts in the brain, both myelinated and non-myelinated, are
      susceptible to damage from impact-acceleration forces experienced during a TBI,5-7 and there
      is evidence that significant white matter injury and myelin loss occurs in mTBI. In addition,
      this damage may be chronic and can negatively affect neural processing speed and cognitive
      function. Traditional anatomical and function MRI imaging sequences include clinical
      sequences such as traditional T1 and T2 sequences, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery
      (FLAIR), three-dimensional (3D) magnetization-prepared rapid gradient echo (MP-RAGE),
      diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and gradient MRI. While a number of advanced imaging
      techniques, notably magnetization transfer, diffusion tensor and quantitative T1 and T2
      imaging (MTI, DTI, qT1 and qT2, respectively), have been used previously to study white
      matter in neurosurgical diseases, these methods provide only indirect, non-specific
      information related to myelin content. For example, these modalities can tell when there is
      swelling that is affecting the movement of water, which may be indicative of a process that
      would affect myelin, but they cannot give specific information about the amount of myelin
      surrounding a nerve. An emerging multicomponent relaxometry technique, termed multicomponent
      driven equilibrium single pulse observation of T1 and T2 (mcDESPOT), provides a voxel-wise
      estimation ranging from 0 to 1 for myelin content, with higher values providing an indirect
      marker of greater myelin integrity. Two studies have shown increased myelin after injury in
      football and ice hockey players.8 DTI, which primarily gives information about the
      myelin-axon bundle interactions, has shown decreased fractional anisotropy after
      mTBI,myelin-axon bundle interactions, has shown decreased fractional anisotropy after mTBI,
      indicating that the myelin that is present is less organized.8 Combining mcDESPOT and DTI
      findings, it is possible to see a more nuanced picture of the remyelination process after
      mTBI. In the present program, the investigators propose adding the mcDESPOT sequence to the
      MRI scanner in accordance with the MRI manufacturer's technical requirements. Although the
      sequences obtained for mcDESPOT are nearly identical sequences used in clinical practice, the
      flip-angles are changed so that they cannot be read like a traditional image.

      Rather, the data have to be post-processed by a computer in order to be able to derive myelin
      information. The mcDESPOT sequences are FDA approved, and present no additional risk over
      traditional clinical MRI sequences. Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is a class of proteins involved
      in the metabolism of fats in the body, and is important in Alzheimer's disease and
      cardiovascular disease. How the body makes this protein is genetically coded in the APoE
      gene. One form of this gene, APoE allele 4 (APoE4) is found in about 25% of the population,
      but in 60% of patients with Alzheimer's dementia. Infants with this allele also show
      decreased myelination at a young age. It is postulated that this defect affects the brain's
      ability to myelinate and remyelinate, leading to decreased or disorganized myelination, which
      then leads to an increased risk for development of dementia. This study aims to build upon
      preliminary data collected by the principal investigator (PI) showing increased but
      disorganized myelin in collegiate football players, by confirming and reproducing these
      results in a larger population. This study will also add the component of genetic testing for
      the APoE4 allele to see if there is a sub-segment of the study population that may be at
      increased risk for brain injury after mTBI and subsequent findings in the research scans. The
      mcDESPOT and genetic testing findings will also be correlated with routine neuropsychology
      concussion assessment results.
    
  