
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the antiproliferative effects of 2 different doses of cholecalciferol (i.e.,
           vitamin D3) in combination with calcium carbonate on the proliferative labeling index in
           patients with resected colon cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the effects of these doses on serum levels of 25-OH-D3, 1,25-OH-D3, 24,25-OH-D3,
           calcium, and parathyroid hormone in these patients.

        -  Determine the safety of high-dose cholecalciferol in these patients over 2 years.

        -  Compare the effects of these doses on several biological markers (i.e., cyclin D1,
           protein kinase C, vitamin D receptor, p21, and p27) in the rectal mucosa of these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, pilot study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral low-dose cholecalciferol once daily and oral calcium
           carbonate twice daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral high-dose cholecalciferol once daily and calcium carbonate
           as in arm I.

      Treatment in both arms continues for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. All patients undergo sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy with 4 quadrant
      mucosal biopsies at baseline and after 6 months of study treatment. After their 6-month
      mucosal biopsy, patients in arm I switch to high-dose cholecalciferol as in arm II.

      Patients undergo blood, urine, and tissue collection periodically during study for
      pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, and/or histopathological analysis. Serum is collected
      monthly for 3 months and then once every 3 months to assess changes in serum levels of
      vitamin D and vitamin D metabolites (i.e., 1,25-OH-D3; 25-OH-D3; 24,25-OH-D3), as well as
      changes in calcium and parathyroid hormone, BUN, creatinine, electrolytes, and phosphorus
      levels. Urine is collected once every 3 months to assess changes in urine calcium and
      creatinine levels for hypercalciuria. Tissue biopsies of normal endorectal mucosa collected
      at baseline and after 6 months of study treatment are evaluated by IHC for proliferative
      index, vitamin D receptor staining, p21, p27, cyclin D1, and protein kinase C.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  