
    
      120 patients will undergo endovascular procedures: 40 for the treatment of lower limb
      ischemia caused by aortoiliac stenosis classified according to the consensus for the
      management of peripheral arterial disease (TASC) A or B with an indication for angioplasty as
      the inclusion criteria; 40 for the treatment of lower limb ischemia due to stenosis
      femoropopliteal TASC A or B with an indication of angioplasty as the inclusion criteria and
      40 for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) with indication for endovascular
      repair. Of these procedures, half chosen randomly by computerized simple random, will be
      submitted to the endovascular procedure in question using only iodinated contrast and the
      other half will be submitted to the endovascular procedure using carbon dioxide (CO2). There
      will be no CO2 injection in the aortic arch or cerebral territory. The patient previously
      evaluated at the Hospital Municipal Dr. Moses Deutsch will be referred to the operating room
      of the Albert Einstein Hospital where it will be performed under general anesthesia with
      intubation or blockage associated with sedation, and the same in the supine position
      (DDH).The femoral artery will be punctured with Seldinger technique unilaterally or
      bilaterally, according to the indication for the procedure. By using the guide wire will be
      one or two sheaths inserted in a retrograde manner. Through the introducer, is manually
      injected retrogradely 50 ml of CO 2, in obtaining images of the apparatus module CO2 Philips
      mode subtraction angiography. In angioplasty for obstructive disease, with the module roadmap
      will be held the passage of the guidewire through the stenotic region or occlusion, and
      dilatation balloon angioplasty specific. After angioplasty, there will be a new injection of
      contrast for the evaluation of partial results. As appropriate, will be held stent placement,
      in which case there will be a last angiography with 50 ml of CO2. In endovascular repair of
      abdominal aortic aneurysms, there will be a first injection of CO2 for the study of the neck
      of the aneurysm and stent implantation. After the release of the entire stent, a new
      angiography is performed by injection of CO2 for the control of surgical outcome. In all
      procedures will be performed to measure pressure through the femoral sheath prior to
      angioplasty, after angioplasty and stent after the placement. During the use of CO2 as
      contrast medium, with questions at the trial of such factors as the extent of injury,
      indication of repair, endoleak, leak, rupture or thrombosis by arteriography will be
      performed by manual injection of iodinated contrast.Of course this amount of contrast is
      measured.
    
  