
    
      Individuals with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) are more likely to smoke
      cigarettes than the general population, start smoking at a younger age, progress to regular
      use and dependence more quickly, and have a harder time quitting. The specific factors that
      confer risk for smoking-related outcomes among those with ADHD have not been thoroughly
      evaluated, though a range of possibilities exist. The overall goal of the proposed research
      is to evaluate the behavioral and genetic mechanisms of smoking risk in non-smoking young
      adults (aged 18-25 years of age) with and without ADHD using a novel laboratory-based model
      of intranasal nicotine administration. Target completion population of the study is 150 (75
      ADHD, 75 CTRL), although the population potentially screened will be 200. The investigators
      will systematically assess the effects of two doses of intranasally administered nicotine
      versus placebo. In addition, nicotine self-administration will be evaluated under conditions
      that are likely to be more cognitively challenging among individuals with ADHD. If the
      subject passes screen and their status as never smoking up to 1 cigarette in their lifetime,
      they will be scheduled for a the first of five experimental sessions: 3 fixed dose sessions,
      followed by 2 choice sessions. Each of the 3 fixed dose sessions will be identical except for
      the dose of nicotine evaluated. During choice sessions, the nicotine reinforcement procedures
      will be implemented. Finally to assess the moderating effects of genotype on the reinforcing
      effects of nicotine in non-smokers analyses will focus primarily with hierarchical regression
      models that covary gender and population substructure to assess effects of genotype on
      nicotine sensitivity outcomes. Further epigenetics analysis will be conducted, related to the
      initial nicotine exposure at the Fixed Dose Sessions.
    
  