
    
      Blood loss is a significant issue in spinal deformity surgery, often requiring allogenic
      blood transfusion and/or intraoperative blood salvage and leading to increased risk of
      postoperative morbidity, increased length of stay, and higher total hospital costs.
      Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent that is used in many surgical specialties to
      prevent perioperative blood loss. Intravenous (ivTXA) dosing has proven effective in reducing
      blood loss and perioperative transfusion in spinal surgery, while the topical (tTXA) form has
      been shown to be at least non-inferior to IV transfusion in the total arthroplasty
      literature. Intravenous TXA is routinely used at the investigators' institution in spinal
      deformity cases, but even with ivTXA infusion, perioperative blood loss remains a significant
      issue, with total estimated and calculated blood loss between ~1500-3000 mL. Usage of local
      tTXA in addition to ivTXA may provide additional benefits including an additive effect on
      decreasing blood loss, allowing for lowered dosages of ivTXA, decreasing risks associated
      with systemic exposure. Combination ivTXA and tTXA has shown excellent results in total joint
      arthroplasty. The objective of this study is to determine the additive benefit and risks of
      co-administration of the two in spinal deformity surgery. This population of spinal patients
      was chosen because the estimated blood loss is high and the potential clinical benefit of the
      intervention is large. Patients will be enrolled if they are undergoing surgery > 5 levels
      with extension to the pelvis. The investigators have previously utilized topical TXA for
      these cases by applying operative sponges soaked with solution into the wound during routine
      x-ray check following instrumentation, with anecdotally good effect. However, this practice
      has not been prospectively studied. In this prospective, randomized, blinded, placebo
      controlled study, a similar combined effect of ivTXA and tTXA on decreasing perioperative
      blood loss as seen in total joint arthroplasty, with a similar safety profile is expected.
    
  