
    
      Bariatric surgery, the only effective treatment for morbid obesity, has shown effective long
      term weight loss and good control of obesity related comorbidities in randomized controlled
      trials.

      Obesity related diseases, such as hypertension, type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, osteoarthritis
      and various tumours, have a significant socio-economic impact, since the cost of the obesity
      epidemic is 5.7 billion Swiss francs yearly.

      According to the current Swiss National Guidelines defined by the Swiss Group for Morbid
      Obesity surgical therapy is indicated in cases of BMI 35 kg/m2 or higher, showing better
      weight reduction and control of comorbidties than conservative therapy alone. Obesity reduces
      quality of life and life expectancy dramatically. Furthermore it has a significant impact on
      our economy. Bariatric surgery is likely to improve all of these negative impacts on society.

      The most commonly performed procedures at present are laparoscopic adjustable gastric
      banding, laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
      (LSG).

      LRYGB is considered the golden standard in bariatric surgery, although little evidence is
      available to justify this standpoint. In fact, the choice of the surgical procedure depends
      more on patient factors such as present comorbidities and operative risk. Therefore, surgeons
      consult after a work up within a multidisciplinary team of caretakers such as nutritionists,
      endocrinologists and psychiatrists and chose a patient tailored approach. Recently, the
      laparoscopic mini gastric bypass (LMGB) has gained worldwide popularity in addition to the
      standard available procedures for the treatment of morbid obesity. Therefore, it has been
      added by the Swiss Group for Morbid Obesity as a surgical option, which has to be evaluated
      in clinical trials.

      Robert Rutledge, the pioneer of the LMGB, published in 2001 results of 1274 patients, who
      received surgical treatment with LMGB. After two years the patients showed an excess weight
      loss (EWL) of 77%. The rate of anastomotic leakage in the gastroenterostomy amounted 1.6%.
      The rate of mortality was 0.08%. Subsequently, Rutledge published in 2005 the results of 2410
      patients with a follow up of 38.7 months. These cohort reached/achieved an EWL of 80% after a
      year and even after 5 years 5% of all these patients showed a weight rebound of maximum 10
      kg. In fact, those results seemed superior to outcomes of the other standard bariatric
      procedures.

      The rate of anastomotic leakage was 1.08%, mortality 0.08%. Long-term complications were
      ulcer disease (4%) and iron deficiency (5%). Both complications are also known in LRYGB with
      similar rates.

      The first and only randomized controlled trial comparing the LRYGB to LMGB was carried out by
      Lee in 2005. With a group of 40 patients the effectiveness of LMGB was compared to the LRYGB.
      The authors found an EWL of 64.9% after one and 64.4% after two years, respectively, in
      patients having a LMGB accompanied by less complications and a shorter hospitalization time
      than in LRYGB. Patients with LRYGB had an EWL of 58.7% and 60%, respectively.

      These results showed similar benefits of the LMGB compared to LRYGB. This is in accordance
      with the already mentioned observational studies.
    
  