
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effectiveness, in terms of overall survival, of consolidation therapy with
           or without strontium chloride Sr 89 after induction chemotherapy in patients with
           androgen-independent prostate cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to type of induction
      chemotherapy (KAVE vs prednisone and docetaxel), number of bony metastases (no more than 20
      vs more than 20), Eastern Cooperative Oncology (ECOG) performance status (0-1 vs 2-3), and
      use of zoledronate (yes vs no).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive 1 of 2 induction therapy regimens.

             -  Regimen A (KAVE): Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 24 hours on day 1 and oral
                ketoconazole three times daily on days 1-7 of weeks 1, 3, and 5. Patients receive
                vinblastine IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and oral estramustine three times daily on
                days 1-7 of weeks 2, 4, and 6. Patients receive no treatment on weeks 7 and 8.
                Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for at least 2 courses* in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients continue to receive oral ketoconazole three times daily until disease
      progression.

        -  Regimen B (prednisone and docetaxel): Patients receive oral prednisone twice daily on
           days 1-21 (days 1-14 of course 5 only) and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for at least 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Consolidation therapy: Patients with a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response (at
                least 50% decline in PSA level from baseline at week 16 OR at least 2 PSA levels
                decreased at least 50% from baseline) are randomized to 1 of 2 consolidation
                treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 24 hours once weekly for 6 weeks plus
           strontium chloride Sr 89 IV once at the beginning of chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin as in arm I. Patients are followed every 4 weeks
           until PSA progression and then every 3 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 480 patients (240 randomized) will be accrued for this study
      within 48 months.
    
  