
    
      Study design: Open label, multi-center, 3 + 3 dose-escalation study with an expansion cohort
      at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) to investigate safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary
      anti-tumor activity of TKM 080301 in subjects with HCC.

      Sequential cohorts of 3 to 6 subjects will receive escalating doses of TKM 080301 according
      to a pre-specified dose escalation scheme. Assessment of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) will
      be made during Cycle 1 to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Once the MTD level is
      established, approximately 20 subjects will be enrolled in an expansion cohort to further
      confirm the safety and tolerability of TKM-080301 at the MTD.

      Study Population: A minimum of 9 and up to approximately 18 adult male or female subjects
      with histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic or locally advanced inoperable HCC
      and a life expectancy of 3 months or more are planned in the dose escalation phase.
      Approximately 20 subjects are planned in the expansion cohort.

      Study Treatment: TKM-080301 will be administered by intravenous (IV) infusion, once weekly
      for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a 1 week rest period. This 28-day treatment period
      constitutes 1 cycle.

      Subjects who demonstrate clinical benefit without progression per RECIST 1.1 guidelines may
      receive treatment beyond 6 cycles if the Investigator considers it is in the best interest of
      the subject, and only with the approval of the Medical Monitor. Subjects would then continue
      TKM 080301 therapy until withdrawal of consent, disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
      occurs.

      Pharmacokinetics (PK) Subjects will undergo blood sample collection for PK analysis during
      cycles 1 and 2.

      Study Duration: Each treatment cycle will have duration of 28 days and each subject will
      typically receive up to 6 cycles of treatment. The total duration of the study is expected to
      be approximately 28 months.
    
  