
    
      Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) is a rare normocytic normochromic anemia with reticulocytopenia,
      characterized by a reduction of erythroid precursors from the bone marrow, could be divided
      into congenital and acquired PRCA according to pathogenesis. Congenital PRCA, also known as
      Diamond-Blackfan syndrome, has been associated with pathogenic variant in GATA1 and TSR2 and
      gene encode ribosomal proteins. Acquired PRCA can be a primary disease which is usually
      mediated by immunology, or secondary to other diseases, such as lymphoproliferative diseases,
      autoimmune diseases, thymoma, infection, or drugs. The first line therapy of acquired PRCA is
      Cyclosporine A (CsA) and steroids, the second line therapy are anti-CD20, anti-human
      thymocyte immunoglobulin, immunosuppressive drugs like cyclophosphamide, bone marrow
      transplantation. Unfortunately, some patients did not response or tolerate the above
      treatments.

      Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an agent produced by the bacterium Streptomyces hygroscopicus,
      inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). mTOR is a serine/threonine kinase that
      regulates cell growth, proliferation, metabolism and survival in eukaryotic cells, and is
      identified as two interacting complex, mTORC1 and mTORC2. Sirolimus primarily inhibits
      mTORC1, has been approved for prevent organ transplant rejection, especially in renal
      transplantation. Sirolimus also promises to treat autoimmune, degenerative and
      hyperproliferative disorders. Recently, sirolimus has been reported to be effective and well
      tolerated for many immune-mediated cytopenias, such as autoimmune lymphoproliferative
      syndrome, immune thrombocytopenia, EVANS syndrome, etc. Some case reports and our previous
      retrospective study showed that sirolimus was effective for refractory/relapse PRCA with good
      tolerance. However, due to the rare occurrence of PRCA and good response rate to CsA, there
      are very few studies of sirolimus on newly diagnosed PRCA so far.

      In this study, It is anticipated to evaluate the effect and side effects of sirolimus on 20
      patients with newly diagnosed PRCA compared with CsA. The side-effects will be documented and
      plasma concentration of sirolimus will be monitored.
    
  