
    
      Hemiplegic shoulder pain affects from 16%-84% of stroke patients and fatigue occurs among
      39%-72% of stroke victims, which can have an adverse impact on rehabilitation outcomes by
      interrupting treatment process, daily functions, and quality of life (QOL) for stroke
      patients. Considering the high prevalence and detrimental effects of poststroke shoulder pain
      and fatigue, it is vital for monitoring these symptoms and therapeutic interventions to be
      developed for those suffering from poststroke pain and fatigue. Therefore, to validate
      existing assessments of pain/fatigue, and to evaluate the efficacy of potential pain/fatigue
      interventions are needed.

      A vertical Numerical Rating Scale with Faces Rating Scale (NRS-FRS) could be used by all
      stroke patients as pain and fatigue measurement. The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and Brief
      Fatigue Inventory (BFI) measure pain/fatigue intensity and pain/fatigue interference, which
      might provide more information regarding pain/fatigue symptoms. The first aim of this
      research is to examine the psychometric properties of the vertical NRS-FRS, BPI, and BFI.

      Functional electrical stimulation (FES) appears to offer benefits in relieving painful
      hemiplegic shoulder. Previous studies have shown that therapeutic electrical stimulation of
      the posterior deltoid and supraspinatus muscles significantly reduces shoulder subluxation,
      but inconsistent results on pain reduction, pain-free range of motion of the affected
      shoulder joint, and arm function. Conventional rehabilitation usually applies transcutaneous
      electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) to relieve pain. Bilateral arm training (BAT) is one of
      the novel interventions in stroke rehabilitation to improve motor recovery of the affected
      arm, especially proximal part of the upper-limb.Therefore, the second aim of this research is
      to investigate whether the combined therapy of FES and BAT (FES-BAT) could reduce hemiplegic
      shoulder pain and improve motor function of the affected arm as compared with TENS plus BAT
      (TENS-BAT). Whether interventions could further lead to better functional performance and
      higher QOL would be of interest.

      This 3-year project is implemented in three stages and recruit 80 patients with chronic
      stroke. At the first stage, investigators conduct a test-retest study to investigate the
      reliability and validity of outcome measures on hemiplegic shoulder pain and poststroke
      fatigue in 80 patients. At the second stage, investigators conduct a randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) to investigate the relative effects of the FES-BAT versus TENS-BAT for 40 stroke
      patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain and moderate-to-mild motor impairment. Treatment
      regimens are designed to ensure that patients in the 2 groups receive an equivalent intensity
      of treatment (1 hour/day, 3 days/week for 4 weeks). At the third stage, investigators will
      determine clinimetric properties of the primary outcome measures, such as responnsiveness,
      minimal detectable change, and minimal clinical important change.
    
  