
    
      Research Design: This will be a pilot randomized feasibility and acceptability trial.

      Participants and Recruitment: The investigators will prospectively enroll (n=60, 30
      intervention, 30 control) patients who present to the KCMC ED for care of acute injuries and
      meet inclusion and exclusion criteria.Trained research nurses will describe the intervention
      as a health assessment, and eligible interested participants will be enrolled, provide
      informed consent and a randomization packet chosen. The research nurses will then administer
      patient demographic, injury, alcohol use surveys and the intervention if appropriate all
      lasting less than 45 minutes.

      Follow-up Procedures: Both groups will provide two phone numbers where participants can be
      reached in order to facilitate follow-up. All participants will be contacted at 30, 60, and
      120 days for follow-up survey administration. Surveys are expected to be less than 20
      minutes. All patients will be contacted by text message at the conclusion of the study to
      inform them about availability of the results of the study.

      Feasibility Trial Outcomes: The investigators will conduct a feasibility assessment
      subjectively through self-assessments as well as objectively through Event Analyses,
      understanding causes of deviations from protocol, Intervention Observations and
      Questionnaires.

      Study Procedures: To evaluate the study procedures, the investigators will evaluate any
      protocol deviation events, and compare length of survey times. The investigators will also
      perform assessments of intervention fidelity through real-time observations of BNI
      administration using the BNI Assessment Scale.

      Intervention and Trial Acceptability: The investigators will assess acceptability of
      participation in the trial and intervention through questions administered after the final
      follow-up time point for both the research team as well as participants. This will include
      assessment about the length of surveys, and method and quantity of follow-up.

      Enrollment and Retention: The primary outcome measure will be recruitment and retention
      rates, anticipated at 30% and 80%, respectively. Secondarily, the investigators will
      qualitatively assess the inclusion and exclusion criteria, reasons for non-enrollment or
      non-retention, to the extent possible. Finally, the investigators will administer follow-up
      questions about compensation procedures in order to improve enrollment or retention.
    
  