
    
      Evidence suggests that serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptor, serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and
      benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor function is abnormal in panic disorder (PD), postraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) and depression (MDD). The hypotheses for the role of 5-HT1A receptors
      have been obtained by assessing behavioral, neuroendocrine and temperature responses to the
      selective partial 5-HT1A agonist ipsapirone in anxiety disorders subjects and healthy
      controls, and examining effects on 5-HT1A receptor function in rats following antidepressant
      drug (AD) administration. 5-HT1A receptors knockout mice show behaviors that have been used
      as a model for anxiety disorders in humans. Moreover, 5-HT1A receptor agonists have been
      shown to be effective in the treatment of patients with anxiety disorders. The serotonin
      transporter is implicated in these disorders by virtue of the efficacy of selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitors in relieving symptoms in these subjects. Evidence arguing for a role of
      BZD/GABA receptor dysfunction in anxiety disorders comes from studies showing anxiolytic and
      anxiogenic properties of BZD agonists and antagonists, respectively. BZD receptor sensitivity
      has been shown to be reduced in patients with anxiety disorders. Brain imaging studies using
      positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)
      suggest decreased BZD receptor binding in PD and PTSD.

      Animal studies link together serotonin and GABA suggesting a pathological pathway originating
      from 5-HT1A receptor deficit leading towards dysfunctions within GABAergic systems, resulting
      in increased levels of anxiety. Yet, association between disturbed interactions between
      5-HT1A receptor binding and alterations in BZD receptor binding has not been explored in
      humans. The proposed study will advance knowledge regarding the neurobiology of PD and PTSD
      by employing PET and [11C]flumazenil, [18F]FC-WAY100635([18F]FCWAY) and [11C]DASB to compare
      BZD receptor, 5-HT1A receptors and the serotonin transporter binding potential, respectively,
      between PD, PTSD and MDD patients and healthy controls. Because central 5-HT1A receptor
      density is down-regulated in rodents by corticosterone administration and by stress-mediated
      corticosterone secretion, assessments of HPA-axis activity will be assessed to determine
      whether down-regulation of 5-HT1A receptors correlates with cortisol hypersecretion in PD,
      PTSD and MDD.

      The following hypotheses will be tested: 1) PD/PTSD/MDD patients have reduced GABA(A)-BZD
      receptor binding relative to healthy controls. 2) PD/PTSD/MDD patients have reduced 5-HT1A
      receptor binding potential relative to healthy controls. 3) 5-HT1A receptor binding will be
      more prominently reduced in PD and PTSD patients with comorbid MDD relative to anxiety
      disorders patients without comorbid MDD and healthy controls. 4) There will be a positive
      correlation between the reduction in 5-HT1A receptor binding and BZD binding in PD/PTSD/MDD
      patients. 5) There will be an inverse correlation between reduction in 5-HT1A receptor
      binding and BZD binding in PD/PTSD/MDD patients and cortisol secretion. 6) Serotonin
      transporter binding, measured using [11C]DASB, will be reduced in PD subjects relative to
      healthy controls.
    
  