
    
      End point

      Primary end point is the intubation rate between groups. Secondary end points include: days
      on mechanical ventilation, number o invasive devices, nosocomial infections, PICU and
      Hospital length of stay and survival at 2-6 months.

      Study design

      Single center retrospective study

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis

      According to previous studies, the reported intubation rate in children admitted to PICU with
      AHRF and treated with conventional flow-cycled NIV-PS is 40%-60%.

      Considering an alfa -error=0.05 and power=80%, the study would have needed 20 patients in
      each group to detect a 50% reduction in the primary end point, i.e. the intubation rate. Data
      distribution are tested with Kolmogorov-Smirnov analysis and analyzed with parametric or
      non-parametric statistics, according to. Normally distributed variables are expressed as mean
      (SD) while median and interquartile range are used to report non-normally dsitributed
      variables. Categorical variables are compared with chi-square or Fisher exact test, as
      appropriate. A p value <0.05 was considered as significant. Sample size calculation was
      performed with GPower 3.1.2 software (Kiel University, Germany). Other statistics were
      performed with SPSS 15.0 (SPSS inc, Chicago, IL, USA) and p<0.05 was considered as
      statistically significant

      Study Population

      All consecutive children with infectious AHRF meeting the pediatric criteria for moderate
      ARDS definition admitted to PICU between the first January 2015 and first January 2017.
      Eligible patients received Noninvasive Respiratory Support as a first line respiratory
      treatment and were divided in two groups: 1) patients receiving flow-cycled NIV-PS as a first
      line treatment (control group) and b) patients receiving NIV NAVA as a first line treatment
      (treatment group).

      Experimental protocol.

      The routine management of children wth AHRF treated with noninvasive respiratory support did
      not vary in the study period and included: 1) standard medical therapy including oxygen
      therapy, antibiotics, steroids, inhaled beta 2 agonists if needed 2) maintaining
      semirecumbent position 2) sedation provided according to PICU protocol (dexmedetomidine
      0.5-0.7mcg/Kg/hour) to maintain a COMFORT score between 17 and 26; To achieve the "best
      ventilatory assistance" during NIV-PS, the PS level (i.e. the inspiratory pressure support
      above PEEP) and NAVA gain were set to obtain an expiratory tidal volume 6-9 ml/Kg (while the
      child was on active inspiration, as shown by a positive inflection on the pressure trace), a
      reduction in RR and in chest retractions, as reported previous studies.

      In both trials Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) was titrated from 4 to 8 cmH2O (in
      step of 2 cmH2O) to obtain SaO2> 94% with FiO2 <0.6. During NIV-PS the inspiratory
      flow-trigger was set at maximum sensitivity level not causing autotriggering. The expiratory
      cycling-off was adjusted by the attending physicians to obtain the best synchronization,
      according to flow/pressure tracings. During NIV-NAVA, Edi trigger was set at 0.5 μV above the
      resting Edi to assist respiratory effort without responding to electrical noise.

      NIV NAVA was delivered with ServoI ventilator equipped with Edi module (Maquet, Solna,
      Sweden).

      NIV PS flow cycled was delivered with different ventilators equipped with a specific module
      for lueaks compesaton and pediatric /neonatal inspiratory trigger module (ServoI Maquet Solna
      Sweden; Evita VN 500 Lubeck Germany). Pediatric Interfaces includes full face masks
      Performax, in different size (neonatal and pediatric) (Respironics, Murrysville).
    
  