
    
      Baxter Canada has an expanded hemodialysis (HDx) membrane called the "Theranova", which is
      capable of removing solutes of higher molecular weight. Although this clearly has biochemical
      advantages it is not known at this time if the removal of larger middle molecules can have a
      direct and immediate effect on patients reported symptoms and quality of life. In short, do
      be people actually feel better?

      Given the way many QoL measurements fluctuate around the dialysis week, the investigators
      propose to utilize a dynamic tool. The investigators will be assessing symptom burden using
      the London Evaluation of Illness "LEVIL" an application based platform where patients
      self-report their symptoms with at least one hemodialysis treatment. Reports are generated
      immediately and in real-time, which cannot be accomplished with other symptom management
      tools. This allows the investigators to track study changes and benchmark observations to
      previously established baseline values. The investigators are excited to see if there is an
      imminent effect on how patients feel using the Theranova dialyzer.

      The study is investigator initiated and the principal investigator has secured modest funding
      from Baxter to allow support for the core study team and the introduction and maintenance of
      the LEVIL evaluation platform at other centers. Baxter have also provided some dialyzer
      support, and will work with individual centers to ensure that there is no consumable
      increment of cost associated with participation.

      The study is 54 weeks in length:

        -  LEVIL entries with at least one hemodialysis treatment each week for 54 weeks

        -  Blood sampling at 2 time points for all participants and at 3 time points for LHSC
           participants only

        -  Implementation of Theranova dialyzer from weeks 3 through 14 and weeks 23 through 46

        -  Wash out period from weeks 15 through 22 and weeks 47 through 54

        -  Time to recovery question at the first treatment of weeks 1, 14, 22, and 46 for new
           participants

        -  5-D Pruritus scale and Restless Legs Syndrome rating scale at the first treatment of
           weeks 1, 14, 22, and 46

        -  Echocardiogram prior to starting hemodialysis and at peak stress at baseline (within the
           first two weeks), with one treatment between weeks 10 to 14 which will occur mid-week,
           and with one treatment between weeks 42 to 46 which will occur mid-week (LHSC specific)

        -  CVInsight monitoring at baseline (within the first two weeks), with one treatment
           between weeks 10 to 14, and with one treatment between weeks 42 to 46 (LHSC specific)
    
  