
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) are forms of inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD) that require long-term monitoring. People with these conditions require regular and
      repeat testing, sometimes with endoscopy, to assess the state of the disease. Many centres
      worldwide now use a stool test called faecal calprotectin (FCALP) as an accurate reflection
      of endoscopic disease activity - meaning that people with IBD do not need 'routine' endoscopy
      to assess their disease. FCALP can also be used to give a prediction of what will happen to a
      person's IBD in the near future.

      As such, FCALP is an excellent and highly cost-effective test in IBD. However, uptake is
      often low (as with all stool tests) particularly because the sample needs to be taken at home
      and delivered in to the laboratory or hospital to be tested. People still therefore need to
      make an effort to submit samples and find this inconvenient. Furthermore, treatments for IBD
      are increasingly being given at home (usually self-administered injections). While beneficial
      for people with IBD, it is more difficult to keep track of such patients in the hospital
      service as they attend less regularly. A test that can be done at home, while making results
      available to the hospital team, is therefore desirable.

      New technology allows reliable testing of FCALP at home, using a smartphone app (IBDoc-TM,
      Buhlmann Laboratories) within a few minutes. The test kit is packaged with everything
      required (including gloves, sample 'capture' paper, disposal bag, etc). An instructional
      video is available within the app itself.

      Apart from testing whether patients adhere to the testing schedule, the investigators will
      also compare their experiences of the IBDoc test, health anxieties, locus of control, and
      satisfaction vs postal and traditional 'drop-off' test. Validated questionnaires will
      include: GAD7, PHQ9, IBDC, CBRQ and MHLC as well as a proprietary satisfaction questionnaire
      at the end of the study.
    
  