
    
      For purposes of analysis patients enrolled in Stage II of this study will be prospectively
      identified at initial screening as belonging to statistical Cohorts A, B, or C, which are
      based on patient status with regard to aPD1/aPDL1 therapy at study entry, (PD, SD, or
      treatment na誰ve) per section 11.5. For purposes of this study, patient status is considered
      to be the primary eligibility variable, although sub analyses will also consider histology
      and particular checkpoint blocker used when possible. Please see section 12 (Statistical
      Analysis) for further discussion.

      Week 1 Days 1, 3 and 5: Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol速) 1 mg (0. 5 ml) IntraTumoral (priming treatment
      course).

      Weeks 2-25:

        1. Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol速) 1 mg (0.5 ml) IM twice a week with a 48-72 hour interval between
           the two injections, AND either:

        2. No additional immunotherapy OR

        3. ONLY ONE of the following Anti-PD1 or anti-PDL-1 regimens will be administered, per
           manufacturer's dosing and clinical oncologist's discretion as follows: (Not to be
           Administered on the same day as Poly-ICLC [Hiltonol速])

             -  Either Nivolumab (Opdivo), OR

             -  Pembrolizumab (Keytruda), OR

             -  Atezolizumab (Tecentriq) OR

             -  Cemiplimab (Libtayo) OR

             -  Durvalumab (Imfinzi)

      NOTE: It is recognized that some patients will have already been on anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1
      at the time of study entry. Such patients will not have their checkpoint blocker therapy
      interrupted, but will be started on Poly-ICLC on week one, as above

      If well tolerated they continue at full dose of 1 mg IM twice weekly through week 25.
      Anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 per manufacturers package insert begins on week two and continues
      through week 25 or beyond per standard of care at physician's discretion. After the end of
      Poly-ICLC treatment at week 25, aPD1 or aPDL1 can be continued at the discretion of the
      patient and treating physician, per SOC, independent of this protocol.

      At week 26 study subjects will be assessed and response determined using the RECIST 1.1
      criteria. This will include measurement of accessible lesions as well as CT scan of the
      chest, abdomen and pelvis and extremities or neck to assess for response, using RECIST 1.1.
      MRI of the brain may also be obtained as part of clinical follow of their disease, if
      clinically indicated as per standard clinical protocol. Study subject's response will be
      defined as BOR (CR, PR, SD) or PD. If tumors are present and accessible, biopsies of the
      injected tumor as well as of a non-targeted/non-injected tumor will also be obtained at week
      26.

      Study subjects with CR, PR, or SD may be offered an additional treatment cycle depending on
      study subject's health status, costs and/or drug availability. At week 26 a repeat tumor
      assessment will be performed, an optional biopsy may be performed.

      Follow up Period:

      After completion of study treatment, study subjects may be contacted by telephone at least
      twice over 12 months, or longer with patient consent to inquire on their health status (e.g.,
      alive, remission, progressive disease, on new cancer treatment). Study subjects with an
      initial tumor response but then long-term recurrence during the follow up period may be
      offered additional cycles of treatment depending on the study subject's health status, costs
      and/or drug availability.
    
  