
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the objective response rates (complete response and partial response) in
           patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with liposome-encapsulated irinotecan
           hydrochloride PEP02, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil (FUPEP) Versus irinotecan
           hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil (FOLFIRI 1) or leucovorin calcium,
           fluorouracil, and irinotecan hydrochloride-modified (FOLFIRI 3-modified).

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To determine progression-free survival of these patients.

        -  To determine overall survival of these patients.

        -  To assess the quality of life of these patients.

        -  To assess the correlation of UGT1A family polymorphism and the toxicity of
           liposome-encapsulated irinotecan hydrochloride PEP02 or irinotecan hydrochloride.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified, in terms of prognosis,
      according to treatment center, prognostic score (ECOG performance status [PS] 0 and normal
      LDH value vs ECOG PS > 1 and/or LDH > 1 times upper limit of normal), and time to progression
      after first-line therapy (≥ 9 months vs < 9 months). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients are assigned to either the FOLFIRI 1 or Modified FOLFIRI 3 treatment
           groups according to the investigator's discretion in combination with bevacizumab

             -  FOLFIRI 1 in combination with bevacizumab: Patients receive bevacizumab over 30-90
                minutes,irinotecan hydrochloride over 1 hour and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours
                on day 1 and a bolus of fluorouracil followed by fluorouracil IV over 46 hours
                beginning on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity

             -  Modified FOLFIRI 3 in combination with bevacizumab: Patients receive
                bevacizumab,irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil as in
                FOLFIRI 1. Patients also receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on day 3.
                Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

        -  Arm II (FUPEP)in combination with bevacizumab: Patients receive bevacizumab over 30-90
           minutes liposome-encapsulated irinotecan hydrochloride PEP02 IV over 60-90 minutes and
           leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning
           on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacogenetic analysis of UGT1A family
      polymorphisms. Quality of life is assessed by using a generic scale EQ-5D and the QLQ-C30
      questionnaire at baseline and after courses 4 and 8.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 30 and then every 2-3
      months thereafter.
    
  