
    
      Complicated and uncomplicated appendicitis follow different epidemiological trends also
      suggesting different pathophysiology behind these two different forms of appendicitis. In
      3-10% of patients complicated acute appendicitis is enclosed by formation of a circumscribed
      periappendicular abscess. The clinically established practice of antibiotic therapy and
      drainage, if necessary, has been shown safe and effective, allowing the acute inflammatory
      process to subside in more than 90% of cases without surgery. The need of subsequent interval
      appendectomy has been questioned with appendicitis recurrence risk varying between 5-26%.

      During trial enrollment in our randomized Peri-APPAC trial, the high incidence of appendiceal
      tumors in the study population alarmed the researchers. Based on the interim analysis results
      with 17% appendiceal tumor rate in the study population, the trial was prematurely terminated
      based on ethical concerns. All the follow-up group patients were re-evaluated and surgery was
      offered and recommended to all follow-up group patients. After this assessment and additional
      appendectomies, two more tumors were diagnosed resulting in neoplasm rate of 20% in the whole
      study group all diagnosed in patients over 40 years and the neoplasm rate in patients over 40
      years was 29%.

      Based on high appendiceal tumor rate in patients over 40 years, the appendiceal neoplasm rate
      needs to be further evaluated in prospective patient cohorts undergoing interval appendectomy
      as interval appendectomy is generally well tolerated and obliterates the risk of missing a
      possible tumor. In a recent systematic review of retrospective cohort studies with 13.244
      acute appendicitis patients the overall appendiceal tumor rate was 1% after appendectomy, but
      in patients presenting with appendiceal inflammatory mass the neoplasm rate varied from 10%
      to 29%.

      This nationwide prospective multicenter cohort study is designed to assess the prevalence of
      appendiceal tumors associated with a periappendicular abscess. All of the study hospitals
      will have a common clinical protocol of recommending interval appendectomy to all patients
      presenting with a periappendicular abscess after initial conservative treatment with
      antibiotic therapy and drainage, if necessary. Considering the high rate of appendiceal
      neoplasms, all patients older than 35 years will undergo laparoscopic interval appendectomy
      at 2 to 3 months after the successful initial non-operative treatment and this is also
      recommended for the patients between 18 and 35 years of age. Asymptomatic patients under 35
      years not willing to undergo interval appendectomy, will undergo a follow-up MRI at 1 year
      after the initial non-operative treatment.
    
  