
    
      Over the past decade, the rates of HIV infection and death due to HIV/AIDS have been steadily
      increasing in China. The China Comprehensive AIDS Response (China CARES) program was
      developed in 2003 in order to help poor counties and those with severe epidemic problems
      increase public awareness and improve knowledge about epidemic diseases such as HIV.
      Currently, behavioral interventions focusing on individual skills training and self-efficacy
      building for HIV infected individuals are not included in China CARES. Fuyang, Anhui
      Province, China has a high rate of HIV infected individuals, many of whom were former plasma
      donors (FPDs) and would benefit from HIV skills training.

      In 2004, CIPRA conducted a study (CIPRA CH 002A), entitled "A Qualitative Study for the
      Development of an Intervention Among HIV-Positive Former Plasma Donors (FPDs) in Fuyang,
      Anhui Province, China," which provided insight into HIV infected individuals in Fuyang, Anhui
      Province, China. According to the results of CIRPA CH 002A, most HIV infected individuals
      described their QOL as poor. The factors affecting their poor QOL include poverty, poor
      health, stigma and discrimination. Participants in the CIPRA CH 002A study showed interest in
      learning more about HIV/AIDS disease and treatment. This study will last 18 months. HIV
      infected participants and their families will attend eight 2-hour group skills training
      sessions during Weeks 1 through 8, and booster sessions every two months during Months 3
      through 15. Popular Opinion Leaders (POL) participants will attend 4 weeks of 2-hour training
      sessions about anti-stigma and anti-discrimination, followed by support meetings every 2
      months during Months 2 through 13. Some participants will complete cross-sectional surveys
      evaluating the levels of stigma and discrimination in the community at study entry and at
      Months 6 and 12 following completion of POL training. All participants will complete
      follow-up visits at Months 6 and 12.
    
  