
    
      Background and Rationale: The development of personalized medicine in oncology has so far
      relied on the use of somatic biomarkers to inform the therapist about the choice of the
      molecule or molecules to be administered based on the genetic and molecular profile of each
      blood disease. In this project, we propose to extend the therapeutic individualization
      strategy targeting dosage domain. Today, cytarabine is one of two pillars of the treatment of
      leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) in combination with an anthracycline plus cytarabine
      ("3 + 7" therapeutic scheme) during the induction course and usually during monotherapy
      consolidation treatments. According to the treatment regimens and protocols, cytarabine is
      prescribed at a standard dose (SD = 100-200mg / m² / day), intermediate dose (ID = 1 to 1.5 g
      / 12H for all 3 days) or high dose (DH = 2 to 3 g / m² every 12H during 3 days). The choice
      between these different dose levels remains highly debated (Lowenberg et al. 2013) with a
      very narrow risk-benefit balance. Indeed, the various cooperative groups compared two dose
      regimens with factors between the minimum dose and maximum ranging from 1.7 times to 34 times
      between groups (Ex Australian arm group 1400 mg / m vs 48 000 mg / m cumulative dose
      cytarabine ). The magnitude of unmatched dose differentials illustrates the complexity of
      understanding and apprehension of this pivotal molecule for the treatment of AML. Despite the
      many studies that focused on the optimal dose of cytarabine ranging from 1400 mg / m² to 90
      000 mg / m² (German group) (including currently French Intergroup of leukemia-ALFA FILO adult
      under the BIG1 protocol), none evaluated the relevance of the a priori individual dose
      adjustment depending on the pharmacogenetic patient data. In current practice, the doses are
      adapted a posteriori, and reduced empirically following the observed toxicity of occurrence
      (20% of patients) (Lowenberg et al. 2013). This adaptation a posteriori is a loss of
      opportunity for the patient. Similarly, under dosed patients for fear of toxicity is also
      another lost chance. Our hypothesis is that the optimal cytarabine dose depends not only on
      the characteristics of the patient's pathology (risk groups including cytogenetic data,
      biology, molecular), but also the patient's individual characteristics (genetic status of
      metabolic enzymes and carriers). A mathematical model of PK / PD kind could, based on early
      observations of circulating levels, be able to quickly predict the pharmacodynamic effect in
      each patient, allowing a rapid individualization of dosages. Such a tool could enable, in
      future, to propose dose adjustments early after initiation of treatment before the onset of
      toxicity, predicting that exposure levels of cytarabine correlate with the patient's clinical
      evolution.
    
  