
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the immunogenicity of vaccine therapy comprising synthetic ovarian
           cancer-associated peptides administered with a synthetic tetanus toxoid helper peptide
           emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 before or after paclitaxel and carboplatin in patients
           with stage III-IV ovarian epithelial, primary peritoneal cavity, or fallopian tube
           cancer undergoing optimal cytoreductive surgery.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

        -  Group 1:

             -  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy:Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and
                carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to
                4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
                then proceed to surgical debulking.

             -  Surgical debulking: Patients undergo primary optimal cytoreductive surgery.

             -  Vaccine therapy: Within 14 days after surgery, patients receive vaccine therapy
                comprising synthetic ovarian cancer-associated peptides, MAGE-A1:161-169,
                FBP:1901-199, Her-2/neu:369-377, MAGE-A1:96-104, and Her-2/neu:754-762, and tetanus
                toxoid helper peptide emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 intradermally and
                subcutaneously on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 14 weeks for 2
                courses.

             -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive 4 courses of paclitaxel and carboplatin as
                in neoadjuvant chemotherapy after completion of course 1 of vaccine therapy.

        -  Group 2:

             -  Surgical debulking: Patients undergo up-front optimal cytoreductive surgery.
                Patients with non-optimal primary debulking may undergo interval debulking surgery
                within 6 weeks after completing course 4 of adjuvant chemotherapy. If interval
                debulking surgery is performed, tumor and/or lymph node tissue is collected.

             -  Vaccine therapy: Patients receive 2 courses of vaccine therapy as in group 1.

             -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in group 1,
                neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses.

      Patients undergo periodic blood and tumor tissue collection during study for correlative
      immunological analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients with progressive disease are followed at 30
      days and then every six months thereafter. All other patients are followed every 3 months for
      36 months until disease progression or until another therapy is initiated, and then every six
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  