
    
      Questionnaires:

      You will complete 2 questionnaires that will ask you questions about your quality of life,
      urinary, bowel, sexual function, and any side effects that you may be having. You will be
      asked about any medications you may be taking and any other medical conditions you may have.
      The questionnaires will take about 20 minutes to complete. You may complete the
      questionnaires at the clinic, have them mailed to you (return postage will be included), or
      be asked the questions over the phone.

      If you are on active surveillance (checking for prostate cancer by routine blood draws and
      biopsy, without active treatment), you will fill out the questionnaires on the same schedule
      as those receiving treatment that does not involve hormones.

      If you are receiving therapy that does not involve hormones, you will complete the
      questionnaires before you receive treatment.

      If you are receiving hormone therapy, you will complete the questionnaires before beginning
      the hormone therapy and then again within 3 weeks before starting radiation.

      For all participants, at 3 and 6 months after the treatment is completed, you will complete
      the questionnaires again. Starting 6 months after you finish treatment, you will complete the
      questionnaires every 6 months for 2 years. Starting 2 years after treatment, you will
      complete the questionnaires once a year for 3 years.

      Length of Study:

      All participants will be considered off-study once they have completed the last
      questionnaires. You will be taken off study early if you receive a second treatment for
      prostate cancer or if you decide to have treatment while on active surveillance.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 1448 patients will be enrolled in this study. All
      will be enrolled at MD Anderson, MD Anderson Albuquerque, and MD Anderson Cooper.
    
  