
    
      This research study involves two study visits at CHOP, each around 6 to 8 hours long. The
      time the visit takes can depend on how long it takes to complete the study procedures listed.
      This can be different from person to person. The length of time between Visit #1 and Visit #2
      will be between 2 weeks and 3 months. Overall study participation will not exceed 6 months.

      The study involves the following tests and procedures. These happen at each of the two
      visits:

        -  Interviews: A team member will take the participant's medical history, along with a
           listing of any medications s/he is taking. Throughout the study the participant will be
           asked to report if s/he thinks that anything bad has happened as a result of the study.

        -  3-day diet record: The investigator will collect the record the participant made of
           everything s/he ate for the 3 days before the study visit.

        -  Physical Examination: The investigators will measure the participant's weight, height,
           blood pressure, heart rate and respiratory rate, and waist circumference. If the
           participant is under age 21 years, a pediatric endocrinologist will check how far s/he
           is along in puberty. For both boys and girls, pubic hair growth will be checked. For
           girls, breast development will be checked. For boys, testicular development will be
           checked. This examination will take approximately 2 minutes and will be done in a
           private room.

        -  Pregnancy Test (female subjects): If a female participant is eleven years old or older
           and/or has already started having periods, she will be asked to take a pregnancy test
           before starting this study.

        -  Questionnaires: Investigators will ask the participant to fill out questionnaires on
           his/her physical function and well-being. These are designed for people with
           mitochondrial disease (or for parents of children with mitochondrial disease). They
           should take around 20 minutes.

        -  Pre-Test Fast: The participant will not be able to eat or drink anything except plain,
           unflavored water (i.e., you will "fast") for at least 4 hours before the mixed-meal
           tolerance test starts. S/he will get the test meal at that time. S/he will receive a
           recommendation when the visit is scheduled when to begin fasting. This recommendation is
           designed for no more than 10 hours of fasting, or the participant's longest usual
           overnight fast, whichever is shorter.

        -  Mixed Meal Tolerance Test (MMTT): The test includes placement of an intravenous (IV)
           line in the participant's arm/hand to make taking the blood samples easier. With the IV
           in place, the participant will not need to be stuck again for any further blood draws,
           unless the IV stops working. If s/he prefers, a numbing cream can be placed on your skin
           for about 45 minutes before this test to numb the area. Once the IV is in place, the
           participant will receive a test "shake". S/he will have about 30 minutes to finish the
           shake. Over the next 4 hours, blood will be drawn every 30 minutes from the IV line. The
           total amount of blood drawn for the MMTT will be a little less than 2 tablespoons.

        -  Cognitive Testing: Two times during the MMTT participants will be asked to perform some
           testing on a computer (for example, pressing a button as soon as you see a symbol
           appear). Each test will take around 14 minutes and tests things like attention and
           reaction time. We will show you how these tests work before the MMTT.

        -  Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) Scan: A special x-ray of the body called a DXA
           scan will be done to measure the amount of fat and lean (non-fat) tissue in the
           participant's body. During the DXA scan, the participant will be asked to lie flat on
           your back on a table as the scanning machine moves above the participant's body. The DXA
           scan is like an X-ray, and takes about 5-10 minutes. This test is painless and does not
           involve any needles.
    
  