
    
      According to the National Cancer Institute (NCI), there are over 11 million cancer survivors
      in the United States. Among survivors, breast cancer (BC) is the most common, with BC
      survivors accounting for 23% (approximately 2.5 million). A 2006 report by the Institute of
      Medicine (IOM), From Cancer Patient to Cancer Survivor: Lost in Transition, provided a
      comprehensive assessment of the health needs of cancer survivors including a recommendation
      for the implementation of treatment summaries and survivorship care plans (TSSPs) to promote
      coordinated care for cancer survivors and to address the immediate post-treatment and
      long-term effects of cancer treatment including the ongoing psychosocial burden of a cancer
      diagnosis, as well as the potential for later sequelae of treatment. Because of the ever
      increasing number of BC survivors, the fact that 98% of patients with local stage and 84% of
      patients with regional stage survive for at least 5 years after diagnosis, and the multimodal
      nature of BC treatment, providing a mechanism that summarizes, monitors and coordinates BC
      follow-up care and treatment is essential. The use of TSSPs has also been strongly advocated
      by the American Society of Clinical Oncology's (ASCO) - Quality Oncology Practice Initiative
      and TSSPs have been included in the recently introduced Comprehensive Cancer Improvement Act
      of 2009 (H.R. 1844). Further, it is apparent that patients themselves strongly desire written
      follow-up plans after treatment is ended. The IOM recommended that research should be
      undertaken to evaluate the impact and costs of such plans. To our knowledge, however, no
      randomized controlled trials of TSSPs or evaluations of their cost-effectiveness have been
      conducted in a low-income, medically underserved population.

      In the proposed study, we will recruit 500 low income, medically underserved women from two
      county public hospitals, Los Angeles County + University of Southern California Medical
      Center (LAC+USC Medical Center) and Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, 10-24 months after breast
      cancer diagnosis for participation in a randomized control trial (RCT) designed to test the
      efficacy of TSSPs. The intervention will be delivered after collection of pre-intervention
      (baseline) measures. We will consent and randomize these women into one of two groups: 1) a
      control condition of usual medical care and 2) an experimental condition of usual medical
      care + tailored materials which includes the TSSP + 1 face-to-face nurse counseling session,
      with all cancer specialist and primary care physicians of record also receiving the TSSP and
      a cover letter suggesting how it is to be clinically utilized. The study will provide a
      unique opportunity to assess the feasibility and clinical utility of a tailored treatment
      summary and survivorship care plan in a vulnerable population of BC survivors known to be at
      high risk for poorer long-term outcomes, including in mental health, quality of life, BC
      recurrence and mortality, and will therefore allow us to obtain the greatest possible effect
      size of such an intervention.

      We will conduct a randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of Treatment Summaries and
      Survivorship Care Plans and accompanying nurse counseling. The TSSP will consist of 4
      sections: 1) the breast cancer treatment summary and 2) a cognitively appropriate
      survivorship care plan including recommendations for follow-up breast cancer care for both
      the patient and the physician, 3) a special section targeted towards the physician, and 4) a
      list of local and national patient resources.

      Those women who consent to participate will have pre-intervention measures collected (i.e.,
      the baseline interview) and will be randomized to either the usual care condition or the
      experimental condition. Individuals in the experimental group will participate in a
      face-to-face session with a trained, bilingual nurse to review the contents of the TSSP.
      Follow-up measures on all participants will be collected at 12-months after delivery of the
      intervention. We will evaluate receipt of recommended breast cancer survivorship care,
      patient self-efficacy and satisfaction with communication with providers, health related
      quality of life, and cost-effectiveness of the intervention. In addition, all participants in
      the control group will receive a written copy of their individualized TSSP at the completion
      of the study.
    
  