
    
      Trial design:

      This study is a Canadian multicentre randomized, double-blind placebo controlled trial. We
      will evaluate whether prophylactic citalopram compared to symptomatic treatment of depression
      can significantly increase the amount of HCV therapy received in co-infected patients during
      the first 24 weeks. Post study follow-up will extend until 6 months after cessation of HCV
      therapy (up to 72 weeks) to capture information on SVR (sustained virologic response) for
      HCV. 76 patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to citalopram or placebo. Patients will be
      stratified by study centre and HCV genotype. Citalopram (or placebo) will begin 3 weeks
      before HCV treatment at an initial dose of 10 mg per day then be increased to 20 mg per day
      after one week and continued throughout treatment with PEG-IFN/ribavirin (up to 48 weeks) and
      then tapered to discontinuation at completion of HCV therapy. The management of depression
      emerging in study participants is mandated in the protocol to ensure that the original
      treatment assignments remain blinded while allowing for all subjects to remain in the study
      and mimics what would take place in clinical practice.

      Analysis:

      The analyses will follow the intention-to-treat approach. Random regression modelling will be
      employed to analyse longitudinal data on adherence to prescribed PEG-IFN and ribavirin dosage
      at weeks 12 and 24. Survival analyses will be used to compare the two treatment groups with
      respect to the time to the development of depressions.

      Implications:

      Prophylactic antidepressants may not only prevent overt depression but may also diminish the
      development of sub-clinical depressed mood. Effective prevention of a broad range of
      neuropsychiatric symptoms by use of citalopram has the potential to diminish morbidity
      associated with PEG-IFN treatment and consequently allow a greater number of patients to
      complete full therapy. In addition, such an approach may help patients remain adherent to
      their HIV therapy during the course of HCV treatment which could have long-term personal and
      public health implications by preventing the emergence of HIV resistance. Furthermore, if
      shown to be an effective strategy for preventing neuropsychiatric symptoms, treatment for HCV
      may become more accessible to the large number of patients who may not have ready access to
      the frequent and intensive psychiatric monitoring, necessary for the early detection and
      treatment of depression that manifests on PEG-IFN.
    
  