
    
      With an occurrence of up to 30%, hyponatremia, defined as a serum sodium concentration of
      less than 135 mmol/L, is the most commonly encountered electrolyte disorder in hospitalized
      patients today. The highest incidence of hyponatremia is found in the elderly.

      Retrospective analyses clearly show an association between hyponatremia and mortality as well
      as morbidity and this association is not confined only to severely decreased sodium levels.
      Hyponatremia can be an acute and life-threatening condition, which is usually reflected by
      severe signs and symptoms, e.g. coma or seizures,but more often it is of chronic nature, and
      symptoms may be subtle or even apparently absent due to cerebral adaptation processes. Signs
      and symptoms include, among others, nausea, drowsiness, cognitive impairment, memory
      deficits, depression, muscle cramps, or gait instability. However, our knowledge of the
      highly diverse clinical picture of hyponatremia stems from anecdotic reports and experiments
      that were performed by the investigators on themselves in the 1930ies. Thus, no accurate and
      thorough description of the symptomatology of hyponatremiain disease has been carried out so
      far, except maybe for the extreme conditions, i.e. in patients suffering from seizures or
      coma. This is why especially patients with chronic mild-to-moderate hyponatremia (sometimes
      defined as a sodium concentration > 125 mmol/L) who may well have subtle or unspecific
      symptoms are often perceived as being asymptomatic. Recent investigations have demonstrated
      that such patients have a significantly increased risk for falls and bone fractures and
      reduced cognitive capacities. Moreover, anecdotic reports have shown that some patients that
      were believed to suffer from depression or dementia improved markedly after correction of
      their concomitanthyponatremia. There is also mounting evidence that hyponatremia induces
      osteoporosis which adds to the risk of bone fractures. Furthermore, in the SALT-trials, the
      mental component of the SF-12 questionnaire (Short Form-12) improved significantly after
      hyponatremia had been corrected. Interestingly, the mean sodium concentration prior to
      treatment was 129 mmol/L indicating mild or moderate hyponatremia. Given the high prevalence
      of mild-to-moderate hyponatremiain the elderly, unspecific symptoms like mood instability,
      cognitive deficits or others, thatare often attributed to old age could simply be a
      consequence of their low sodium level.

      To this end, it might well be that by treating hyponatremia the morbidity/mortality in this
      population could be reduced and quality of life improved. In light of the growing
      medico-economic challenges we are facing secondary to the steadily increasing life expectancy
      and the demographic evolution in the western world and the medical problems that come along
      with this development the influence of successful correction of hyponatremia on mental and
      physical health should be evaluated. To our knowledge this has not been investigated so far.

      The syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) accounts for more than a third of all
      cases of hyponatremia and probably is by far the most frequent aetiology of chronic mild to
      moderate hyponatremia. While newly developed SIADH is often induced by malignancies,
      pulmonary or cerebral disease in the general population, longstanding chronic hyponatremia in
      elderly is usually due to idiopathic or drug-associated SIADH. Apart from SIADH, hypovolemia
      or reduction of the effective arterial blood volume, e.g. in cardiac failure or liver
      cirrhosis, are common causes of hyponatremia. Although hyponatremia might have an impact on
      the mental and physical status as well as on the patient's prognosis regardless of the
      underlying cause, most aetiologies except for SIADH might be confounding factors, since they
      often induce a "hyponatremia-like" clinical picture by themselves, e.g. hepatic
      encephalopathy in liver disease etc. Another possible confounder may be hemoglobin. Recent
      work shows that hyponatremia is associated with anaemia, which is a highly prevalent symptom
      in elderly patients and an acknowledged risk factor for poor outcome in this population. The
      underlying pathogenesis of this association is still unknown. Regarding the fact that anaemia
      and hyponatremia are both risk factors for increased morbidity and mortality in elderly
      patients that are potentially curable, analysis of influence on the multidimensional
      geriatric assessment (MGA) before and after correction is challenging. To our knowledge,
      these possible confounders have not been accounted for in the existing literature. Moreover,
      no accurate evaluation of the origin of hyponatremia has been reported.
    
  