
    
      Obese children and adults display lower spontaneous and stimulated growth hormone (GH)
      secretion. It is presumed that dysregulation of some of the factors normally involved in
      controlling GH secretion underlies the hyposomatotropinemia of obesity, given that GH
      production usually normalizes after weight loss. Free fatty acids (FFA) are one factor
      thought to be involved in regulation of GH secretion. Niacin is a nicotinic acid derivative
      that inhibits lipolysis and lowers circulating FFA concentrations. Nicotinic acid derivatives
      have been used in several adult studies examining GH secretion. Specifically in obese adults,
      inhibition of lipolysis has been found to increase spontaneous and stimulated GH production,
      presumably due to direct effects of FFA on hypothalamic GH-regulating neurons. Thus far no
      pediatric studies have examined the effects of niacin on GH secretion, and there is only one
      small pediatric study of normal weight prepubertal children growing at the 5th-10th
      percentile in height has tested the effects of lipolytic inhibition by acipimox (a related
      medication also derived from nicotinic acid) on GH secretion. There are no data in obese
      children demonstrating the effects of inhibition of lipolysis on GH secretion.

      We propose to investigate one of the mechanisms through which high adiposity alters GH
      secretion in children by testing the effects of inhibiting lipolysis. First we will conduct
      dose establishing studies to determine the appropriate dose of niacin needed to suppress FFA
      concentrations in children. We will then conduct the main study, designed as a pilot
      randomized, double-blind placebo controlled trial of niacin administration, to assess its
      effects on stimulated GH secretion. We hypothesize that in overweight children niacin will
      lead to a fall in free fatty acid concentrations and consequently a rise in stimulated GH
      secretion. We further hypothesize that the overweight subjects will demonstrate stimulated GH
      secretion profiles with niacin similar to those of control subjects who receive placebo. We
      expect this pilot study may help improve how diagnostic testing is carried out for growth
      hormone deficiency in children.
    
  