
    
      People with physical disabilities (mobility impairments) who use assistance to ambulate have
      higher smoking rates (32.5%) when compared to people who have a disability and do not need
      assistance (23%) and when compared to people who are not disabled (19.8%; Brawarsky et al.
      2002). The aims of the current study are to: 1) develop a series of theory-based Intervention
      DVDs focused on motivating smoking cessation among people with mobility impairments (i.e.,
      chronically use some type of assistance to walk such as walker, cane, wheelchair, braces,
      etc) and 2) test the efficacy of the Intervention DVDs versus Print-Based Standard Care among
      560 smokers with mobility impairments in a randomized trial. The materials in both groups
      will be mailed on a monthly basis for four months, and are organized in separate sections
      according to readiness to quit. Participants in both groups will receive a) nicotine patches
      at no cost if they are ready to quit and b) brief phone calls (~5 minutes) between mailings
      to assess and encourage viewing the materials. We hypothesize that smokers who are randomized
      to receive the Intervention DVDs will be significantly more likely to achieve 7-day and
      30-day point-prevalence abstinence at 1 and 6 month follow-ups vs. those who receive
      Print-Based Standard Care. The Intervention DVDs will be based on Behavioral Activation
      Theory, and address specific barriers to quitting in this population (increased stress,
      decreased positive affect, increased depressed mood, activity restriction, and
      self-efficacy). We hypothesize that the intervention will impact these mediators directly, as
      well as indirectly through Behavioral Activation (goal setting and pleasant activities). If
      effective, our DVD intervention could have a high level of public health and clinical
      significance, as it could be easily disseminated at low cost through national
      disability-related organizations, networks of independent living centers, or physician
      offices. It will also substantially improve the health and quality of life for people with
      physical disabilities.
    
  