
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival (defined as complete response [CR]+partial
      response [PR]+stable disease [SD]) assessed at 12 weeks for subjects in Cohort 1
      (Leiomyosarcoma Arm) treated with cabozantinib and temozolomide as defined by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (defined as CR+PR) for subjects in Cohort 1 treated
      with a combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

      II. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CR+PR+SD) for subjects in Cohort 1 treated with a
      combination of cabozantinib and temozolomide.

      III. To evaluate the median progression free rate for subjects with combination of
      cabozantinib and temozolomide.

      IV. To evaluate overall survival for subjects in Cohort 1 treated with a combination of
      cabozantinib and temozolomide.

      V. To assess safety and tolerability for subjects treated with a combination of cabozantinib
      and temozolomide.

      VI. To determine the overall response rate (defined as CR+PR) in Cohort 2 (other soft tissue
      sarcomas).

      VII. To assess Quality of Life (QoL) and subject-reported outcomes as measured by the
      European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) and the EuroQoL-Group Health Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the correlation of progression free rate (PFR) and overall survival (OS) to
      levels of sVEGFR2, PIGF, VEGF, HGF, sMET, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, and soluble AXL.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and temozolomide PO QD
      on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients with progressive disease (PD) are followed up
      every 6 months for up to 2 years and patients without PD are followed up every 6 months for
      up to 5 years.
    
  