
    
      Background information:

      Stent deployment for the treatment of coronary artery stenoses has evolved as the standard
      treatment in nearly all types of coronary lesions over the past two decades.The initial
      recurrence rate of bare stents in the range of 20 30 % in low risk stenoses has been further
      reduced by devices with passive coatings such as silicon carbide, heparin, phosphorylcholine,
      and carbon. The significant decline of in-stent restenoses (= ISR) to the order of 12 % was
      achieved by active coatings like the cell-cycle inhibitor sirolimus and to about 13.7 % by
      the cytotoxic paclitaxel. Taken into account the more than one million annual stent
      procedures performed worldwide even low recurrence rates will leave some hundred thousand
      repeat procedures annually. In the treatment of in-stent restenoses, however, approaches such
      as stand alone angioplasty with conventional balloons, the repeat use of bare stents, cutting
      balloon angioplasty, rotablation, and atherectomy have revealed unsatisfactory and often
      conflicting results. For brachytherapy the late loss was reported in the range from 0.22 +/-
      0.84 mm to 0.73 +/- 0.79mm. Due to its disadvantages such as delayed endothelialization with
      ensuing late thrombosis cumulating in a 12-months cardiac event rate of up to 30% rising to
      50% after five years, its decrease of benefit over time, and the cumbersome logistics at the
      sites and in the labs, brachytherapy is not considered as a valid approach of the future.
      Recently, the deployment of drug eluting stents into a restenotic device was associated with
      restenosis rates in the range from 4% to 30% suggesting some advantage over the
      aforementioned approaches. The wide range of the results and some late cardiac events still
      leave room for alternative methods such as the Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA balloon catheter.

      Study Rationale The principle of the Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA balloon catheter is based on the
      antiproliferative mode of action of the compound, the latter being homogenously distributed
      along the entire length of the balloon and, hence, the vessel segment to be treated. This
      advantage is in particular relevant in comparison to drug eluting stents as are the lack of
      chronic mechanical alterations of the artery, the ease of access to the lesion, the obviation
      of adding another layer of metal to the lesion, and the presumably lower cost of the
      procedure. Data on the use of the Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA balloon catheter on the treatment
      of in-stent restenoses, however, are scant. In the animal model and according to unpublished
      results in humans, the proliferation induced by a Paclitaxel-eluting balloon catheter was
      significantly less compared to an uncoated balloon and to the Sirolimus-eluting Cypher™
      stent.Therefore, it is prudent to compare the direct arterial application of Paclitaxel by
      means of the Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA balloon catheter versus the Paclitaxel-eluting
      Taxus™-stent as percutaneous transluminal treatment options of in-stent restenosis in human
      coronary arteries in a prospective randomized pilot study.
    
  