
    
      Title:

      Assessment of Antimicrobial Efficacy of Nano Chitosan, Chlorhexidine, Chlorhexidine/ Nano
      Chitosan Combination versus Sodium Hypochlorite Irrigation in Patients with Necrotic
      Mandibular Posterior Teeth: A Randomized Clinical Trial

      Introduction

      • Background

      Bacteria play a major role in the pathogenesis of apical periodontitis; therefore, success of
      endodontic treatment is dependent on its complete eradication before obturation1.

      It has been established that no instrumentation technique can sufficiently eradicate bacteria
      from the root canal system without proper irrigation. the success rate of endodontic
      treatment was claimed to be approximately 10-15% lower for teeth which yield a positive
      culture before obturation than for teeth which yield a negative culture1.

      A verity of irrigating solutions has been introduced and investigated for proper disinfection
      during endodontic treatment of which sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) was considered the most
      popular of all available solutions for its superior antimicrobial effects and tissue
      dissolving abilities2.

      The inability of NaOCl to remove smear layer advocated the use of a chelating agent like EDTA
      or Citric acid for removal of smear layer after chemo-mechanical preparation3. Yet this
      wasn't the only downside to the use of NaOCl as the main irrigant, toxicity and irritation to
      the periapical tissues, burning of the surrounding oral tissues and the weakening effect on
      dentin flexural strength are also important disadvantages of NaOCl4,5.

      Chlorhexidine (CHX), is another popular irrigant which has a broad-spectrum antimicrobial
      activity plus substantivity, yet it has no tissue dissolving abilities of any kind6. Several
      studies compared the antimicrobial activity of NaOCl and CHX, some studies showed CHX to be
      superior to NaOCl7 other studies concluded that it had no added effect to those of NaOCl and
      that hypochlorite more often achieved negative cultures than CHX8 and several studies proved
      them both to be similarly effective9.

      A wide variety of natural solutions used for irrigation has emerged in order to overcome the
      downsides of NaOCl including Chitosan nanoparticles. Chitosan nanoparticles are known to have
      a good antimicrobial activity as well as a chelating effect which will allow for eradication
      of bacteria and removal of smear layer in the same time10.

      • Rationale A. The intervention benefits and databases search results Sodium hypochlorite
      (NaOCl); the gold standard for irrigation has many disadvantages including irritation of the
      periapical tissues and burning of surrounding tissues4,5. Therefore, the present study aims
      to explore new irrigating solutions probably more effective and less irritating to the
      periapical tissues than NaOCl.

      Recent studies have shed the light on a wide range of natural substances like Chitosan,
      Propolis, and other herbal solutions that are claimed to be as effective against bacteria as
      NaOCl and less toxic and less irritant4,and also introduced nanoparticles with their known
      antimicrobial capabilities as endodontic irrigants10,15.

      Besides its antimicrobial activity, Chitosan nanoparticles showed promising chelating
      abilities; Porchena et al suggested that CNPs irrigation was superior to NaOCl in that as
      well as inhibiting bacterial growth it also can remove the smear layer effectively10.

      An in vitro study in 2017 claimed that the combination of 2% Chlorhexidine and 2% Chitosan is
      as effective as NaOCl against E. Faecalis in biofilms5.

      B. The benefits of this study to the population and clinicians It is well established that
      the most probable cause failure of endodontic treatment is the presence of a persisting
      infection. Therefore, it is important that chemo-mechanical canal preparation be directed
      towards complete eradication of all bacteria from the root canal system so that the best
      possible prognosis can be achieved in endodontic treatment.

      Natural alternatives to sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) can provide as efficient disinfection of
      the root canal system without the adverse effects of NaOCl on surrounding oral and periapical
      tissues. This may allow endodontists to perform an efficient and comfortable root canal
      treatments increasing the patients' confidence and creating a more positive attitude towards
      the dental profession.

      Objective of the present study

      The Aim of the current study is to compare the antimicrobial effects of Nano chitosan,
      Chlorhexidine and Chlorhexidine/ Nano Chitosan combination to sodium hypochlorite in patients
      with necrotic mandibular posterior teeth

      PICO Format

        -  P: population Patients diagnosed with necrotic mandibular posteriors.

        -  I: intervention I1: Irrigation with nano chitosan I2: Irrigation with chlorhexidine I3:
           Irrigation with Chlorhexidine/ nano Chitosan combination

        -  C: control Irrigation with sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl)

        -  O: outcome

      Primary Outcome

      Antibacterial efficacy: will be assessed by counting the number of colony forming units (CFU)
      after cultivating the collected samples before and after irrigation (S1 and S2) for each
      patient.

      Outcome Tool Unit Time antibacterial efficacy Number of CFUs Numerical data Samples collected
      before and after preparation and transferred to the laboratory for immediate cultivation.

      Secondary outcome Postoperative pain: will be recorded on a visual analogue scale (VAS), pain
      intensity will be recorded preoperatively and postoperatively after 6, 12, 24,48, 72 hours
      and 7 days. The VAS consists of a10-cm line anchored by two extremes "No pain" and "pain as
      bad as could be", patient will be asked to choose the mark that represent their level of
      pain. Pain level will be assigned to one of 4 categorical scores: 1, None (0); 2, Mild (1-3);
      3, Moderate (4-6); 4, Severe (7-10).

      Outcome Tool Unit Time Postoperative pain Visual analogue scale VAS Categorial data
      Immediately after treatment and Up to 7 days after endodontic treatment

      Research Question:

      In necrotic mandibular posterior teeth, would irrigating the canals using either nano
      chitosan, chlorhexidine or a combination of nano chitosan and chlorhexidine versus sodium
      hypochlorite result in better canal disinfection and less postoperative pain?
    
  