
    
      The rotator cuff tear is one of the most frequent pathologies in the shoulder joint. When
      there are many symptoms these breaks are repaired surgically. The success rate of healing of
      these injuries is between 30% and 80%. In two recent studies conducted at two of the centers
      participating in this trial, the success rate of repair was 75% (unpublished data) and 70%
      respectively.

      The use of high porosity resorbable bovine collagen meshes as bioinductive scaffolds for cuff
      repair seems to be a valid alternative when trying to improve the success rate in the healing
      of rotator cuff injuries.

      REGENETEN Bioinductive Implant (a high porosity reconstituted type I collagen mesh of bovine
      origin) is applied to the repaired tendon. In a pilot study of 9 subjects with full thickness
      supraspinatus ruptures who underwent tendon repair and subsequently had the implant
      associated with the rupture, a significant clinical improvement was observed after one year
      and was observed on magnetic resonance imaging ( RM) 100% healing of breaks. In a study of 33
      subjects with partial thickness tears treated with the implant alone, improvement in MRI
      characteristics of the tendon was observed in 31 cases. There is a study that performs a
      histological analysis of samples obtained in 7 subjects in whom the implant was used. No
      evidence of foreign body reaction or inflammatory reaction was observed. In none of the three
      studies where said implant was used in humans were any complications or adverse effects
      related to the use of said implant observed.

      The objective of the study is to evaluate the effect that the addition of REGENETEN bovine
      collagen mesh has on tendon repair on MRI performed one year after surgery.

      The study does not in itself pose a greater risk than the usual practice for the patient,
      since in these subjects where the implant could be used as a supplement to the repair, having
      already obtained the CE marking.
    
  