
    
      The pain of childbirth is the most severe pain any women can endure in their life time.
      Painful uterine contractions lead to maternal hyperventilation and increased catecholamine
      concentrations resulting im maternal and fetal hypoxemia.

      Labour pain when unrelieved can have adverse effect on the course of labour as well as on the
      fetal wellbeing. An effective labour analgesia lead to better fetal and maternal outcome.

      Although the gold standard in labour analgesia is utilization of epidural services which are
      widely used to provide pain-free labour in many parts of the world and and have the advantage
      of providing flexibility to meet the needs of each patient . Epidurals have long been
      associated with increased oxytocin use, increased fetal malposition, increased rates of
      instrumental and cesarian delivery, and longer labour .

      The use of single-shot intrathecal low dose found to be effective . The advantages of this
      form of technique include the rapidity of onset and reliability, with minimal hemodynamic
      changes and motor block. Spinal block is cheaper as well as less technically challenging when
      compared to epidural and combined spinal epidural block. Intrathecal analgesia alone is
      useful when duration of labour can be reasonably estimated. Opioid combined with a small dose
      of local anesthetic provides rapid analgesia and dissipates when no longer needed.

      Bupivacaine because of its least placental transfer, due to high protein binding and minimal
      motor block compared to sensory block in lower doses, has become the popular choice for labor
      analgesia. Addition of neuraxial lipid soluble opioids permitted reduction in the dose while
      maintaining effective analgesia and minimizing potential adverse effects on the progress of
      labor and lower extremity motor block .

      Levobupivacaine is the S (-) enantiomer of racemic bupivacaine. Previous studies have shown
      that it exhibits a clinical profile similar to bupivacaine with the added advantage of less
      motor impairment .
    
  