
    
      This study is significant because UI prevalence is 34% overall among US women, nearly half of
      whom consider their incontinence to be moderately to extremely bothersome. UI is 2.0 to 2.6
      fold greater in women after pregnancy and childbirth as compared to their never pregnant
      counterparts, with the incidence increasing after each child. UI impact increases as women
      age extending into middle and later life. The financial cost of UI in the United States
      exceeds $19 billion per year . Other costs are identified in the Healthy People 2010 report
      22 and include: 1) decreased activity/ fitness, which can be seriously affected because women
      who are concerned about accidental leakage markedly curtail physical activity and 2)
      increased depression, which has been linked to UI in women. Women are at least twice as
      likely as men to have UI; pregnancy and childbirth are major explanatory factors. In
      perimenopausal women, prevalence of any UI was 57% and of moderate to severe UI was 25%;
      after controlling for age, race/ethnicity, menopausal status and body mass index, parity
      persisted as a significant predictor of UI with an OR of 1.62 (CI 1.31, 2.01).

      Noninvasive interventions during the period of childbearing are of particular interest for UI
      prevention in women. Two self-management practices recommended for the initial treatment of
      UI are: Pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT), defined by the International Continence Society
      as repetitive selective voluntary contraction and relaxation of specific pelvic floor
      muscles, and bladder training (BT), defined as a program of scheduled voiding with gradually
      progressive voiding intervals. The Knack Maneuver (a preemptive pelvic floor muscle
      contraction to decrease stress UI and/or suppress urge UI) has demonstrated efficacy in older
      women diagnosed with UI. In childbearing women, only PFMT has been tested with a rigorous RCT
      design. We taught PFMT, the Knack, and BT as a combined strategy to older women and found a
      two-fold prevention effect. The proposed project is innovative because it will be the first
      to our knowledge to test the preventive capacity of an intervention in childbearing women
      that combines PFMT, the Knack, and BT. This project is also innovative because it will be
      conducted with a diverse sample of primiparous/multiparous women, using a 3-year follow-up
      period. Because PFMT is the only self-management strategy that is currently recommended
      practice for maternity patients, we will use PFMT adherence in comparisons between the
      treatment and control conditions

      Recruitment and Informed Consent:

      Fliers specifying eligibility criteria and benefits of research participation will be
      prominently displayed in the waiting areas and in the women's bathrooms of the respective
      clinical sites. Potential participants will be invited to speak with a designated site-based
      contact re: what participation in the study would entail. This individual will answer initial
      questions, review written material that describes study participation, conduct verbal
      screening, and obtain informed consent from eligible individuals. Eligible participants will
      be scheduled for a clinic visit at the respective site for a clinic visit to obtain clinical
      verification of no objective incontinence (negative standing stress test) and evidence of
      ability to contract the pelvic floor correctly (digital measure). Following determination of
      eligibility, participants will be randomized into control (routine care) or treatment
      (scheduled for Bladder Health class) condition.
    
  