
    
      Objectives:

        -  Primary: The successful administration of simulated naloxone. A successful
           administration will be defined as administration of the simulated naloxone to the
           mannequin head or simulated flesh pad within 10 minutes and without any critical errors
           (defined below).

        -  Secondary: Total time required to successfully administer the simulated naloxone.

      Design: Single site, open-label, randomized usability assessment of intramuscular,
      intranasal, and nasal spray administration of simulated naloxone. A convenience sample of
      participants will consent to volunteer in the study at a public venue. Participants will
      provide verbal consent and will be randomly assigned a simulated naloxone kit containing
      either intramuscular, intranasal, or nasal spray administration materials. Participants will
      be shown an instructional video demonstrating how to appropriately assemble and administer
      the simulated naloxone kit they were randomly assigned. Once the video is complete the
      individual will enter a use scenario station where they will be asked to assemble and
      administer the simulated naloxone kit to a mannequin (intranasal and nasal spray) or
      simulated flesh pad (intramuscular). The participant will be instructed to start and will be
      timed until the simulated naloxone has been successfully administered or 10 minutes has
      elapsed. The participant will be observed by one trained investigator who will assess for
      successful administration of the simulated naloxone and critical errors. The environment will
      contain distractors (radio playing) and items that will simulate a community based dwelling
      (table, chairs, and an inflatable mattress). The mannequin and simulated flesh pad will be
      located on the mattress. Once the participant has successfully administered simulated
      naloxone or 10 minutes elapses the timer will be stopped. Successful administration of
      simulated naloxone will be defined as administration of the agent without any critical errors
      occurring (defined below). Data collected will include demographics (defined below),
      successful administration of simulated naloxone, and time to successful administration of
      simulated naloxone.

      Statistical Methods: All data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics software.
      Demographics data will be analyzed using descriptive statistics for continuous measures and
      percentages for categorical measures. The successful administration of naloxone will be
      compared between groups using the Chi-square test and a significant difference will be
      defined as a p-value of less than 0.05 for the result. The time to administration between
      groups will be assessed using a one-way ANOVA and a significant difference will be defined as
      a p-value of less than 0.05 for the result.

      Data Analysis/Interpretation: As stated above data will be collected to assess both the
      successful administration of and time to administration of naloxone. The rate of successful
      administration will be reported as a percentage for each of the three groups and analyzed
      using the Chi-square test. Successful administration is defined as administration of the
      simulated naloxone within 10 minutes without committing any critical errors. Critical errors
      are as follows:

        -  Intranasal (atomizer): failure to remove both yellow caps from bristoject, failure to
           remove cap from simulated naloxone, failure to attach atomizer, failure to attach
           simulated naloxone, drug leak prior to administration, administration in only one
           nostril, and failure to administer within 10 minutes.

        -  Intramuscular: failure to attach the needle to the syringe, failure to remove cap from
           simulated naloxone, failure to draw up >90% (0.9 mL) of the simulated naloxone, failure
           to puncture simulated flesh pad with needle, failure to push entire volume of fluid in
           the syringe into the simulated flesh pad, and failure to administer within 10 minutes.

        -  Intranasal (spray): failure to place the tip of the device into one nostril, failure to
           depress the device and release the simulated naloxone, failure to administer within 10
           minutes.

      Time to successful administration will be reported using descriptive statistics (mean time to
      administration) and analyzed using a one-way ANOVA. Times for participants who commit a
      critical error or who do no administer the simulated naloxone within 10 minutes will not be
      included in the analysis.

      A route of administration will be considered to be more user-friendly if it demonstrates a
      statistically significantly higher rate of successful administration compared to another
      route of administration.

      Study Procedures: No study procedures will be performed on study participants.
    
  