
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of cediranib maleate (cediranib) plus
      lenalidomide. (Phase I) II. Determine the progression-free survival rates of single agent
      cediranib in patients with iodine refractory, unresectable differentiated thyroid cancer
      (DTC) who have evidence of disease progression within 12 months of study enrollment. (Phase
      II) III. Determine the progression-free survival rates of cediranib in combination with
      lenalidomide in patients with iodine refractory, unresectable DTC who have evidence of
      disease progression within 12 months of study enrollment. (Phase II) IV. Compare the
      progression-free survival curves of single agent cediranib to combination therapy with
      cediranib with lenalidomide. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the response rate of cediranib in combination with lenalidomide in patients with
      iodine refractory, unresectable DTC who have evidence of disease progression within 12 months
      of study enrollment. (Phase I) II. Determine the toxicity, duration of response, progression
      free survival, and overall survival in patients with DTC treated with cediranib plus
      lenalidomide. (Phase I) III. Determine response rates and duration of response, early tumor
      size changes, the toxicity, and overall survival in patients with DTC treated with cediranib
      or cediranib plus lenalidomide. (Phase II) IV. Determine whether the presence of v-raf murine
      sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (B-RAF) or V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma (K-RAS) mutations
      in patients with DTC predict response to cediranib or cediranib plus lenalidomide. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Phase I: Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and
      lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21 or 1-28. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO and lenalidomide PO as in Phase I. NOTE: As of
      April 10, 2015, patients assigned to this arm are to discontinue lenalidomide and may
      continue on cediranib alone.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  