
    
      The estimated overall global prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is
      around 25% and projected at 33.5% in 2030. While simple steatosis without evidence of
      inflammation and hepatocellular injury (non-alcoholic fatty liver) is generally a benign
      condition, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) can progress to fibrosis, cirrhosis, liver
      failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. Since only histological analysis can accurately
      evaluate NAFLD patterns, liver biopsy is the gold standard for assessment, and it should be
      considered in patients who are at increased risk of having steatohepatitis and/or fibrosis.
      Major drawbacks are its invasive nature, risk of complications, sampling errors and inter and
      intra-observer variability. Currently, there are no approved therapies for NASH. However,
      several drugs are now in phase 2 and 3 trials, and results are expected in 1-2 years. If
      medical treatments become available, screening for steatohepatitis and fibrosis will be
      recommended in high-risk patients. The lack of non-invasive tools to identify patients who
      may benefit from a therapeutic intervention is a central issue. Should liver biopsy be
      avoided or reserved for a more limited number of undetermined or high-risk patients, the
      benefit-harm balance of NASH screening and therapies would undergo a major change. Some
      imaging methods, mostly ultrasound (US) or Magnetic Resonance (MR) techniques, have shown
      promising potential in fibrosis and NASH diagnosis.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive imaging
      techniques including US and MR methods, in diagnosing NASH and fibrosis in patients with or
      at high risk of NAFLD, using liver biopsy as the reference standard.

      Consecutive patients with a clinical indication for liver biopsy assessment of NAFLD are
      enrolled in this non-inferiority study. They undergo both a liver ultrasound (US), including
      shear wave elastography (SWE) with liver stiffness measurement and US- fatty liver index
      (US-FLI), and a multiparametric unenhanced liver magnetic resonance examination including MR
      spectroscopy (MRS), Proton Density Fat Fraction (PDFF) and T2* measurement with Multiecho
      technique, T1 mapping with Inversion Recovery method, and Intravoxel Incoherent Motion
      diffusion weighted imaging (IVIM-DWI), measuring different parameters. As reference standard,
      histological diagnosis of fibrosis and steatohepatitis made according to the fatty liver
      inhibition of progression (FLIP) algorithm is used. Sensitivity and specificity of imaging
      parameters alone or in different combinations will be calculated, with the aim of finding one
      or more tests with at least 90% sensitivity/specificity compared to liver biopsy.
    
  