
    
      The manipulation of the wounds for its treatment is a painful process and there is currently
      no marketed any topical drug to decrease this suffering.

      The objective of this study is to demonstrate that lidocaine topical solution applied prior
      to wounds treatment, reduces the pain of the procedure compared to the treatment done after
      application of placebo solution. In addition, if the process was less painful, the
      consumption of systemic analgesics would be reduced (or eliminated) and, therefore, also its
      secondary effects.

      It is a pilot, single-center clinical trial, prospective, randomised, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study that will include 26 patients admitted in Bellvitge University
      Hospital (HUB) who present painful wound treatments.

      The Pharmaceutical Department of HUB prepares a dilution of lidocaine 0.5% in 20ml disposable
      syringes and also identical disposable syringes containing 20ml saline solution (process
      authorized by the Spanish Agency of Medicines and Sanitary Products).

      Each patient included will be subject to 6 procedures, randomised according to the sequence
      of treatment ABABAB or BABABA ("A" is lidocaine solution, "B" is placebo solution), according
      to a random list.

      After a doctor of The Pain Department evaluates and includes the patient into the study,
      prescribes the treatment and the Pharmaceutical Department provides 3 identical syringes
      (numbered), for each procedure, to the nurse of the patient. The first syringe will contain
      always saline solution (this is unknown for the patient and the nurse) doing this, the
      investigators obtain the basal pain of each procedure. The other two syringes contain the
      studying solution (lidocaine or saline solution, according the sequence of the random list)
      but always the same solution in both.

      The doctors of the Pain Department ask the patient about the pain before starting the
      procedure and determine according the "Verbal numerical scale" (VNS) from 0 to 10 points. The
      nurse, under sterile conditions, will dampen two sterile gauzes with the solution contained
      in the syringe 1, and will apply on the wound during 10 minutes before starting the
      treatment. After this time, the nurse starts the treatment of the wound and the doctor asks
      again about the pain punctuation on the VNS and register it. All this procedure is repeated
      with the contain of the syringe 2 and register the punctuation. If the procedure is still
      painful, the nurse applies (following the same procedure) gauzes with the solution contained
      in the syringe 3 and the doctor register the VNS punctuation. If even this third application,
      the treatment is still painful, each patient has prescribed a systemic analgesic to be used
      at this point if necessary (it does not matter which analgesic, the best for each patient,
      the only condition is that it can not be modified during the period of inclusion into the
      study, it is, 6 procedures) and the punctuation in the VNS is also registered. Furthermore,
      during each procedure, the nurse and the doctor, control the appearance of side effects and 7
      days after the last procedure, the doctor contacts to the patient for check the clinical
      safety.

      Comparing the procedures carried out after lidocaine solution with saline solution, the
      investigators will evaluate the reduction of pain in the wounds treatment.
    
  