
    
      1.0 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES (SCIENTIFIC AIMS)

      1.1 Primary Aims

      1.1.1 To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of using bortezomib in combination with the
      ALL R3 re-induction regimen in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory ALL or LL.

      1.1.2 To determine the rate of complete response and negative minimal residual disease status
      following bortezomib combined with R3 reinduction.

      2.0 BACKGROUND

      Despite the progress that has been made in the treatment of ALL in children, relapse of
      disease remains a significant treatment problem. By itself, the number of patients with
      relapsed ALL would be the 4th most common childhood malignancy and overall survival in these
      patients is poor. Using conventional treatments, second remission rates after bone marrow
      relapse in ALL are 81-93% and long-term event free survival (EFS) is only 27-50%. Initial
      standard therapy for children following relapse includes a four drug reinduction strategy,
      typically using prednisone, vincristine, PEG-asparaginase, and doxorubicin. For children with
      first marrow relapse of ALL less than 36 months from diagnosis, this four drug reinduction
      strategy results in a CR rate of 68%. However, 75% of patients in CR2 had minimal residual
      disease (MRD) that was positive (>0.01%) at the end of reinduction. The presence of MRD in
      relapsed ALL is strongly associated with worse long term outcomes. For children with ALL that
      relapsed following a second (CR2) remission, outcomes are dismal with 5 year disease free
      survival of 15%.

      In 2010, results were published of the ALL R3 trial from the Children's Cancer and Leukemia
      Group in the United Kingdom and Ireland. This trial randomized children with first relapse of
      ALL to receive a four drug reinduction using either mitoxantrone or idarubicin as the
      anthracycline. The study was closed early due to a statistically significant improvement in
      survival for children randomized to mitoxantrone. Children who received mitoxantrone had a 3
      year disease free survival of 64.6% compared to 35.9% in the idarubicin group. Toxicities in
      this study were not excessive, and children randomized to receive mitoxantrone had
      significantly less toxicity than those in the idarubicin group. Based on the results of this
      trial, the Children's Oncology Group (COG) has begun using this reinduction regimen as the
      backbone for new clinical trials for children with relapsed ALL.

      Despite the improvement in outcomes for the children with relapsed ALL treated with
      mitoxantrone on the R3 study, there is still a need for continued efforts to improve outcomes
      in patients with ALL and LL that experience a relapse. This is particularly true for high
      risk groups such as those who have an early bone marrow relapse (<36 months from diagnosis),
      second or greater relapse or relapsed LL where long term survival remains less than 50%
      Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor that has demonstrated activity in a number of cancer
      types including acute leukemias. Bortezomib acts by inhibiting the ubiquitin-proteasome
      pathway resulting in the blockade of NF-κB activation and the stabilization of multiple
      proapoptotic proteins including p53, p21, p27, and Bax. Collectively, these effects induce
      apoptosis and enhance the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy. In the Pediatric Preclinical
      Testing Program (PPTP), bortezomib showed activity against a number of ALL cell lines. As a
      single agent, bortezomib was effective at inhibiting NF-κB but there was no clinical response
      in 9 heavily pretreated children with ALL. Proteasome inhibition is able to induce apoptosis,
      and may be best utilized in combination with other conventional chemotherapy drugs to help
      overcome resistance. Preclinical evaluation of bortezomib with a number of drugs commonly
      used in pediatric ALL therapy demonstrated synergy with dexamethasone and additive effects
      when given along with vincristine, asparaginase, and doxorubicin.

      In a phase 1 study of children with relapsed ALL of bortezomib combined with a four drug
      reinduction using dexamethasone, vincristine, doxorubicin, PEG-asparaginase and intrathecal
      therapy, bortezomib at a dose of 1.3 mg/m2 given on days 1, 4, 8 and 11 was well tolerated.
      The phase 2 study of this regimen was able to produce a complete response or complete
      response without platelet recovery in 73% of patients. These results are encouraging as these
      were heavily pretreated patients treated with 2 or 3 previous regimens. Due to 3 deaths from
      infectious toxicities, the study was amended to require infectious prophylaxis with
      vancomycin, levofloxacin, and voriconazole. No further deaths were seen in children following
      this change. Other toxicities seen on this study include grade 3 peripheral neuropathy in 2
      patients.

      This is a phase II study designed to investigate the combination of bortezomib with the
      mitoxantrone reinduction regimen used in the ALL R3 trial. The study will enroll patients
      with high risk ALL relapse including early bone marrow relapse and second or greater relapse
      of any kind. Patients with relapsed LL will also be eligible. Bone marrow evaluation will be
      performed after blood counts recover to assess the rate of CR (<5% bone marrow blasts) and
      MRD status in children following this regimen. Further treatment with or without HSCT will be
      at the discretion of the primary physician.

      2.1 Bortezomib for Injection 2.1.1 Scientific Background Bortezomib for Injection is a
      small-molecule proteasome inhibitor developed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
      (Millennium) as a novel agent to treat human malignancies. Bortezomib is currently approved
      by the United States Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) for the treatment of patients with
      multiple myeloma (MM). It is also indicated for the treatment of patients with mantle cell
      lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least 1 prior therapy. In the European Union (EU),
      bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of
      patients with previously untreated MM who are not eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with
      bone marrow transplant. Bortezomib is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of
      progressive MM in patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already
      undergone or are unsuitable for bone marrow transplantation.

      By inhibiting a single molecular target, the proteasome, bortezomib affects multiple
      signaling pathways. The antineoplastic effect of bortezomib likely involves several distinct
      mechanisms, including inhibition of cell growth and survival pathways, induction of
      apoptosis, and inhibition of expression of genes that control cellular adhesion, migration,
      and angiogenesis. Thus, the mechanisms by which bortezomib elicits its antitumor activity may
      vary among tumor types, and the extent to which each affected pathway is critical to the
      inhibition of tumor growth could also differ. Bortezomib has a novel pattern of cytotoxicity
      in National Cancer Institute (NCI) in vitro and in vivo assays.(19) In addition, bortezomib
      has cytotoxic activity in a variety of xenograft tumor models, both as a single agent and in
      combination with chemotherapy and radiation. Notably, bortezomib induces apoptosis in cells
      that over express bcl-2, a genetic trait that confers unregulated growth and resistance to
      conventional chemotherapeutics.

      The mechanisms of action leading up to apoptosis have been more clearly defined and include
      initiation of the unfolded protein response and direct/indirect effects on various molecular
      targets including cell cycle control proteins p27 and p21, cyclins, signal transduction
      molecules, transcription factors c-jun and HIF1-, tumor suppressor protein p53, angiogenesis
      factors, and many others. Bortezomib is thought to be efficacious in multiple myeloma via its
      inhibition of nuclear factor B (NF-B) activation, its attenuation of interleukin-6
      (IL-6)-mediated cell growth, a direct apoptotic effect, and possibly anti-angiogenic and
      other effects.
    
  