
    
      Hematologic abnormalities occur with high frequency (up to 70% of patients) in human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected individuals. The pathogenesis of these abnormalities is
      not currently understood, although both an abnormal bone marrow environment (e.g., altered
      growth factor production) and direct infection and dysfunction of progenitor cells themselves
      have been postulated. Under the current protocol we have studied bone marrow precursor cells
      from both HIV infected and uninfected individuals and have shown not only that these cells
      are infectable in vitro with HIV but also infected in vivo in a subpopulation of seropositive
      individuals. While the effects of HIV infection of precursor cells on subsequent
      hematopoietic potential is not completely understood, we could not show a clear correlation
      between in vivo infection of these cells and suppressed hematopoiesis. It seems clear from
      this study and others that other alterations within the bone marrow environment must play a
      role in the clinically observed hematologic abnormalities. We therefore wish to continue our
      studies to elucidate the relative contributions of direct infection of myeloid progenitor
      cells and alterations in bone marrow environment in the pathology seen in HIV infected
      individuals. Understanding the pathogenesis of abnormal hematopoiesis in HIV infection will
      allow investigators to design appropriate therapeutic strategies. Using recently developed
      techniques we also wish to use bone marrow cells from HIV infected individuals to establish
      antibody libraries. This will allow the study of immunologically important epitopes on the
      HIV virion with potential impact on the subsequent design of HIV vaccines or introduction of
      passive immunotherapy. Thirdly, research in the field of HIV has been hampered by the lack of
      an appropriate animal model. One promising approach is the use of human bone marrow to
      reconstitute lethally irradiated Balb/c mice. Once the human hematopoietic system is
      established in the mouse, it may be possible to infect these animals with HIV and study in an
      in vivo model the effects of infection on hematopoiesis.
    
  