
    
      Prospective, randomized and double-blind study, aged from 18 to 65 years undergoing elective
      laparoscopic gynecological surgery.

      The patients are randomly assigned to 2 groups:

        -  Group 1: i-gel

        -  Group 2: laryngeal mask airway - Supreme

      Procedure:

      The investigation protocol contains the following sections:

        1. Induction of anaesthesia: Preoxygenation will be provided at 6 Liter/min oxygen for
           three minutes by using a facial mask. After anesthesia induction with fentanyl 1-2 μg/kg
           and propofol 1-2 mg/kg (12), mask ventilation will be applied with 100% oxygen.

        2. Bispectral index values will be held between 40-60.Bispectral index values will be
           within this interval by increasing or decreasing propofol infusion by 1 mg/kg after
           additional bolus dose of propofol (1 mg/kg).

        3. Insertion of the airway device. The size of the airway device used is based on the
           manufacturers' recommendations. All devices are deflated a lubricated prior to use. Once
           inserted, the cuff is be inflated with a manometer up to 60 cm H20 Data recorded: size
           of airway device, time an number of attempts.

        4. Maintenance of anesthesia will be achieved with sevoflurane 1,5-2,5% in a mixture of 50%
           O2/ 50% nitrogen protoxide. Sevoflurane concentrations will be adjusted to keep
           bispectral index values at 40-60.

        5. Measurement of airway seal pressure (oropharyngeal leak pressure (OLP): at baseline, and
           two minutes after the airway tool is placed, every 15 minutes until the operation ends
           and before the airway tool is removed.

        6. Ventilatory mechanics and parameters and hemodynamic parameters are measured at
           baseline, and two minutes after the airway tool is placed, every 15 minutes until the
           operation ends and before the airway tool is removed.

        7. Perioperative complications: Cough, vomiting, laryngeal spasm, laryngeal Stridor

        8. Removal of the airway device: Presence of blood - 3 level grading (1:no blood; 2: trace
           amounts of blood; 3: clear amounts of blood). Complications: sore throat (visual
           analogue scale :10-point scale), dysphonia (yes/no), dysphagia (yes/no).
    
  