
    
      COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. This
      new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in Wuhan, China, in December
      2019. COVID-19 is now a pandemic affecting many countries worldwide. Globally, as of 1:09 pm
      CEST, 27 July 2020, there have been 16 096 741 confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 646 384
      deaths, reported to WHO.

      The main and rapidly achievable target of SARS-CoV-2 is lung type II alveolar cells (AT2),
      which determines the development of diffuse alveolar damage. In the pathogenesis of ARDS due
      to COVID-19, the main role is played by an over-response of the immune system with rapidly
      developing severe life-threatening cytokine release syndrome (cytokine storm). Cytokine
      release syndrome threatens the emergence and progression of ARDS. The key components of the
      pathogenesis of ARDS also include disruption of cell cytotoxicity mechanisms, excessive
      activation of cytotoxic lymphocytes and macrophages with a massive release of proinflammatory
      cytokines (FNO-α, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10), granulocytic colony-stimulating factor,
      monocytic chemoattractive protein 1), and inflammatory markers (CRP, serum ferritin),
      infiltration of internal organs and tissues by activated T-lymphocytes and macrophages,
      resulting in a hyperinflammatory reaction. Such severe lesions can lead to death or severe
      lung damage, including long rehabilitation after discharge.

      Experimental studies have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may significantly
      reduce lung inflammation and pathological impairment resulting from different types of lung
      injury. Many researchers connect the anti-inflammatory effect of MSC with their secretome
      which includes MSC derived exosomes. It is highly likely that MSC exosomes have the same
      therapeutic effect on inoculation pneumonia as MSCs themselves. Moreover, exosomes show a
      strong effect of regenerative stimulation on different wounds so the regenerative effect can
      be extended on patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.

      The purpose of this protocol is to explore the safety and efficiency of aerosol inhalation of
      the exosomes in the treatment of severe patients hospitalized with novel coronavirus
      pneumonia (NCP).
    
  