
    
      Congenital heart defects (CHD) are conditions present at birth and affect heart structure,
      function, and manner in which blood flows through the heart and to the rest of the body. The
      incidence of severe CHD is about 2.5 to 3/1,000 live births. With improvements in cardiac
      surgical technique and critical care medicine, the vast majority of babies with CHD are
      expected to survive to school age and beyond. However, these surgical and medical advances
      are also associated with increased risk for neurodevelopmental morbidity.

      Traditionally, a quantitative approach measured gross motor development of infants at risk
      for delay, including children with complex congenital heart disease. These tools emphasize
      elicited responses; however, clinical use and validity may be limited by the infant's
      behavioral state, unstable physiological status, intolerance of handling, or sternal/surgical
      precautions. Alternatively, European clinicians working in the field of developmental
      neurology realized that variation and adaptability in motor behavior may assist in the
      evaluation of motor development. The application of motor variation and adaptability as a
      means to evaluate neuromotor condition in early infancy was significant for early detection
      of infants at high risk for developmental problems or cerebral palsy in a number of studies
      with high-risk infant groups. This form of evaluation has yet to be studied in infants with
      complex congenital heart diseases.

      The proposed study aims to study motor development of two infant groups based on oxygen
      saturation targets after neonatal surgery and to study the validity of the assessment tools
      based on the quality of movement variation and adaptability, i.e., the General Movements
      Assessment (GMsA) and the Infant Motor Profile (IMP) in infants with complex congenital heart
      disease.

      Hypothesis:

      Baseline oxygen saturation after neonatal heart surgery in children with complex congenital
      heart diseases is a determinant of motor performance outcome at 18 months on the Infant Motor
      Profile.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. To determine developmental outcomes at 18 months in two infant groups based on oxygen
           saturation targets.

        2. To validate specific neuromotor assessment tools that determine developmental outcome in
           two infant groups based on oxygen saturation targets.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To compare motor outcomes at 18 months measured with the IMP of two groups of infants
           who had surgery as neonates for complex congenital heart disease grouped by baseline
           oxygen saturation targets after the first surgery (≥ 90%; high saturation and < 90%; low
           saturation, i.e., admixed lesions).

        2. To describe the quality of general movements from birth through three months at five
           assessment points in infants with high oxygen saturation and infants with low oxygen
           saturation.

        3. To describe motor development in terms of IMP-scores at 6, 12 and 18 months in infants
           with high oxygen saturation and infants with low oxygen saturation.

        4. To explore the predictive value of GMsA at three months in a pooled group of infants
           with high oxygen saturation and low oxygen saturation with development outcome at 18
           months assessed with:

             1. Infant Motor Profile (IMP)

             2. Alberta Infant Motor Scales (AIMS)

             3. Motor Composite score of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development, 3rd edition
                (BSID-3)

             4. Cognitive and Language composite scores of the BSID-3.

        5. To determine the concurrent validity of the Infant Motor Profile (IMP) on the basis of
           comparison with:

             1. Alberta Infant Motor Scales (AIMS) at 6, 12, and 18 months.

             2. Bayley Motor Composite score at 18 months.
    
  