
    
      INTRODUCTION

      The cerebral vascular accident affects two people per thousand each year (Duncan et al.
      2005). This injury is the leading cause of permanent disability in our population. The brain
      damage is expressed by different neurological impairments and functional disabilities. These
      disabilities justify intensive and sustained multidisciplinary rehabilitation to reduce
      neurological impairments, to improve the activities and participation of patients, and,
      ultimately, their quality of life (Duncan et al., 2005).

      Recently appeared in rehabilitation to stimulate maximum brain plasticity robotic devices
      meet the actual recommendations existing in stroke's rehabilitation (Langhorne et al., 2011).
      Indeed, the robots allow the execution of a large number of movements whose quality is
      controlled. A visual interface gives the patient a feedback of its movements, and offers
      exercises oriented functional tasks that have meaning for him and the possibly dive into a
      virtual reality. All these elements justify the clinical development of robots to assist the
      therapists (Pignolo et al. 2009).

      The therapeutic efficacy of these robots for the rehabilitation of the upper limb was
      evaluated especially in chronic stroke patients (> 6 months after stroke) (Mehrholz et al.,
      2012). Unfortunately, few quality studies was conducted in these patients at the acute stage
      of rehabilitation, during which the potential of brain plasticity is the most important and
      the largest functional progress are observed (Stinear et al. 2012). In addition, few studies
      have evaluated the effect of these therapies robotic on the three fields of the ICF (Mehrholz
      et al., 2012). Many studies focus on impairments (e.g. muscle strength) without assessing the
      functional ability of the patient in activities of daily living.

      OBJECTIVES

      To perform a multicenter, single blind, randomized, controlled trial to assess the efficacy
      of of robotic-assisted therapy in acute stroke patients by evaluating the three fields of the
      ICF.

      METHODS

      Patients will be included in the Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc (Brussels, Belgique) and
      the center of William Lennox (Ottignies, Belgique). The patients will be randomised into two
      groups (control and experimental), using a stratified randomization method to ensure the
      equivalence of the two groups for motor neurological impairments (score of the Fugl-Meyer).
      This randomization will be organized independently in each centre participating in the study.
      The study of statistical power shows that 27 patients per group are necessary. This study of
      power has taken into account a statistical power desired to 99%, a minimum detectable change
      to 0.09 and a standard deviation of 0.08 on the upper limb kinematics of the patient
      (Gilliaux et al. 2014). In estimating a risk of out drop to 10%, the investigators plan to
      recruit 60 patients.

      In each centre, in the acute phase, the patients receive daily a multidisciplinary
      rehabilitation (physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy,...) more or less
      intensive (60 to 300 min). In the experimental group, one of these daily therapies will be
      devoted to the rehabilitation robot, 4 times a week for 9 weeks. The control group will
      benefit from conventional treatments. As such, the duration of support will be similar
      between the two groups. All treatments will be administered by therapists specialized in
      neurological rehabilitation.

      Patients will be evaluated three times in the study: before the start of treatments, at the
      end of treatments, and 6 months after the stroke event. All assessments will be carried out
      by a therapist which will be not informed the group that the patient is assigned
      (single-blind).

      PERSPECTIVES

      From this study, the investigators hope to demonstrate the efficacy of robotic-assisted
      therapy in acute stroke patients by evaluating the three fields of the ICF. These results
      could prove that this tool can be a significant complement for the stroke rehabilitation.
    
  