
    
      Primary objective: to explore whether application of vibroacoustic therapy has more
      significant effect on eliminating acute stress response in university students than music
      alone.

      Research question: "Does the application of vibroacoustic therapy (sinusoidal frequency of 40
      Hz with ambient sound) show a more significant effect on decreasing an acute stress response
      (measured by spectral analysis of heart rate variability) and perception of stress (measured
      on visual analogue scales) in university students compared to listening to sound without
      technologically modified low-vibrations?"

      Participants: The recruitment of suitable research participants will be carried out among
      students studying at Faculty of Education at Palacky University in Olomouc, Czech Republic,
      provided that all inclusive criteria are met. Participants will be recruited by three
      researchers via mail and personal contact with students at the start of each of two semesters
      of one academic year. Recruiting process will be coordinated and overseen by a recruitment
      coordinator. Sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes will be used as a mechanism for
      allocation concealment. The allocation sequence will be generated at a remote workplace by a
      specialist not participating in enrollment and assignment of participants for the
      intervention.

      It is a parallel group, two arms, superiority trial with 1.1. allocation ration. Equal
      blocked randomization (with block size 8) with stratification according to the gender will be
      used here. The randomization scheme will determine which persons will be placed in the
      intervention group and the control group (placebo) The randomization will be implemented by a
      computerized random number generator (program Sealed Envelope).

      The intervention is single-blinded (to participants). Persons responsible for
      measuring/realization of the intervention cannot be blinded for practical and ethical
      reasons, but their ability to influence the results of the experiment is minimal due to the
      manualized data collection / intervention process and the use of objective measurement
      methods with minimal interactions between the participant and the researcher and the use of a
      preformulated standard protocol. Considering one-shot character of research experiment in
      every participant possibility of emergency unblinding has not been considered, nor systematic
      plans to promote participants´ retention and complete follow-up have not been created.

      Research experiment: After recruitment students will be divided into the experimental or
      control groups by means of randomization. Experimental group will get full intervention
      including sound battery with low-frequency sound. Control group will listen to the same sound
      battery as planned for experimental group without the low-frequency sound in the frequency
      range 20-100 Hz (no vibrations). Measurements in two parallel groups will be carried out by
      two trained persons under supervision by a psychologist, physiological measurement experts
      and a research coordinator overseeing adherence to experimental protocols.

      Measurements: The measurement methods consist of (1) heart rate variability spectral
      analysis, (2) Perceived Stress Scale questionnaire, (3) visual analogue scales for stress and
      (4) a questionnaire of own construction.

      Statistical analysis: Data analysis methods will be based on statistical processing in the
      form of the one-way (factor Vibroacoustic/Placebo) repeated measures (factor Before/After)
      ANOVA. The intervention arm will be compared against the control for all primary analyses and
      significant differences in the responses of autonomous nervous system and the stress reaction
      will be examined.

      Hypotheses:

      H1: Listening to vibroacoustic therapy battery (ambient sound with low-frequency vibrations)
      will stimulate higher levels of parasympathetic nervous activity compared to listening to
      ambient sound alone.

      H2: Listening to vibroacoustic therapy battery (ambient sound with low-frequency vibrations)
      will stimulate lower levels of subjective perception of stress compared to listening to
      ambient sound alone.

      H3: Higher levels of acute stress perception (based on Perceived Stress Scales-10 categories)
      will correlate to higher differences between pre-test / post-test values based on stress
      levels in experimental group.
    
  