
    
      1.1 Patient recruitment Patients would be recruited from the in-patient or outpatient
      department prior to their scheduled endoscopic intervention.

      1.2 Study design This is a single center randomized controlled study with two parallel groups
      without masking with a 1:1 allocation ratio

      1.3. Study intervention - stent placement The procedures would be performed by experienced
      endoscopists. All procedures will be performed with the patient in the left lateral position
      under propofol sedation after administration of intravenous antibiotics (third generation
      cephalosporins) A therapeutic linear echo-endoscope (UCT-180; Olympus Ltd, Tokyo, Japan) will
      be used; the PFC assessed for size, wall maturity, thickness, interposing collaterals and
      percentage of solid debris.

      NAGI BFMS - The WON will be punctured using a standard 19-gauge FNA needle and the aspirate
      was sent for biochemical and microbial analysis. A 0.025-inch (Visiglide; Olympus
      Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) or 0.035-inch stiff guidewire (Jag Wire; Boston Scientific) passed
      through the needle into the cyst cavity to form at least 1 to 2 loops under fluoroscopic
      guidance. A 6F cystotome (Endo-flex GmbH Dusseldorf, Germany) will be passed over the
      guidewire for creating a fistula. Subsequently, a 6-mm balloon dilator (Hurricane; Boston
      Scientific Corporation or Titan balloon, Wilson Cook) will be used to further dilate the
      fistula tract. After this, the stent delivery catheter is advanced over the guidewire across
      the PFC wall and the BFMS (Nagi; Taewoong Medical, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea) deployed using
      sonographic, fluoroscopic and endoscopic visualization.

      Plastic stents - Double-pigtail plastic stents will be used. A minimum of one 10Fr pigtail
      plastic stent will be placed. After initial EUS-guided access, the ostomy will be dilated
      first, using a cystotome, and secondly with a balloon dilation. The plastic stent will be
      inserted and delivered following the routine technique of each interventional endoscopist.
      The number of the plastic stents and the size of the balloon used to dilate the ostomy will
      depend on the WON size and content.

      1.4 Stents NAGI bi-flanged metal stent (BFMS)- Nagi stent is a dedicated self-expandable
      fully covered bi-flanged metal stent (BFMS) for drainage of pancreatic fluid collections. The
      stent is short in length (20 or 30 mm) with caliber (10, 12, 14, or16 mm) having flared ends
      (diameter 26 mm). Procedure-related adverse events will be managed accordingly and documented
      Plastic stents - Two 7fr or 10 fr plastic stents will be used 1.5 Randomization The patients
      would be randomised will be randomised to Plastic vs NAGI BFMS by using Med Cal C software
      (version 12.3, Belgium). There will be no masking.

      1.6 Post-procedural management After the drainage procedure, patients will be observed in the
      hospital for symptomatic improvement or development of any adverse events. Oral liquids are
      allowed 6 hours after the procedure. Intravenous antibiotics will be continued for 2 to 3
      days which will be later changed to the oral route.

      All patients will be re-assessed within 72 hours after EUS guided drainage for symptomatic
      relief. In case of persistent symptoms, the most beneficial therapeutic approach for the
      patient will be adopted as per expert multimodality team of endoscopists, surgeon and
      interventional radiologist such as placement of nasocystic drain, coaxial plastic stent
      placement in BFMS, endoscopic necrosectomy or percutaneous drainage.

      In case of symptomatic relief and significant reduction in size of WON, patient will be
      followed up after 1 week and at 4 week or early if symptoms recur and/or any new symptom
      appears. In case of complete symptomatic relief and disappearance of WON at 4 weeks, metal
      stent will be removed.

      If persistent collection or there is evidence of DPDS, then in patients with initial plastic
      stent placement, stent will not be removed. In BFMS group, BFMS will be replaced by plastic
      stent. Patient will be observed in hospital for 24 hours 1.7 Outcome measurements The primary
      outcome measurement is Clinical success at 4 weeks determined by the reduction of the
      collection (<50% or <5 cm in size) along with resolution of symptoms Secondary outcomes
      include

        1. Re-interventions

        2. Long term clinical success at 24 weeks

        3. Adverse events

        4. Cost - effectiveness

      Technical success: It is defined as the correct deployment of stent at both ends with
      visualization of drainage of the liquid.

      Clinical success: It is defined as resolution of symptoms and significant reduction in of
      collection size (< 50% or <5 cm in size).

      Recurrence: It is appearance of symptomatic fluid collection evident on imaging during
      follow-up after documented clinical success.

      Adverse events: It is defined as undesirable situations during the study period whether
      related or unrelated to the EUS guided drainage.

      1.8 Follow-up Patient will be assessed on day 1 to 3, then at 1, 4, 8 weeks followed by 12
      and 24 weeks by personnel participating in the study. At each visit, information regarding
      signs and symptoms, adverse events and recurrence will be collected. In case of mortality
      during study period, any possible relation to endoscopic procedure will be investigated and
      will be noted.

      1.9 Sample size calculation The success rate of metal stent is assumed as 75 % and 45% for
      plastic stent. The required sample size with 80% power and 0.05 as type 1 error is 40 per
      group

      Statistical Formula for estimation of sample size :

      n= 2 (Zα +Zβ)2 (P1+Q1+P2+Q2)/ (P1 -P2 ) X(P1-P2)

      where, n = Sample size

      P1 proportion of outcome measure under Group1 (Success rate of metal stent and assumed to be
      75 %) Q1 proportion of failure rate metal stent (1 - 0.85 ) P2 proportion of success rate in
      plastic group2 (success rate and assumed as 45 %) Q2 proportion failure rate of plastic stent
      in group 2 (1 - 0.45) zα is factor corresponding to type 1 error with two sided test and is
      taken as 1.96 Zβ factor corresponding to type 11 error i.e (1- β) is power of and is usually
      taken as 80 % and the value =0.84 Forty patients will be recruited in each group to reject
      the null hypothesis that the proportion of clinical success in the LAMS group is equal to
      that of the plastic stent group with an 80% power with 5% type 1 error. A planned interim
      analysis will be done at half of the recruitment.

      1.10 Statistical analyses The continuous variables will be described as mean, standard
      deviation, median, range and interquartile range. Categorical variables will be described as
      percentages of different categories.

      Primary outcome will be tested with chi-square test or Fisher's exact test. The level of
      significance has been set at 5%. To quantify the magnitude of the difference the relative
      risk and odds ratio will be calculated with 95% confidence interval. Univariate and
      multivariate analysis will be done to determine which are the factors associated with
      clinical success and clinical recurrence. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis will be done for
      appearance clinical recurrence.

      1.11 Withdrawal of individual subjects Subjects can leave the study at any time for any
      reason if they wish to do so without any consequences. The treating physician can decide to
      withdraw a subject from the study for any medical reason. In case of withdrawal, the reason
      for withdrawal and, if applicable, the alternative treatment, would be recorded.

      1.12 Participating centres Asian Institute of Gastroenterology - Hyderabad
    
  