
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) are
      interventions that can reduce cardiovascular symptoms such as dyspnea and angina. The life
      quality and the functional capacity improved in the subjects who underwent surgery. However,
      new cardiac events, death and obstruction of the bypass placed can exist. To diminish these
      risks, national and international guides recommend cardiac rehabilitation (CR) for people
      with coronary disease, who have suffered a myocardial infarction and are subjected to CABG
      and PCI. A 20-30% reduction of morbidity and mortality can be obtained with the use of CR.
      According to the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), the American Heart Association (AHA)
      and the American College of Cardiology (ACC), CR is a recommendation Class Type I, in
      subjects treated with PCI and CABG. This includes prescribed physical exercises, education,
      and counseling to modify the effects of coronary heart disease and improve long-term
      survival. Exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation is an effective and safe therapy to be used
      in the management of clinically stable patients following PCI or CABG. The maximum oxygen
      uptake (VO2max) is improved by the exercise carried out during CR, optimizing the physical
      condition and health-related quality of life (HRQOL).

      The HRQOL is considered a very important criterion used to evaluate the effectiveness of
      different treatments in patients with coronary disease, and is defined by subjective
      evaluation regarding the current activities of health care and health promotion; it indicates
      the personal perception in various aspects such as the recovery of the functional, labor,
      sexual and social capabilities of the patient, factors that have great importance in the
      evolution of the patient; this perception is considered the best indicator of quality of
      life, and has become a key concept for the decision making. In this study, we will evaluate
      the effects of a physical exercise program in the health-related quality of life of subjects
      following CABG or PCI with normal and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)
    
  