
    
      PTSD is a serious debilitating disorder that negatively impacts a person's daily life. PTSD
      is a stress-related psychiatric condition that may occur following a traumatic event such as
      war, disaster, sexual abuse, violence, terrorism, and accidents. PTSD negatively impacts a
      person's daily life, resulting in relationship difficulties, difficulty in finding and
      maintaining a job, reduced cognitive and psychosocial functioning, substance abuse, high-cost
      healthcare use, and increased depression and suicide risk. Available PTSD treatments,
      including medications and therapy, effectively treat only a fraction of people who try them
      for adequate dose and duration. People with PTSD can be treated with psychotherapies and
      pharmacotherapies. In the past decade, there has been a growing amount of research into
      medications and other methods that may augment the effectiveness of psychotherapy for PTSD

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a drug that releases serotonin, norepinephrine
      and dopamine in the brain and indirectly increases levels of the neurohormones oxytocin,
      arginine vasopressin and cortisol. The combined neurobiological effects of MDMA increase
      compassion, reduce defenses and fear of emotional injury, and enhance communication and
      introspection. MDMA produces anxiolytic and prosocial effects, which counteract avoidance and
      hyperarousal in the context of therapy. A combined treatment of MDMA and psychotherapy may be
      especially useful for treating PTSD.

      This multi-site, open-label safety extension study assesses the efficacy and safety of
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy versus psychotherapy in participants diagnosed with PTSD. The
      study will be conducted in N ≈ 100 participants. Participants who were randomized to the
      placebo arm in the two parent Phase 3 trials of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy and who meet all
      other entry criteria will be eligible and invited to participate in this open-label safety
      extension study. In addition, participants in the parent Phase 3 trials whose study
      participation was affected by COVID-19 pandemic or other unforeseen circumstances, and were
      unable to complete the study may participate in this open-label study.

      The treatment consists of a flexible dose of MDMA (80 or 120 mg), followed by a supplemental
      dose (40 or 60 mg) unless contraindicated, administered with manualized psychotherapy in
      three open-label approximately monthly Experimental Sessions. During Experimental Session 1,
      participants will receive an initial dose of 80 mg of MDMA, followed by a supplemental dose
      of 40 mg. During Experimental Sessions 2 and 3, participants will receive an initial dose of
      80 or 120 mg of MDMA, followed by a supplemental dose of 40 or 60 mg.

      This Treatment Period is preceded by three Preparatory Sessions. During the Treatment Period,
      each Experimental Session is followed by three Integrative Sessions of non-drug
      psychotherapy. Experimental Sessions are followed by an overnight stay. The Primary Outcome
      measure, the change in PCL-5 (PTSD Checklist for DSM-5) from Visit 3 is assessed at Visit 16.
    
  