
    
      This study is a Phase Ib, open label, multi-centre, dose escalation trial to assess the dose
      of lithium that can be safely combined with standard treatment oxaliplatin and capecitabine
      chemotherapy.

      Registered patients will be treated with lithium combined with a standard chemotherapy
      regimen of oxaliplatin and capecitabine until a maximum of 6 x 21 day cycles (18 weeks),
      tumour progression, unacceptable toxicity, pregnancy, withdrawal of consent or withdrawal at
      the discretion of the investigator, whichever occurs first.

      After discontinuation of study treatment, all patients will be followed for safety for at
      least 30 days.

      Patients who discontinue treatment for reasons other than disease progression will continue
      to be followed every 9 weeks in accordance with standard of care for efficacy (i.e. tumour
      assessment) until disease progression, death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow up or
      until the start of a new anti-neoplastic treatment, whichever occurs first.

      Once the patient has documented disease progression, they will be followed up every three
      months (±1 month) for survival status.

      The trial will be a traditional 3+3 design: cohorts of 3 patients will be treated with
      lithium combined with standard treatment oxaliplatin and capecitabine chemotherapy.

      The doses of oxaliplatin and capecitabine have been established in prior phase II and III
      studies and will not be escalated. Lithium target serum concentrations are assigned at
      registration according to a defined dose escalation scheme. Study lithium dose escalation
      will follow a modified Fibonacci 3+3 sequence.

      A -1 dose level (0.4mmol/L) is included in case dose de-escalation is needed.

      The levels of lithium achieved in each patient will be established by regular assessment of
      steady state serum concentrations.

      Lithium will start at a low level and dose escalations will be performed in cohorts of 3
      patients according to a standard 3+3 algorithm.

      Dose escalation and determination of MTD will be based on the occurrence of Dose Limiting
      Toxicities (DLT) as defined below.

      The first cohort of 3 patients will commence at dose level 1. All patients in each cohort
      will be observed for two cycles on the specified dose:

        -  If none of 3 patients at a given dose level experiences a DLT, accrual will continue to
           the next dose level according to the protocol.

        -  If 1 of 3 patients experiences a DLT at a given dose level, 3 additional patients will
           be treated at the same dose. If no additional patient has a DLT in this cohort, accrual
           will continue to the next dose level according to the protocol.

        -  If 2 or more patients in 3 or 6 patients treated at a given dose experience a DLT, the
           next lowest dose level will define the MTD.

      A Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as any of the following adverse events occurring
      during the two first cycles (within 42 days from first dose) of treatment and possibly,
      probably or definitely related to the combination of lithium, oxaliplatin and capecitabine:

      A. Grade 3 or 4 non-haematological toxicity other than nausea, vomiting or fatigue.

      B. Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia: grade 4 thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 25 x 109/L) or
      grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia (grade 3 platelet count: 25 x 109/L to < 50 x 109/L) associated
      with bleeding.

      C. Complicated grade 4 neutropenia (< 0.5 x 109/L): fever, sepsis > 5 days of duration.

      D. Any significant* grade 2 and higher toxicity other than nausea, vomiting, rash, alopecia
      or anaemia that persists longer than 35 days after the start of cycle 1.

      *"Significant" defined as affecting quality of life or patient safety as determined by
      investigator.

      Clinical and laboratory parameters will be assessed to evaluate disease response and toxicity
      of study therapy. Safety assessments will be performed every 3 weeks for the 18 weeks.
      Efficacy assessments (Radiological examination) will be performed on all patients every 9
      weeks (+/- 1 week).

      An End of Treatment visit will be performed for patients within 30 days (+/- 1 week) post
      last dose or disease progression.
    
  