
    
      This randomized controlled trial, was approved by the institutional ethics committee of our
      hospital. Informed consent was obtained from all the participants before randomization.
      Investigators included 80 patients (40 in each group), ASA I or II, planned for open
      abdominal surgery lasting more than 2 hours under general anesthesia.

      Patients were not included if they had specially acute respiratory disease, severe asthma or
      emphysema, sleep apnea syndrome, septic shock and body mass index (BMI) < 16 or > 35 Kg/m2.
      Participants were excluded in case of serious peroperative anesthetic complications or
      hemorrhagic shock.

      Primary endpoint was postoperative pulmonary complications occurring within the first 7 days
      after surgery (defined as hypoxemia, Broncho-pneumopathy, pulmonary infiltrate, acute
      respiratory distress syndrome, atelectasis, pleural effusion).

      Secondary endpoints for all participants were intra-operative complications (change in SpO2
      when dropped less than 90%, hypotension <90 mmHg lasting more than 3 min, need for
      vasopressor administration, new arrhythmia), postoperative extrapulmonary complications
      (septic shock, postoperative surgical complications, heart disease complications).
      Investigators recorded for all participants length of hospital stay and mortality rate were .

      Investigators randomly allocated patients before entering to the operating room to:

        -  Control Group (CG): patients ventilated with Vt of 8 ml/kg of predicted body weight
           (PBW), a low level of PEEP (4 cm H2O) without RM.

        -  Protective Ventilation Group (PVG): patients ventilated with a low Vt of 6 ml/Kg of PBW,
           a high level of PEEP (10 cm H2O), RMs applied after intubation, before extubation and in
           case of disconnection from the ventilator.

      Other ventilation settings, type of anesthesia, fluid administration and post operative pain
      management were standardized.

      In the postoperative period, investigators daily assessed clinical examination and arterial
      blood gas if pulse oximetry dropped. For all participants, a chest X ray, blood count
      creatinine and C reactive protein were done at day 1 and day 3.

      Data were presented as means and standard deviation [SD] or frequencies. Statistical analyses
      were performed using SPSS statistical software version 20.0. A p-value of 0.05 was considered
      significant.
    
  