
    
      An aortic aneurysm (thoracic or abdominal) is a permanent dilatation of the aorta caused by
      weakening in the arterial wall. The feared complication is aortic rupture or dissection,
      leading to potentially lethal aortic bleeding and associated with mortality rates up to 95%.
      Diagnosis of the aneurysm and especially its risk of rupture or dissection is highly
      challenging. If the aneurysm diameter and/or growth rate exceed a specific threshold
      (respectively 55 mm and 1 cm/year), a highly invasive and dangerous surgery is performed.
      However, several studies have shown no correlation between the maximum transverse diameter
      and the risk of rupture or dissection. Since aneurysm rupture is associated with multiple
      aortic tissue properties, both biomechanics-based and microstructurally-based criteria can be
      a promising alternative.

      The overall goal of this trial is a biomechanical and microstructural analysis of aneurysms
      to improve the diagnostic criterion for aneurysm rupture risk. Within this goal, two
      scientific objectives can be distinguished. Firstly, a highly unique dataset with patient
      data allowing the development of an improved diagnostic tool will be created. This dataset
      will contain an abundance of relevant parameters such as patient characteristics, geometry,
      material properties and biomechanical and microstructural characteristics. The biomechanical
      and microstructural data will be obtained by the analysis of resected aneurysmal tissue and
      by dynamic imaging (4D CT). 4D CT scans are a series of ECG-gated scans that are taken at
      specified intervals in the cardiac circle. The second objective is to create a personalized
      diagnostic tool. An aneurysm rupture risk criteria based on geometry as well as biomechanical
      and microstructural properties is expected to be significantly more reliable than the current
      criteria. More specifically, a correlation between patient characteristics that can be
      measured non-invasively and the aneurysm rupture risk is searched for.
    
  