
    
      The proposed project represents the next phase in a trajectory of VA research designed to
      eliminate racial disparities in the utilization of knee joint replacement - an effective
      treatment option for end-stage knee osteoarthritis (OA). Numerous studies have documented the
      existence of marked racial disparities in the utilization of knee joint replacement in OA.
      African-Americans (AA) are two to five times less likely than white patients to receive knee
      joint replacement for lower extremity OA. Our prior work has shown that compared to white
      patients, AA patients expect worse outcomes from this treatment and, consequently, are less
      willing to consider joint replacement even when clinically indicated and recommended by a
      physician. Patient willingness, an attitudinal disposition modifiable with education and
      counseling, has emerged as a key patient-level mediator in the utilization of elective
      medical procedures, such as knee joint replacement.

      The short-term goals of this randomized, controlled trial are to demonstrate the efficacy of
      interventions to improve understanding of knee joint replacement risks, benefits, and
      expected outcomes among AA primary care patients, increase willingness to consider knee joint
      replacement among AA primary care patients, and increase primary care referral rates for
      surgical consideration for AA patients who meet the indications for knee joint replacement.
      We will test a multi-faceted intervention consisting of a knee OA decision aid video
      developed by the Foundation for Informed Medical Decision Making alone or in combination with
      individually tailored patient counseling using Motivational Interviewing versus an attention
      control. The long-term objective is to reduce or eliminate the racial gap in the utilization
      of knee joint replacement. The central hypothesis of this proposal is that the scientifically
      accurate, high quality patient-centered information on knee arthritis and joint replacement
      provided by the knee OA decision aid, alone or in combination with motivational interviewing,
      will improve patient understanding of knee joint replacement outcomes, increase patient
      willingness to consider knee joint replacement, and consequently lead to higher rates of
      referral for surgical consideration when clinically indicated. With increased referral rates,
      currently a major bottleneck in the path to joint replacement, more AA patients will receive
      recommendations for surgery, thus potentially reducing racial differences in the utilization
      of this procedure. This proposal is innovative because it is the first patient-centered
      evidence-based VA intervention trial to use a decision aid alone or in combination with
      motivational interviewing to intervene on a well-documented and marked racial disparity in
      joint replacement that exists within and outside the VA health care system.

      Primary Specific Aims:

        1. To examine the effectiveness of the proposed intervention strategies (DA alone, MI alone
           or a combined DA+MI)) to improve willingness to consider knee joint replacement when
           clinically indicated among AA primary care patients.

        2. To examine the effectiveness of the proposed intervention strategies on patient
           expectations of knee joint replacement risks/benefits among AA primary care patients.

        3. To examine the effectiveness of the proposed intervention strategies in increasing
           primary care referrals for surgical evaluation of AA patients with knee OA.

      Secondary Specific Aim: To examine the effectiveness of the proposed intervention strategies
      to increase AA patient likelihood of receiving knee joint replacement within 12 months of the
      intervention.

      A randomized, controlled factorial design will be utilized to examine the effectiveness of
      knee OA decision aid and/or MI compared with attention control on select key patient-centered
      and process of care outcomes. We will recruit approximately 600 AA primary care patients (150
      at the VAPHS, 150 at the LSCDVAMC, and 300 at the PVAMC) who meet the American College of
      Rheumatology clinical indications for knee joint replacement and randomize them into either
      intervention arms or attention control. We will assess patient expectations, willingness and
      referral to joint replacement. We will also collect qualitative data on doctor-patient
      communication following the intervention or control so that we can assess (in the future)
      whether or not the interventions impact study outcomes through improved quality of
      communication. This study will provide hard evidence needed to improve quality of care for
      African-American VA patients who have end-stage knee OA, a major cause of disability and
      functional decline in VA elderly patients.
    
  