
    
      In midgut NETs serotonin production is most prominent. Patients with NETs producing excessive
      serotonin can develop carcinoid syndrome. Serotonin is a product of the 'tryptophan pathway'.
      Serotonin is metabolized in 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) and then excreted with urine.
      5-HIAA in 24-hour urine collection is one of the parameters used for follow up in patients
      with a serotonin-producing neuroendocrine tumor. This measurement has some disadvantages; it
      could be stressful, the collection is not always precisely, furthermore the collection could
      be problematic, for example in patients with diarrhea.

      Since October 2013 it is possible, because of a better measurement sensitivity, to measure
      reliably 5-HIAA in platelet rich plasma (PRP) by isotope-dilution massa-spectrometer
      (LCMS-MS). Recent publications show that 5-HIAA measured in PRP could have an additive value
      in diagnosis and follow up of patients with serotonin-producing NET.

      Objective:

      The primary objective is to measure the correlation between 5-HIAA in PRP and 5-HIAA in
      24-hours urine collection in adult patients with a serotonin-producing neuro-endocrine tumor.

      Secondary objective is to determine if increase or decrease of 5-HIAA in plasma is associated
      with disease progression.

      Study design:

      This is an observational laboratory study. Plasma and urine of included patients and
      collected in standard health care, are selected and the 5-HIAA's are measured with LCMS-MS.
      Also age, sex, diagnosis and clinical course of the patients will be collected from the
      medical record.

      Study population:

      In this study the investigators will use blood and urine of 60 patients with
      serotonin-producing neuro-endocrine tumors.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The main endpoint of this study is the correlation between 5-HIAA in PRP and 5-HIAA in
      24-hour urine collection. Secondary endpoint is the correlation between 5-HIAA in PRP and
      course of the disease, determined by CT-scan (if applicable).
    
  