
    
      Detailed Description:

      Attack of the Alveolar Type II (ATII) cell via its ACE2 surface receptor by the SARS-CoV-2
      virus leads to respiratory failure, morbidity, and frequently mortality in COVID-19. There is
      no approved treatment that specifically targets the pulmonary injury. Vasoactive Intestinal
      Peptide (VIP) is known to target the VPAC1 receptor of the ATII cell and to protect that cell
      against all manner of injuries, including smoke inhalation, exposure to stomach acid, and
      exposure to infectious agents. VIP prevents apoptosis, blocks cytokines, lowers TNFα levels,
      reverses CD4/CD8 ratio, and reduces cough and dyspnea in nonclinical and clinical studies.
      Aviptadil acetate, a synthetic form of Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide (VIP) has been
      awarded FDA Orphan Drug Designation for the treatment of ARDS and Pulmonary Hypertension and
      EMEA Orphan Drug Designation for the treatment of ARDS and Sarcoid. ZYESAMI™ (Aviptadil) has
      been granted FDA Fast Track Designation for the treatment of ARDS/Acute Lung Injury in
      COVID-19.

      The objective of this study is to identify patients with moderate and severe COVID-19 who
      have not yet developed respiratory failure and to treat them with inhaled ZYESAMI™ in the
      hope of preventing progression to Critical COVID-19 with Respiratory Failure.

      Nonclinical studies demonstrate that VIP is 70% concentrated in the lung, where it binds
      primarily to ATII cells. VIP prevents NMDA-induced caspase-3 activation in the lung, inhibits
      IL6 and TNFα production, protects against HCl-induced pulmonary edema, These and other
      effects have been observed in numerous animal model systems of lung injury in mice, rats,
      guinea pigs, sheep, swine, and dogs. In these models, Aviptadil restores barrier function at
      the endothelial/alveolar interface and thereby protects the lung and other organs from
      failure.

      Both intravenous and inhalation preclinical toxicology and safety pharmacology have been
      performed in four species, with a six-month trial of inhaled Aviptadil in primates.

      Aviptadil is approved for human use in the treatment of erectile dysfunction in Scandinavia
      and several European countries in co-formulation with phentolamine and has a demonstrated
      phase 2 safety in trials for Sarcoid, Pulmonary Fibrosis, and Bronchospasm. No adverse safety
      signals were seen in a phase I trial IV Aviptadil in ARDS. In that phase I trial, 8 patients
      with severe ARDS on mechanical ventilation were treated with ascending doses of VIP. Seven of
      the 8 patients were successfully extubated and were alive at the five-day timepoint. Six left
      the hospital and one died of an unrelated cardiac event.

      A 60-day phase 2b/3 trial of IV Aviptadil (NCT 04311697) has recently completed enrollment
      and 28-day top-line safety data have been reported. No unanticipated serious adverse events
      were reported. The only adverse event that was statistically more frequent in
      Aviptadil-treated participants than among placebo-treated participants was mild to moderate
      diarrhea, which has not been reported as a frequent side-effect of inhaled Aviptadil (30% vs
      1.5%; p< .001). Systemic hypotension was seen in both Aviptadil-treated and placebo-treated
      participants (25% vs 18.5%; P=NS).

      Five GCP phase 2 trials of Aviptadil were conducted under European regulatory authority. Non
      GCP healthy volunteer studies have shown that i.v. infusion of Aviptadil is well tolerated
      with few adverse effects including alterations in blood pressure, heart rate, or ECG. In
      addition to published studies of human use, Aviptadil has been used on a compounded basis in
      certain ICUs for many years in the belief that it preserves life and restores function in
      pulmonary hypertension, ARDS, and Acute Lung Injury (ALI).

      In this study, patients with moderate and severe COVID-19 by FDA definition who have not
      developed respiratory failure will be treated with nebulized ZYESAMI™ 100 μg in 1 cc normal
      saline 3x daily plus Standard of Care vs. placebo + Standard of Care using an FDA 501(k)
      cleared mesh nebulizer.

      The primary outcome will be progression to in severity of COVID-19 (i.e. moderate progressing
      to severe or critical OR severe progressing to critical) over 28 days. Secondary outcomes
      will include blood oxygenation as measured by pulse oximetry, dyspnea, exercise tolerance,
      and levels of TNFα IL-6 and other cytokines.
    
  