
    
      The term Ligamentotaxis is used to define the method of distal traction to realign joint
      surfaces and reduce articular fragments after complex fractures. In the management of complex
      finger fractures, ligamentotaxis has been used to favourably help fracture alignment and
      reduction, range of movement (ROM), pain, grip and function. Traction has been applied via
      nail anchors skin traction and Kirschner wires.

      Phalangeal fractures are at risk of chronic stiffness when immobilised. Early mobilization
      seeks to achieve the best outcome for the patient as it will aid healing, promote cartilage
      regeneration, help prevent adhesions and optimize range of movement. Mobilisation of
      phalangeal fractures as soon as possible after open reduction internal fixation has shown to
      produce greater total range of movement at six weeks post-operatively. Traction and
      mobilization can be combined to help deliver the best outcome however dynamic traction
      orthoses tend to be "high-profile". This can cause difficulties in activities of daily living
      and can be perceived negatively by users. Most dynamic traction orthoses use Kirschner wires
      which have the potential complication of loosening and pin site infection.

      Two methods report good outcomes using the less invasive and less expensive means of tape and
      nail traction respectively. The Early Active Vector Adjustable Skin Traction (EAVAST)
      orthosis has no reported issues using adhesive tape though the patient is required to remove
      the orthosis to perform exercises. This removes any stability offered by the orthosis during
      the early phases of healing. The Poole traction orthosis is well-established in some centres
      with reported good outcomes however nail traction has the potential complication of nail bed
      haematoma or nail avulsion.

      A recent orthosis design by the Chief Investigator aspired to be non-invasive, low-profile
      and allow for ease when performing exercises. However, this design may be deemed too time
      consuming to make, particularly for the inexperienced therapist in a busy clinic. This study
      will present a further iteration of the dynamic traction orthosis with the aim that it is
      easy-to-make, non-invasive, low-profile and allow for ease in performing active and passive
      exercises. The clinical effectiveness of this method will be examined by analyzing treatment
      outcomes in a case series cohort.

      The new orthosis design will be easy to fabricate and can be produced with common materials
      and tools in a hand therapy clinic. It offers a non-invasive approach to dynamic traction and
      simultaneously is easy to perform a variety of tendon glides and active and passive
      exercises. It also reduces the risk associated with nail traction and pinning. It is
      low-profile ensuring range of motion is maintained in non-affected joints and helps
      participation in activities of daily living. The proposed case series will illustrate this
      method and explore its clinical application by presenting outcomes.

      Though a recent scoping review reports that research addressing traction orthoses and
      constructs consists of primarily low-quality studies and no consensus on the their effect on
      different fracture classifications, this small study will act as a feasibility study to
      assess the orthosis design with a focus on displaced oblique proximal phalangeal fractures or
      potentially unstable oblique proximally phalangeal fractures
    
  