
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish whether the addition of OSI-774 (Tarceva) to the combination of paclitaxel
      and carboplatin encourages pathologic complete response (pCR) rates in patients with Stage
      III optimally cytoreduced (stratum 1) and Stage III suboptimally cytoreduced or Stage IV
      (stratum 2) ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube carcinomas when used as front line
      therapy.

      II. To determine the degree and type of toxicity associated with this combined regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish baseline epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), truncated EGFR (EGFRvIII),
      phosphorylated EGFR (pEGFR) and related signal transduction pathway protein expression levels
      (such as the mitogen activated protein kinase p-ERK, AKT phosphorylation and Her2/neu) in
      tumor samples obtained pretreatment, and to correlate these with achieving pCR.

      II. To describe changes in EGFR, EGFRvIII, pEGFR expression levels and other related signal
      transduction pathway expression occurring during treatment with OSI-774 in combination with
      chemotherapy.

      III. To determine the effect of the addition of OSI-774 (Tarceva) to the combination of
      paclitaxel and carboplatin on progression-free interval in patients with Stage III optimally
      cytoreduced (stratum 1) and Stage III suboptimally cytoreduced or Stage IV (stratum 2)
      ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinomas when used as front line therapy.

      IV. To determine the tolerability of twelve months of maintenance treatment with OSI-774 for
      patients achieving pCR, and to measure the progression-free interval for this population.

      V. To document cutaneous effects of OSI 774 prospectively, and to correlate the degree of
      skin rash with clinical and translational endpoints.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage
      (stage III with optimal residual disease vs stage III with suboptimal residual disease or
      stage IV).

      Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Patients also receive oral erlotinib daily. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve
      a pathologic complete response, those initially suboptimally debulked with a response, and
      patients who elect not to undergo surgical reassessment but who achieve a complete clinical
      response receive maintenance erlotinib for an additional 12 months.
    
  