
    
      A total of 80 patients will be recruited for part 1 of the study. Participants will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to a standard anesthetic group or standard anesthetic with
      vibration groups. All intravitreal drugs will be delivered via 30 gauge needles through the
      pars plana in the inferotemporal quadrant 3.5 to 4 mm posterior to the limbus. Once
      recruited, a single eye requiring injection for each enrolled patient will be randomized into
      1 of 2 groups: aesthesiometer measurement alone with sham vibration (vibrator will not be
      triggered) (Group 1) or handheld vibrator application and triggering followed by
      aesthesiometer measurement (Group 2). The vibrator will be applied to the lower eyelid while
      retracting it during standard intravitreal injection prepped with topical anesthetic
      (Proparacaine 1%) and Betadine. The main outcome measure of will be patient comfort, as
      measured by the patient using a standardized Wong-Baker FACES Pain Rating Scale.

      An additional 30 eyes of 30 healthy patients not requiring intravitreal injection will be
      recruited to determine the effect of vibrator application and triggering to the lower lid on
      corneal and conjunctival (inferotemporal quadrant) sensation as measured using an
      aesthesiometer. No topical anesthetic will be applied prior to esthesiometry measurements are
      taken with and without vibration triggering.

      All patient identifying information will be removed and patients will be identified with a
      random number. Data will be checked regularly by a data monitoring committee. Patient records
      will be reviewed and the following data will be collected: demographic data (age, gender,
      injected eye, reason for injection), best-corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and
      complications/adverse events associated with intravitreal injections. Statistical analyses
      will include univariate comparisons between treatment groups using the Student t-test for
      continuous variables and χ2 test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables.
    
  