
    
      Sarcoidosis is an idiopathic disorder characterized by granulomatous inflammation involving
      various organ systems. The disease is diagnosed based on a suggestive clinicoradiological
      picture and the presence of non-caseating granulomas in the involved organ, after excluding
      known causes of granulomatous inflammation. The lung and mediastinal lymph nodes are the most
      commonly involved structures in sarcoidosis. Various bronchoscopic techniques such as
      endobronchial biopsy (EBB), transbronchial biopsy (TBLB) and transbronchial needle aspiration
      (TBNA) are commonly used for acquiring tissue samples.

      In the presence of intrathoracic lymph nodes, TBNA is a useful diagnostic modality,
      especially when combined with endobronchial and transbronchial biopsies. At most centers,
      TBNA is now guided using endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS). The technique is minimally invasive
      and also offers the advantage of a selection of the appropriate node for sampling based on
      the ultrasonographic characteristics. Several studies have demonstrated the superiority of
      EBUS-TBNA over conventional TBNA (TBNA performed without real-time guidance).

      Several technical aspects of EBUS-TBNA have been studied to optimize the yield including the
      number of aspirations or passes required per lymph node station, needle gauge (21 vs. 22
      gauge), suction pressure, the distance travelled by the needle within the lymph node, the
      number of needle agitations required during a pass, and others.

      The novel 19-G Vizishot FLEX EBUS needle (Olympus) is composed of a more flexible material
      (nitinol) than the 22-G EBUS needle. This allows it to have a larger inner diameter with the
      same outer diameter as a 22-G EBUS needle. Recent studies have shown that the 19-G needle is
      safe and has a comparable yield to smaller bore needles. In case of suspected lymphadenopathy
      due to malignant disorders, aspiration using smaller gauge needles may yield sufficient
      material for diagnosis. However, in sarcoidosis, larger nodal tissue obtained with a thicker
      bore needle, the 19-gauge needle, may potentially increase the identification of granulomas.
      We hypothesize that the 19-gauge EBUS-TBNA needle will have a higher yield as compared to the
      conventional 22-gauge EBUS-TBNA needle in intrathoracic lymphadenopathy due to sarcoidosis.
      In this study, we plan to evaluate the yield and safety of the 19-gauge needle vs. the
      conventional 22-gauge EBUS-TBNA needle in patients with sarcoidosis.
    
  