
    
      Background: There is a worldwide shortage of organs available for transplant, leading to
      preventable morbidity and mortality. While the majority of the general public in many
      countries support organ donation, actual donor registration rates are substantially out of
      step with these views. For instance, in Canada most Canadians support organ donation but less
      than 25% in most provinces have registered. The family physician office is a promising yet
      underused setting in which to address known barriers and facilitators to registration for
      deceased organ and tissue donation and to provide an immediate opportunity to register while
      in the waiting room for those wanting to do so.

      Methods/Design: The investigators aim to evaluate the effects of having reception staff in
      family physician offices to prompt patients upon check-in with an educational pamphlet using
      a cluster, stepped-wedge randomized design. A mobile tablet will also be added to the waiting
      area to provide patients with the immediate opportunity to register. Family physicians are
      also provided with an educational booklet and encouraged to discuss organ donation with their
      patients. The investigators will use behaviour change techniques designed to address
      previously anticipated barriers and enablers to organ and tissue donation registration. The
      investigators will evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention conducted in six family
      physician offices in Ontario, Canada. Following a two-week baseline control period, offices
      will cross sequentially into the intervention arm in a random sequence at two-week intervals
      until all offices deliver the intervention (baseline + two weeks for each of six offices).
      The primary outcome will be the proportion of patients that have registered for deceased
      organ donation following in the 7 days following their office visit, using routinely
      collected registry data (i.e. administrative databases). The investigators will also conduct
      a qualitative post-trial process evaluation will assess reception staff and family physicians
      experiences with the intervention.

      Discussion: Promoting organ and donor registration remains an important strategy for organ
      procurement organizations and patients worldwide. The results of this trial will inform a
      provincial roll-out strategy to promote organ donation in family physician offices.
    
  