
    
      Carpal tunnel syndrome is the most common compressive neuropathy, occurring in 0.1 to 3% of
      the population. The incidence is reported to be higher in certain at risk populations. 87% of
      individuals exhibit bilateral symptoms. In patients who fail conservative treatment, surgery
      is indicated. To date, it is not know whether patients benefit from undergoing simultaneous
      or consecutive carpal tunnel release. Some patients express concern that having both hands
      operated on may make it impossible to perform necessary activities of daily living in the
      early postoperative period. Other patients express concern that having two surgeries
      increases their out of pocket cost, their total disability time, and lengthens the amount of
      time to resolution of preoperative symptoms. One previous study has attempted to characterize
      the differences in the effect on activities of daily living of these two treatment paradigms.
      This study was limited by the fact that there was no comparison group to the study cohort.

      Cohort #1: Patients undergoing simultaneous bilateral carpal tunnel release. Inclusion
      criteria includes any adult patient indicated for bilateral carpal tunnel release. Exclusion
      criteria include age less than 18, pregnancy, any protected patient population, and the lack
      of assistance at home during the early postoperative period.

      Cohort #2: Patients undergoing unilateral carpal tunnel release. Inclusion criteria include
      any adult patient indicated for unilateral carpal tunnel release. Exclusion criteria include
      age less than 18, pregnancy, and any protected patient population.

      Once a patient has been identified in the clinic the consent process will begin. Consent will
      be administered by a member of the research team. Being part of this investigation will not
      change the standard treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome in any way. After surgery, patients
      will go home and be asked to fill out the Quick DASH, Levine-Katz Severity Score, WHO HPQ,
      and SF-6D on pre-operatively and at their first post-operative visit. They will also fill out
      an activities of daily living log that asks the patient to rate on a scale from 1 to 5 how
      much difficulty he or she has with each task on the list. The patient will return their ADL
      log to their physician on their first postoperative visit. A final postoperative visit will
      occur at 1 month. The investigational questionnaires will be filled out one last time at that
      visit. No long term follow up is required. Patients will be contacted on their first
      post-operative day to ensure receipt of the daily log, the day prior to the first post
      operative visit as a reminder to bring the log into clinic, and on the day before their last
      post-operative visit thanking them for participation in the study. During their final phone
      call patients will be asked what factors contributed to their decision to proceed or not
      proceed with undergoing bilateral carpal tunnel release.
    
  