
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) affects approximately half of all women over age 501. The most
      common type of POP is anterior vaginal wall prolapse. Symptoms associated with POP include:
      voiding dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction and vaginal bulge symptoms. Treatments for pelvic
      organ prolapse include among other options, vaginal pessary or surgery. Several studies have
      documented improved vaginal bulge symptoms in women treated with a pessary2,3,4; however,
      data are sparse regarding the effect of pessaries on lower urinary tract symptoms,
      specifically with regard to over active bladder symptoms.

      Overactive bladder, observed in approximately 40% of women 50 years of age or older, is very
      common in women with pelvic organ prolapse. Two retrospective studies have shown improvement
      in women with overactive bladder symptoms following treatment with a vaginal pessary. One
      study (using a non-validated questionnaire) found that, at two month follow-up, patients
      successfully fitted with a pessary experienced a reduction in slightly less than half of
      their urge incontinence symptoms.5 A second study (using the Sheffield pelvic organ prolapse
      symptom questionnaire), revealed that 4 months after insertion of a pessary, 38% of patients
      experienced reduced urinary urgency, and 29% experienced reduced urge urinary incontinence6.
      Despite these data, many women stop using a pessary secondary to complaints of increased
      urine incontinence. More information is needed on pessary therapy impact on bladder function.

      Specific Aim(s):

      This study will prospectively evaluate women with pelvic organ prolapse and overactive
      bladder symptoms treated with either

        1. a pessary and solifenacin, or

        2. a pessary and placebo. We will assess the effects of these therapies on overactive
           bladder symptoms over the course of the 14-week study.
    
  