
    
      One hour before the surgery, patients are premedicated with lorazepam (per os, 2.5 mg).
      Induction of anaesthesia is achieved by iv midazolam (30 μg/kg), sufentanyl (0.4-0.5 μg/kg),
      and propofol (0.3-0.5 mg/kg), and iv propofol (50 mg/kg/min) is administered to maintain
      anaesthesia. Intravenous boluses of rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg for induction and 0.2 mg/kg every
      30 minutes for maintenance) is administered iv to ensure neuromuscular blockade. A cuffed
      tracheal tube (internal diameter of 7, 8, or 9 mm) is used for tracheal intubation, and
      patients are mechanically ventilated (Dräger Zeus, Lübeck, Germany) in volume-controlled mode
      with decelerating flow. A tidal volume of 7 ml/kg and a positive end-expiratory pressure of 4
      cmH2O are applied, and the ventilation frequency is adjusted to 12-14 breaths/min to maintain
      end-tidal CO2 partial pressure of 36 38 mmHg. Mechanical ventilation is performed with a
      fraction of inspired oxygen of 0.5 before CPB, and it is increased to 0.8 after CPB. As a
      standard part of the cardiac anaesthesia procedure, oesophageal and rectal temperature probes
      are introduced, and a central venous line is inserted into the right jugular vein. The left
      radial artery is also cannulated to monitor systolic, diastolic and mean arterial (MAP) blood
      pressures and arterial blood gas samples.

      The membrane oxygenator is primed with 1,500 ml lactated Ringer's solution prior to CPB.
      Intravenous heparin (300 U/kg) is injected into the patient, to achieve an activated clotting
      time of 400 s during CPB procedures. During CPB, mild hypothermia is allowed, the mechanical
      ventilation is stopped, and the ventilator is disconnected without applying positive airway
      pressure. Before restoring ventilation, the lungs are inflated 3-5 times to a peak airway
      pressure of 30 cmH2O to facilitate lung recruitment.

      After securing arterial and peripheral venous lines and placement of NIRS and entropy
      sensors, data collection is initiated immediately before anesthesia induction in all groups
      of patients. Since catheterization of the jugular vein is scheduled after anesthesia
      induction, ScvO2 and gSO2 data are not available at the first protocol stage. After induction
      and before surgical incision, all measurements are repeated. The whole data set is registered
      at the beginning of CPB after clamping the aorta and 5 min before the end of CPB. The final
      stage of the protocol is allocated to the end of the operation after sternal closure. All
      invasive (i.e. arterial and venous blood gas) and non-invasive (i.e. NIRS) data are
      registered simultaneously at each protocol stage.

      Sample sizes are estimated to enable the detection of a 10% difference in the primary outcome
      parameter gSO2 that we considered clinically significant. Accordingly, sample-size estimation
      based on an ANOVA test with 4 groups of patients (diabetic and control patients undergoing
      CPB with alpha-stat or pH-stat acid-base regime) indicated that 100 patients were required in
      each group to detect a significant difference between the protocol groups.

      Two-way repeated measures ANOVA with the inclusion of an interaction term is used for all
      measured variables with the protocol stage as within-subject factor (protocol stages) and
      group allocation as between-subject factor to establish the effects of T2DM and the acid-base
      management regime on the parameters of cerebral oxygenation. At half-way of the data
      collection, an interim analyses will be performed and the further data collection will be
      proceeded based on the results of this analysis.
    
  