
    
      Gliomas are tumours that originate from glial cells in the central nervous system. The most
      common histological subtype is GBM, which accounts for nearly 50% of all malignant brain
      tumours. Despite aggressive multimodal treatment, the median survival for GBM is poor (8-15
      months).

      Although cancer is regarded as a genetic disease, it may be perceived as a metabolic
      disorder. The majority of human cancers, including GBM, display low numbers of mitochondria,
      most of which are structurally damaged, resulting in defective cell respiration. To
      compensate, cancer cells greatly increase their uptake of glucose, which is fermented
      (regardless of oxygen concentration, a process known as the Warburg Effect) to generate
      energy. Cancer cells also rely on increased growth signaling pathways involving insulin,
      insulin-like growth factor-1, and mammalian target of rapamycin to support their unbridled
      growth and proliferation. Cancer cells may therefore be vulnerable to interventions that
      selectively target their abnormal metabolism.

      Metabolic interventions, such as fasting and ketogenic diets, target cancer cell metabolism
      and may be effective alongside standard treatments in advanced cancers. Fasting is a
      voluntary abstinence from food and drink for a controlled period of time (typically, 12 hours
      to 3 weeks in humans), whereas ketogenic diets are high-fat, adequate-protein,
      low-carbohydrate diets that stimulate the body to create a fasting-like metabolic state.
      Fasting and ketogenic diets stimulate mitochondria biogenesis, decrease blood glucose,
      increase liver production of fat-derived ketones (which serve as a major alternative energy
      source for most normal cells within the body, but cannot be utilized by cancer cells), and
      decrease growth factor availability. Thus, fasting and ketogenic diets provide an advantage
      for normal cells but a disadvantage to cancer cells by enhancing mitochondria biogenesis and
      function, depriving cancer cells of their major fuel, and creating a cell environment
      unfavourable for unbridled growth and proliferation.

      Preliminary experience at Waikato Hospital has shown that a metabolic therapy program (MTP)
      consisting of fasting and/or a ketogenic diet is feasible, safe, and may be effective in
      patients with advanced cancer, including GBM. In a recent case report, a metabolic strategy
      (7-day fast every 1-2 months, with a ketogenic diet between fasts) resulted in the
      near-complete regression of a stage IVA metastatic thymoma after 2 years. Moreover, we are
      currently observing 8 glioblastoma patients who voluntarily consented to undergo fasting and
      ketogenic diet therapy in a manner similar to what we propose to use in this study; at an
      average of 4-5 months, all patients have completed the fasts and adhered to their ketogenic
      diet, experiencing only mild adverse effects.

      On this background, we aim to determine whether using an MTP concurrently with standard
      oncological treatment (chemoradiation followed by adjuvant chemotherapy) is feasible and
      safe, and has treatment outcomes consistent with greater overall treatment efficacy than in
      published trials, in patients with GBM.
    
  