
    
      Lung disease is one of the largest contributors to morbidity and mortality in the UK, with
      20% of the population diagnosed with, or receiving treatment for a respiratory condition.

      Methods of diagnosis are still convoluted and can be difficult to perform, or very costly in
      patient and clinician time. Some diagnostic tests only look for a specific type of
      inflammation (e.g. Fractional exhaled Nitric Oxide) and so can overlook other causes. It can
      be hard to differentiate between different conditions, and as a result there are thousands of
      people in the UK who have undiagnosed or misdiagnosed respiratory disease.

      Measurement of Exhaled Breath Condensate Hydrogen Peroxide (EBC H2O2) is performed during
      normal tidal breathing, and is well tolerated even in patients with severe airways
      obstruction and those unable to perform a consistent controlled exhalation. It is also not
      limited to inflammatory cell specific inflammation.

      In studies using the previous version of the Inflammacheck™ device, significant differences
      have been demonstrated between levels of H2O2 in people with COPD, asthma, ILD and lung
      cancer compared to healthy controls. These studies have been instrumental in the continued
      improvement of the device, to ensure that the participant has the best experience, and
      simplify the procedure, so that the H2O2 result can be obtained with a single test in under 3
      minutes.

      Although the primary result of the Inflammacheck™ device is EBC H2O2, it is now also able to
      measure clinically important parameters including breath temperature, humidity, Carbon
      Dioxide waveforms, and intra-thoracic pressure changes. These parameters, in combination with
      the EBC H2O2 may be able to be used together to identify differences between people with
      various respiratory diseases and healthy volunteers. The device has also been improved based
      on the participant feedback, to ensure that it is user friendly and comfortable.

      The investigators need to determine whether the parameters (H2O2, humidity, temperature,
      exhaled CO2 waveform and intra-thoracic pressure), as measured by 'Inflammacheck™' can either
      alone or in combination differentiate asthma, COPD, lung cancer, ILD, breathing pattern
      disorder, bronchiectasis and pneumonia from other each other and from healthy controls.
    
  