
    
      The study will include all patients admitted to ICU with or developing severe sepsis or
      septic shock within 24-hr after admission to ICU. Patients will be categorized according to
      at-admission inorganic phosphate (Pi) level into normophosphatemia group and hypophosphatemia
      group (HP) (mild, moderate and severe HP). All patients will be evaluated using Sequential
      Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score
      (APACHE II) and blood samples will be collected for ELISA estimation of serum Pi, human
      C-reactive protein (CRP), L-lactate, CBC picture , serum electrolytes and kidney and liver
      function tests. Serum Pi level will be re-estimated immediately and 24-hr after full dose
      administration. Outcomes will include the 28-day ICU morbidity and mortality rates and their
      relation to HP severity and PST administration.

      Patients who will fulfill the inclusion criteria will be selectively divided into two groups
      according to estimated level of serum Pi: Control group will include patients with serum Pi
      >2.5 mg/dl and Study group will include patients having serum Pi<2.5 mg/dl and will be
      further sub-grouped according to severity of HP into mild HP (2-2.5 mg/dl), moderate (1-1.9
      mg/dl) or severe (<1 mg/dl).

      Central venous catheter will be inserted for all patients enrolled in the study via the
      jugular or subclavian vein. Then, baseline hemodynamic parameters and central venous pressure
      (CVP) will be estimated and will be continuously monitored. Arterial blood samples will be
      obtained anaerobically and collected in heparinized tubes for estimation of arterial blood
      gas and pH.

      Sepsis management: Patients were managed according to guidelines of Surviving

      Sepsis Campaign; briefly:

        1. Fluid therapy

        2. Vasoactive drug therapy

        3. Intropics

        4. Antibiotic therapy

      HP management regimen follows:

        1. Calculation of supplementation dose according to the equation: phosphate dose (in mmol)
           = 0.5 x body weight x (1.25 - [serum Pi]).

        2. Preparation that will be used: Glycophos®, Fresenius Kabi Egypt (organic phosphate
           solution 1mmol/ml). Vial 20 ml (1ml contains 1mmol of phosphate and 2mmol of sodium).

        3. Dilution: will be diluted prior to parenteral administration. 20 ml of
           sodium-glycerophosphate diluted in 30 cc of dextrose 5% administered by syringe pump (50
           mL).

        4. The total calculated dose will be divided into three doses every 8 hours.
    
  