
    
      Postural stability (balance) is an essential skill across many genres of dance in order to
      create and maintain specific positions and motions with proper technique. Previously, it has
      been shown that dance interventions can lead to improvements in postural stability in elderly
      populations. However, there is limited research examining changes in balance following ballet
      dance class interventions for older adults.

      One-hour ballet classes will be held twice per week in one of the two dance studios at
      Skidmore College. A dance student will serve as the lead teacher for each dance class session
      throughout the 10 weeks of ballet classes. Each week the participants will partake in 120
      minutes of ballet dance training, starting with warm-up exercises at the barre and then
      working towards learning combinations in the center. They will learn the basic positions and
      combinations used in ballet, including: Plié, Tendu, Degagé, Rond de Jambe, Frappé, Chassé,
      Sauté, Pas de Bourrée, Glissade, and Révérance. Additional ballet movements and patterns may
      be employed as well. Skidmore students acting as teachers for the ballet classes will receive
      training packets with all necessary information about the logistics of the class and
      suggestions on how to be assist during the classes. The packet will discuss appropriate
      interactions and confidentiality during the class.

      To assess postural stability, participants will be asked to stay in a static standing
      position for trials of 30 seconds while standing on a Wii board in four of the following
      conditions : 1) bilateral stance with eyes open, 2) bilateral stance with eyes closed, 3)
      unilateral stance on the right limb 4) unilateral stance on the left limb. Participants will
      be given a 15 seconds rest period between each trial and will be told they may stop and rest
      at any moment during the testing process. Data collection will take place at the multipurpose
      room (Williamson Sports Center), the intramural gym (Williamson Sports Center), or at the
      Prestwick Chase facility or the Saratoga Senior Center (if requested by an activities
      director) prior to the start of the ballet classes with post-testing to be completed the week
      of, or following, the final ballet class. Tests of postural stability will be verbally
      explained/instructed to create clear expectations for the test and to help decrease any fear
      or anxiety surrounding the process.
    
  