
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effectiveness of octreotide in reducing acute treatment-related diarrhea
           in patients receiving external-beam radiotherapy to the pelvis.

        -  Determine the effectiveness of this drug in reducing chronic treatment-related bowel
           dysfunction in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Assess the importance that these patients attach to various measures of bowel function.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to prior anterior resection of the rectum (yes vs no), total planned
      cumulative dose of radiotherapy, including boost fields (4,500-5,350 cGy vs 5,351-6,000 cGy
      vs more than 6,000 cGy), use of concurrent fluorouracil (none vs bolus vs continuous
      infusion), use of concurrent leucovorin calcium (yes vs no), use of concurrent cisplatin (yes
      vs no), superior border of initial field (at or inferior to the L4-5 interspace vs superior
      to the L4-5 interspace), planned intracavitary brachytherapy (yes vs no), and primary site of
      disease (rectal cancer vs prostate cancer vs gynecological cancer vs other). Beginning no
      later than the fourth day of radiotherapy, patients are randomized to one of two treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive short-acting octreotide subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 and
           long-acting octreotide intramuscularly (IM) on days 2 and 29.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo SC on day 1 and IM on days 2 and 29. In both arms,
           treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or the development of severe
           diarrhea.

      Patients complete a bowel function questionnaire at baseline, weekly during radiotherapy, and
      then weekly for 4 weeks and at 1 and 2 years after completion of radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed weekly for 4 weeks and then at 1 and 2 years.
    
  