
    
      Pembrolizumab is a new standard of care in chemotherapy (CT) pre-treated urothelial cancer
      (UC) patients and nab-paclitaxel has shown one of the highest activities among chemotherapy
      options in UC. Their combination may overcome resistance to immunotherapy (IT) and result in
      longer delay in the time to disease progression (PD). We will explore dynamic biomarkers of
      response to CT+IT.

      In an open-label, single-arm, single-center, phase 2 trial, patients will receive
      pembrolizumab 200 mg intravenously (IV) on D1 and nab paclitaxel at the dose of 125 mg/m2 IV
      on D1 and D8. Cycles are repeated every 3 weeks until PD or onset of unacceptable toxicity.
      Key inclusion criteria are: predominant UC, failure of maximum 2 platinum-based CT regimens
      for metastatic disease (2nd-to-3rd line only). Neoadjuvant/adjuvant CT is counted if relapse
      occurred 6 months of the last CT cycle. Response is evaluated by RECIST criteria v.1.1 every
      2 cycles. PD-L1 expression will be prospectively assessed on both immune cells (IC) and tumor
      cells at a centralized laboratory (National Cancer Institute Milano). Combined positivity
      score (CPS) for PD-L1 assessment will be used, as previously reported, and the 10% cutoff
      will be adopted for the analyses. The primary endpoint of the study is the progression-free
      survival (PFS). The target is to detect an improvement in the median PFS from 3.0 months (H0)
      to 5.0 months (H1). To achieve 90% power with a one-sided non-parametric test at the 10%
      significance level, we estimated that 64 patients must be accrued over 18 months, with
      follow-up duration of 12 months. PFS will be also analyzed according to the PD-L1 expression.
      Should the above investigation suggest that the treatment benefit is stronger in patients
      with CPS 10%, there is the option to expand this cohort up to a maximum of 50 patients. As
      such, we estimate 85% power to detect the target improvement in PFS. The decision of cohort
      expansion will rely on predictive power (PP) calculation: a PP 30% will be regarded as
      promising. Translational analyses will include multiparametric flow cytometry of blood
      samples, gene expression (RNA-seq, Illumina HiSeq) and mutation profiling of tumor samples
      (Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine). These profiles will be matched with response to
      treatment and PFS/overall survival.

      The trial is registered with EudraCT, number 2017-000579-10.
    
  