
    
      Osteoarthritis, which is encountered more and more with the aging population; It can occur
      depending on various factors such as gender, age, genetic factors, type of nutrition and
      joint structure. According to the studies, osteortritis ranks eleventh in the world among the
      factors that cause disability in individuals. Self-care activities of osteortritis
      individuals, especially in walking and mobility restrictions, also limit the participation of
      producers and leisure activities. Pain is among the most important findings that cause
      limitation in participation for osteoarthritis, which is frequently seen in individuals over
      the age of 40. In individuals with osteoarthritis, methods such as the use of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs and physical rehabilitation in coping with pain are frequently used
      in cases where these methods are insufficient.

      Total knee arthroplasty (TDA) is a surgical approach that is frequently applied to reduce
      pain due to severe joint damage to the knee, improve functionality and quality of life. In
      our country, approximately 20 thousand knee arthroplasty surgeries are performed every year
      and individuals who have undergone this surgery are frequently among individuals over 60
      years old. This surgery is usually performed in cases of pain, deformity or severe
      dysfunction resulting from arthritis (osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, other).
      Osteoarthritis is seen as one of the main causes of this practice.

      Factors such as decreased pain, increased quality of life, increased functionality and
      decreased level of dependence on others are among the expectations for recovery from patients
      after surgery. Studies show that individuals can return to daily activities for the first six
      weeks after surgery, and pain-related symptoms decrease in the first four weeks and therefore
      functional recovery is accelerated. It is stated that full recovery includes a one-year
      period. However, among the reasons that negatively affect post-surgical healing, various
      conditions ranging from systemic problems to mortality, complications due to the healing of
      wounds, circulatory problems, motor losses due to peroneal nerve damage, impaired
      biomechanics of the knee joint, development of infection, relaxation of arthroplasty,
      dislocations and post-surgical idiopathic pain. development of physical factors.

      It is stated that after arthroplasty surgery, besides the physiological factors, the factors
      related to the individuals may affect the recovery. Among these factors, one of the most
      defined in the literature is kinesiophobia. Although kinesiophobia is defined as the terms of
      "fear of movement" and "fear related to pain"; There are also definitions for situations in
      which fear of movement is most extreme or pain-related fear avoidance beliefs. Kinesiophobia,
      which usually occurs in the preoperative period and supports the development of chronic pain,
      may also affect the early recovery findings. It is very important to determine the presence
      and severity of kinesiophobia as it is associated with functional results after surgery.

      Individuals' perceptions about themselves, expectations of recovery, and personal beliefs
      before surgery are thought to affect recovery in the early period. In the studies conducted,
      it was stated that individuals with high perception about himself and the surgical process
      recover faster and return to activities. However, it is emphasized that studies should be
      conducted on the effect of individuals' personal factors such as self-efficacy,
      self-perception and their perspective on health on the healing process.

      Investigation of factors affecting functional capacity, balance and mobility in individuals
      who have undergone total knee surgery with these approaches; Taking into account the
      perceptual problems that exist in addition to orthopedic problems, all problems in education
      are addressed holistically. Our work based on this idea; It is planned to investigate the
      factors affecting functional capacity, balance and mobility in individuals who have undergone
      total knee arthroplasty surgery.

      In our study, between February 2020 and March 2020, Fırat University Training and Research
      Hospital, an orthopedic specialist will be diagnosed with osteoarthritis and patients who
      will undergo total knee arthroplasty surgery will be evaluated. Factors affecting patients'
      functional capacity, balance and mobility will be investigated.

      From the patient records, as demographic features; patients' age, gender, body weight,
      height, hand (dominant hemisphere), profession and educational status, history of the disease
      will be taken. To our orthopedic evaluation form; muscle strength, range of motion, gait
      analysis, kinesiophobia, pain state, contracture state, obesity state, condition of
      intracapsular structures, etc. Information about will be obtained.

      With these data, it will be investigated whether there is a change in the functional
      capacity, balance and mobility of patients, and which factors its balance depends on.

      Individuals will be obtained from the individuals before surgery, 1 month after surgery and 3
      months after surgery: TAMPA Kinesiophobia Scale, Lequesne knee osteoarthritis severity index,
      WOMAC scale and gait analysis evaluation data.

      Statistical analysis of the study will be made with "Statistical Package for Social Sciences"
      (SPSS) Version IBM Statistic 20. Demographic data will be given as mean ± SD. Students t test
      will be used in continuous variables analysis, and Chi Square Test will be used to compare
      percentages. Differences below P value <0.05 will be considered meaningful.
    
  