
    
      Osteoarthritis is one of the most common joint disorders in the elderly, yet few studies have
      targeted symptomatic osteoarthritis, especially symptomatic hand osteoarthritis.

      Hand OA is a chronic disease for which no cure is currently available, the symptomatic
      pharmacologic treatment has significant side effects , and none of the recommended passive
      modality physical therapies have been demonstrated to improve function. To this end, our
      study constitutes a systematic approach to show how patients with hand OA might benefit from
      an intervention that is free of side effects, easily administered, and readily acceptable.

      STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of exercise for the reduction of hand functional
      disability associated with hand osteoarthritis that is both symptomatic and radiographic.

      Intervention activity: A 16-week, home-based exercise program designed to decrease physical
      impairment of the hands. The exercise routine consists of nine (9) exercises performed once
      daily, bilaterally. The program will take about 10-20 minutes to complete. Six (6) exercises
      involve active range-of-motion (AROM) and three (3) involve hand and finger flexion using a
      Thera-Band ® Hand Exerciser (Hygenic Corporation, Akron, OH). The Hand Exerciser is a polymer
      ball with resistance that varies by color, with yellow 'extra soft' at approximately 1.5 lbs
      when 50% compressed, red "soft" at 3 lbs, green "medium" at 5 lbs, and blue "firm" at 8 lbs.
      The Hand Exerciser comes in two sizes; "regular" will be used for small to average sized
      hands and "extra large" for larger hands. The starting resistance for each subject will be
      determined by baseline grip and pinch static strength testing. Those with weaker grip or key
      pinch will use a softer ball, stronger subjects will use medium or firm, per predetermined
      standards. Some subjects may use more than one color of ball depending on clinical
      presentation (e.g., greater pain and dysfunction in MCP may require softer ball for pinching
      exercises, while a firmer ball is appropriate for gripping). A study booklet with written
      instructions and photos will describe how to perform the exercises.

      Control activity: Application of a fragrance-free non-therapeutic topical cream, applied once
      daily. A study booklet with written instructions and photos will describe how to apply the
      cream.

      Order of activities in this crossover study is assigned randomly using a random number table.

      There will be a 16-week washout period of no intervention between the two treatment periods,
      regardless of the order in which the subjects began using the treatments. The washout period
      is designed to allow all measures to return to original baseline as much as possible.

      The study will be 48 weeks in duration (three 16-week periods). Subjects will be enrolled as
      a dynamic entry cohort. Subjects are to note any adverse reactions to the exercises or the
      topical hand cream. They are to report such to the principal investigator of the trial. All
      subjects will be asked to complete a Participation Log. This will give study investigators a
      surrogate measure of participation and compliance.

      As well as collecting information concerning demographics, medications, and relevant medical
      and social history at baseline, at each assessment participants will be asked to complete the
      AUSCAN Index (Australian Canadian Osteoarthritis Hand Index (AUSCAN) [Bellamy, 2002]). The
      AUSCAN Index is a self-administered questionnaire that assesses the three dimensions of pain,
      joint stiffness, and disability due to hand osteoarthritis using a battery of 15 questions.
      Scaled on 5-point Likert scales and 100mm Visual Analog Scales, the AUSCAN 3.1 is a valid,
      reliable and responsive measure of outcome. The index has been subject to validation studies
      that have addressed the following clinometric issues: reliability - stability, internal
      consistency; validity - face, content, construct; and responsiveness. The 100mm VA Scale will
      be used in the current study.

      At baseline and 16 weeks of each of the two treatment periods (exercise and and cream)
      subjects' maximum grip, key pinch, and 3-point pinch strengths will be assessed using Jamar®
      grip and pinch dynamometers (Sammons Preston Rolyan, Bolingbrook, IL). Dexterity will be
      measured using standard tests of the Purdue Peg Board (Lafayette Instruments, Lafayette, IN).

      Data collection schedule

      The AUCSAN Index will be administered after a subject has completed specified lengths of
      participation. All participants will be assessed three times during both the exercise and
      hand cream intervention periods.

        1. Baseline

        2. 8 weeks

        3. 16 weeks

      In addition, bilateral hand grip, key pinch, & 3-point pinch maximum strength, and hand
      dexterity (all best of 3 trials) will be tested at two points during each of the two
      intervention periods.

        1. Baseline

        2. 16 weeks

      STATISTICAL METHODS

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SAS statistical software (version 9.12, Cary,
      NC). Group differences of change between baseline and 16 weeks in hand function will be
      compared. Values and scores will be tested for Gaussian distribution (normality test). If the
      data are normally distributed, a parametric test (paired t-test) will be used. If the data
      are not normally distributed, a non-parametric test (signed ranks test) will be used. Data
      will be analyzed per intent-to-treat.
    
  