
    
      PROBE is the repository of a standardized survey of patients with hemophilia from a group of
      countries, to be run annually, collecting anonymized information on quality of life measures
      and treatment modalities. After developing the tool in phase 1 of the project, a pilot
      feasibility study is hereto described.

      Rationale/Goals

      Research based on patient-centered data is increasingly valued by government and private
      payers and utilized in public-policy decisions as part of the cost-benefit justification for
      high-cost care and treatment. A frequent question of payers is: Will additional investment
      (to sustain or expand care) improve the lives of persons with hemophilia?

      There is a significant need to improve our ability to collect, collate, and interpret
      relevant patient-centered data to support the implementation of comprehensive care, home
      treatment and preventative treatment regimens (e.g., prophylaxis). The PROBE study is
      intended to fill this gap and enhance the direct patient-voice in the delivery of care and
      move advocacy efforts to sustain and expand care beyond emotion to arguments grounded in
      evidence and data.

      The overall inventory and the specific metrics developed through PROBE will complement the
      existing global comparative metrics of the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) as provided
      in the WFH Global Survey (e.g., the percent of patients identified vs. expected within a
      country, amount of treatment products available within a country on a per capita basis, and
      the ratio of children to adults surviving into adulthood). While the WFH global metrics are
      valued and useful, they do not provide a complete or direct insight as to how patients are
      fairing within their health care system. The existing WFH metrics only serve as proxy
      measures of the impact of care on patient outcomes within a country.

      PROBE has an integrated knowledge translation component. This component will be manifested
      through the development and validation of an inventory able to recode experiential data
      contributed by patient organizations to a valid foundation for evidence-based decision making
      (e.g. within Health Technology Assessments [HTAs]). PROBE will also be useful in raising
      awareness within the community and the public of the impact of treatment for persons living
      with hemophilia (PWH) and the value of effective prevention.

      GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE PROBE PROGRAM

      The focus of PROBE will be to investigate and directly probe patient perspectives on outcomes
      they deem relevant to their care. Through PROBE, the investigators will develop and seek to
      validate the reliability, reproducibility and responsiveness of a low-cost, easily
      administrable inventory for collecting patient self-reported outcomes, burdens and
      experiences in living with hemophilia.

      A preliminary instrument definition and user testing phase has been completed. This phase has
      involved an interactive workshop and take-home project utilizing economic concepts and
      patient reported outcomes (PRO) collection techniques. The workshop was conducted on January
      22-23 in Barcelona, Spain. During this workshop, participants partook in an exercise
      utilizing the PROBE study draft questionnaire developed by the investigators and provided
      feedback for refinement prior to its finalization for use in the pilot feasibility
      assessment. During the workshop, the PROBE investigation team sought participant insight on
      the questionnaire, proposed inventory and study methodology. The workshop also further
      validated the overall PROBE study goals and better characterized the viability for patient
      organizations to simply collect self-reported PRO data directly from PWH.

      During this exercise, the research protocol was finalized, including inventory, metrics and
      questionnaire for collection of inventory data. Questionnaire was translated into local
      languages and explanatory materials to accompany questionnaire was developed.

      The questionnaire was developed based on the EQ-5D domains along with an abbreviated set of
      supplemental questions looking at various demographics, treatment options, and the impacts of
      hemophilia on a PWH's life.The final questionnaire integrates the EQ-5D-5L with additional
      domains assessing the impacts of hemophilia on a PWH's life (e.g., pain, independence,
      educational attainment, employment). The inventory domains, survey instruments, and normative
      data / comparators selected were identified to reflect those customarily utilized by coverage
      bodies (e.g. government / private payers, HTAs and Comparative Effectiveness Research). Where
      feasible, the investigators incorporated generic instruments that are already widely accepted
      by public policy makers. In developing the questionnaire, the investigators also reviewed
      available information on questions utilized or published for other research studies and data
      collection systems (e.g. ATHN, CDC, EHC, EUHASS, HERO, HUGS, WFH).

      CURRENT STUDY: PILOT FEASIBILITY STUDY

      This is a pilot feasibility study to validate the proof of concept, assess reproducibility
      and practicality of developing an inventory for large-scale assessment of patient-centered
      outcomes in PWH. The investigators expect to be able to compare the effect of different
      treatment delivery modalities and regimens on patient outcomes. The investigators anticipate
      that the metrics established will allow for comparison of patient outcomes within a country
      over time and cross-sectionally between countries (regionally and globally), thus providing
      an important new tool to sustain and promote additional health care investment.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Twelve countries have been invited to participate i(Australia, New Zealand, France, Hungary,
      Italy, Spain, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela).

      Each participating patient organization has committed to participate in this feasibility
      project. Six will be selected based on capacity assessment of the local infrastructure.

      The final questionnaire will be mailed to each of the participant organization in each of the
      countries, and administered to 2 groups of 50 subject for each country, three months apart.
      Questionnaire responses will be returned to a single independent site for analysis, where a
      central data repository will be established and data analyst retained (McMaster University).
      Demographic and treatment related information will be collected for correlation analysis and
      to assess the discriminatory properties of the questionnaire components, but not included in
      the final tool (inventory).

      Two moderate runs of the inventory will be conducted in each country three months apart to
      demonstrate reproducibility (Approximately 600 PWH in total - 50 PWH per sampling exercise x
      six countries x two test runs per country). Both paper and web versions will be developed
      with translations as required. PWH will be recruited for participation via patient
      organization contact database and their social media portals.

      Reproducibility will be assessed based on an analysis of amount of variability within and
      across sampling exercises with each country. Responsiveness will be assessed based on
      response rate and percent complete responses. Reliability will be demonstrated by a combined
      assessment of measurements for the primary outcomes (e.g. response rate, complete responses,
      agreement between exercises, completion time, cost and feasibility of execution.) (See:
      Primary Outcome Variables / Measurement Of Results section below).

      The data will be collected at the individual level, but responses will be de-identified and
      aggregated to perform comparison of outcomes at the population level rather than to allow
      comparison of outcomes at the individual patient level.

      Expected results

      The PROBE inventory will ideally complement and enhance the utility of the WFH database,
      providing the opportunity to build a country specific rich data set for comparisons of
      patient-centered outcomes and provide critical data to support advocacy efforts to improve
      morbidity, mortality and overall quality of life.

      Future applications could include development of a WFH Global Survey style report every 2-3
      years providing updated comparative data or a WFH training monograph to support a wider
      roll-out of the PROBE inventory with National Member Organizations. Additionally, the
      inventory could be routinely conducted both before commencing and after completion of a
      country development initiative (e.g. WFH GAP) or implementation of a major health care reform
      impacting PWH (e.g. introduction of prophylaxis or home treatment) to monitor and compare the
      impact on patient outcomes.

      Once validated, PROBE will establish a mechanism to make the inventory widely available for
      use within the hemophilia community. However, the specific mechanism to make the PROBE
      questionnaire and its related methodology available has not yet been established. This may
      include a system requesting prior consent to use and/or developing a mechanism for
      collaborative studies.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Each country will be permitted to determine their target population for the take-home
      project. The PROBE Investigators will provide guidance on study population parameters, as
      required. Patients will be recruited according to the final inclusion criteria. No
      randomization will be required.

      There will be approximately 600 PWH in total. The number of PWH participating in each country
      project will be variable. As this aspect of the PROBE study is an exercise to better
      understand best practices and obtain learning from execution of patient-centered research in
      country the number of participants has not been assessed as critical. This number of PWH
      (600) assumes 12 countries participate in the project.

      Moderate / Severe PWH (Age bands or limits may be utilized to narrow the study population).
      Patients will be recruited according to the final inclusion criteria. No randomization will
      be required. Two moderate to large test runs of the inventory will be conducted in each
      country three months apart to demonstrate reproducibility (Approximately 600 PWH in total =
      50 PWH per "sampling exercise" x six countries x two test runs per country). PWH
      participating in each of the two test runs may, but would not necessarily be the same.

      When normative data are not available for comparison to the general population, the
      investigators will consider strategies to produce a comparator (e.g. surveying non-effected
      siblings). They will also explore suitable data from other chronic conditions to support the
      aim of the study.

      Study results will include an assessment of the adequacy of the small sample size to achieve
      reproducibility. The study design is intended to describe characteristics generally within
      the overall study population and not to test for differences in certain attributes of
      subgroups.

      Inclusion Criteria - For both phases, PWH will be recruited through national hemophilia
      patient organizations utilizing their existing membership rosters, social media outlets and
      meetings / events. The investigators are not proposing a pre-determined method of PWH
      recruitment. They will utilize the the information gathered in the workshop and take-home
      project to inform best practice in recruitment methodology for the next steps of the project.
      The investigators may consider requesting different countries test different PWH recruitment
      strategies to test reproducibility.

      Exclusion Criteria - Disease severity and Age bands or age limits (e.g. ≥ Age 18) may be
      utilized to narrow the study population. During the January 2015 meeting of the investigators
      the inclusion / exclusion criteria will be finalized based on feedback learned during the
      workshop. Disease severity will be based on patient self-reported severity level.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME VARIABLES / MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS

        -  Response rate (number returned questionnaires/number sent)

        -  Percent complete responses (number answered question/number answerable questions)

        -  Time to completion (self-reported completion time, as median and IQR)

        -  Administrative cost per completed survey (human resources used and dollar-equivalent
           spent to run the survey)

      OTHER STUDY ELEMENTS

        -  Protected Patient Information - Customary processes will be implemented to protect
           individual patient identify. No identifiable patient information will be disclosed as
           part of the study. Data will be collected at the individual PWH level, but responses
           will be de-identified and aggregated to perform comparison of outcomes at the population
           level rather than to allow comparison of outcomes at the individual PWH level. Aggregate
           research results and periodic project updates will be provided to the sponsor. Raw data
           that could be attributable to individual respondents will not be provided. Independent
           management and autonomy from sponsor will be assured throughout the project.

        -  Adverse Event Reporting - Although it is not anticipated that the PROBE Study Team would
           receive reports of adverse events within the scope of the Study, if the Investigators
           are made aware of an adverse event involving a product manufactured by a study sponsor
           through the conduct of the study, the Investigators commit to notify sponsor within one
           (1) business day of actually becoming aware of any significant product complaint,
           unexpected adverse event, or governmental investigation or inquiry involving a sponsor's
           product.

        -  Institutional Review Board (IRB) Approval - Given the study design only contemplates
           patients and/or patient organizations directly collecting data from patients and that
           there is no planned direct Clinician / Hemophilia Treatment Center patient data
           collection, the investigators do not anticipate the need to require local patient
           organizations to obtain an IRB approval. They are aware of other global
           patient-to-patient studies similar to PROBE where IRB approval has not been required.

      Two of the primary outcome measures for PROBE are cost and time to completion of the Study.
      To achieve our goal of developing a low-cost, easily administrable inventory, the
      investigators will be striving to design a streamlined easily deployable system with minimal
      up from cost and administrative burdens. PROBE will be mindful that local laws and practices
      may vary and where required the investigators will comply with local practice for similar
      type studies. If in the course of PROBE the investigators determine protocols will change
      sufficiently to require IRB approval the investigators will do so.

      FUTURE STEPS

      The investigators expect PROBE to be used to perform three comparisons: among countries,
      within country over time, within country against national normative data. The investigators
      will preliminarily assess if normative data are available for the domains explored via
      existing instruments. When normative data are not available, the investigators will consider
      strategies to produce a comparator (e.g. surveying non-effected siblings). They will also
      explore suitable data from other chronic conditions to support the aim of the study. They
      will conduct a sensitivity analysis to assess the sufficiency of the inventory to measure
      changes on the impact of care within populations of PWH or overtime using data collected from
      disease specific questions in the PROBE questionnaire in combination with the EQ-5D.

      After demonstrating feasibility, a centralized data collection point will be established.
      Initial data compilation and cleaning of the database will be incorporated within the
      web-platform development and reporting agreement (e.g. McMaster University). An analyst
      experienced in analysis of EQ-5D data and the related study domains will conduct an initial
      analysis. The Investigators will then evaluate the data and determine the final comparisons
      and correlations for analysis. Supplemental analyses, data correlation and reporting will
      utilize / be contracted for with a university biostatics or health outcomes department
      experienced in similar studies (e.g. McMaster University, University of Southern California,
      North Carolina State University).

      Publication plan. The investigators plan to discuss the study results in an end-of-study
      meeting. A paper will be submitted to Haemophilia summarizing the research findings.
      Abstracts, posters and requests for oral presentation will be considered for relevant
      national, regional and international meetings (e.g., EAHAD, EHC, ISPOR, ISTH, NHF, and WFH).
      They will report the research findings to the participating patient organizations and once
      validated PROBE will establish a mechanism to make the inventory widely available for use
      within the hemophilia community.

      INVESTIGATION TEAM

      A global team of Investigators with diversity of professional and academic credentials*
      (e.g., quality of life study design, medical, epidemiology, quantitative analysis, legal and
      health care development) has been assembled.

      Principal Investigator:

        1. Mark Skinner JD, Institute for Policy Advancement Ltd. (US)

           Co-Investigators:

        2. Alfonso Iorio MD Ph.D. FRCPC, McMaster University, Department of Clinical Epidemiology
           and Biostatistics (Canada)

        3. Randall Curtis MBA, Factor VIII Computing (US)

        4. Neil Frick MS, National Hemophilia Foundation (US)

        5. Michael Nichol Ph.D., University of Southern California, School of Policy and Planning
           Development (US)

        6. Declan Noone, Irish Hemophilia Society (Ireland)

        7. David Page, Canadian Hemophilia Society (Canada)

        8. Jeff Stonebraker Ph.D., North Carolina State University Poole College of Management (US)

        9. Brian O'Mahoney, Irish Hemophilia Society (Ireland)

      As noted above, the investigation team includes members with a range of experiences. Specific
      to designing and testing novel instruments for use in patient outcomes research, the
      investigators note the following:

        -  Dr. Nichol (principal investigator) and Mr. Curtis (HUGS Steering Committee co-chair)
           are associated with the Hemophilia Utilization Group Study (HUGS). A multi-center
           observational study evaluating the cost of care and burden of illness over the past
           twenty years. HUGS has developed a number of novel PRO tools. In addition, Dr. Nichol
           has developed PRO instruments across a range of disorders outside hemophilia.

        -  Dr. Iorio is a member of the Haemophilia Experiences Results Opportunities (HERO)
           project which aims to build a comprehensive understanding of life with haemophilia as
           seen from the perspective of patients, families and caregivers. The HERO questionnaire
           was novel in its design and implementation via patient organizations.

        -  Mr. Noone has been a co-investigator and lead author on two multi-national research
           projects looking at outcomes for patients on prophylaxis, on-demand or combined therapy.
           Noone et al developed the instrument utilized in the studies.
    
  