
    
      The incidence of Caesarean section is increasing worldwide. Adequate post-operative analgesia
      is becoming an essential expectation of patients after Caesarean section. The process of
      recovery will be hindered by suboptimal pain control and eventually it will leads to
      immobilization and prolonged hospital stay.

      Spinal anesthesia is usually the mode of anesthesia in pregnancy in view of increase general
      anesthetic risks. Intrathecal morphine can provide good pain control. However, pruritus can
      occur in up to 51% of patient, nausea and vomiting in up to 21%. Despite its significant side
      effects, there is an overall better patient satisfactory over use of intrathecal morphine.
      Due to its concern on respiratory depression, intrathecal morphine is not recommended in
      patients with severe respiratory disease, obstructive sleep apnoea or those receiving central
      nervous system depressants. As a result, there were numerous studies on alleviating the
      adverse effect and to search for other alternatives.

      Rectus sheath block aims at blocking the terminal branches of 9th -12th intercostals nerve
      within the rectus sheath. They form rectus sheath plexus after piercing the posterior aspect
      of the rectus sheath and then branch into muscular and cutaneous branches. It can be given by
      anesthetist with or without ultrasound guidance. However, it involved additional time for
      administration of rectus sheath block and possibility of incorrect placement of catheter
      leading to ineffective analgesia.

      On the contrary, surgical rectus sheath block was administrated by surgeon before closure of
      rectus sheath. It involves injection of local anesthetic in the rectus sheath space before
      closure of the wound under direct visual control. Surgical rectus sheath block was shown to
      be effective in postoperative pain control after transverse laparotomy in paediatrics
      patients. It was shown to be effective in postoperative pain control in Caesarean section
      without intrathecal morphine.

      Surgical rectus sheath block may be a simple and safe alternative for intrathecal morphine.
      However, the evidence on its use in Obstetrics and Gynaecology was sparse and there is no
      study directly comparing the two different mode of analgesia. The aim of the study is to
      evaluate the use of surgical rectus sheath and intrathecal morphine for postoperative pain in
      Caesarean section; and its side effects profile.
    
  