
    
      -  This study is a prospective, open-label, randomized, controlled trial.

        -  The electronic medical record will be used to identify patients who have a diagnosis of
           alcohol withdrawal or are receiving alcohol withdrawal. Subjects who are anticipated to
           meet inclusion criteria will be pre-consented for the study using an informed consent
           process. see informed consent form.

        -  Subjects will not be enrolled and randomized until they have met inclusion criteria.

        -  If a patient meets criteria, but is deemed non-decisional or unable to give consent, the
           patient's medical decision maker will undergo the informed consent process.

        -  After enrollment, participants will be randomized to either the control group
           (lorazepam-based therapy) or the study group (phenobarbital-based therapy)

        -  Personnel unassociated with patient screening, enrollment, or follow up will create the
           allocation sequence and will use a random, computerized number generator. The allocation
           sequence will then be transferred to sequentially numbered, opaque envelopes for
           purposes of allocation concealment. These sequentially numbered envelopes, which are
           blinded to clinical trial coordinators/physicians, will be handed out in order as
           patients are enrolled. Clinical trial coordinators/physicians will verify treatment
           eligibility and informed consent before opening the envelope to obtain the treatment
           assignment.

        -  The study group will be placed on the phenobarbital-based protocol as described below in
           procedures. The control group will be placed on the lorazepam-based protocol, also
           listed below in procedures.

        -  All medications in the study are FDA approved. No investigational medicines will be
           used.

        -  Data will be collected on each participant as noted below in measurements.

        -  The data will be analyzed and published as noted above in the statistical analysis plan
           and data use and management section.
    
  