
    
      A growing body of evidence demonstrates that clinic-based interventions can be effectively
      used to treat pain-related interference in the daily life of chronic pain sufferers.
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) delivered face-to-face is an empirically supported
      intervention for the management of chronic pain (CP). The increasing demands for cost
      reduction for services in the healthcare system and obstacles regarding physical access to
      treatment highlight the need for innovative, cost-reducing, self-management interventions. In
      addition, the idea of home-based self-management support seems appealing to a significant
      number of sufferers of chronic conditions such as chronic pain. Digital interventions might
      present with feasible means to overcome many barriers such as physical access to treatment or
      financial obstacles while helping improve health care for persons with chronic pain in the
      convenience of their space and time.

      A considerable number of studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of psychological
      digitalised interventions (the majority cognitive and behavioural based) in improving chronic
      pain management, reducing pain intensity, catastrophizing and improving functioning. However,
      support for the effectiveness of digital interventions is tempered by a plethora of
      evaluations that report users often fail to adhere to online interventions. Almost twice as
      many users appear to dropout from internet-based interventions compared to the traditional
      face-to-face interventions suggesting that users become disengaged and unmotivated early on
      in these interventions. A-priori planning for maximised user engagement and consequently
      adherence, using a theoretical framework such as persuasive technology, is desirable in
      digital interventions that aim to combat the problem of low adherence.

      To date, there are only two studies that have examined the effectiveness of ACT-based digital
      interventions (iACT) for chronic pain management, demonstrating significant improvements in
      pain-related disability and increased functioning. Despite these encouraging findings, to our
      knowledge, no iACT study has appropriately addressed the problem of low adherence, which has
      resulted in low adherence and high attrition rates in both of the ACT trials. Also, none of
      the two studies has investigated the impact of adherence on treatment outcomes or
      investigated the underlying ACT mechanisms of change on treatment outcomes within a digital
      tested framework. Furthermore, there have been very few attempts to examine the effectiveness
      of brief (< 6 sessions) interventions in the field of ACT and CP, yet none exists in the
      field of iACT and CP.

      The present study seeks to: a) design an innovative Avatar-led digitalised brief intervention
      based on a culturally sensitive ACT face-to-face protocol developed in a previous project, b)
      recruit and offer online treatment to community-based chronic pain sufferers, c) explore how
      a brief iACT intervention for CP management, compared to a waitlist control group (medical
      treatment as usual) and an active control group (limited access to pain-related
      psycho-educational information) improves targeted study outcomes (e.g., functioning and
      quality of life etc.), d) investigate which processes of change mediate the targeted study
      outcomes and e) investigate the relationship between adherence to the intervention and
      treatment outcomes. Assessments of chronic pain users' daily functioning (primary outcome),
      quality of life, affective components, pain intensity (secondary outcomes), therapeutic
      process measures (e.g., psychological flexibility, acceptance, defusion), will be assessed
      before and following treatment completion, and after 3, 6 and 12 months. In addition, user
      satisfaction and web-metrics (number of logins/modules/activities completed, time spent
      online etc.) will be assessed to examine the relationship between adherence and treatment
      outcomes.

      It is hypothesised that the brief iACT in comparison with the two control groups will result
      in increased functioning, improved quality of life and reduced pain intensity mediated by the
      mechanisms of change of psychological flexibility, acceptance and defusion. In addition, it
      is hypothesized that users with increased adherence will result in significantly improved
      treatment outcomes as compared to users with poor adherence. The results of this study are
      expected to revolutionize the implementation and treatment effectiveness of brief iACT
      interventions in the field of chronic pain management. Furthermore, the investigators attempt
      to contribute to the literature concerning the improvement of designing and planning for
      digital interventions that target improved user engagement and adherence to treatment.
    
  