
    
      Lung cancer is a malignant tumor with high morbidity and mortality worldwide. The incidence
      and mortality of lung cancer in China have topped the list of malignant tumors since
      2010.Early diagnosis and effective intervention are extremely important in the clinical
      treatment of lung cancer. Surgical resection could achieve better prognosis in patients with
      early lung cancer (stages IA and IB).For patients with advanced lung cancer (stages II, III,
      and IV), individualized treatment with molecular classification researches and the
      application of targeted drugs based on the pathological classification, molecular genetic
      characteristics, and body conditions of patients has been confirmed to effectively prolong
      the lifetime. However, the lack of effective and convenient detection approaches for
      capturing oncology information of patients, promoting early diagnosis and effective
      intervention of lung cancer, and ultimately improving the prognosis of lung cancer are
      limitations in achieving successful clinical treatment of lung cancer.

      At present, methods used in clinical screening of lung cancer,including detection of
      serological markers, imaging technology, and biopsy ,have some limitations:in the absence of
      imaging evidence, the serological assessment could not be used as the evidence for diagnosis
      and treatment strategy alteration for lung cancer. The application of low-dose computed
      tomography scan for lung cancer screening shows a high false-positive rate, which is liable
      to require excessive medical treatment. Biopsy does greater harm to patients with lung
      cancer; sampling is difficult, and effective information may be missed because of tumor
      heterogeneity. With the development of molecular pathology in cancer research in recent
      years, liquid biopsy has become an important developmental direction for clinical tumor
      detection because of its noninvasiveness, convenient sampling, and potential for overcoming
      tumor heterogeneity.Liquid biopsies include the detection of circulating tumor cells (CTCs),
      tumor exosome (exosome), circulating tumor RNA (ctRNA), and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in
      peripheral blood.

      ctDNA is a part of circulating free DNA (cfDNA), which is released by tumor cell necrosis,
      apoptosis, micrometastasis, or the cleavage of CTCs and proliferated tumor cells.ctDNA
      includes genetic information of tumor cells, such as mutation, recombination, and deletion
      (15). ctDNA was approved by the European Medicines Agency in 2014 and the National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network Guidelines for NSCLC in 2017 as a supplement sample to assess
      genetic variation when tumor tissue samples were difficult to obtain. Clinical studies have
      shown that ctDNA can effectively reflect tumor load, malignant degree, metastasis ability,
      and real-time information of genetic mutation, which has a certain correlation with the
      genetic information of tumor tissues. Moreover, the content of cfDNA in patients with cancer
      was significantly higher than that in healthy people. Also, ctDNA has been used for detecting
      tumor load, monitoring tumor recurrence, and assessing minimal residual disease in a number
      of cancer types. Some studies have suggested that ctDNA can be used to estimate tumor
      recurrence, even before imaging. Therefore, ctDNA detection has an important value in the
      clinical application of lung cancer diagnosis, drug efficacy, surgical effect evaluation,
      recurrence monitoring, prognosis judgment, medication guidance, and molecular classification
      differentiation.

      This study intends to include 1000-2000 patients with stages I-IV lung cancer. The capture
      sequencing of lung cancer-related genes in peripheral blood ctDNA and tumor tissue DNA will
      be performed during the diagnosis and treatment process using the liquid-phase hybridization
      approach. Thus, the study will establish a large sample size database of the genetic variants
      in patients with lung cancer during the diagnosis and treatment process, and promoted the
      development of an individualized diagnostic model of the lung cancer population. The patients
      with lung cancer undergoing surgery will be followed up, and the plasma concentration of
      cfDNA and genetic mutation of ctDNA will be detected to evaluate the postoperative residual
      cancer, monitor tumor recurrence, and timely guide the clinical treatment and intervention.
      The molecular classification differentiation analysis and screening of tumor
      recurrence-related genetic mutations will be performed after the surgery and during the
      course of disease progression to provide the referential clinical research model and ideas
      for the application of ctDNA detection-based liquid biopsy technique in tumor therapy.
    
  