
    
      Randomised trials are considered the gold standard in medical research. The CONSORT
      (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) Statement aims to improve the quality of
      reporting of randomised trials. Without transparent reporting, readers cannot judge the
      reliability and validity of trial findings, and therefore these findings cannot inform
      clinical practice.

      In recent years, different stakeholders have acted to boost the completeness of reporting of
      the published randomised trials, and therefore their transparency and reproducibility. In a
      recently completed scoping review, the investigators identified and classified 31
      interventions to improve adherence to reporting guidelines. This review revealed that it is
      primarily journals that have taken most efforts to improve the completeness of reporting of
      randomised trials - although most of their actions have been shown not to have the desired
      effect.

      One of the most popular strategies used by journals to improve adherence to CONSORT requires
      authors to submit a populated checklist together with their manuscript indicating page
      numbers corresponding to each item. However, journals usually lack further actions throughout
      the editorial process to ensure that the corresponding information to each item is reported
      in the randomised trial manuscript. This has been hypothesized to be one of the reasons why
      this editorial strategy has not achieved optimal results.

      In an effort to take full advantage of requiring the submission of populated checklists, the
      investigators intend to evaluate in a real editorial context whether assessing during peer
      review the consistency between the submitted CONSORT checklist and the information reported
      in the manuscripts of randomised trials, as well as to provide feedback to authors on the
      inconsistencies found, improves the completeness of reporting of published trials.
    
  