
    
      Background

      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy, also termed primary, induction, or preoperative chemotherapy, is
      defined as chemotherapy administered before locoregional treatment. It was first used in
      locally advanced breast cancer 30 years ago. Classically, these tumors were treated with
      radical surgery and/or radiotherapy. However, despite this aggressive local therapy, most
      patients relapsed with distant metastases and eventually died. The aim of neoadjuvant therapy
      is to reduce the tumor volume in patients before surgical resection, thus increasing the
      likelihood of breast conservation. More recently, neoadjuvant therapy has been studied as a
      way of testing the relevance of biological markers in predicting disease outcome.

      At least six randomized trials have compared survival in patients managed with either the
      neoadjuvant or adjuvant approaches. Two of the smaller trials suggested a survival advantage
      for patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Other studies, including the largest
      trial (1,523 patients) run by the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project
      (NSABP), found no differences in disease-free and overall survival.

      Induction of a Polymerase chain reaction (pCR) should be one of the primary goals of
      neoadjuvant therapy because patients with no evidence of tumor cells in breast and lymph
      nodes after treatment may have a longer disease-free and overall survival.

      Biweekly and weekly regimens may enhance dose intensity by minimizing re-growth of cells
      between cycles of treatment. In fact, dose dense regimens have even shown a survival benefit
      in an adjuvant setting in lymph node positive breast cancer, made possible with the use of
      G-CSF. There is no best standard neoadjuvant treatment yet. Generally patients receive AC
      (NSABP 14) on 3-weekly regimens in the neoadjuvant setting. In addition, incorporation of
      taxanes on a 3 weekly schedule has resulted in statistically higher pathological CR. More
      recently, weekly paclitaxel regimens have reported increased pathological responses compared
      to 3 weekly taxane regimens. Carboplatin has also emerged as an effective agent in the
      treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Moreover, the combination of carboplatin and
      paclitaxel has been found to be synergistic both in three-weekly regimens and weekly
      regimens. In fact, the combination of carboplatin, paclitaxel and trastuzumab has
      demonstrated a survival advantage over paclitaxel and trastuzumab alone. The Phase III study,
      which the preliminary results were presented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, show
      that the addition of carboplatin to trastuzumab and paclitaxel resulted in a six-month
      improvement in the time it took for the disease to progress, compared to the standard
      trastuzumab and paclitaxel regimen. The study found the median survival in the trastuzumab
      and paclitaxel arm was 33.5 months, while the group receiving the tripartite therapy had yet
      to reach that point after 36 months of follow-up. Furthermore, the weekly regimens of these
      drugs have been found to have significantly improved tolerability over three weekly regimens.
      Therefore, we propose to use 2-4 cycles of AC q 2 weeks, as used in the dose dense adjuvant
      study with GM-CSF support on days 4-13 of the cycle. After the completion of AC we plan to
      administer taxol and carboplatin weekly for a total of 9-12 doses with a one-week rest after
      every 3 weeks of treatment over 12 weeks.

      Patients who are her-2 overexpressors by FISH will also receive trastuzumab with weekly
      carboplatin and paclitaxel since this combination has been found to be synergistic in
      advanced breast cancer with improved clinical outcome. In a small study, higher pathological
      response rates were achieved in patients who received trastuzumab with chemotherapy compared
      to chemotherapy alone in the neoadjuvant. This study had a total of 34 patients who completed
      therapy. One arm received neoadjuvant chemotherapy with four cycles of paclitaxel followed by
      four cycles of fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide. In the second arm, the
      patients received the same chemotherapy regimen with the addition of trastuzumab on a weekly
      schedule for twenty-four weeks. A pCR was achieved at 65.2% in the trastuzumab plus
      chemotherapy compared to 25% in the chemotherapy alone arm.

      In metastatic breast cancer, the administration of bevacizumab to capecitabine has shown in a
      significant increase in response rates. The combination arm of bevacizumab plus capecitabine
      demonstrated a response rate of 19.8% compared to 9.1% in the capecitabine arm alone.
      However, the prolonged free survival or overall survival were comparable in both treatment
      arms. In a separate trial, the addition of bevacizumab to standard chemotherapy regimen
      (carboplatin and paclitaxel) in patients with advanced or relapsed non-small cell lung cancer
      demonstrate improved overall response and time to progression. In the bevacizumab plus
      standard chemotherapy, higher response rates (31.5% vs. 18.8%), longer median time to
      progression (7.4 vs. 4.2 months), and a modest increase in survival (17.7 vs. 14.9 months
      were found).

      In a press release, South San Francisco, California, and Basil, Switzerland on March 14,
      2005, an interim analysis of a Phase III trial showed bevacizumab plus paclitaxel and
      carboplatin improved overall survival compared to chemotherapy alone as a first-line therapy
      for non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer. These results were presented at the American
      Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) meeting, May 13-17, 2005. This was a randomized,
      controlled, multicenter trial that enrolled 878 patients who had not received previous
      chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer, and compared standard chemotherapy with
      paclitaxel and carboplatin with or without bevacizumab. The trial was sponsored by the
      National Cancer Institute (NCI), part of the National Institutes of Health, under a
      Cooperative Research and Development Agreement between NCI and Genentech, Inc., and conducted
      by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG).

      At the San Antonio Breast Cancer Conference on December 8, 2004, Dr. Mehta et al. presented
      the sequential use of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) followed by paclitaxel,
      carboplatin, and trastuzumab (TCH) in patient with Her-2 positive breast cancer. A
      pathological complete remission (pCR) was seen in 7 of 8 patients. All patients received 2-4
      cycles of AC followed by 4 cycles of 3 weekly TCH regimens. Only 1 of 8 patients had a 3mm
      residual invasive carcinoma in the biopsy scan. Moreover, 7 of 7 patients with palpable lymph
      nodes demonstrated no residual cancer after this neoadjuvant regimen.

      On April 18, 2005, an interim analysis of the first Phase III randomized study confirmed a
      significant benefit in the use of bevacizumab as first-line treatment for metastatic breast
      cancer. This multi-center study enrolled 722 women with previously untreated metastatic
      breast cancer and randomized the patients to receive adjuvant paclitaxel with or without
      bevacizumab. The trial excluded women who had her-2/neu positive breast cancer unless they
      received trastuzumab previously or were unable to receive this medication. The interim
      analysis showed a progression-free survival and early indication of survival benefit with the
      addition of bevacizumab to chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone. These findings were
      presented at ASCO this year.

      In a separate trial, GM-CSF was used in breast cancer patients treated with adriamycin based
      chemotherapy as the preferred growth factor in a neoadjuvant setting. The initial results are
      suggestive of improved survival of breast cancer patients given 6 versus 5 versus 4 cycles of
      chemotherapy with GM-CSF support. Higher dendritic cell (DC) trafficking showed a trend
      toward improved survival. Moreover, patient comparison before and after treatment showed that
      the percentage of S100+ DC significantly increased over the course of GM-CSF treatment. The
      results form the basis of current hypothesis that the primary tumor may be an in vivo
      antigenic stimulus for dendritic cell trafficking, and that the combination of prolonged
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy with GM-CSF induced immune enhancement may contribute to better
      tumor control and better survival.
    
  