
    
      Many physiological processes in normal growth, development, injury, and repair are critical
      for tumor growth and progression. Usually these processes are deregulated, allowing for the
      potential of tumor selectivity in targeting many of these processes. In many cases, altered
      host stromal tissues themselves are critical for many of steps in cancer progression. Stromal
      endothelial cells and fibroblasts produce many tumor growth factors, which act in paracrine
      loops. In addition, components of the host tissue matrix and plasma proteins also help
      promote or inhibit tumor growth. These topics have been extensively reviewed.

      A large number of targeted therapies for cancer are also in various stages of clinical
      development. Due to the likely minimal toxicity and only modest single agent activity of
      these agents, determining the optimal dose and schedule for these agents will depend upon the
      identification of biomarkers that can demonstrate proof of target inhibition and/or
      characterize the downstream consequences of this inhibition.

      Despite often robust and durable clinical responses, essentially all patients treated with
      bevacizumab progress, implying primary or acquired resistance, or both. Treatment related
      changes in VEGF ligands and receptors have been reported in response to anti-VEGF therapy in
      preclinical models. Treatment related changes have also been noted for many additional
      angiogenic factors, including PDGF, bFGF, and IGF, all of which have been shown to
      potentially mediate sensitivity and resistance to anti-VEGF therapy. Despite the known
      importance of numerous angiogenic factors in both preclinical models and in patients, there
      have not yet been a broad and systematic evaluation of either baseline or treatment related
      changes of multiple angiogenic factors in response to bevacizumab. Similar information is
      also lacking for essentially all targeted therapies.

      Biomarkers to better understand the mechanisms of action, primary and acquired resistance,
      and toxicity of these agents are urgently needed. The topic has been extensively reviewed and
      is considered a priority by the NCI. The need for such biomarkers is critical given the
      increasing number of permutations of targeted therapeutics and the need for biomarkers to
      guide patient and treatment selection both in clinical trials and in general use of
      anti-cancer therapy. Assay optimization and defining expected values of each marker or panel
      of markers is critical before use of such assays in large therapeutic clinical trials
      designed to target specific patient populations. In addition, understanding the biology and
      regulation of biomarkers related to tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis is also important.
      Most candidate biomarkers are themselves cellular growth factors, and are involved in not
      only tumor promotion and growth, but also in normal growth and development and in normal and
      abnormal tissues responses to injury. The primary purpose of the proposed project is to help
      refine new biomarkers and new and evolving technologies to assess them.
    
  