
    
      The primary objective of this study is to confirm the objective response rate (ORR) among
      Chinese subjects with relapsed or refractory PTCL treated with pralatrexate together with
      concurrent vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation

      Primary endpoint is objective Response Rate by International Working Group Criteria

      This study includes 3 phases: Screening, Treatment (pralatrexate) and Follow-up phases.

      Screening Phase:

      The screening phase will be up to 28 days duration (depending on availability of lab
      results).

      Treatment (pralatrexate) Phase:

      The start of study treatment (pralatrexate) is defined as the initiation of pralatrexate.
      Patients will attend the clinic weekly for 6 weeks of a 7-week cycle to receive pralatrexate,
      and will be examined by the treating physician. One cycle of pralatrexate therapy is 7 weeks
      in duration and consists of 6 weekly doses of pralatrexate administered via intravenous (IV)
      push over 3-5 minutes, followed by 1 week of rest.

      Evaluation of response must be performed within 7 days prior to the projected first dose of
      cycle 2-4 and then within 7 days prior to the projected first dose of every even-numbered
      subsequent cycle (ie, prior to cycles 6, 8, etc.). Although radiological response assessments
      have been scheduled every 14 weeks, unscheduled radiological response assessments will be
      performed earlier if clinical progression is suspected.

      Treatment with pralatrexate will continue until 24 months of administration, or until
      documented disease progression; unacceptable adverse event(s) indicating intolerance of the
      lowest study dose allowed (20 mg/m2/week); omission of 3 sequential doses of pralatrexate due
      to a treatment-related AE; 3-week lapse between pralatrexate doses; development of an AE,
      intercurrent illness, condition, or procedural complication that may interfere with the
      subject's participation; investigator's decision to withdraw the subject; subject withdraws
      consent; pregnancy of the subject; noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure
      requirements; or administrative reasons.

      Follow-up phase:

      All patients who received at least 1 dose of pralatrexate are to attend the Safety Follow-up
      Visit [30 (± 5) days after the last dose of pralatrexate] and the protocol defined procedures
      and evaluations will be performed.

      After the Safety Follow-up Visit, Routine Follow-up Visits will be based on standard clinical
      care. All patients who received at least 1 dose of pralatrexate are to attend Routine
      Follow-up Visits, which will occur every 3 months (± 2 weeks) for determination of
      progression of disease, subsequent treatment initiation for T-cell lymphoma and survival
      after the Safety Follow-up Visit for a total duration of 24 months after the last dose of
      pralatrexate. The protocol-defined procedures/evaluations should be performed at each Routine
      Follow-up Visit.
    
  