
    
      Objective of the study Evaluation of home practices of a healthy newborn in the delivery
      room: skin processing conditions skin, reasons for separation between mother and child and
      maternal felt appreciation.

      Methodology :

      DESIGN:

      Study single-center observational descriptive, carried out over a period of 8 weeks during
      the months of January and February 2015 in the Maternity Our Lady of relief

      Acquisition of data:

      - From a survey conducted in puerperium the 2nd day of life during the interview with the
      parents on the basis of a semi-structured interview about the progress of the birth and the
      immediate postpartum period using memories of parents. The questionnaire included a section
      on skin to skin layout with the newborn (information on skin to skin, original maturity), the
      output or not the child of the delivery room (reason given, period of separation , felt the
      mother), the conditions of return (naked or dressed, delivered or not skin to skin,
      conditions the first feeding), the place of the first examination of the newborn and the
      overall satisfaction of the mother.

      The reasons for the release of children were classified as routine care (weight,
      measurements, toilet or exam), clinical monitoring of the Child (declogging, monitoring of
      respiratory discomfort or poor adaptation), warming the child, simple or complicated maternal
      care) and implementation of a levy (gastric, Rh, pH). The traceability of the reason for
      leaving the newborn in the delivery room was searched in the newborn monitoring sheet
      (production of a levy, the child's warming, clinical monitoring of the child) and in the
      medical record of the mother (complicated birthing suites with uterus bleeding or tearing).

      - And from the collection of the passage of newborns in the "nursery" of the delivery room of
      11 days. The collection form was filled by the auxiliary of the delivery room should note
      that with each pass of a newborn in the "nursery", the time of birth, time of arrival and
      departure and the main reason for the passage of the newborn in the "nursery." The reasons
      were categorized (routine care, achieving a levy, the child's warming, clinical monitoring of
      the child, the mother care).

      Analysis: This is primarily a descriptive analysis. A comprehensive description of the sample
      was carried out by giving the frequencies of different categories for qualitative variables.
    
  