
    
      DESCRIPTION PROJECT SUMMARY

      Three groups of patients in sinus rhythm will be studied (n total = 100 patients):

        -  Group 1 "healthy volunteers" (n = 40): two age classes determined ([20-40ans, n = 20]
           and [60-80 years, n = 20]), to obtain normal values diastolic myocardial stiffness
           references. The objective will be to confirm the increase with age in myocardial
           stiffness assessed by elastography in healthy subjects.

        -  Group 2 "diastolic HF" (n = 40): older patients with isolated diastolic HF (EF> 45%,
           60-80 years, n = 20) and infiltrative cardiomyopathy restrictive-type amyloidosis (n =
           20) . The objective will be to study the results of elastography on two separate
           clinical types of IC diastolic well identified.

        -  Group 3 "systolic HF" (n = 20): elderly patients with heart failure with impaired
           ejection (<45%) fraction, but no segmental dysfunction.

      The evaluation of myocardial stiffness by elastography in all these patients will be compared
      to conventionally ultrasound and biological parameters currently used for diagnosis of
      elderly's diastolic HF. Our hypothesis is that myocardial stiffness assessed by SWI is a
      powerful parameter for predicting diastolic heart failure. To this end, a univariate and
      multivariate statistical analysis will be carried out from all of these data.

      EXPECTED RESULTS AND OUTLOOK The current ultrasound diagnostic parameters of diastolic heart
      failure (ESC 2012) using Doppler (trans-mitral tissue) anatomical, or functional (strain,
      strain rate, speckle tracking) criteria that are dependent on load conditions and are not
      specific to diastolic HF. This study should demonstrate the continuity of our preclinical
      studies, the non-invasive assessment of myocardial stiffness by elastography is a powerful
      test for the detection and diagnosis of diastolic heart failure. Secondly the prognosis
      character of recovery rates will be studied over a large population of people with HF and FE
      preserved (diastolic HF) with longitudinal follow-up.
    
  