
    
      Materials and Methods Sample:It will be 88 contralateral matched primary molars and/or first
      permanent molars with non-cavitated proximal carious lesion to be treated in children
      attending the Pediatric Dentistry Clinics at KAUDH, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.The included lesions
      will be randomly allocated in a split-mouth design to be either in the test group or control
      group:The control group: will be treated with standard-of-care preventive measures which
      includes application of 5% sodium fluoride (NaF) topical varnish (Vanish 5% Sodium Fluoride
      White Varnish with Tri-Calcium Phosphate, 3M ESPE, Dental product 44-0007-4718-6-B, St. Paul,
      MN, 55144-1000 U.S.A. ), oral hygiene instruction, and dietary counseling.The test group:
      will be treated with light curable RMGI varnish (Vanish™ XT Extended Contact Varnish, 3M
      ESPE, Dental product 44-0007-4718-6-B, St. Paul, MN, 55144-1000 U.S.A.) in addition to
      standard-of-care preventive measures.

      The Sample size:It was calculated based on the assumptions of odds of caries prevention for
      the light curable RMGI varnish and the fluoride varnish will be 5.6 and 1.9 respectively
      based on the literature. The estimated sample is a minimum of 80 pairs (160 lesions) of
      non-cavitated proximal carious lesions in primary molars and/or first permanent molars are
      required by the end of the study to detect a statistical difference between the groups at
      significance level of 0.05 with a power of 80% the sample size was calculated using GPower
      3.1 software .To compensate for loss to follow up or other causes of attrition, an additional
      10% will be added to the sample size, thus eight pairs will be added with a total of 88 pairs
      (176 lesions) needed at the start of the study.

      Materials and Equipment:

      For the lesion diagnosis: Bitewing radiographic examination will be performed using an XCP
      extension cone paralleling system with photo-stimulable phosphor (PSP) plate biteblocks. The
      NIDIT examination will be performed using the DIAGNOcam device (DIAGNOcam 2170, Sn 1001941;
      Kavo). Clinical examination will be performed using mouth mirrors, Community Periodontal
      Index probe, dental floss without wax, orthodontic elastic separators, a plier for teeth
      separation for the visual examination, and dental chair light.

      Consent and ethical approval:Approval will be obtained from King Abdulaziz University,
      Research Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Dentistry. The nature of the study will be
      explained to the parents of the children who meet the inclusion criteria. An informed written
      consent form will be obtained from all the parents who agree to have their children
      participate in the study.

      Study design:The study design will be a split mouth,triple-blinded, randomized controlled
      clinical trial following CONSORT guidelines.The teeth will be randomly assigned to one of the
      two study groups in 1:1 ratio.

      Recruitment of the Participants:

      Children who are attending the Pediatric Dentistry Clinics in KAUDH during the years 2017 and
      2018 over a period of three to six months, who fulfill the subject's inclusion criteria will
      be initially screened by the primary investigator using bitewing radiographs for the presence
      of at least two matched bilateral primary molars and/or first permanent molars with
      non-cavitated proximal carious lesion in the same surfaces. For children who meet all the
      inclusion criteria, a written consent will be obtained from their parents/guardians to allow
      their participation in the study. If the subject is diagnosed with more than one qualified
      pair of lesions, the pairs will be included in the study.

      Personal and Medical Information:Before examination, the subject's medical history will be
      reviewed by the primary investigator along with the age, gender, and nationality.

      Lesion Selection and Clinical Assessment:

      Radiographic examination:The baseline screening bite-wing radiographs will be taken on both
      sides of the mouth of the participants . The radiographs will be assessed by two calibrated
      trained examiners using the following score system: 0: No radiolucency. E1: Radiolucency
      within outer half of the enamel. E2: Radiolucency in the inner half of the enamel. D1:
      Radiolucency in the outer third of the dentin. D2: Radiolucency in the middle third of the
      dentin. D3: Radiolucency in the inner third of the dentin. Disagreements between the first
      two examiners will be resolved by a third calibrated trained examiner.Teeth that are scored
      E1, E2, and D1 by two calibrated trained examiners will be included in the study.

      Near Infrared Digital Imaging Transillumination: the tooth will be examined by two calibrated
      trained examiners using the DIAGNOcam according to manufacture instructions. The following
      scoring system will be used: 0: Sound surface.1: First visible sign of enamel caries. 2:
      Established enamel caries lesion.3: Established enamel caries lesion with an isolated spot
      reaching the EDJ.4: Dentin caries penetrating the EDJ lineary. 5: Deep dentin caries lesion.
      Disagreements between the first two examiners will be resolved by a third calibrated trained
      examiner. An orthodontic elastic separator will be placed in the corresponding interproximal
      area to facilitate the subsequent visual examination of the lesion after two days.

      Visual Caries Assessment:The orthodontic elastic separators will be removed, and caries will
      be scored clinically by two calibrated trained examiners using the ICDAS II visual scoring
      system: 0:clinical sound surfaces 1 and 2: non-cavitated lesions (in 1 air-drying is required
      to see the lesion and in 2 the lesion is visible without air-drying). 3:Localized enamel
      breakdown due to caries with no visible dentin. 4:Underlying dark shadow from dentin with or
      without localized enamel breakdown. 5 and 6:increasing stages of dentine cavitation.
      Disagreements between the first two examiners will be resolved by a third calibrated trained
      examiner.Teeth that are scored one and two by two calibrated trained examiners will be
      included in the study.Other variables that will be recorded at this visit: (1) decayed,
      missing, filled permeant tooth due to caries (DMFT) and decayed, missing, filled primary
      tooth due to caries (dmft) score ; (2) plaque score of the included teeth at the time of
      teeth treatment ; (6) presence of gingival bleeding at the included interproximal site at the
      time of tooth treatment; (7) and the restoration status of adjacent surface.

      Treatment of Lesions: The test group: the lesions will be treated with Vanish XT varnish
      according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      The control group: the lesion will be treated with the Vanish 5% NaF White Varnish according
      to the manufacturer's instructions. To blind the patient and the parents to which treatment
      is done to the control tooth, a simulation of the light curable RMGI varnish application will
      be done, i.e. a thin layer of the fluoride varnish will be applied to the control tooth
      surface and the light-cure will be held for 20 seconds without turning it on for the purpose
      of blinding. Then all the teeth will receive an application of the 5% NaF varnish as part of
      standard of care preventive measures along with oral hygiene instruction and diet counseling.

      Follow-up The included subjects will be followed up at six and 12 months for clinical,
      radiographic, and NIDIT evaluation. At the six months' follow up, the light curable RMGI
      varnish will be applied in the test group lesions. All the teeth in both groups (test and
      control) will receive 5% NaF varnish application, along with reinforcement of oral hygiene
      instruction and diet counseling will be provided.every 6 months. At the six and 12 months
      follow ups, the subjects will be re-examined as at baseline by two calibrated trained
      examiners who will be blinded to which treatment group the lesion belongs. Disagreements
      between the first two examiners will be resolved by a third calibrated blinded examiner. If
      two of the examiners agree that there is no caries progression, the lesion will be regarded
      as an arrested lesion. If they agree that there is caries progression, the lesion will be
      regarded as to have progressed.

      Randomization:The subjects will be included after at least one pair of qualified
      non-cavitated proximal carious lesion meeting the inclusion criteria are identified. Then
      randomization for the materials for both sides will be done.To ensure the balance of the
      treatment materials in both sides, block randomization will be generated, different sequence
      will be randomized for subjects according to the number of molar pairs that will be included
      in the study in that subject.

      Training in the Caries Recording Systems:Inter-examiner and intra-examiner calibration will
      be done for radiographic, clinical and DIAGNOcam by calibrated examiners. Intra-examiner
      calibration will be done for DMFT/dmft index. Training will be done until the desired inter-
      and intra-examiner agreement is achieved.

      Statistical analysis:The data will be collected and statistically analyzed using Windows IBM
      SPSS (Version 22). A P value of < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  