
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if tacrolimus can be safely lowered to potentially
      non-nephrotoxic levels or discontinued completely in favor of Rapamycin 3 months after kidney
      transplantation. In this study, all patients will be maintained on full-dose (720 mg BID)
      mycophenolate sodium (Myfortic) to ensure adequate immunosuppression. In addition, we will
      compare the immunosuppressive regimens of Rapamune/mycophenolate sodium/Prednisone to
      Low-Dose Prograf/ mycophenolate sodium /Prednisone for their long-term effects on renal
      function, cardiovascular risk factors, subclinical rejection and chronic allograft fibrosis.

      We also plan to examine the clinical benefit of protocol biopsies. The first protocol biopsy
      would occur at the time of implantation. This would provide an assessment of the state of the
      donor kidney. The severity of donor disease would provide a baseline to which all subsequent
      biopsies can be compared. The second protocol biopsy would be performed at the time of
      tacrolimus withdrawal. Patients found to have subclinical rejection on this biopsy would not
      undergo tacrolimus withdrawal but may benefit from increased immunosuppression. The protocol
      biopsy would provide an additional level of safety ensuring that only "low-risk"
      (histologically) patients undergo tacrolimus withdrawal. A third biopsy would be performed
      one year after transplantation. Renal allograft tissue would be examined for the presence of
      progressive fibrosis or persistent subclinical rejection both of which lead to graft failure.
      The efficacy of tacrolimus withdrawal can be assessed using both clinical and pathologic
      criteria.

      A third aim of this trial is to examine whether changes in immunosuppressive therapy leads to
      differential expression of immunological markers or serum mediators such as cytokines. Recent
      studies suggest that, in vitro, thymoglobulin induces the generation of "regulatory" cells.
      This study will examine the in vivo relevance of this novel observation. In addition, we will
      measure the circulatory mediators of renal fibrosis to examine if the two treatment arms
      differ in their effects on such cytokine/growth factors. Blood samples will be collected and
      the PBMC will be analyzed by FACS for their composition and the presence of cell surface
      antigens that may reflect a state of immunological regulation or "suppression". Tissue
      samples will be analyzed by immunohistochemistry for the presence of immunologically relevant
      cellular subtypes such as CD4/CD25 regulatory T cells. Serum samples will be collected and
      analyzed for cytokine or growth factor expression.
    
  