
    
      Administering pediatric medications is frequently a difficult task for parents, in large part
      due to reliance on liquid formulations requiring the use of confusing, and often complex,
      measurement devices. Use of different units of measurement (milliliter, teaspoon, and/or
      tablespoon units) with variations in associated abbreviations, and the variability of
      measuring devices (type, markings, capacity), are sources of parent confusion. Low health
      literacy is linked to caregiver misunderstanding. Despite high error and utilization rates
      for outpatient pediatric medications, research examining strategies to prevent medication
      errors have focused largely on adults and on inpatient populations.

      The ability to understand pediatric medication instructions is a critical health literacy and
      patient safety concern. Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration recognized the
      importance of this issue and released new guidelines to promote improved labeling and
      measuring devices for pediatric liquid medications. While these recommendations are an
      essential first step, evidence is needed to support the development of 'best practices' for
      designing optimal instructions and devices, especially for parents with limited literacy
      and/or limited English proficiency.

      Our study objective is to identify evidence-based 'best practices' for labeling and dosing
      prescription and over-the-counter pediatric liquid medications in order to promote safe,
      appropriate use. A series of experiments will first be conducted to examine the efficacy of
      specific dosing and measurement strategies for improving parent understanding and use of
      pediatric liquid medications, including examining the impact of milliliter-only label
      instructions and devices, as well as the potential role for pictographic dosing diagrams.
      Findings will be merged with existing evidence-based health literacy 'best practices' for
      medication labeling to develop a comprehensive, patient-centered strategy for the labeling
      and dosing of pediatric liquid medications. The effectiveness of the patient-centered
      strategy will then be evaluated as part of a randomized controlled trial among English and
      Spanish-speaking parents whose children have been newly prescribed oral liquid antibiotics in
      a pediatric emergency department setting. Secondary aims of the study include extending the
      body of literature on health literacy and pediatric medication use, and generating a policy
      road map for achieving and implementing labeling and dosing standards for pediatric liquid
      medications.
    
  