
    
      In renally impaired patients with acute venous thromboembolism (VTE), standard-of-care (SOC)
      anticoagulation, i.e. heparins-vitamin K antagonists (VKA), at therapeutic dosage is
      associated with an increased risk of thromboembolic and bleeding complications compared to
      patients with normal renal function. These patients represent more than 20% of the VTE
      population in clinical practice. Direct oral anticoagulants (DOAs) have been shown to be at
      least as effective and safe as SOC in VTE treatment. But in the clinical trials, moderate
      renally impaired patients were poorly represented (<10%) and patients with severe renal
      insufficiency not at all. So no dose reduction was considered.

      The new DOAs have also been developed for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (SPAF).
      Patients including in AF trials are generally older and more prone to present renal
      impairment (>20%) than in VTE trials. So a reduced dose of DOAs was evaluated and shown to be
      at least as effective as, and safer than VKA in the subgroup of patients with moderate renal
      insufficiency (creatinine clearance between 30 to 50 ml/min).

      Surprisingly, DOAs have been approved for VTE treatment and SPAF in moderate and severe
      renally impaired patients (creatinine clearance between 15 to 30 mL/min). Moreover, patients
      have to receive a reduced dose of DOAs for SPAF but a full dose of DOAs for VTE that could be
      associated with an increased bleeding risk, as suggested by some subgroup analyses. So,
      there, there is need to evaluate a reduced dose of DOAs for VTE treatment in patients with
      moderate and severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance between 15 to 50 mL/min).

      Apixaban and rivaroxaban appear to be the best candidates since:

        -  both are approved in France in VTE patients

        -  they have mixed pathway of elimination (hepatic and renal)

        -  they have several other pharmacological similarities and they respective clinical trials
           have shown similar efficacy and safety profiles when compared with SOC for VTE
           treatment.

        -  they do not need to be preceded by initial parenteral heparins on the contrary to
           dabigatran and edoxaban. This allows evaluating the impact of DOAs in renally impaired
           patients independently from the initial heparins effect

        -  a reduced dose regimen is available and approved in AF

        -  the evaluation of 2 DAOs allows evaluating the concept of this new class in renally
           impaired VTE patients independently from the pharmaceutical companies.

      Finally we plan to evaluate reduced doses of 2 DOAs (apixaban, rivaroxaban) compared to SOC
      in VTE patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency in terms of net clinical benefit
      (recurrent VTE and major bleeding) at 3 months.
    
  