
    
      The number of mechanically ventilated patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) is increasing
      due to a rise in the frequency of respiratory and cardiovascular diseases as well as
      demographical changes. As a result, there is a corresponding increase in the time required
      for the complex process of weaning from mechanical ventilation (MV). Weaning from MV
      contributes to up to 50% of the duration of respiratory support. Especially those patients
      with prolonged weaning (≥3 spontaneous breathing trials over ≥7 days) refer to a very complex
      patient group with either chronic co-morbidities (e.g. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      [COPD]) or extended treatment in the ICU as a result of acute conditions (e.g. septic or
      cardiogenic shock, acute respiratory failure) or other significant diseases.

      Not all of these patients can be weaned from the ventilator. An increasing number of patients
      are in need for invasive mechanical ventilation following unsuccessful weaning. They often
      need special care regarding ventilatory support, management of tracheal secretion and
      muscular re-conditioning.

      These patients, especially those with COPD, are at high risk for further exacerbations and
      have thus a high rate of re-hospitalization. An early detection of exacerbations to rapidly
      implement therapeutic interventions is a major goal in the management of patients with severe
      COPD but may need close contact to medical experts.

      However, a physician-based structure for treating this specific patient group does not exist,
      so that these patients often have hospital treatment. This might be preventable if clinical
      determinants and ventilator parameters would be detected timely.

      Home ventilators for invasive ventilation are provided with built-in software recording data
      such as respiratory rate (RR), percentage of respiratory cycles triggered by the patient
      (%Trigg), tidal volume and daily usage of the ventilator. A systematic assessment of
      variations in specific ventilator-based parameters may help to predict the risk of
      exacerbation in patients with COPD treated by home care.

      In sum, the objective of this study is to assess whether day-to-day variation in these
      ventilatory parameters recorded by the ventilators can predict an imminent exacerbation or
      need for hospitalization in patients with COPD treated at home with invasive ventilation.
      This is supposed to be of major importance, both for the progression of the disease and for
      economic reasons regarding the health care system. The possibility of detecting exacerbations
      due to ventilator analysis might be a further step towards telemonitoring of
      ventilator-dependent patients
    
  