
    
      Background Liver cancer is the sixth most common malignancy in the world. It is the fourth
      leading cause of cancer-related deaths and has a global incidence of more than 840,000 new
      cases in 2018.1 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75% - 85% of primary liver
      cancer. Hepatectomy, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and orthotopic liver transplantation are
      the main treatment options for patients with early stage HCC.2 Hepatectomy is only indicated
      in patients with early stage HCC and preserved liver function, whereas the application of
      liver transplantation is limited globally because of organ shortage. RFA is therefore the
      most effective treatment in patients with HCC and borderline liver function due to cirrhotic
      liver, especially in Asia-Pacific region where hepatitis B infection is prevalent.

      Thermal ablation kills tumors via direct thermal denaturation and coagulation of tumor
      proteins.3 The retention of devitalized and damaged tumor cells within the body stimulates a
      robust inflammatory response. It has also been reported that thermal ablation creates a tumor
      antigen source for the generation of antitumor immunity and enhances host immune responses.4
      Activated platelets release interleukin (IL) -1, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and
      transforming growth factor , which increase vascular permeability and promote chemotaxis.
      Neutrophils are attracted to the ablation site and perform debris scavenging by releasing
      free radicals via oxidative burst mechanisms aimed at destroying inciting agents. Macrophage
      migration ensues, transitioning to the proliferative stage, during which macrophages secrete
      growth factors, including TNF, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast
      growth factor.5 The level of proliferative activity of macrophages and lymphocytes is
      mediated by IL-6 positively and IL-10 negatively.6, 7 In the event of an incomplete ablation
      or nearly complete ablation, viable tumor cells in the sub-lethal ablation zone) may be
      affected positively or negatively by the concomitant inflammatory response including
      increased levels of cytokines and growth factors. Inflammation following ablation may have
      negative effects via the production of growth factors and cytokines by macrophages and
      lymphocytes, which could stimulate tumor cell growth within the sub-lethal zone.8 Human and
      animal studies using immunohistochemical staining of tissues, enzyme-linked immunosorbent
      assay of tissue lysates, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of plasma have shown
      significant increase in specific inflammatory and immunomodulatory mediators after RFA.9, 10
      The principle investigator has previously reported the inflammatory responses of RFA using
      the porcine liver model that the level of systemic inflammatory markers (TNF and IL-1) was
      significantly elevated after RFA, when compared with hepatectomy.11 Although pre-clinical
      studies on inflammatory responses of thermal ablation for liver tumor are substantial,
      clinical correlation of these micro-environmental reaction is limited in the literature.
      Erinjeri et al.12 reported that the ablation type and primary diagnosis predicted the change
      of IL-6 and patient age predicted the change of IL-10 after thermal ablation of tumors. IL-6
      may act as surrogates for immunogenic cell death and the combination of immunogenic
      death-inducing procedures with immune check-point inhibitor may be beneficial to prolong
      patient survival after RFA.13 At the cellular level, RFA has proven to enhance
      tumor-associated antigen-specific T cell response and this contributes to the HCC
      recurrence-free survival of patients.14 Nonetheless, it is still not clear about the possible
      relationship between RFA-induced cytokines change and its prognostic value on tumor
      recurrence and long-term patient survival.

      The principle investigator has reported the results of 209 patients receiving RFA as the sole
      treatment for HCC.15 The overall tumor recurrence rate was up to 80% with median follow-up of
      26 months. Hence, identification of high-risk patients who might develop early recurrence
      using surrogate biomarkers (e.g. cytokines) carries an important clinical implication on the
      use of adjuvant treatment (e.g. immune check-point inhibitor).

      Therefore, the investigators propose this single-center prospective study to analysis the
      change in serum cytokines level in patients with HCC treated by RFA or MWA. The result will
      be used to correlate the clinical outcome of patients, especially tumor recurrence and
      long-term survival outcome. This proposed clinical trial is of clinical importance in
      establishing the potential role of immune response as surrogate biomarkers to predict
      long-term patient outcome. It establishes the platform for future study of adjuvant treatment
      using immune check-point inhibitor for patients with HCC treated by RFA or other thermal
      ablative therapy. The investigators' center is a tertiary referral center in Hong Kong
      managing patients with complicated hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases. The number of new
      cases of patients with HCC managed in the investigators' center is around 200 every year and
      the number of patients with HCC undergoing hepatectomy is around 80 every year. All the
      investigators are experts with vast experience in clinical and basic researches of patients
      with HCC. The investigators have conducted and published several randomized trials on
      management of HCC and other aspects of hepatobiliary surgery in international journals.16-19

      Hypothesis RFA or MWA for HCC might induce inflammatory immune response with resulting change
      in cytokines level. This micro-environmental reaction might positively or negatively regulate
      the residual tumor cells, leading to the significant changes in tumor recurrence and
      long-term patient survival.

      Aim of study This prospective study aims to investigate the change of cytokines' level
      following RFA or MWA for HCC and its clinical correlation with tumor recurrence and patients'
      long-term survival data. Primary outcome measure is early tumor recurrence within one year
      after RFA. Secondary outcome measures are other tumor recurrence pattern (late intrahepatic
      recurrence and extrahepatic metastasis), overall survival and recurrence-free survival.

      Primary outcome measure is early intrahepatic tumor recurrence within one year after RFA and
      MWA. Secondary outcome measures are other tumor recurrence pattern (late intrahepatic
      recurrence and extrahepatic metastasis), overall survival and recurrence-free survival.

      Analysis of cytokines level using studied patient serum samples

      Analytes available:

      IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12 (p40), IL-12 (p70), TNF-α, CXCL8, CXCL9, CXCL10, CCL2, CCL5

      Commercially available kit:

      MILLIPLEX MAP Human Cytokine/Chemokine Magnetic Bead Panel - Immunology Multiplex Assay

      Application of kit:

      Simultaneously analyze multiple cytokine and chemokine biomarkers with MILLIPLEX MAP Human
      Cytokine/Chemokine Magnetic Bead Panel - Immunology Multiplex Assay, in human serum, plasma
      and cell culture samples. This is an overnight incubation assay.

      Expected time of study The investigators' institution is a major tertiary referral center for
      HCC in Hong Kong. The patient recruitment will be started once the approval from Institution
      Review Board is obtained. The recruitment period is around 12 months to 18 months. With the
      median follow-up period of around 18 months, It is expected that the total period of study is
      three years.

      Sample size estimation Expected number of patients to be recruited is estimated at 60
      according to the past patient number undergoing treatment under the department.

      Statistical analysis All data will be prospectively collected by a research assistant and
      computerized in a database. Statistical analysis will be performed by Chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test, where appropriate, to compare discrete variables and Mann-Whitney U test
      to compare continuous variables. Cumulative survival will be computed by the Kaplan-Meier
      method and compared by Log-rank test. Multivariable analysis using logistic regression model
      will be done to identify the independent prognostic factors affecting early tumor recurrence.

      Ethical Consideration This study will be carried out in accordance with the Declaration of
      Helsinki of the World Medical Association and the International Conference on Harmonization -
      Good Clinical Practice.

      Consent Written voluntary consent will be obtained after full explanation of the trial to the
      patient before operation and randomization.

      Relevance to clinical applications

      This study carries significant clinical influence on the surgical management of patient with
      HCC. Since hepatitis B infection is still endemic in Asia-Pacific area like Hong Kong,
      hepatitis B related HCC is still a burden among the whole pool of cancer patients. This study
      aims to establish the potential role of immune response as surrogate biomarkers to predict
      long-term patient outcome. It enhances the development of the platform for future study of
      adjuvant treatment using immune check-point inhibitor for patients with HCC treated by
      thermal ablative therapy.
    
  