
    
      This is a prospective, observational study; evaluating outcomes of patients that have elected
      to receive surgical intervention in order to treat degenerative disc disease. In order to be
      eligible for enrollment into this study, patients have already elected to be treated with an
      anterior lumbar interbody fusion, an anterior only approach for single or bi-level
      degenerative disc disease between L4 and S1 with instrumented fusion, using a combination of
      InQu Bone Graft Extender and Substitute, local bone, and Bone Marrow Aspirate Concentrate
      (BMAC) to promote bony fusion. Only after the patient and physician determine the surgical
      procedure, can the patient be eligible for enrollment. A consecutive series of 60 patients
      will be offered enrollment if all inclusion/exclusion criteria are met.

      Data will be collected by chart review to include pre-operative, surgical, functional,
      post-operative, and radiographic imaging charted data, collected as part of the routine
      clinical visit, and standard of care.

      Follow-up data will include newly charted clinical, functional, and radiographic imaging
      data, including dynamic x-rays and CT scans to be obtained prospectively at a minimum of one
      (1) year post-operatively. During the routine post-surgical visits, patient pain outcomes are
      measured using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for back and leg pain, function is measured by
      the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Short Form-12 Version 2 (SF-12 Version 2 Health
      Survey). A physician investigator will also perform routine clinical evaluations.

      The patients will undergo standard radiographic procedures to obtain x-rays (including
      lateral, anterior-posterior, and dynamic flexion/extension) as part of the standard of care.
      A CT scan will be performed for research purposes as indicated in the protocol follow-up
      procedure. X-rays and CT scans will be evaluated by an independent radiologist and a
      physician investigator to determine anterior fusion status and the status of the anterior
      hardware constructs.

      The National Center of Innovation for Biomaterials in Orthopaedic Research and Medical
      Metric, Inc. will assist with imaging analysis of x-rays and CTs.

      ISTO Technologies, Inc. will be providing a grant to cover costs associated with the research
      components of this study.
    
  