
    
      This study requires a single visit to the Middle Ear Physiology Laboratory (MEPL) located on
      the first floor of the Oakland Medical Building (3420 Fifth Avenue in Oakland, Pittsburgh,
      PA). Adjacent parking attached to that building is available. The total time of the visit
      should be about 2 hours.

      If the subject is eligible and signs informed consent to participate in the study, a series
      of questions regarding past history of ear disease will be asked as well as whether or not a
      subject has any of several risk factors that makes people more likely to develop otitis media
      with effusion and other ear diseases. The subject will also complete a short questionnaire
      that asks questions about whether or not they have symptoms consistent with acid reflux
      disease. Then, a blood sample (about 2/3 of a tablespoon) will be taken from an arm vein and
      sent to a laboratory for assay of chemicals associated with allergic diseases. These
      procedures should take about 30 minutes to complete.

      Then, the subject's Eustachian tube function will be tested in the ear/ears that have open
      tympanostomy tubes in the eardrum. For these tests, the subject will be seated comfortably in
      a chair and a soft rubber tube will be put partway into their ear canal. This tube is
      attached to a machine that can change the pressure in the ear and measure the pressure at
      which the Eustachian tube opens and closes, as well as how easily air flows through the
      Eustachian tube and how easily the subject can open their Eustachian tube during swallowing.
      These tests only require that the subject not pull the ear plug from their ear and perform
      certain procedures designed to open their Eustachian tube such as swallowing with an open and
      pinched nose, blowing against a closed nose and deep breathing. The total time for testing is
      about 20 minutes per ear.

      Then, a study doctor will apply topical medicines by spray and cotton balls to the inside of
      the nose to decrease any swelling and numb the nose (4% Lidocaine and 0.05% Oxymetazoline
      mixed in 1:1 proportion). After a short break of about 20 minutes to allow time for these
      medicines to work, the study doctor will choose which side of the subject's nose is most open
      and will introduce a small video telescope (called an endoscope) into that side of the nose
      and move it to the back of the nose. This will allow him/her to see the back of the nose and
      the Eustachian tubes. He/she will focus the endoscope on the Eustachian tubes and will record
      video images of the back of the nose, the Eustachian tubes at rest and the movements of the
      Eustachian tubes while the subject swallows, yawns, repeats an "O" sound, repeats a "K" sound
      and moves their jaw. The subject will be able to see the movements of the Eustachian tube on
      a monitor while performing these procedures. This procedure should take about 40 minutes to
      complete.

      After this test, the study is complete.
    
  