
    
      About 10% of children may have behavioral problems during dental treatment, but the evidence
      for sedative protocols that benefit the care in pediatric dentistry are still weak. This
      randomized, masked, controlled, parallel design study aims to evaluate the efficacy, safety
      and cost-effectiveness of intranasal sedation with ketamine / midazolam in healthy children
      aged 2 to 6 years old. Children will be selected among those with dental decay that do not
      allow dental treatment to be performed, and need at least two restorations under local
      anesthesia and rubber dam isolation. It is estimated a preliminarily a sample of 84 children
      equally divided into three groups: A) Ketamine (4.0 mg / kg up to 100 mg) + midazolam (0.2 mg
      / kg, maximum 5 mg) intranasally; B) ketamine (4.0 mg / kg up to 100 mg) + midazolam (0.5 mg
      / kg, maximum 20 mg) orally; C) midazolam (1.0 mg / kg, maximum 20 mg) orally. The hypothesis
      is that ketamine / midazolam combination, administered intranasally, it constitutes an
      effective sedative regime, safe and cost-effective for use in pediatric dentistry in the
      public service. The primary endpoint is the behavior of the child. Secondary endpoints are:
      sedative administration acceptance, procedure memory and salivary cortisol levels within each
      intervention group. Additionally, we will evaluate: the occurrence of pain and associated
      changes in facial expressions with potentially painful stimuli in children sedated for dental
      care; caregivers and paediatric dentists' stress and perception about sedation; adverse
      events that occur during and after administration of sedatives; cost-effectiveness of the
      sedative protocols. The experimental design is planned to minimize systematic and random
      errors and to contribute to higher level of evidence in future systematic reviews. The
      outcomes of this study have potential impact on public and private health practice, and may
      support institutional guidelines dealing with this theme.
    
  