
    
      Background:

      Platinum-based chemotherapy is the standard of care for advanced unresectable thymic
      epithelial tumors (TETs). However more than half of these patients experience disease
      recurrence and require second-line therapy. There are no approved drugs for treatment of
      recurrent thymoma and thymic carcinoma and new therapeutic options are needed for patients
      who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing therapy. The clinical activity
      of checkpoint blockade targeting programmed death 1 (PD-1) and its ligand (PD-L1) has been
      demonstrated against various tumor types. We have demonstrated the ability of avelumab to
      induce major responses in patients with advanced thymoma in a phase I dose escalation study.
      Further investigation of avelumab in patients with TETs is needed to define the clinical
      activity and safety of immune checkpoint blockade in patients with TETs.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of Avelumab in participants with relapsed or
           refractory thymoma and thymic carcinoma.

        -  To determine the objective response rate (ORR) to Avelumab in participants with relapsed
           or refractory thymoma and thymic carcinoma.

      ELIGIBLITY:

        -  Participants with histologically confirmed, unresectable thymoma or thymic carcinoma who
           have previously been treated with at least one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen
           with progressive disease prior to study entry.

        -  Prior treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors is permitted if the reason for
           discontinuation was not disease progression or life-threatening adverse events
           (laboratory abnormalities alone with prior therapy will not exclude participants from
           this trial)

        -  Measurable disease by RECIST 1.1 criteria

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function

        -  No major surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy or biologic therapy within 28 days of
           avelumab

        -  No prior thymic tumor-associated autoimmune disease with the exception of pure red cell

      aplasia and vitiligo.

      Design:

        -  This will be a single-arm, pilot study to determine the clinical activity and safety of
           treatment with avelumab in participants with relapsed or refractory thymoma and thymic
           carcinoma.

        -  Avelumab will be administered at a dose of 10 mg/kg intravenously once every two weeks
           until disease progression or development of intolerable adverse events. The two week
           period will constitute one cycle.

        -  Per the study team s discretion, participants who respond to treatment or have durable
           stability after at least 12 months of therapy may undergo a dose de-escalation regimen
           to continue on therapy.

        -  Toxicity will be assessed every cycle by CTCAE version 4.0.

        -  Tumor response will be assessed after completion of every third cycle (6 weeks) using
           RECIST criteria, version 1.1.

        -  When possible, a tumor biopsy will be conducted pre-treatment and on C4D43 to evaluate
           treatment-related, intra-tumoral changes.
    
  