
    
      Aging is associated with progressive loss of functional reserve in all organ systems. For
      most people, physiologic compensation for age-related changes is adequate. However, it is
      easy to decompensate under stressful circumstances, such as surgery and illness. Under the
      specific physiologic phenomenon, geriatric anesthesia is acquired for more intensive
      monitoring. In Taiwan, about 75.92% of the elderlies above 65 years old suffered from chronic
      diseases or major diseases, especially in circulatory system. Thus, dramatic hemodynamic
      change is often observed in surgeries in this population. For the elderlies with fracture are
      more vulnerable to have complications, poor prognosis and decompensated organ functions.

      In our daily practice, the surgeries for fracture in lower extremities can performed under
      either general anesthesia or regional anesthesia, such as spinal anesthesia epidural
      anesthesia, and nerve block. The anesthetic method is determined under each patient's
      condition. EKG, arterial catheter, pulse oximeter are usually basic for intra-operative
      monitoring. However, these tools are unable to inform us the real-time cardiac output and the
      exact status of tissue perfusion. Nowadays, there are many non-invasive instruments able to
      estimate more detailed hemodynamic parameters, which are very crucial during anesthesia.1 But
      these instruments are not widely used in our daily practices. We need more researches to
      support the beneficial roles of these non-invasive monitors to high-risk patients during
      surgery.

      Due to the hemodynamic feature in elderlies, we will use conventional measurements as EKG,
      arterial blood pressure and pulse oximeter. To measure the perfusion of the lower
      extremities, we use a relative new tool, the non-invasive transcutaneous near infrared
      spectroscopy (NIRS).2,3 NIRS was used as the cerebral oximetry to measure the tissue
      perfusion of the cerebral cortex. It uses reflectance oximetry to measure the oxygen
      saturation of the tissue underneath the sensor.1 Recently, NIRS has been proved not only to
      continuously monitor tissue oxygenation saturation (StO2) continuously, but also to predict
      the patient's poor prognosis.3,4 To measure the cardiac output intra-operatively, we will use
      the non-invasive cardiac output monitor (NICOM®, Cheetah). Bioreactance technique allows the
      measurement of hemodynamic changes via four electrodes placed on the thorax. The electrical
      current crossing the thorax makes "signal phase shift", which is related to changes in the
      volume of the thoracic aorta. Thus, the volume change in the thoracic aorta is able to
      estimate stroke volume.1,5 Postoperative prognosis is adjusted with the recovery of
      ambulation, the duration of ICU stay, the morbidity and mortality, and the questionnaire
      (SF-36) about quality of life.
    
  