
    
      This study on the effect of PectaSol-C Modified Citrus Pectin (MCP) with subjects selected on
      the basis of documented PC post local therapy, and biochemical relapse, with linear
      progression of at least 3 PSA tests in at least 3 months. After initial screening, treatment
      {4.8 grams (6 capsules) three times a day away from meals} will continue for 6 months
      provided patients are showing benefit and tolerating the therapy well. Patient tolerability
      of MCP will be assessed by comparing the results of monthly self-assessment diaries with
      baseline assessments.

      Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men, except for non melanoma skin cancer. It
      is the second leading cause of cancer related death in men. About 33% of prostate cancer
      patients treated with primary therapy (surgery or radiation) will recur in the form of non
      metastatic biochemically relapsed prostate cancer (BRPC-M0). In these patients, PSA is rising
      while scans are negative for metastasis. Recent surveys demonstrated that approximately 40%
      of prostate cancer patients use various complementary and alternative medicine modalities as
      a component of therapy. Currently, there is no standard treatment for biochemical failure
      with proven benefits. Patients are being encouraged to enroll in clinical trials to help
      establish standards of care. Studies have shown that in 80% of patients with BRPC-M0, PSA
      will rise by at least 25% every 6 months.

      Native pectin is a complex carbohydrate soluble fiber. Dietary fibers, such as pectin, have
      been shown to have positive effects on a wide spectrum of pathological conditions. Their
      positive influence on human health is explained by their antioxidative, hypocholesterolemic,
      and anticancer effects. MCP is composed of short, slightly-branched, carbohydrate chains
      derived from the soluble albedo fraction of citrus fruit peels, which have been altered by
      decreasing the molecular weight and degree of esterification using pH, temperature, and a
      controlled enzymatic process. This specific modification is critical as it allows for the
      absorption of MCP into the circulatory system and ensures its targeted bioactivity throughout
      the body. MCP is relatively rich in galactose and thus antagonizes the binding protein
      galectin-3 which results in suppression of cancer cell aggregation, adhesion, and metastasis.
      MCP acts as a ligand for galectin-3, which plays a major role in tumor formation and
      progression. It has been shown using a combination of fluorescence microscopy, flow
      cytometry, and atomic force microscopy, that pectin galactan specifically binds to the
      recombinant form of human galectin-3.

      MCP showed anti-metastatic effects on cancer cells in multiple in vitro and in vivo studies.
      MCP inhibits carbohydrate mediated tumor growth, angiogenesis and metastasis via effects on
      galectin-3 function as demonstrated in an animal study on MCP's inhibition of breast and
      colon cancer progression. Results demonstrated a 70.2% reduction in breast tumor growth, a
      66% reduction in breast angiogenesis, and 0% breast to lung metastasis compared to 100% in
      the control group; 0% colon to liver metastasis compared to 60% in the control group; and 25%
      colon to lymph metastasis compared to 100% in the control group. In an earlier study oral
      intake of MCP had been shown to act as a potent inhibitor of spontaneous prostate carcinoma
      metastasis in an animal model, demonstrating a significant 56% reduction in lung metastases.
      Human cancer cell lines (LNCaP androgen dependent & PC3 androgen independent) and mouse
      prostate cancer cell lines (CASP2-1 androgen dependent and CASP1-1 androgen independent)
      treated with 1% MCP showed the following cytotoxicity due to induced apoptosis: 52.28% in
      LNCaP; 48.16% in PC3; 23.03% in CASP2-1; and 49.01% in CASP1-1.13 The effects of MCP on
      cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions mediated by carbohydrate-recognition were investigated
      by looking at MCP-inhibited B16-F1 melanoma cells adhesion and aggregation. MCP was shown to
      inhibit anchorage-independent growth of B16-F1 cells. These results indicate that
      carbohydrate-recognition by cell surface galectin-3 is involved in cell-extracellular matrix
      interaction and plays a role in anchorage-independent growth as well as the in vivo
      embolization of tumor cells. The modulation of the lung colonization of B16-F1 melanoma cells
      by MCP was first observed in 1992 when injection of MCP significantly decreased B16-F1
      experimental metastasis (greater than 90%). Galectin-3 participation in the adhesion of the
      MDA-MB-435 cells to the endothelium was observed by the clustering of galectin-3 on
      endothelial cells at the sites of the contact with tumor cells, suggesting its potential
      functional significance for anti-adhesive therapy of cancer metastasis. The anti-metastatic
      effect of MCP has also been shown in reduced liver metastasis in a dose-dependent manner. The
      use of MCP in combination with the chemotherapy drug doxorubicin has demonstrated an
      increased cytotoxicity effect of inducing rapid cell death in prostate cancer cell lines
      DU-145 (androgen independent) through apoptosis, and in LNCaP (androgen dependant) through
      cell cycle arrest (G2-M arrest). These results show promise for the use of MCP with
      doxorubicin as an adjuvant to chemotherapy which may allow for lower dosage of the cancer
      drug to be used with less toxicity. A human clinical pilot trial with MCP showed an increase
      in prostate specific antigen doubling time, a marker of slowing the progression of prostate
      cancer. Clinical research on MCP also demonstrated a significant improvement in quality of
      life and stabilization of disease for patients with advanced solid tumors.

      In addition to its therapeutic roles against cancer, MCP has been shown to remove toxic
      metals from the body without affecting essential minerals. In a clinical study, baseline
      levels of heavy metals and essential minerals were established with 24-hours urine collection
      prior to oral administration of MCP. 24-hours urine collection was repeated on days 1 and 6.
      Urinary excretion of lead, mercury, cadmium, and arsenic increased significantly, essential
      minerals were not changed significantly and no side effects were reported. In a hospital
      study in China, children with lead toxicity were given MCP. Their blood serum levels went
      down while corresponding lead levels in their urine increased significantly, without side
      effects.

      MCP has immunostimulatory properties as demonstrated in human blood samples, including the
      activation of functional NK cells against K562 leukemic cells in culture: Unsaturated
      oligogalacturonic acids appear to be the immunostimulatory carbohydrates in MCP. Human blood
      samples collected from healthy volunteers were incubated with increasing concentrations of
      MCP and antibodies. After 24-hours, blood-antibody mix was lysed and run on a flow cytometer
      using a 3-color protocol and the % of activated T-cytotoxic cell subset, B-cell, and
      NK-cells, and % increase over untreated control calculated and a significant dose dependent
      activation was seen. The ability of the activated NK cells to induce leukemia cell death was
      analyzed by co-incubating MCP-treated lymphocytes with K562 T-cell leukemia cells and induced
      leukemia cell death was determined to be greater than 50%.

      MCP has been demonstrated to be protective in experimental nephropathy with modulation of
      early proliferation and later galectin-3 expression, apoptosis and fibrosis by experimentally
      modulating galectin-3 in folic acid (FA)-induced acute kidney injury. Mice were pre-treated
      with normal or 1% MCP-supplemented drinking water one week before FA injection. During the
      initial injury phase, all FA treated mice lost weight whilst their kidneys enlarged secondary
      to the renal insult; these gross changes were significantly lessened in the MCP group but
      this was not associated with significant changes in galectin-3 expression. At a histological
      level, MCP clearly reduced renal cell proliferation but did not affect apoptosis. Later,
      during the recovery phase at two weeks, MCP-treated mice demonstrated reduced galectin-3 in
      association with decreased renal fibrosis, macrophages, proinflammatory cytokine expression
      and apoptosis. Galectin-3 inhibition by MCP was demonstrated to block Aldosterone (Aldo)
      induced collagen type I synthesis. Rats were treated with Aldo-salt combined MCP for 3 weeks.
      Hypertensive Aldo-treated rats presented vascular hypertrophy, inflammation, fibrosis, and
      increased aortic Gal-3 expression. MCP treatment reversed all the above effects.

      MCP is affirmed as GRAS (generally regarded as safe) under the US Code of Federal Regulation
      21CFR184.1588.
    
  