
    
      Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of colorectal liver metastases activates a specific T-cell
      response that is ineffective in avoiding recurrence. Local immunomodulation garnered
      interests as a way to improve the immune response. It was interesting in improving the RFA
      immune response priming to propose a curative treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC) based on
      antitumor immunity. Early study of the investigators demonstrated that the RFA did not
      increase the tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in secondary distant tumors of patients and in
      mice model and could not avoid relapse. The lack of an effective distant immune response in
      patients treated with RFA confirmed the relevance of the combination strategy.

      Another study on the predictive value of cytokines/chemokines in rectal cancer (RC) patients
      receiving chemoradiation therapy (CRT) demonstrate that, the pre-CRT levels of soluble
      CD40-ligand (sCD40L) and the post-CRT levels of chemokine ligand-5 (CCL-5) were significantly
      associated with the depth of tumor invasion and with venous invasion. A significant
      correlation between pre-CRT platelet counts and sCD40L was observed in patients with a
      favorable response.

      Today there is no validated biomarker for the indication of immunotherapy after local
      treatment on metastases of colorectal cancer.

      This is a prospective, monocentric study which will be realized with the routine care and
      usual management. There will be any added intervention for enrolled patients during the
      study. All eligible patients will be enrolled and followed in the Department of digestive
      surgery of Ambroise Paré Hospital - APHP.

      The duration of enrollment will last 6 months. The duration of follow-up for each patient
      will be up to 12 month.

      Data collection: the medical data will be collected and recorded by Doctor Malafosse in a
      Excel file.
    
  