
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, double-blinded, active controlled,
      parallel-design, non-inferiority study.

      Screening/Recruitment

      In order to minimize the number of patients who enroll in the study but do not require RBC
      transfusion, only patients with a relatively high likelihood to receive a RBC transfusion as
      determined by the Investigator (e.g., patients receiving aspirin, clopidogrel (or analogs)
      and/or GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors), or patients with a TRUST Score of ≥3 will be eligible for
      enrollment. Patients ≥ 11 years of age undergoing complex cardiac surgery may be identified
      through pre-operative scheduling procedures in advance of their operations.

      All potentially eligible patients will be approached for study consent prior to their
      surgical procedure. Subjects who consent to the study will be assigned a study ID number and
      undergo screening. Screening data collection and procedures will include:

      Demographics (age, sex), vital signs, height, weight, EKG, type of scheduled surgery, need
      for irradiated RBCs, medical and surgical history, transfusion history, physical examination,
      concomitant medications, complete blood count, blood type, blood chemistry, DAT, IAT,
      specific immune reactivity to IBS RBCs, and pregnancy test (when applicable). A blood sample
      for HLA antibodies will also be obtained and sent to a central lab.

      Screening will include documentation of the patient's pre-surgical exposure to radiographic
      contrast media and number of prior pregnancies (females). Screening data may be derived from
      the medical record when performed within 7 days of screening. Eligibility status and other
      study data including all TRUST components will be entered into the clinical database via an
      electronic data capture (EDC) system using electronic case report forms (eCRFs). Patients who
      fail eligibility for any or multiple inclusion/exclusion criteria may be rescreened for
      eligibility closer to the time of surgery.

      Randomization and Blinding

      Eligible subjects will be randomized up to 7 days before or on the day of scheduled surgery
      (Day 0). An Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) will be used for electronic randomization
      of eligible patients. Randomization (in 1:1 ratio for Test:Control) stratified by site,
      pre-existing renal impairment (baseline sCr ≥1.2mg/dL), and cardiac surgery group (more at
      risk for renal complication vs. less) will be employed. Screened subjects who receive a red
      cell transfusion prior to randomization will no longer be considered for randomization, and
      their participation in the study will end. Randomized subjects who do not receive any study
      RBC transfusions following randomization to within the first 48 hours after completion of
      surgery will be discontinued from the study and replaced.

      Only delegated blood bank staff will have access to subjects' treatment arm assignment. RBC
      unit labels will be identical for Test and Control products. Operating room staff, surgical
      staff, ICU staff, and others caring for participating patients, as well as the sponsor (and
      delegates), will be blinded to treatment assignment. Unblinded CRAs will monitor the
      production of the RBC components.

      Treatment

      Once a subject is randomized, only study RBCs (Test or Control, per the subject's
      randomization) should be dispensed and transfused during the acute transfusion support period
      (Day 0 to Day 7 post surgery, hospital discharge, or death, whichever is first), as
      clinically indicated and determined by the treating physician. In rare exceptions where study
      RBCs are unavailable or patient's need for RBC transfusions exceeds the quantity of study
      RBCs in inventory at the hospital blood bank (e.g. during a Massive Transfusion Protocol), a
      transfusion using non-study RBC (conventional) may be given to provide the patient with an
      appropriate and necessary treatment. In this case, a protocol deviation should be documented.
      If a study RBC transfusion is given after randomization before surgery commences, a protocol
      deviation should also be documented.

      Treatment assessments will be divided into an acute transfusion support period starting the
      day of surgery during which study RBC (Test or Control) are administered, a post-surgical
      follow-up period of a minimum of 28 days after the last study transfusion to collect
      additional safety data, a clinical assessment at day 30 after surgery specifically for
      mortality and RRT status, and a visit at day 75 (±15) after the last study transfusion to
      assess mortality and RRT status, and collect samples for serological screening for antibodies
      specific to INTERCEPT RBCs.

      In all patients, anesthesia and surgical procedures will be performed according to the local
      standards of care. Following the acute transfusion support period (Day 0 to Day 7), subjects
      may receive conventional RBC components if additional transfusions are needed, as indicated
      by their treating physician.

      Study Assessments: Monitoring and Follow-up

      Baseline through Acute Transfusion Support Period (Pre-Op Day -1 to Post-Op Day 7)

      Hemodynamic and laboratory measures will be assessed pre-operatively (Day -1, Baseline) and
      daily as available in the medical record from post operative Day 1 through Day 7, hospital
      discharge or death, whichever occurs first. If a subject is discharged prior to Day 7 but
      returns to the study site for a standard of care visit on Day 7, blood samples should be
      obtained on that day for a complete blood count and sCr determination. Randomized subjects
      who do not receive an RBC transfusion following randomization to within the first 48 hours
      after surgery will be discontinued from the study and replaced.

      Hemodynamic parameters that will be monitored include heart rate, blood pressure, mean
      arterial pressure, central venous pressure (CVP), and peripheral oxygen saturation via pulse
      oximetry probe.

      Laboratory parameters that will be monitored include BUN, creatinine (sCr), AST, ALT,
      fibrinogen, bilirubin, troponin, hemoglobin, and platelet counts.

      A blood sample for sCr will be taken at 48 (±4 hours) after completion of surgery, and sCr
      will be determined on a daily basis during the acute transfusion support period up to 7 days
      post-surgery. Other parameters will be collected on eCRFs only when available in the medical
      record, i.e., it is not mandatory to order or obtain other labs daily if not performed as a
      standard of care. Laboratory parameters will be measured by a CLIA accredited local
      laboratory.

      The use of radiographic contrast media will be documented starting 7 days prior to surgery,
      as will details related to the specific surgical procedure (type of procedure, start and end
      times, RBC components transfused, all other blood components transfused, estimated blood loss
      from the surgical procedure, concomitant medications, intraoperative cell recovery and
      reinfusion, hemodilution procedures, and nadir temperature. Additionally, daily estimated
      blood loss from chest tube(s) and from other sources, and day of chest tube removal will be
      recorded.

      Transfusion reactions, AEs and SAEs will be assessed on a daily basis and documented in the
      eCRF from the start of the first study transfusion through post-operative Day 7 and as
      available through day 28 after the last study transfusion.

      Post-operative Day 8 to 28 Days After Last Study Transfusion

      Subjects will be monitored for transfusion reactions, AEs and SAEs following the 7-day acute
      transfusion support period, through 28 days after the last study transfusion or death,
      whichever occurs first, according to the local standard of care. In an outpatient setting,
      weekly telephone surveillance calls to the subject will be performed in order to collect
      safety events until the next follow-up visit.

      28 (±3) Days After Last Study Transfusion or Premature Discontinuation from study.

      Subjects who have been discharged should be scheduled for the follow up visit 28 (±3) days
      after the last study transfusion to obtain additional safety information, including
      patient-reported AEs/ SAEs; laboratory results including sCr, DAT/ IAT; a sample for HLA
      antibodies and antibodies specific to INTERCEPT RBCs will be obtained, either in hospital or
      at clinic visit. All randomized subjects who receive any study RBC transfusion must have
      their vital status documented at this visit, or earlier if the subject dies prior to the
      visit. If a subject has been discharged, other safety information (e.g., AEs and SAEs) may be
      obtained through medical records, the subject's physician, or a telephone interview with
      either the subject or a family member.

      30 Days After Surgery

      All randomized subjects who receive a study RBC transfusion must have their vital status and
      need for RRT documented at Day 30 after surgery. RRT that is provided prophylactically during
      surgery while patient is on a bypass machine (the pump), does not meet this endpoint. The
      vital status and RRT assessment on Day 30 can be performed either from the medical records,
      from a phone call to the subject or family, or during the visit 28±3 days after the last
      study transfusion (only if the last study transfusion was given at day 2 or later in the
      acute transfusion support period).

      End of Study: 75 (±15 Days) After last Study Transfusion

      75 (±15) days after the last study transfusion (End of Study), serum samples for antibodies
      specific for INTERCEPT RBCs will be obtained, either in hospital, at a clinic visitor or
      offsite. Mortality and the need for RRT will be assessed.

      Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)

      The study data and safety will be monitored by an independent Data and Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB). The primary mission of the DSMB is to ensure patient safety and protocol
      compliance for data collection. The DSMB will be assembled by the Sponsor and composed of
      transfusion medicine and other experts as per the DSMB charter. DSMB members will be
      independent of the Sponsor.

      Interim Analysis and Early Stopping Rule

      Aside from the blinded interim analysis for sample size re-estimation*, no other interim
      analysis is planned for this study to compare treatment differences with respect to efficacy
      or safety at any time prior to the completion of the study. Specific stopping rules, defined
      for safety considerations, are defined in Section 4.6 of the protocol.

      *A blinded interim analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint will be performed after
      approximately 300 patients have been treated in both treatment groups combined. The sample
      size will be reassessed and may be adjusted to ensure adequate power in consultation with the
      FDA at that time.
    
  