
    
      Lower Body Lift procedures are performed to correct skin redundancy and muscle diastases
      caused by significant weight loss, poor skin tone, etc. Lower Body Lift procedures involve a
      high risk of early complications, including hematomas, seromas, necrosis, and wound-healing
      problems. The occurrence of these complications may be due in part to the extensive
      undermining and division of the superficial and the deep arterial systems, done in
      conventional procedures.

      Persistent serous wound drainage and seromas are the most common complications in Lower Body
      Lift procedures. The rate of serous fluid collection determines the time drains need to
      remain in place. Although suction drains reduce seroma formation, prolonged use can delay
      healing, cause injury, and increase the risk of retrograde infection and patient discomfort.
      Wound drainage has a direct correlation with seroma formation. The loss of protein nutrients
      and minerals in the serum drained is also a concern with prolonged drainage that can result
      in healing delays.

      The Harmonic™ technology uses ultrasonic energy that allows both cutting and coagulating at
      the precise point of application. The Harmonic™ has been used since 1992 predominantly in
      urology and gastro-intestinal surgery (laparoscopic surgery). Significantly reduced serous
      drainage in a number of general surgery procedures such as superficial and total
      parotidectomy; thyroidectomy; tonsillectomy; pectoralis major myocutaneous flap dissection;
      axillary dissection; and lymphadenectomy have been reported with the use of Harmonic™.

      The Harmonic™ has also been used in parotidectomy and maxillofacial surgery, but its use has
      been seldom mentioned in the field of plastic and reconstructive surgery. Recent use of the
      Harmonic™ has shown promise in plastic and reconstructive surgery in dissection of the
      pectoralis major myocutaneous flap and total body lifts.

      Comparisons: The Harmonic™ vs. Electro Surgery in Lower Body Lift procedures.
    
  