
    
      1.0 BACKGROUND 1.1 Prostatic adenocarcinoma is one of the most common forms of malignancy in
      men. Every year over 200000 patients are diagnosed with prostate cancer in the United States.
      Treatment options for these patients include active surveillance, radical prostectomy,
      external beam radiation therapy, permanent source interstitial brachytherapy and high dose
      rate (HDR) brachytherapy.

      1.2 Each of these treatment options vary in regards to the logistics, anticipated outcomes,
      and potential side effects of therapy.

      1.3 High-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy has been used in the treatment of prostate cancer
      since the 1980's with good results. Catheters are placed temporarily in the prostate, and
      then loaded with a high-dose Iridium-192 source, delivering a few fractions of very high-dose
      RT. Brachytherapy allows the delivery of conformal, high-dose radiotherapy to the prostate,
      with a rapid dose fall-off outside of the region. It also takes advantage of low alpha/beta
      ratio of prostate cancer by using a hypofractionated approach.

      1.4 The TrueBeam is a noninvasive radiosurgical system, capable of treating any part of the
      body from multiple targeting angles, creating a highly conformal three-dimensional
      radiosurgical treatment volume, guided by orthogonal X-ray-based targeting feedback, and
      delivering radiation by a highly collimated, robotically controlled linear accelerator. The
      TrueBeam system targets implanted fiducial markers with sub-millimeter set-up accuracy.

      1.5 From a dosimetry standpoint, TrueBeam Stereotactic radiosurgery is capable of producing a
      dose distribution comparable to that created by prostate HDR brachytherapy treatment, without
      the need for invasive transperineal catheters, anesthesia, or inpatient admission. It would
      therefore be possible to deliver the HDR boost portion of a patient's treatment in a
      non-invasive fashion. As such, the TrueBeam prostate dose fractionation schedule prescribed
      in this study is based upon prior published prostate HDR brachytherapy experience both as a
      monotherapy and as a boost to external beam radiation therapy in patients with higher risk
      disease. The therapeutic volume in this study will also be made to resemble prostate HDR
      brachytherapy therapeutic volume, with similar dose limitation objectives to the adjacent
      tissues, including the rectum, bladder and urethra. It is theorized that such an approach
      should result in similar cancer control rates while lowering overall morbidity and improving
      the patient's comfort and convenience.

      1.6 The feasibility of stereotactic body radiation therapy for treating localized prostate
      cancer was first described by King at Stanford University. Their phase I protocol delivered
      36.25Gy in 5 fractions of 7.25Gy. In a recent report of acute and 18-month late toxicity in
      26 "low-risk" patients, no patient experienced grade 3 or 4 acute or late toxicity, and only
      one patient experienced a grade 2 late morbidity (urethral stricture). Toxicity was less than
      that reported in MD Anderson's external beam dose escalation trial. Mean PSA 18 months after
      treatment was 0.22ng/ml. Naples Community Hospital reported a series of more than 70 low and
      intermediate risk patients treated with the SBRT. The prostate received 35 Gy in 5 fractions
      of 7 Gy each; acute toxicity was minimal. San Diego Cyberknife, which used a virtual HDR
      technique, reported a series of more than 124 low and intermediate risk patients treated. The
      prostate received 38Gy in 4 fractions of 9.5Gy each; acute toxicity was minimal.

      1.7 Another potential benefit of stereotactic body radiosurgery relative to HDR brachytherapy
      is possibly better preservation of potency, even if the radiation distribution is essentially
      identical between these modalities. This is so because needle trauma has been identified as a
      potentially significant contributory factor to erectile dysfunction with brachytherapy,
      including HDR-based monotherapy technique, presumably due to direct physical injury to the
      neurovascular bundle and/or bulb of the penis, particularly when greater than 13 needle
      insertions are performed. By comparison, stereotactic body radiosurgery is noninvasive, and
      so removes this particular erectile dysfunction risk factor.
    
  