
    
      Background:

      Surveys conducted throughout the world repeatedly demonstrate that approximately 50% of
      mothers consider at least one of their children to have a feeding difficulty, meaning that
      they resist taking an appropriate amount of food. This implicates between 20% and 30% of all
      children. The milder cases are frequently considered "picky eaters" and although well
      nourished they are at significant risk for coercive feeding. This in turn has been associated
      with cognitive limitations and behavioral problems. Sub-groups do exhibit poor growth, and
      some have sub-optimal nutrient consumption relative to body size,while others have underlying
      or co-morbid organic disease. To help identify the relevant intervention for these children,
      whether it is reassurance for the parents, counseling to resolve behavioral problems (of both
      the child and the feeder), nutritional intervention and/or medical treatment, it is necessary
      to identify the separate conditions that contribute to the feeding difficulty and its
      complications so that appropriate treatment can then be tailored to the cause.

      The task of categorizing children with feeding problems is frequently daunting for the
      pediatrician due to time constraints and lack of training in this field. In developed
      countries, physicians may refer a child with severe feeding difficulties to a specialist;
      however, in many parts of the world, these resources are limited or absent. Additionally,
      health care professionals have a narrow perspective based on their specialized training,
      whether that is general medical care, specialized care, nutrition, or oral motor therapy.

      To overcome the limitations detailed above, a questionnaire was developed based on the work
      of the principal investigator, Dr. Kerzner and the co-investigator, Dr. Chatoor. This
      questionnaire is filled out by the parents and their responses prompt the physician to
      consider relevant diagnostic possibilities for the particular child's feeding difficulty.
      Once a diagnosis or set of diagnoses is established by utilization of the questionnaire,
      specific and appropriate therapy can then be provided.

      The diagnostic categories that are captured by this tool are based on typical symptoms
      demonstrated by children with feeding difficulties and their basis has been published by the
      principal investigator (copy attached).1 Children over one year of age are divided into three
      groups based on their dominant symptoms: those with poor appetite; those with excessive
      selectivity; and those with fear of feeding. Children with a poor appetite are further
      categorized into four sub groups: those who have underlying organic or medical problems;
      those who are very active and playful but whose poor feeding leads to conflict with the
      mother; those who fail to-thrive based on poor economic circumstances or neglect; and,
      finally, those who are eating appropriate amounts of food but are misperceived by their
      caregivers to have a poor appetite. Each feeding difficulty category has different and unique
      approaches necessary for its resolution and it is possible for a child to fit into more than
      one diagnostic category

      As the diagnostic nomenclature in the literature has been confusing and in a state of flux
      there are no data on the relative prevalence of various diagnoses, much less on the
      diagnostic categories used in the current classification. Consequently, we have minimal
      guidance for decisions relating to sample size; thus, the need for a pilot study. We believe
      that this study will allow us an insight into the frequency and variance in diagnosis of at
      least three of the major categories: children who are vigorous but with poor appetite, those
      who are highly selective, and those who are in fact misperceived to have a feeding problem.
      We also have no information on the feasibility and acceptance of the FDDT questionnaire and
      we believe the pilot study will facilitate our gaining the pediatrician's and office staff's
      perspective so that in future designs of the instrument we can overcome any practical
      limitations that become evident.

      Design:

      This prospective, observational pilot study will be conducted in a single private pediatric
      office. The pediatricians have incorporated the FDDT questionnaire as a part of the routine
      evaluation of children coming for "well baby visits". To complete the study we will recruit
      at least 40 of the children perceived by their parents or guardian to have feeding
      difficulties. To be sure this number is obtained we will aim to recruit 50 subjects. This
      study will be approximately one year in duration.

      Data Collection:

      The following data will be collected on study subjects as illustrated in the flow sheet on
      page 6 of this research protocol cover sheet.

        -  Historical data reported by the parent or guardian on the FDDT questionnaire

        -  The diagnosis suggested on the Cover sheet of the FDDT

        -  The pediatrician's details of the patient's physical examination, anthropometrics and
           calculations (weight and length or height percentiles and mid parental height). A prompt
           for these data is available in the FDDT. The patient's name will blacked out and a study
           subject number will be inserted.

        -  Data on the acceptance of the FDDT will be obtained from the office staff, the
           pediatricians, and the patients' parents.

        -  The diagnosis reached by the first feeding specialist (CPNP)

        -  The diagnosis reached by the second feeding specialist (Psychiatrist)
    
  