
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) remains a leading cause of gynecologic cancer mortality in
      women, with more than 22,000 deaths per year in the United States alone. Due to the lack of
      effective screening strategies and subtle early symptoms, eighty percent of newly diagnosed
      patients have disease that is advanced. Despite cytoreductive surgery and adjuvant
      paclitaxel-based and platinum-based chemotherapy, 5-year survival rates continue to be less
      than 40%. For patients who become resistant to the platinum compounds (defined as progressive
      disease while on a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen (refractory) or within 6 months of
      completing a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen (resistant)),the outlook is particularly
      poor, and often heralds multi-drug resistant disease.

      At the present time, the management of ovarian cancer in the platinum refractory disease
      state is limited to palliative intent. Patients with advanced, bulky tumors, poor performance
      status and nutritional compromise are unlikely to respond to therapy and may be best served
      by supportive care. The clinical management of refractory disease requires both patience and
      persistence. A patient with platinum refractory disease is begun on one of the agents with
      activity and an evaluation of response is made every 6-8 weeks of therapy. As long as the
      patient shows no signs of disease progression, the therapy can be continued unless there is
      unacceptable toxicity. When progressive disease is observed, another of the list of available
      agents can be used. It is likely that patients will receive multiple single agents during the
      chronic phase of their illness. Every effort should be made to balance disease response with
      toxicity and quality of life.

      Based on this rational, this trial will be conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      panitumumab, a human antibody targeted to the EGF-R, and Gemcitabine, in treating women with
      recurrent platinum-refractory/resistant EOC. Our aim is to determine the safety and
      feasibility of gemcitabine and panitumumab therapy in this population and once completed, to
      proceed with an efficacy study using an expanded cohort.
    
  