
    
      This is a double-blinded, randomized controlled trial comparing the analgesic efficacy
      between acetaminophen and ibuprofen versus acetaminophen and oxycodone for postoperative pain
      control in patients following closed reduction and percutaneous pinning for isolated closed
      supracondylar humerus fractures. Each patient will be evaluated initially at our
      institution's pediatric urgent care center and placed in a long arm splint with instructions
      to elevate the affected arm. Patients will not be discharged with any prescriptions for
      narcotic pain medication and will be instructed to take weight-based doses of acetaminophen
      and/or ibuprofen for pain control as needed.

      All patients age 5-12 with closed Gartland type II supracondylar humerus fractures requiring
      fixation (e.g. satisfactory reduction not achieved with closed reduction and casting or
      medial column comminution) and Gartland type III supracondylar humerus fractures scheduled
      for surgery will be approached for participation in the study. Demographic data (age, gender,
      weight, height, ethnicity, primary language spoken at home, insurance type) will be obtained
      through chart review on each included patient.

      The exclusion criteria include open fractures, fractures with concomitant vascular or
      neurologic deficit, any fracture requiring open reduction, pathologic fractures, those
      presenting with concomitant injuries, swelling requiring post-operative hospitalization for
      monitoring, any known history of allergies to acetaminophen, ibuprofen or oxycodone, and
      patients with developmental delay that would preclude participation in the visual analog
      Faces Pain Scale-Revised. Informed consent will be obtained from all parents who wish to
      participate in the study, and assent will be obtained from patients when possible. If parents
      refuse participation in the study, the reason for refusal will be documented, and their
      child's care and post-operative protocol will be consistent with our typical protocol, which
      includes all 3 medications.

      All surgeries will be performed at our outpatient surgery center. The treating pediatric
      anesthesiologists will use a standardized anesthesia protocol. All patients will be under
      general anesthesia and will not receive any regional anesthetics or local anesthetics. All
      included patients will undergo closed reduction and percutaneous pinning using 2-3 pins
      placed either all laterally or medially and laterally by two pediatric orthopaedic surgeons
      (MS and RT). They will al be placed in posterior long arm splints thereafter and made
      non-weight bearing in that extremity. The patients will be transferred to our post-anesthesia
      care unit (PACU), where morphine IV 0.1mg/kg will be utilized as needed for before discharge
      home. Nursing staff will record the amount of pain medication provided in the PACU as well as
      the pre-discharge pain scores, as is our typical post-operative protocol.

      Prior to discharge, patients will be randomized to receiving acetaminophen for first-line
      medication (liquid oral medication, 15mg/kg/dose every 6 hours as needed, max 90mg/kg/day)
      with as needed ibuprofen for breakthrough pain (liquid oral medication, 10mg/kg/dose every 8
      hours as needed, max dose 40mg/kg/day) or acetaminophen for first-line medication (liquid
      oral medication, 15mg/kg/dose every 6 hours as needed, max 90mg/kg/day) with as needed
      oxycodone for breakthrough pain (liquid oral medication, 0.1mg/kg/dose every 6 hours as
      needed). Each patient will receive 18 doses (3 days) of acetaminophen and the study
      medication. Pre-sealed, sequentially numbered randomization envelopes containing each
      subject's group will be delivered to the hospital pharmacy. Patients will be instructed to
      first take the labeled acetaminophen medication and to take the study medication (unlabeled)
      as needed for breakthrough pain as prescribed. Patients will be given both patient
      information for both study medications in order to keep the patients blinded to which study
      medication they received. They will be given patient information for both medications but
      told that they have been given only one of the two medications. Medication labels will be
      obscured by the pharmacist with a circumferential tape. Throughout the study, the
      investigators and the parents will be blinded as to which study medication was given to each
      participant. Parents who contact the physician (a resident physician on-call for the
      pediatric orthopaedic surgery service who is not involved in the study) post-operatively for
      alternative pain medication will be provided the study medication not initially provided
      (i.e. those that were randomized to receive oxycodone primarily will be provided ibuprofen
      and vice versa), as confirmed by our pharmacy.

      Post-operatively, the parents of each participant will be asked to use the Faces Pain
      Scale-Revised (FPS-R)16 to rate the child's level of pain at 24 hours and 48 hours after
      surgery. A research team member will call each participant's guardian at 24 and 48 hours
      post-operatively to collect these responses. Parents will further be asked to complete the
      modified Total Quality Pain Management Instrument (TQPM)17 regarding their level of
      satisfaction with surgery and post-operative pain control. Parents will be asked to report
      any side effects (e.g. nausea, vomiting, lethargy, constipation) associated with the
      medications. A take-home medication log will be utilized by the parents to record the type
      and amount of mediation given to each participant and to record any associated side effects.

      For breakthrough pain experienced during pharmacy hours the patient will have the option to
      return to our pharmacy to obtain the medication they were not originally prescribed. Though
      the investigators believe this will be unlikely, if they are unable to get to the pharmacy
      for the other medication (e.g. oxycodone if they were in the ibuprofen group or ibuprofen if
      they were in the oxycodone group), parents can go to the ER for IM/IV medication for pain
      relief and they can get a prescription for oxycodone or ibuprofen from the ER if necessary,
      once they contact the resident on call. There will always be a resident on call 24/7 to
      advise patients if they are unable to achieve adequate pain control with medications
      received. Again, the study group believes this will be an unlikely/rare event. The resident
      on call will have access to the study medication that the patient received. At this point,
      the resident on call can reveal what medication they were getting (in case they need a new
      prescription from the ER) so they do not get oxycodone if they were already prescribed
      oxycodone (and can get something different) or they have the option to obtain ibuprofen
      over-the-counter if they wish. Patients who need to get the other medication would be
      considered a "failure in treatment" and would not be analyzed together from the original
      group.
    
  