
    
      The World Health Organization estimates approximately 10% of couples experience some sort of
      infertility problem.

      In humans, puberty is the process through which we develop reproductive capacity.

      The timing of puberty varies greatly in the general population and is influenced by both
      genetic and environmental factors. In extreme cases of pubertal delay, puberty progresses
      only partially or not at all and results in the clinical picture of congenital
      hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH), either accompanied by anosmia in 50% of cases (Kallmann
      syndrome [KS]) or by normal sense of smell (nCHH), with a male: female ratio of 4:1.

      CHH is due to GnRH deficiency (incidence 1: 4,000-10,000) and result in the failure of sexual
      maturation and infertility. It is genetically heterogeneous, with multiple patterns of
      inheritance and several associated loci. In the clinical spectrum of GnRH deficiency, CHH may
      also be associated with a cleft lip/palate (CL/P) in 5 to 7% of cases. However, this
      prevalence increases up to 40% in CHH patients carrying a mutation in a CL/P gene, suggesting
      a genetic overlap between CHH and CL/P.

      Disorders of puberty have provided insight into the biology of reproduction and genetic
      technologies have enabled us to deepen understanding in this field. The focus of this study
      is to better understand the genetic control of puberty and human reproduction as well as its
      link with CL/P.

      Increasing understanding of the molecular basis (genes) of inherited reproductive disorders
      and CL/P may enable investigators to:

        -  improve diagnostic testing and treatments for these problems

        -  develop new diagnostic tests and therapies for patients

        -  enhance counseling for patients and families with reproductive disorders

        -  enhance counseling for patients and families with cleft lip/palate
    
  