
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To characterize differences in tumor morphology and molecular features that exist in
           good- and poor-prognosis breast cancer as determined by Oncotype Dx assay (a reverse
           transcriptase-PCR-based assay).

        -  To develop a computer-aided design (CAD)-based system of analysis of digitized
           histological images that would perform as well as Oncotype Dx assay in stratifying
           estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer into prognostic categories.

        -  To identify new therapeutic targets in the PI3-kinase signaling pathway for a subset of
           poor-prognosis ER+ breast cancers.

      OUTLINE: Patients who had Oncotype Dx assay (a reverse transcriptase-PCR-based assay)
      performed for their breast cancer are identified by review of medical records. Diagnostic H&E
      stained tumor tissue samples are reviewed by a pathologist. Relevant pathologic features of
      the tumor (size, stage, grade, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER2 staining)
      and linked Oncotype Dx score are recorded.

      The H&E stained tumor tissue samples are scanned to create high-resolution digital images.
      The images from each tissue sample are subjected to image analysis algorithms to identify
      sets of image features that most clearly separate tumors with low recurrence scores from
      those with high recurrence scores.

      Unstained paraffin sections from each tumor tissue sample, when available, are processed
      using IHC to analyze PI3-kinase signaling pathway (PTEN expression). Staining for other
      components of the PI3-kinase signaling pathway, phospo-AKT, and other proteins of interest is
      also performed. DNA is extracted from the samples and subjected to pyrosequencing analysis on
      exons 9 and 20 of PI3KCA. Sequencing of other relevant potential oncogenes, such as AKT, is
      also performed. Statistical analysis is performed to look for a correlation between Oncotype
      Dx scores and the presence of PI3KCA mutations and/or loss of PTEN expression.
    
  