
    
      The standard use of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has resulted in major and
      sustained declines in HIV-associated morbidity and mortality. Nonetheless, the life
      expectancy of patients with HIV on cART still remains 10 or more years shorter than that of
      uninfected persons of the same age, especially in patients starting cART at the time
      infection is already advanced. A greater risk of a broad range of co-morbidities, experienced
      by as many as 60% of patients, even after adjustment for age, may contribute to this
      discrepancy. Several studies have demonstrated an increased incidence of heart disease,
      diabetes mellitus, kidney disease, liver disease, osteoporosis, malignancies (other than
      Kaposi's sarcoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma traditionally associated with HIV), cognitive
      disorders and possibly chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in HIV-infected individuals when
      compared to age matched HIV-uninfected controls. Of note, the incidence of each of the
      mentioned co-morbidities is also higher after adjustment for age and other traditional risk
      factors. Most studies were conducted in the United States where prevalence of and risk
      factors for the various co-morbidities may be different than in Europe, in particular the
      Netherlands.

      HIV-related factors and adverse effects of cART each may independently contribute to the
      observed increased risk of several of the earlier mentioned co-morbidities. Interestingly,
      HIV-infected men in the absence of cART have increased frailty (a clinical syndrome
      associated with aging that identifies a subset of older adults at high risk of mortality and
      other adverse outcomes) when compared to uninfected men of similar age. Middle aged
      HIV-infected men despite cART use also show reduction in exercise capacity, functional
      performance, physical activity, and grip strength.

      The multidisciplinary expertise regarding co-morbidities which is present within the AMC in
      close collaboration with the existing data collection structures of the HIV Monitoring
      Foundation (HMF) and the Cluster of Infectious Diseases of the Public Health Service
      Amsterdam (PHSA), offers a unique opportunity to systematically identify the burden of
      co-morbidity, their (known) risk factors and their effect on quality of life among
      HIV-infected individuals and in a comparable group of uninfected individuals.
    
  