
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare whether treatment with alpha-lipoic acid vs placebo decreases the severity and
           frequency of peripheral neuropathy in cancer patients receiving a cisplatin- or
           oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy regimen.

        -  Compare the protective effect duration of these drugs in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine large sensory fiber integrity associated with platinum-induced peripheral
           neuropathy, as measured by three timed functional tests comprising fastening 6-buttons,
           walking 50 feet, and placing coins in a cup, in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Compare the number of chemotherapy courses and doses received by patients treated with
           these drugs.

      Tertiary

        -  Compare the optimal tumor response (disease progression, stable disease, partial
           response, or complete response) to chemotherapy in patients treated with these drugs.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to prior platinum-containing treatment (yes vs no). Patients who
      received prior treatment are further stratified according to prior cumulative platinum
      exposure (cisplatin < 200 mg/m^2 or oxaliplatin < 750 mg/m^2 vs cisplatin 200-399 mg/m^2 or
      oxaliplatin 750-999 mg/m^2 vs cisplatin >400 mg/m^2 or oxaliplatin > 1,000 mg/m^2). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral alpha-lipoic acid* three times daily for at least 24 weeks
           in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo* three times daily for at least 24 weeks in the
           absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *In both arms, patients begin taking study drug 4 days after completion of each
      chemotherapy treatment and continue taking study drug until 2 days before their next
      scheduled chemotherapy treatment.

      Patients' symptoms of peripheral neuropathy, pain, and functional tests are assessed at
      baseline and then at weeks 6-8, 12, 24, 36, and 48.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 244 patients (122 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 2 years.
    
  