
    
      Learning to read is a fundamental skill taught in the early years of elementary school
      education. Students who experience difficulty reading are at risk for long-term struggles
      with academic achievement. In fact, achieving reading proficiency by the end of third grade
      has been established as key predictor of life success.

      While a number of factors contribute to reading problems, an undiagnosed or untreated ocular
      condition may present one possible etiology. To the investigator's knowledge, there are no
      large scale or prospective studies evaluating the prevalence of vision disorders in children
      with reading difficulties. Previously, the Baltimore Pediatric Eye Disease Study performed
      visual assessments in the Baltimore area for children 6 months through 5 years of age to
      establish the prevalence of select ocular disorders in this pre-school population. Little is
      known about the types of vision problems that affect a grade school population with and
      without reading difficulty.

      There is general consensus that undiagnosed or untreated vision problems may contribute to
      reading difficulty, although the extent to which treatment will improve reading performance
      is not well established. Although there are some studies demonstrating that treatment of
      vision problems can improve reading performance, publications on the efficacy of school-based
      interventions to identify and treat vision problems in school-age children are lacking. If
      successful, a school-based intervention could have significant impact improving reading
      performance, especially in high poverty neighborhoods where children have the highest risk of
      poor reading aptitude and limited access to eye care services.

      The primary goal of this research study is to determine the prevalence of vision problems in
      an early school age population with reading difficulty. To adequately address this question,
      the investigators will administer reading and vision assessments to 400 second and third
      graders in participating schools within the Baltimore City Public School system. In addition,
      the investigators will obtain information on how many children with vision problems have
      received treatment in the past, and if not, why not. The investigators will also determine
      how schools handle and refer children who are felt to be poor readers in order to assist with
      planning future interventions.

      This study will be conducted over a two-year period. In the first year, the investigators
      conducted baseline vision and reading assessment on all participating subjects. In the second
      year, the investigators will conduct follow up vision and reading assessments on all children
      treated with eyeglasses or eye exercises and a subset of subjects with healthy eye exams. The
      investigators plan to evaluate any barriers to interventions, and where possible assist in
      overcoming such barriers, for example by replacing lost/broken eyeglasses.

      A secondary goal is to examine the impact of vision treatment on reading performance.
      Children with refractive error and convergence insufficiency will be provided treatment free
      of charge. The investigators will evaluate the impact that the treatment has on vision
      function and reading performance.

      In subsequent phases of this project, the investigators also hope to learn how novel
      treatments (e.g. iPads) impact reading performance.
    
  