
    
      Serious mental illnesses (SMI), including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and
      schizoaffective disorder, are associated with increased medical comorbidity and premature
      mortality from diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Unhealthy lifestyles, including
      energy-dense (obesogenic) diet, sedentary behavior, and cigarette smoking are important risk
      factors for diabetes and accelerated biological aging. All of these risk factors are
      potentially modifiable. There is considerable literature documenting the effectiveness of
      strategies to prevent and manage diabetes in the general population; yet, these interventions
      are rarely offered to people with SMI. Residential Care Facilities (RCFs), called
      Board-and-Care Homes in California, are a common housing modality for patients with SMI; they
      provide a venue that can maximize efficiency and sustainability of a lifestyle intervention.
      The goals of the proposed four-year study are to tailor a multi-component intervention to
      this high-risk group. The study will be a hybrid effectiveness-implementation (Hybrid Type 1)
      trial of a Multi-component Intervention for Diabetes risk reduction in Adults with SMI
      (MIDAS) in licensed RCFs in San Diego county. As a Hybrid Type 1 study, the primary emphasis
      will be on determining the effectiveness of the intervention to achieve desired health
      outcomes while also systematically collecting data on its implementation within RCFs that
      will inform implementation strategy refinement. Main components of MIDAS include: (1)
      Education about diabetes and lifestyle, (2) Dietary intervention at the facility and resident
      level, (3) Increased physical activity, and (4) Smoking cessation / reduction. The
      investigators will employ a modified cluster-randomized stepped wedge and adaptive trial
      design involving 210 residents with SMI and 120 staff members from 12 RCFs. The RCFs will be
      divided randomly into four cohorts of three RCFs each. Each cohort will be tested over a
      15-month period that includes three phases: a three-month initial control phase (no
      intervention, from baseline month 0 to end of month 3), a six-month intervention phase
      (months 4 through 9), and a six-month follow-up phase (no intervention, months 10 through
      15). All the study participants will be assessed quarterly during the 15-month period. Our
      investigators will train RCF staff (especially the Activity Director and cook) to increase
      physical activity and reduce smoking, and to implement healthful dietary modifications among
      the residents, using evidence-based interventions. During the intervention phase, the RCF
      Activity Director will conduct twice-weekly manualized group sessions on education about
      diabetes, nutrition, exercise, and smoking cessation/reduction, to deliver a multi-component
      group intervention. We will also explore if there are improvements in blood-based research
      biomarkers of insulin resistance and inflammation in the RCF residents with SMI. This project
      is responsive to RFA-MH-17-608, and related to NIMH Strategic Objective #3.3B: testing
      interventions for effectiveness in community practice settings. If successful, MIDAS will be
      sustained and disseminated, and would lead to reduction in excess medical comorbidity and
      mortality associated with SMI.
    
  