
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is diagnosed in around 8500 patients annually in the UK.
      Approximately one third of these patients present with metastatic disease where the RCC has
      spread to other organs. The mainstay of treatment for these patients is systemic drug
      therapy, but surgery to remove the primary kidney tumour (i.e. nephrectomy) may also provide
      clinical benefit.

      There is no standard preoperative systemic drug therapy in metastatic RCC, but such
      preoperative therapy is used widely in the treatment of other cancer types. This approach has
      several potential advantages including shrinking the tumour to help improve surgical outcomes
      and to aid identification of appropriate postoperative Drug therapy.

      Over the last 10 years several agents have demonstrated promising activity in RCC including
      the monoclonal antibody therapy nivolumab. This novel immunotherapy works by blocking an
      immune cell receptor (programmed death1(PD1)) which the cancer can otherwise utilise to evade
      an individuals immune system attack. This study will investigate the use of nivolumab therapy
      as a preoperative treatment in patients with metastatic RCC for whom nephrectomy is planned.
      A total of 19 patients will be recruited at the Royal Marsden Hospital Patients will be
      treated with nivolumab for 8 weeks prior to surgery, after which nivolumab therapy will
      restart and continue until such time that the patient is not receiving an overall clinical
      benefit.

      The primary aim of the study will be to assess the safety of such a strategy, with further
      aims to assess clinical effectiveness. This is also a unique opportunity to further
      investigate the way in which nivolumab works and to identify predictors of treatment
      response. To achieve this patients will be asked to provide biopsy samples of their RCC pre &
      post nivolumab treatment and their nephrectomy tissue for research use, alongside additional
      blood & urine samples.
    
  