
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To establish whether conservative physical treatment delivered personally by a trained
           health professional results in better urinary and other outcomes compared with standard
           management in men who are incontinence after prostate surgery.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to type of operation
      (radical prostatectomy vs transurethral resection of prostate). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (intervention group): At 6 weeks after surgery, patients undergo an assessment of
           their symptoms by a physiotherapist or continence nurse. All patients are taught pelvic
           floor muscle training and men with urgency or urge incontinence are also taught bladder
           training. Pelvic floor training consists of 3 maximum pelvic floor contractions in 3
           positions (standing, sitting, and lying down) twice a day, lifting of the pelvic floor
           while walking, tightening of the pelvic muscles before activities, and tightening of the
           pelvic muscles after urinating to squeeze out any last drops. The strength of the pelvic
           floor contractions is monitored by biofeedback involving digital anal assessment and
           relaying the information back to men in order that they know when they are performing
           contractions correctly and to inform them when they are increasing the strength or
           duration of their contractions. Therapists may use machine-mediated biofeedback with an
           anal biofeedback probe at their discretion in addition to digital anal assessment.
           Bladder training consists of gradually delaying urination by pelvic floor muscle
           contraction and distracting activities to teach the bladder to hold increasing volumes
           of urine. Patients also receive a customized Pelvic Floor Exercise Booklet describing
           pelvic floor muscle training in addition to a customized Lifestyle Advice Booklet giving
           general lifestyle advice. Patients have reinforcement sessions at approximately 2, 6,
           and 12 weeks after the first appointment.

        -  Arm II (control group): Patients receive a customized Lifestyle Advice Booklet
           containing supportive lifestyle advice only (without reference to pelvic floor muscle
           training) by mail following randomization. Patients do not receive formal assessment or
           treatment but will be able to access usual care and routine NHS services if they feel
           they need help, including written advice if this is part of routine hospital care.

      All patients keep a urinary diary at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months that includes frequency of
      urination (day and night), daily episodes of incontinence and quantity of loss, daily use of
      pads, and the need to change clothing or bedding. A Health Care Utilization Questionnaire
      will be obtained at 3 and 9 months. Additional questionnaires are obtained at baseline and 6
      and 12 months.

      The use of NHS services, pads, and practice of pelvic floor muscle training is documented in
      both groups using information from questionnaires and Urinary Diaries.

      Six months after the last patient has been recruited, a check for Scottish men only is
      performed to compare self-reported operations, diagnoses, and hospital admissions with
      centrally collected data to validate a proportion of the data.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 and 12 months.
    
  