
    
      Neck pain is defined as discomfort or more intense forms of pain that are localized to the
      cervical region. The multifactorial etiology of neck pain includes trauma, ergonomic factors
      such as inappropriate postures, repetitive movements, strong physical activity, individual
      factors such as age, BMI, genetic factors, behavioral factors, and psychosocial factors.

      The prevalence of cervicalgia ranges from 16.7 to 75.1%, of which 50% will resolve within a
      short time and the other half will suffer pain for a longer time. There is a higher
      prevalence in widows and separated, people with few economic resources, jobs that involve
      physical effort, low educational level, anxiety and depression. Furthermore, there is a high
      relationship between cervical pain and temporomandibular disorders.

      From this study, the investigators are going to carry out a non-invasive, analgesic,
      antiinflammatory treatment and without negative side effects for the patient through radial
      extracorporeal shock waves (rESWT), and manual therapy (TM). Among the effects produced by
      shock waves the investigators find that they improve circulation due to increased blood flow
      and oxygenation, at tissue level the permeability of the membrane increases and its metabolic
      process, therefore facilitating the activation of tissue regeneration processes experiencing
      dystrophic changes. Furthermore, shock waves cause anti-inflammatory effects and muscle
      relaxation.

      The main objective of the study is to evaluate the capacity of the shock waves to improve the
      alterations due to neck pain. To meet the above objective, a single-blind randomized clinical
      trial study has been designed. The selected subjects will be of legal age diagnosed with neck
      pain and those subjects that due to their own characteristics are not able to carry out the
      study will be excluded. Subjects will receive a weekly physical therapy session for four
      weeks. Subjects will be randomly assigned to two groups: T1 intervention group consisting of
      subjects who will receive manual therapy treatment and shock waves and T2 placebo group in
      which the subjects will receive manual therapy and placebo shock waves.
    
  