
    
      Background:

        -  LMB-100 and a closely related immunotoxin also targeting mesothelin have been studied in
           previous Phase 1 clinical studies for mesothelioma and pancreatic cancer.

        -  Results from these studies showed that the majority of patients formed
           anti-drug-antibodies (ADAs) that neutralized subsequent injection of the product making
           it ineffective.

        -  In a small subset of patients that did not form ADAs to the product, good response and
           regression of tumors was seen.

        -  In a different application SEL-110, a biodegradable nanoparticle containing rapamycin,
           has been shown in clinical trials to prevent the formation of ADAs to an immunogenic
           enzyme when co-administered. Preclinical data show that SEL-110 also prevents the
           formation of ADAs to LMB-100.

        -  This clinical trial will investigate whether SEL-110 when administered with LMB-100 is
           able to prevent the formation of ADAs and thus allow patients to receive multiple,
           effective injections of LMB-100.

      Objectives:

      -The primary objective of the study is to assess the safety and tolerability of LMB-100 in
      combination with SEL-110.

      Eligibility:

      Primary Inclusion Criteria

        -  Greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  Histologically confirmed epithelial or biphasic pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma not
           amenable to potentially curative surgical resection.

        -  Patients must have measurable disease per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
           (RECIST) 1.1.

        -  Patients must have had at least one prior chemotherapy regimen that includes pemetrexed
           and cisplatin or carboplatin. There is no limit to the number of prior chemotherapy
           regimens received.

        -  Patients for whom no standard curative therapy exists

      Primary Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Known or clinically suspected central nervous system (CNS) primary tumors or metastases
           including leptomeningeal metastases.

        -  Evidence of significant, uncontrolled concomitant diseases which could affect compliance
           with the protocol or interpretation of results.

        -  Evidence of active or uncontrolled infections.

        -  Live attenuated vaccinations 14 days prior to treatment

        -  Pregnant women are excluded from this study

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase I, single center, dose escalation study of LMB-100 in combination with
           SEL-110

        -  Patients will receive the combination using a dose escalation scheme in which different
           doses of LMB100 and SEL-110 will be evaluated.

        -  Patients will receive 4 cycles of LMB-100 with SEL-110. A cycle will consist of
           intravenous (i.v.) infusion of SEL-110 on Day 1 of the cycle followed immediately by an
           i.v. infusion of LMB-100, then on Days 3 and 5 of the cycle patients will receive an
           i.v. infusion of LMB-100 only. Treatment cycles will be separated by 21 days.
    
  