
    
      A new branch of periodontology, deﬁned as "medical periodontology," has been proposed that
      mentioned the bidirectional relationship between periodontal disease and systemic conditions.

      In the lights of these informations, the purpose of the present study was to compare the
      effects of non-surgical periodontal therapy on patients undergoing continous ambulatory
      peritoneal dialysis(CAPD) due to diabetic nephropathy and non-diabetic. Forty three
      participants ( 22 Diabetic Nephropathy(DN) group , 21 Non-Diabetic Nephropathy(N-DN) group)
      were included and divided into the two group; DN group and N-DN group, in the present study.

      The following clinical parameters were evaluated at baseline and the end of the study: Plaque
      index ; Gingival index ; pocket depth (PD) measurements; bleeding on probing (BOP)-percentage
      of BOP (+) sites; gingival recession (GR)-from the cement-enamel junction to the gingival
      margin; and clinical attachment level (CAL)-the sum of PD and GR measurements. The
      Decay-Missing-Filling Index (DMFT) was recorded. Clinical examinations were repeated 6 months
      following periodontal treatment. All clinical measurements were taken from the mid-buccal and
      mid-lingual sites and the buccal aspects of the interproximal contact area for the mesial and
      distal sites of each tooth to the nearest 0.5 mm using a 15 mm periodontal probe at baseline
      and the 6th months after treatment. All periodontal clinical examinations were performed by
      one calibrated examiner (FOT). At baseline and 6 months after treatment, fasting venous blood
      samples were collected from the antecubital fossa by an experienced nurse. Blood samples for
      TNF- α, IL-6 and PTX-3 were centrifuged, and separated serum and plasma samples were stored
      at -80◦C until analysis. TNF-α , IL-6 , and PTX-3 serum levels were determined using a
      commercial solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit according to the
      manufacturer's instructions. Periodontal treatments were performed 2 hours after the patients
      had their breakfast following the blood sampling. Standard oral hygiene instructions were
      given to all groups, including interdental plaque control (interdental brushes) and brushing
      of the dorsum of the tongue twice a day. Oral hygiene control and re-instructions were
      provided during all visits. After local infiltration, full-mouth scaling and root planning
      (FM-SRP) was performed by the same investigator with standard periodontal curettes
    
  