
    
      Purpose and design Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is a serious condition affecting 8% of all
      pregnancies and contributing to 50% of stillbirths. Severe early onset FGR affects 1 in 500
      pregnancies and occurs before 28 weeks gestation. As yet there are no therapies that improve
      fetal growth in utero.

      The EVERREST Consortium are currently developing a treatment for FGR using gene therapy to
      increase levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the mother's uterine
      arteries. Although in some cases severe early onset FGR is caused by chromosomal
      abnormalities or maternal infections, it is most commonly due to inadequate uteroplacental
      blood flow. VEGF, which is secreted by the placenta, is a vasodilator and mediates
      vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. In FGR, however, maternal serum levels of VEGF are
      significantly lower than in normal pregnancy. Previous studies in sheep and guinea pig models
      of FGR have shown that administering adenovirus VEGF gene therapy (Ad.VEGF) into the maternal
      uterine arteries safely increases fetal growth.

      The EVERREST Consortium plans to carry out a phase I/II trial to assess the safety and
      efficacy of intra-uterine artery Ad.VEGF in women with pregnancies affected by severe early
      onset FGR. This will be called the EVERREST Clinical Trial. As these pregnancies have high
      rates of fetal mortality and morbidity it is vital to have up-to-date, reliable outcome data
      on untreated pregnancies with which to compare outcomes in the clinical trial.

      The prospective study which this application is for will clinically and biochemically
      characterise a cohort of pregnancies affected by severe early onset FGR across the four
      European centres which will later be taking part in the clinical trial. A database will be
      created containing information about antenatal investigations, maternal complications, fetal
      outcome and neonatal progress. This will be linked to a biobank containing samples of
      maternal blood, umbilical cord, umbilical cord blood, placenta, placental bed and myometrium.

      There are three aims to this study:

        1. To provide data from pregnancies affected by severe early onset FGR with which to
           compare outcomes from a group of pregnancies that will undergo treatment using maternal
           Ad.VEGF gene therapy.

        2. To provide important information about the likely prognosis for babies born after
           affected pregnancies in the short and long term. These are data which are currently
           lacking.

        3. To provide samples that will be used to investigate the biological mechanisms that
           underlie the condition, which subsequently may be used to provide biomarkers of outcome.

      The design of the project has involved consultation with leading European fetal medicine
      specialists, neonatologists, pathologists and biomedical scientists who form part of the
      EVERREST consortium. The multicenter nature of the project raises issues of confidentiality
      and data protection but also allows for a larger data set from which to draw more meaningful
      conclusions. Furthermore it means that the findings are applicable not just in the United
      Kingdom but also in Europe. It also provides a larger group of patients from which to recruit
      to the EVERREST trial. The project has also been given approval by the National Institute for
      Health Research, funded Fetal Medicine Clinical Study Group at the Royal College of
      Obstetrician and Gynecologists, of which the PI is a member. Other leading Fetal Medicine
      centres across the United Kingdom will be involved in recruiting to the prospective study so
      that a wider picture of severe FGR and samples from affected pregnancies are available in the
      UK.

      Recruitment Women referred to the Fetal Medicine Unit for suspected severe early onset Fetal
      Growth Restriction will be given a Participant Information Sheet (PIS) to read. If the
      diagnosis of severe early onset FGR is made women will be asked if they are interested in
      taking part in the study. Interested eligible women will meet with a member of the research
      team who will read through the PIS with them and answer any questions they have. If the woman
      would like more time to decide they can meet with a member of the research team at a
      subsequent hospital appointment.

      For women who cannot understand the official language of the participating hospital an
      interpreter would normally be present for the hospital appointment as part of their routine
      care. If no interpreter is present then a telephone interpreting service may be used or an
      interpreter may be arranged for the next hospital appointment. For women who can understand
      the spoken language but not the written PIS a member of the research team will read through
      the PIS with them and answer any questions. For women who have other communication
      difficulties (e.g. visual or hearing impairment) individual provisions will be made depending
      on the woman's preference. Any woman giving informed consent who cannot read the PIS herself
      will have her consent witnessed.

      Consent When severe early onset FGR is suspected, the woman will be given a Participant
      Information Sheet (PIS) to read. Principal Investigators will have responsibility for writing
      the local PIS, which conforms to national requirements while also containing the essential
      information from the UK PIS. An English version of the UK PIS will be modified, with changes
      tracked, to meet local requirements. This will be reviewed by members of the Study Management
      Group to ensure key information is retained. The PIS will then be translated into the local
      language by a member of the site research team, back-translated by an independent translator
      and verified by a member of the Study Management Group.

      During the consent process it will be made completely and unambiguously clear that the
      participant is free to refuse to participate in all or any aspect of the study, at any time
      and for any reason, without incurring any penalty or affecting their treatment or that of
      their child. The participant's decisional capacity will be determined by the team member
      taking consent and no formal capacity instrument will be used. If there is doubt about
      capacity the participant will not be enrolled. All members of the research team involved in
      obtaining consent will receive training in assessing capacity and the importance of valid
      consent free from coercion. Documented consent will be obtained and stored securely at the
      research sites, and filed in the woman's case notes.

      Risks, burdens and benefits Women may be distressed by discussing the study at what will
      already be a worrying and upsetting time following the diagnosis of severe early onset FGR.
      If this is the case it will not be pursued, and can be discussed at a future appointment if
      the woman wishes. Within the University College London Hospital Fetal Medicine Unit women are
      frequently given information about research at the time of their appointments and the
      investigators have not found this to be distressing to them.

      Women may be concerned that declining to be involved in the study will affect the care that
      they receive. The Participant Information Sheet will make it clear that this will not be the
      case.

      There is a risk of breach of confidentiality with data sharing. This will be minimised by
      holding data in a central secure database, which will be password protected and can only be
      accessed by authorised members of the team, and by creating a unique pseudoanonymised
      Participant Identification Number which will be used on the database. Participant
      identifiable data, including name, address and hospital ID number, will not be entered onto
      the central database.

      Performing the ultrasound assessments of uterine artery blood flow will add 2-5 minutes to a
      30 minute ultrasound scan. At these appointments women will often need to wait for their
      ultrasound scan and may need blood pressure monitoring, urine checks and fetal heart beat
      monitoring (cardiotocograph) as part of their routine care. This can mean they are at the
      hospital for an hour or more, or which the uterine blood flow assessment would be a small
      fraction.

      The maternal blood samples may involve temporary pain and/or bruising. This will be minimised
      by having the samples taken by trained healthcare professionals. During a low risk pregnancy
      two routine blood samples are recommended at booking and 28 weeks gestation. In pregnancies
      complicated by severe early onset FGR several additional blood samples will be needed as part
      of clinical care. Investigators plan to take the investigators first sample at the same time
      as blood tests needed to look for maternal infections (toxoplasmosis, cytomegalovirus,
      rubella) and the investigators second at the same time as pre-operative blood tests taken
      before Caesarean section.

      The time taken to read the Participant Information Sheet, give informed consent and give the
      maternal blood sample may be an inconvenience to the participant. This will be minimised by
      consenting women when they are attending the hospital as part of their ongoing care.

      The myometrial biopsy and placental bed biopsy will each add an estimated 1 minute to the
      Caesarean section. Generally the surgical time for a Caesarean is about 45 minutes but when
      anesthetic time and patient transfer are included the overall procedure takes approximately 2
      hours. They are not associated with a significant risk of hemorrhage or post-operative
      complications. Biopsies would not be taken if there were a clinical contra-indication e.g.
      excessive uterine bleeding or maternal medical conditions meaning the duration of the surgery
      had to be limited.

      The umbilical cord, umbilical cord blood and placental samples will be taken after the baby
      has been delivered, the cord cut and the placenta delivered so will not involve any pain or
      inconvenience for the mother or baby.

      At the moment there is no treatment for severe early onset FGR. This can leave parents
      feeling helpless in the face of the diagnosis. It may help them to feel their participation
      could contribute to a better understanding of the condition and a potential treatment in the
      future. Women who have a pregnancy affected by severe early onset FGR are at higher risk of
      having a future affected pregnancy, so there may also be the potential for a direct benefit
      to their future reproductive health.

      Babies born from pregnancies affected by severe early onset FGR are routinely followed up in
      all four EU countries to two years of age, corrected for prematurity, since it is well known
      that many have severe morbidity for which medical input is required. Investigators will
      collect data about clinical blood results, investigations and neurodevelopmental assessments,
      which are performed routinely as part of their standard care.

      Confidentiality The EVERREST consortium will be collecting demographic and clinical data
      about participants from four European countries which will be combined in a central database.

      Within each center participants will be given a unique study Participant Identification
      Number (PIN). Data will be entered under this identification number onto the central database
      stored on the servers based at the University College London. The database will be password
      protected and only accessible to members of the EVERREST Consortium, UCL Clinical Trials
      Unit, the participating hospitals and external regulators, including the European Commission.
      The servers are protected by firewalls and are patched and maintained according to best
      practice. The physical location of the servers is protected by Closed-circuit television and
      security door access. The database and coding frames will be developed by the Trial Manager
      in conjunction with the CTU.

      The information linking participant identifiable data to the pseudoanonymised Participant
      Identification Number will be held locally by the research sites. This will either be held in
      written form in a locked filing cabinet or electronically in password protected form on
      hospital computers. After completion of the study the data linking participant identifiable
      data to the PIN will be destroyed and the database will be retained on the servers of
      University College London for on-going analysis in conjunction with the bio bank.

      All members of the research team will receive training in the regulations surrounding
      confidentiality and data handling and their responsibilities in this area. It will be made
      clear to participants in the PIS and during the process of consent that data will be obtained
      from their medical records and the medical records of their baby. It will be explained that
      this data will be stored in a form in which they are not directly identifiable and will be
      shared within the European Union for the purposes of the study. Electronic data will be
      transferred in encrypted and password protected form.

      It is not anticipated that the results of analyzing the tissue samples will have any direct
      clinical significance for the participants. If, however, results were to be obtained which
      would have a serious impact on the participant's current or future health these would be fed
      back to the recruiting study center under the Participant Identification Number. Within the
      recruiting center the results could be linked back to the participant without them being
      identified to the rest of the research team.

      Conflict of interest Some members of the research team are involved in giving clinical care
      to women with pregnancies affected by severe early onset FGR. Although it will not affect the
      women's care whether they choose to participate in the study or not, women may feel a sense
      of pressure to participate or not "upset" the clinical team. It will be emphasized in the PIS
      and by the person obtaining consent that they are free to decline and their decision will not
      affect the care they receive.

      At the end of the study the results will be published on the EVERREST website where
      participants will be able to access them. Participants will be informed about the website in
      the PIS.

      Use of tissue samples in future research At the conclusion of the study, stored samples will
      be transferred to a site with national regulatory approval, for retention as a bio bank.
      Participant consent will be obtained in advance for this retention. Separate ethical
      application will be made for research using these samples. Samples will be stored until they
      are fully used or become unusable, which is anticipated to be a maximum of 10 years for
      frozen samples.

      If participants do not give their consent for retention for future research then UK samples
      will be disposed of in accordance with the Human Tissue Authority's Code of Practice and
      European samples will be disposed of according to local and national guidelines.
    
  