
    
      Combat-related mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and co-morbid conditions are prevalent in
      returning Veterans with the reported rates ranging from 14- 22%. Chronic sequela of mTBI can
      be highly debilitating due to deficits in the cognitive control processes, including
      attention, executive functions, and memory. In prior studies, individuals with chronic
      acquired brain injury who participated in a cognitive training program, Goal-Oriented
      Attentional Self-Regulation (GOALS), which targets executive control functions of applied
      mindfulness-based attention regulation and goal management, improved cognitive performance in
      areas of: complex attention/executive function and memory, complex functional task
      performance, and daily functioning. Furthermore, functional MRI (fMRI) results after training
      indicated significantly enhanced modulation of neural processing. Preliminary data from
      recently completed randomized-control GOALS study in 32 Veterans with chronic TBI also show
      both short and longer term (up to 2 years) improvements in attention and executive function,
      complex real-life tasks, and emotional regulation.

      The primary objectives of this study are to investigate the potential short and longer term
      effects of GOALS cognitive training program, and to use advanced MRI to investigate changes
      in brain structure and function in the circuits that regulate attention, memory, executive
      function and emotion in Veterans with chronic mTBI.

      The investigators postulate that 1) GOALS training will improve neurocognitive function in
      attention and executive function domains, complex functional task performance, and emotional
      regulation in Veterans with chronic mTBI; 2) improved neurocognitive function will be
      correlated with macrostructural, microstructural and functional changes in the corresponding
      brain networks on high field (3T) and ultra-high field (7T) structural MR imaging, diffusion
      tensor imaging (DTI) and resting state fMRI performed pre- and post-training; 3) Changes in
      both behavioral function and imaging measures will be maintained at 6 months post-training
      and be associated with improvements in activities and participation.

      AIM 1: To determine the short and long term effects of GOALS training on neuro-cognitive
      performance and neural plasticity of attention and executive control networks in mTBI.

      AIM 2: To determine the short and long term effects of GOALS training on complex functional
      task performance and daily functioning, and on plasticity in pathways related to memory
      function, in mTBI.

      AIM 3: To determine the short and long term effects of GOALS training on measures of
      emotional regulation, and on plasticity of frontolimbic networks related to emotion
      processing, in mTBI In a randomized, controlled interventional study design, 36 Veterans with
      a history of chronic (> 6 month) mTBI and residual cognitive difficulties will be randomized
      to participate in 5 weeks of cognitive training (GOALS) or a treatment as usual (TAU)
      comparison. At baseline, week 5 (post GOALS), and at 6 months, participants will undergo a
      multi-level assessment battery consisting of: 1) neuroimaging with high field (3T) and
      ultra-high field (7T) structural MR imaging, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and resting state
      fMRI; 2) neuropsychological assessment focusing on complex attention and executive function;
      3) complex 'real life' functional task performance; and 4) self-report measures of daily
      functioning and emotional regulation/health.

      Additionally, the investigators will be recruiting a separate cohort of 15 equally matched
      healthy veteran volunteers who have no TBI history, for normative comparisons. TBI-negative
      participants, who will not be participating in training sessions, will have neuroimaging with
      ultra-high field (7T) structural MR imaging and neuropsychological assessments at baseline
      and week 5.

      When completed, this project will determine whether training core attentional self-regulatory
      control functions via personally-relevant activities will be effective in improving quality
      of life and daily functioning for Veterans with mTBI. The study design will provide a test of
      potential benefits on real-life functioning, and also determine to what extent these benefits
      are related to actual changes in hypothetically targeted cognitive/behavioral functions and
      brain networks corresponding to these functions.
    
  