
    
      Cognitive skills are the crucial abilities required to manage money, maintain employment, and
      live independently. Long-term cognitive impairment (LTCI) is a disabling loss of these skills
      that can persist for months to years. LTCI frequently occurs after primary brain injury
      (e.g., traumatic brain injury, hypoxia), but older LTCI research has not characterized
      primary brain injury using NIH Common Data Elements in Imaging, the contributions of
      polytrauma, and the time-course of the critical illness, including secondary brain injury
      (i.e., delirium). In our recent large study of ICU patients without primary brain injury,
      over 50% of patients had LTCI and nearly 50% were newly unemployed at one-year
      post-discharge. In-hospital delirium was the major independent risk factor for LTCI.
      Surprisingly, this delirium-related LTCI was similar to the LTCI seen in past studies after
      moderate traumatic brain injury. Thus, both primary and secondary brain injury are associated
      with LTCI, yet they have not been studied together. There is an unmet need to define the
      independent risks of primary brain injury and delirium in LTCI. The trauma ICU patient is at
      combined risk for primary brain and/or multisystem injuries, secondary brain injury, and
      critical illness; these critically injured patients are the unique population to address this
      knowledge gap.

      Therefore, our FIRST HYPOTHESIS is that delirium duration is an independent risk for the
      severity of LTCI, controlling for confounders of co-morbidities, socioeconomic status,
      pre-injury employment, primary brain injury, polytrauma, and critical illness. AIM 1 will
      address this hypothesis by defining the independent risks of primary and secondary brain
      injury on the severity of LTCI among 900 trauma ICU subjects.

      But, LTCI's real-world impact on employment has not been explained or adjusted for the above
      confounders and social factors. Accordingly, our SECOND HYPOTHESIS is that LTCI severity is
      an independent risk for lower level of employment, adjusting for similar confounders. AIM 2
      will delineate the independent risk of LTCI severity on employment among trauma ICU
      survivors. Lastly, LTCI pathogenesis may be related to persistent inflammation.

      So, our THIRD HYPOTHESIS is that hospital discharge biomarkers of persistent inflammation
      will be independent risks for LTCI severity, adjusting for similar confounders. AIM 3 will
      explore the mechanistic role of plasma inflammatory biomarkers on LTCI severity among trauma
      ICU survivors.
    
  