
    
      This prospective Cross-sectional Observational study will be conducted at the Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology, Banha University, Egypt during the period starting from January
      2014. The study protocol will be approved by the Local Ethics Committee and written informed
      consent will be obtained from each patient before the study commenced.

      Seventy patients with postmenopausal bleeding will be included in the study after verbal
      consent. They will be recruited from patients attending gynecologic clinic in Banha
      University hospital.

      All patients will be subjected to the following:

      For all included women the following will be done:

        1. Full history taking.

        2. Complete general, abdominal, and local examination.

        3. Ultrasonographic assessment of the uterus

      All data were performed for all patients in the lithotomy position after they had emptied
      their bladder using a 7.5 megahertz transducer by a single operator.

        1. Using colour Doppler in the 2D mode, flow velocity waveforms were obtained from the
           ascending main branch of the uterine artery on the right and left side of the cervix in
           a longitudinal plane before they entered the uterus.

        2. The gate of the Doppler was positioned when the vessel with good colour signals was
           identified on the screen. Pulsatility index of the uterine arteries were calculated
           electronically when similar consecutive waveforms of good quality were obtained and the
           averaged uterine PI.

           Pulsatility index (PI):

           This index, also known as the mean pulsatility index, to distinguish it from the peak to
           peak pulsatility index, is expressed by: PI= (S-D) / Mean Where S is the peak systolic
           velocity, D is the end diastolic velocity and velocity is the time averaged maximum
           velocity over the cardiac cycle (1).

        3. Blood flow velocity waveforms were evaluated in the spiral arteries at the sub
           endometrial region that is within 1 mm of the originally defined myometrial-endometrial
           contour (2).

      Histopathological diagnosis of endometrium obtained by biopsy is the gold standard for
      diagnosis.
    
  