
    
      Background:

      Total hip arthroplasties may be associated with moderate to intense postoperative pain. It is
      essential that pain treatment, besides being analgesic, has a minimum of side effects,
      especially those opioid-related, in order to achieve low morbidity, high patient satisfaction
      and to encourage the functional rehabilitation.

      Currently, there is no "gold standard" for pain treatment after THA, and there exists a large
      variety of treatment options. Some patients who have undergone THA, can be difficult to
      sufficiently treat with conventional analgesics without reaching additional morphine doses
      where side effects are unacceptable. It is therefore important to explore other treatment
      options, including nerve blockade.

      Nerve blocks have previously been used after THA operations, but have been hampered by the
      fact, that the nerve blocks have an effect on the motorial nerve, inhibiting early
      mobilization and possibly increasing tendencies to fall when mobilized. The Lateral Femoral
      Cutaneous Nerve (LFCN) is purely sensorial and can therefore relieve the patient of pain
      without influencing the early mobilization.

      In two previous trials, the investigators have studied the effect of LFCN blocks in pain
      treatment after THA. In the recent study, the LFCN block was applied in patients after THA,
      who still had visual analogue scale (VAS) mobilization pain > 40 mm when lifting their leg
      stretched. The LFCN block alleviated significantly the average pain at group level. Meanwhile
      42% of patients in the study had no or limited effect of the block. The reason for this may
      be due to the fact, that LFCN block does not cover all types of pain after THA, but also the
      fact, that the nerve innervation area has individual differences in the anatomical
      distribution. We are currently investigating this matter in another study.

      LFCN arise from the lumbar plexus, L1-L3. It progresses profound to m. psoas major and over
      m. iliacus towards the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS). LFCN perforates the inguinal
      ligament in varying distance from the ASIS. Afterwards it makes a roughly 90 degrees lateral
      turn, divides into 3-5 branches and innervates skin lying on the lateral, proximal part of
      the leg. LFCN is found to have multiple anatomical variations therefore it is described to
      innervate both the lateral, as well as the anterior, parts of the thigh.

      A single study has described LFCN as being placed in it's own canal created by a splitting of
      the Iliac Fascia creating a lumen in which the nerve lies. Therefore, it is hypothesized that
      a larger injection volume of local anaesthetic could migrate both proximal and distal within
      the above-described canal, spreading to additional local cutaneous nerves arising from LFCN,
      or even other nerves (iliohypogastric, ilioinguinal or subcostal), thereby giving rise to a
      greater blocked distribution area. An unwanted result of a larger injection volume is the
      possibility of involvement of the femoral nerve, which would result in motoric blockage of
      the Quadriceps muscle. It has previously been described that Iliac fascia block (injection
      profound to the iliaca fascia) has a great diversity in area distribution as well as blockage
      of the femoral nerve. By injecting the local anaesthetic directly into LFCN own canal we seek
      to minimize the risk of femoral nerve involvement.

      Methods:

      Prior to applying the nerve block, the measurement methods are tested and baseline values are
      registered for each leg of each participant.

      The effect of a nerve block in healthy individuals can be studied by a number of validated
      measurement techniques. These techniques consist of mapping the affected anatomical area with
      temperature discrimination test (cold sensation) by using alcohol soaked gauze and pin-prick
      test by using a Von Frey filament, and of pain during tonic heat-stimulation of the skin (VAS
      tonic heat stimulation). The distribution of the sensory block is thus evaluated by high
      precision.

      It is furthermore important to investigate whether the nerve blockade affects the femoral
      nerve's motorial innervation by testing m.Quadriceps' motoric function.

      Course of study:

        1. Baseline values are measured.

        2. An orthopedic surgeon draws two hypothetical incisional lines corresponding to the
           posterior and to the anterior-lateral access to the hip joint on each leg of each
           participant. The incisional lines will be drawn with UV paint only visible under UV
           light. No other than the person drawing the lines and the participant will see where the
           lines are drawn.

        3. An ultrasound guided LFCN block is then applied by a doctor with extensive experience in
           applying ultrasound guided blocks. Each trial participant will get two injection of
           Ropivacaine 0.75%. 8 ml in one leg and 16 ml in the other leg. Neither trial
           participants, doctors,investigator or outcome assessors will know which volume the
           participant receives in which leg, that is the trial is blinded.

        4. After the LFCN block is applied a line called "Line A" is drawn on each leg. Line A goes
           from trochanter major to the femoral lateral epicondyle and is extended cranial. A line
           0A is drawn perpendicular on line A at the trochanter major point. 5 cm above line 0A,
           is line -1A drawn up to -3A, and 5 cm below line 0A is line 1A drawn, and so forth to
           line 15A is reached.

        5. One hour after the nerve block is applied to the right leg, the motorial and sensorial
           tests will be carried out on each leg, and the outcome will be registered and documented
           with photography. The test will be carried out on the right leg and then on the left leg
           in following order:

             -  Maximum isometric voluntary contraction

             -  Temperature discrimination test (alcohol soaked gauze)

             -  Pin-prick (Von Frey filament)

             -  Photo documentation

             -  Drawing of the incisional lines under UV-light

             -  Photo documentation

             -  Measurement of the incisional lines

             -  Pain stimulation test. The subjects will be monitored with blood pressure, pulse
                oximetry and ECG during the trial. The study extends for each participant from the
                introductory conversation to all testing is complete.
    
  