
    
      This research study evaluates the feasibility and tolerability of an investigational
      intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational
      intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is
      being studied and that research doctors are trying to find more about it. It also means that
      the FDA (US Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the Personalized Neoantigen Cancer
      Vaccine for any use in patients, including people with CLL.

      This is the first time NeoVax vaccine will be given in combination with cyclophosphamide and
      Pembrolizumab in humans.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if it is possible to make and safely administer a
      vaccine against CLL. The investigators plan to analyze the specific genetic characteristics
      (mutations) of the participant's own CLL and use that information to produce proteins that
      may help the immune system recognize and fight CLL cells.

      This vaccine is also being tested in clinical trials in patients with advanced melanoma (a
      type of skin cancer) or glioblastoma (a type of brain cancer). The current study will examine
      the ability of the vaccine to stimulate the immune system when given at several different
      timepoints, and will examine the participant blood cells for signs that the CLL has changed
      or decreased.

      CLL cells will be obtained from bone marrow biopsy and blood draws. The genetic material
      contained in the CLL cells will be examined for the presence of tumor-specific mutations.
      This information will be used to prepare small protein fragments, which are called
      "peptides." The vaccine will consist of up to 20 of these peptides as well as a drug called
      Poly-ICLC. A peptide from the tetanus vaccine may also be included to boost the immune
      response. A third of the patients enrolled in this trial will receive the personalized
      neoantigen vaccine. Another third of the patients will also receive low doses of a
      chemotherapy drug called cyclophosphamide in combination of personalized neoantigen vaccine.
      The last third of patients enrolled in this study will receive the personalized neoantigen
      vaccine in combination with low dose cyclophosphamide and a drug called Pembrolizumab.

      Poly-ICLC (also called Hiltonol) is an experimental "viral mimic" and an activator of
      immunity. Poly-ICLC binds proteins on the surface of certain immune cells to make it appear
      as if a virus is present. When the cells detect the vaccine, they think it is a virus and
      turn on the immune system. Poly-ICLC will be mixed with NeoAntigen peptides and administered
      as an injection given underneath the skin. Poly-ICLC is an investigational drug, meaning the
      FDA has not approved it as a treatment for any disease.

      Cyclophosphamide (also called Cytoxan) is a chemotherapy drug used to treat many cancers,
      including CLL. At the much lower dose used in this study, it is an investigational drug to
      help the immune cells to be better at attacking cancer cells.

      Pembrolizumab is a monoclonal antibody used to treat other types of cancer and information
      from these studies suggests that it may be beneficial in CLL.
    
  