
    
      HARDIC project, includes needs assessment, development, and implementation of an intervention
      in the community, and also assesses impact. HARDIC trial is a community-based, randomized,
      controlled trial on diet and physical activity to promote heart health.

      The studies is Jhaukhel-Duwakot Health Demographic Surveillance site (JD-HDSS), which
      consists of two villages-Jhaukhel and Duwakot-in the mid-hills of the Bhaktapur district, 13
      kilometers outside Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal.

      Baseline assesment to explore mothers' KAP regarding diet and physical activity is planned
      before intervention. Applying randomization (lottery method) Duwakot community is selected as
      intervention arm and Jhaukhel as control arm. Each community in Nepal is divided into nine
      administrative clusters (wards). To minimize contamination bias, the investigators selected
      five wards in Duwakot that did not border the control arm. The control arm includes all nine
      wards in Jhaukhel. HARDIC intervention is based on the concept of peer education for which 55
      local peer mother from different wards of intervention arm are recruited with help of local
      female community health volunteers.

      The intervention consists of two rounds. Selected peer mothers are divided into two groups
      and are trained by research team for 4 hours per day for 6 consecutive days. Training
      consists of interactive lectures, practical and demonstration sessions, discussions, group
      activities, practice sessions, and assignments. The peer mothers learn about communication
      skills and practiced using learning materials such as flipcharts. Additionally, home
      assignments for the 1-month gap between Rounds 1 and 2 is planned.

      By the end of the training period, all peer mothers suppose to interact with neighbouring
      eligible mothers regarding the objectives of the intervention and accumulate a list of
      approximately 10 fellow mothers who are willing to participate in the intervention
      (educational classes given by peer mothers).

      With the help of supervisors, peer mothers are preparing schedule for two 1-1.5-hour health
      education classes per week. Within 2 weeks after completing Round 1, each peer mother should
      conduct four health education classes for fellow mothers of their neighborhood. The health
      educational classes are based on the same modules that are used in the peer mothers' training
      and use the developed flipcharts, posters, and manuals for teaching purposes.

      Round 2 is planned as providing recapitulation of the modules learned in Round 1 as well as
      discussion of the home assignments that peer mothers shall be given. Peer mothers follow same
      pattern when they teach fellow mothers.

      Follow-up study is planned for both intervention and control arms in 3 months after
      completion of the intervention.

      Mothers' KAP responses are scored and should be analyzed as continuous variables, calculated
      the median (IQR), and compared the intervention arm with control and KAP median (IQR) in the
      intervention arm at baseline and follow-up. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS), version 23.0 (IBM, Armonk, New York, USA) shall be used for data management and
      analysis.

      Actual impact of the intervention on mothers' KAP regarding diet and physical activity should
      be assessed using Difference in difference statistical approach from a linear regression
      model.
    
  