
    
      In a murine model, it has been demonstrated that a cathodic polarization of cortical surface
      with intensities of 30 µA and higher blocked the spreading depression completely. There is no
      study demonstrating this in stroke patients. tDCS is a powerful tool to modulate the
      excitability of motor areas. Cathodal tDCS induces a decrease of 30-50% of motor evoked
      potentials amplitudes. In another study, cathodal stimulation compared with sham induced a
      prolonged decrease of tactile discrimination, while sham stimulation did not. In our study,
      cathodal stimulation will be delivered over lateral motor area (C3 or C4, 10-20 system) using
      an intensity of 2 mA, in order to assess if an inhibition, a hyperpolarization of the middle
      cerebral artery stroke ischemic penumbra could be obtained.

      tDCS is characterized by an excellent safety profile. tDCS studies in patients were performed
      with intensities comprised between 1 and 2 mA. Safety for these intensities has been
      demonstrated. Minor tDCS adverse effects in healthy humans and patients with varying
      neurological disorders were reported. These tDCS studies were performed for a wide range of
      neurological and psychiatric conditions including pain, depression, Parkinson disease and
      stroke rehabilitation. Mild tingling sensation, moderate fatigue, itching sensation under the
      stimulating electrodes, headache were described. Tinnitus was also reported.

      In human studies, durations of tDCS stimulation are generally comprised between 3 and 40
      minutes, in iterative sessions. In our study, tDCS will be begun less than 4h30 after the
      beginning of symptoms. Studies with murine stroke models demonstrated that cathodal tDCS
      starting 45 minutes after middle cerebral artery occlusion and lasting 6 hours had a
      neuroprotective effect reducing the infarct volume by 30% (20% in the group 4 hours of
      duration, compared to sham). Based on these data, in our study, tDCS will be delivered 20
      minutes per hour, during 6 hours. Usual neurovascular cares (IV thrombolysis, thrombectomy if
      indicated) will be unchanged.

      Some simulation studies have demonstrated that approximately half of the current injected
      during tDCS is shunted through the scalp. Using stimulating currents of 2 mA, the magnitude
      of the current density in relevant regions of the brain is of the order of 0.1 A/m2,
      corresponding to an electric field of 0.22 V/m. Induced skin burns are rare. Skin burns are
      preceded by a painful sensation. Saline-soaked sponges placed under the electrodes have to
      remain moist in order to avoid these burns. In our study, patients will be questioned about
      the tolerance of tDCS stimulation each hour. Impedance values of the tDCS electrodes will be
      checked each hour.

      A cephalic electrode montage has been chosen. A setup with M1 placement of the target
      electrode (C3 or C4, 10-20 system) and an extra-cephalic placement of the return electrode
      (shoulder) leads to a twofold to threefold higher electric field in the brainstem as compared
      to the more commonly used cephalic setup with the target electrode over M1, and the return
      electrode over the contralateral fronto-polar area (FP2 or FP1, 10-20 system). Reported
      cerebral autoregulation changes may have been mediated via stimulation of brainstem autonomic
      centers. The use of a cephalic return electrode montage is thus recommended. Accordingly to
      these recommendations, in our study, the two electrodes are in a cephalic position: C3 or C4
      and FP2 or FP1 (10-20 system).

      The main objective of our study is to assess if cathodic tDCS over M1 (C3 or C4) in acute
      stroke patients allow to preserve the penumbra and to reduce the infarct volume (MRI day 1
      versus admission MRI).

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. to determine if tDCS improve clinical outcome at 7 days after stroke using the National
           Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS)

        2. to determine if tDCS improve clinical outcome at 3 months after stroke using the Rankin
           scale

        3. To assess tDCS side effects
    
  