
    
      Relapsed high-grade gliomas (in the following addressed as high-grade gliomas = HGG) in
      children and adolescents represent a very bad prognosis group for which a recommended
      standard salvage therapy is currently not available.

      Combination of Dendritic Cell (DC) vaccination, metronomic cyclophosphamide, and checkpoint
      blockade will be investigated in the present trial as a new treatment strategy for these
      patients: metronomic cyclophosphamide has been shown to significantly reduce numbers of
      regulatory T cells (Treg) without inducing general leukopenia. DCs might induce
      tumour-directed immune responses thereby facilitating long-term remissions. Efficacy of
      primed T-cell responses by the vaccine will potentially be enhanced by the application of
      checkpoint inhibitors Nivolumab (antiPD-L1) and Ipilimumab (antiCTLA4) in the post-vaccine
      phase and during maintenance.

      Cyclophosphamide is an established drug used as an anti-cancer or immunosuppressive substance
      since decades, with extensive experience when used in low, non-myeloablative dosages. DCs
      represent an innovative new strategy in cellular immunotherapy. DCs in cancer patients have
      been used in a number of smaller studies, and in some of these trials, promising results
      could be obtained. Several studies showed a trend towards a prolonged overall survival with a
      few long-term survivors which is otherwise extremely rare in this high-risk population.
      Results seemed to be more favourable in pediatric than in adult patients. Checkpoint
      inhibitors (antiPD-L1 and/or antiCTLA4) have been shown to exhibit synergistic effects with
      vaccines in preclinical models, and prelimnary data of several early stage trials have shown
      promising results. Therefore, our study aims to improve the efficacy of a DC-based
      therapeutic vaccine by optimizing the conditions upfront of the vaccine (Treg depletion) and
      improving T-cell responses by checkpoint blockade after the vaccine in the effector phase.

      In conclusion, this study will exploit the optimal efficacy of a therapeutic vaccine in
      children and adolescents with relapsed HGG.
    
  