
    
      Recent clinical studies showed that the oxytocin (OT), next to its long-time known actions
      (lactation, satiety), participates in the regulation of the social behavior. Swaab and al in
      1995 showed a significant reduction in number and in volume of neurons expressing OT in the
      paraventricular nucleus of PWS patients. Recent data suggest a link between OT and the
      autistic pathology: the existence of a lower plasmatic rate on OT and the association with a
      polymorphism of the OT's receptor for autistics patients. Because OT has a role on the
      pro-social behavior and on the nervous control of the stress, the hypothesis on which a
      deficit in OT would play a role in the abnormalities of the social behavior was advanced.
      Moreover, certain features of the autistic spectrum disorder can be found in PWS patients.
      Moreover, a recent study has shown that OT administered by intra-nasal spray reduces
      psychosocial stress and increases the confidence in each other in healthy volunteers. The PWS
      is a genetic pathology and some clinical features are very similar to the autistic pathology.
      The PWS is the most common cause of syndromic autism. Data from the literature and a
      collaborative study conducted between our team and the Prof. B. Rogé's team suggests that
      these two pathologies share common pathophysiological mechanisms. To our knowledge, no study
      with the OT was conducted in people with PWS. We want to conduct a pilot study in adult
      patients with PWS. Given the severity of this disease, related to socialization disorders,
      significant anxiety and overeating, and with no effective therapy, this justifies the pilot
      study. Moreover, side effects of OT are almost nonexistent when used by intra-nasal.

      Objectives: The objectives of this project are to investigate whether the administration by
      intra-nasal spray of OT plays a role on the understanding of social codes of PWS adult
      patients. We also analyze its effect on the level of stress, anxiety and eating behavior.

      Methodology: This study is a double blind control study. We will include 24 PWS patients,
      aged over 18 years recruited at the Hendaye Marine Hospital (associated with the PWS
      reference center whose coordination is in Toulouse). The hospital routinely receives PWS
      adults for a 4 weeks stay which gives optimal conditions for the establishment of this study.
      Patients are separated into 2 groups matched one by one on the sex and IQ. One group receives
      the OT, the other a placebo. Forty five minutes after inhalation, all of the patients are
      evaluated on their social comprehension thanks to psychometric tests. Furthermore, an
      analysis based on observation sheets allows us to score daily stress, anxiety and eating
      behavior. These sheets serve for the comparison between 2 days before and 2 days after the
      nasal spray on the above described scoring components.

      Results: Differences between the two groups will be statistically analyzed by non parametric
      statistical tests such as Mann-Whitney's test.
    
  