
    
      All patients consecutively admitted for routine colonoscopy will be included in this
      prospective randomized crossover study. After randomization, a first exploration of the right
      colon will be performed in linked color imaging (LCI) or white light imaging (WLI) depending
      of the randomization. Every polyp will be resected as soon it will be detected. After this
      first examination, colon will be explored a second time with a light system different from
      the one used for the first exploration. If a polyp will be detected during the second
      exploration, it will be counted as a polyp missed by the first exploration method.

      A- Inclusion criteria:

        1. Patient consecutively admitted to one of the endoscopy units for routine colonoscopy
           (screening, positive FIT, personal or family history of polyp or cancer, symptoms)

        2. Patient whose age is greater than or equal to 18 years and less than 90 years

        3. Score: ASA 1, ASA 2, ASA 3

        4. No participation in another clinical study

        5. Signed informed consent

      Exclusion criteria:

      History of recto-colic resection Inadequate preparation (none under Boston score <2) Patient
      referred for resection of a polyp in place, known IBD (inflammatory bowel disease) or known
      polyposis

      B- Exclusion criteria:

        1. History of recto-colonic resection

        2. Inadequate preparation (none under Boston score <2)

        3. Patient referred for resection of a known polyp

        4. Inflammatory Bowel Disease

        5. family polyposis

        6. Score: ASA 4, ASA 5

        7. Pregnant woman

        8. Patient with coagulation abnormalities preventing polyp resection: TP <50%, Platelets
           <50000 / mm3, effective anticoagulation in progress, clopidogrel in progress

        9. Patient unable to personally consent

       10. No signed informed consent

      Purposes of the study:

      Compare, when exploring the number of adenomas missed by the first exploration of the right
      colon by LCI or by white light, according to the order of randomization.

      Evaluation criteria :

      Main criterion:

      - Missed right colon adenomas by first exploration in LCI-WLI and WLI-LCI groups

      Secondary criteria

        -  Rate of polyps missed by the first exploration

        -  Serrated polyp rate missed by the first exploration

        -  Advanced adenoma rate missed by the first exploration

        -  Comparison of ADR, SPDR, given by the first exploration technique decided by
           randomization

      Number of patients:

      The expected rate of "missed adenomas" of the colon is about 20%, based on published data.
      Considering as relevant an 8% reduction in this rate of "missed adenomas" of the right colon
      by the LCI, the expected rate for LCI is therefore 12%.

      With a risk of the first species of 5% (bilateral test), a power of 80%, 329 patients per
      group should be included in the study. Taking into account the rate lost to follow-up of 5%,
      we expect a total of 700 patients.

      Duration of the study:

      1-2 years
    
  