
    
      Eating disorders are some of the most prevalent psychiatric disorders affecting women in
      Westernized cultures, and are associated with a range of medical complications; in severe
      cases, eating disorders can lead to death. Unfortunately, a large proportion of individuals
      with eating disorders do not receive treatment, and of those who do receive treatment, only
      approximately 40-50% of clients are symptom-free at the end of treatment. In addition to
      limited efficacy, existing treatments can be time-consuming and costly. From both public
      health and humanitarian perspectives it is best to prevent eating disorders prior to their
      emergence.

      This study will use a randomized, controlled design to investigate the effects of a cognitive
      dissonance-based intervention on attentional biases for weight words in body-dissatisfied
      women. Cognitive dissonance is thought to occur when there is a discrepancy between one's
      beliefs or attitudes, and behaviour. The experience of dissonance is thought to create
      discomfort, and resultantly individuals change their beliefs to be in line with their
      behaviours. Thus, the core tenet of cognitive dissonance-based interventions is the concept
      of engaging participants in counter-attitudinal behaviours (e.g., speaking out against the
      thin ideal) to enact change through cognitive dissonance. This cognitive dissonance-based
      intervention (The Body Project) targets body dissatisfaction, thin-ideal internalization, and
      eating disorder symptoms.

      Almost all research on the Body Project has assessed its efficacy via self-report, however,
      this study will use an eye-tracker to measure the gaze. Attentional biases are less
      susceptible to self-reporting biases than traditional pencil-and-paper questionnaires and so
      are a more reliable measure of cognitive processing The participants in this study will be
      placed into one of three different conditions: cognitive dissonance (CD), media
      psychoeducation (MP), or waitlist control (WL), and a similar number of women will be
      allocated to the body-satisfied (BS) condition. Both the CD and MP intervention groups will
      consist of two approximately 2-hour sessions scheduled one week apart, as well as a 30-minute
      online follow-up questionnaire 1 month after the second intervention/assessment session.
      Individuals allocated to WL will begin to receive the intervention approximately 5 weeks
      after the CD and MP groups (after their 1 month follow-up survey). The BS group will consist
      of two approximately 35- to 40-minute assessment-only sessions scheduled one week apart.

      All groups of participants will full out several self-report questionnaire as well as
      participate in a brief eye-tracking assessment both before and after their allocated
      intervention group (the BS condition and waitlist control will only complete the
      questionnaires and eye tracking assessment). Participants will sign up for a group time slot,
      and the group time slots will be randomly assigned to be given either the CD, and MP, or the
      WL condition.

      Participants will be recruited through the University of Calgary Department of Psychology
      Research Participation System (RPS) as well as campus community participants recruited
      through campus advertisements. Potential participants will be pre-screened for the presence
      of body dissatisfaction (or body satisfaction for the BS assessment only group).
    
  