
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of radiation delivered via 131I-BC8 antibody
      (iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8) when combined with the non-myeloablative regimen of
      fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate), 2 Gy total-body irradiation (TBI) + cyclosporine
      (CSP)/mycophenolate (MMF) in elderly patients with advanced acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or
      high risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

      II. To determine the rates of donor chimerism resulting from this combined preparative
      regimen, and to correlate level of donor chimerism with estimated radiation doses delivered
      to hematopoietic tissues via antibody.

      III. To determine, within the limits of a phase I study, disease response and duration of
      remission.

      IV. To assess dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) at the estimated maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      131I-BC8 (24 Gy) in order to gain more confidence that the DLT rate is acceptable at this
      level.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8.

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 intravenously
      (IV) on day -12 and fludarabine phosphate IV on days -4 to -2. Patients undergo total-body
      irradiation on day 0.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on
      day 0.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) or IV twice daily (BID) on days
      -3 to 56 with taper to day 80 (for patients with a related donor) OR days -3 to 100 with
      taper to day 177 (for patients with an unrelated donor) in the absence of graft-versus-host
      disease (GVHD). Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO or IV thrice daily (TID) on
      days 0 to 27 (for patients with a related donor) OR on days 0 to 40 with taper to day 96 (for
      patients with an unrelated donor) in the absence of GVHD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, and 12 months, every 6
      months for 1 year, and then yearly thereafter.
    
  