
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rare neurodegenerative disease with a median age at
      time of diagnosis of 65 years. In France, the incidence ranges between 1.5 and 2.5/100 000
      person-year of follow-up. The disease is related to progressive degeneration of motor neurons
      in the two voluntary motor pathways. It is a very debilitating disease, particularly in terms
      of autonomy and respiratory function. Its prognosis is poor, with constant worsening during
      the follow-up, leading to death with a median survival of 24 months after diagnosis. ALS
      patients are at risk of malnutrition in the short and medium term, because of several factors
      limiting or stopping food intake, such as functional disability, and swallowing or breathing
      disorders. The disease is also accompanied in 50-60% of cases by an abnormal increase in
      energy expenditure (hypermetabolism), causing added weight loss. Previous studies have shown
      that malnutrition is an independent negative prognostic factor for survival. Besides, at time
      of diagnosis, 36% of patients have already lost more than 5% of their usual weight. Such a
      weight loss has been shown to be associated with a 2 fold increased risk of dying, after
      adjustment for other known prognostic factors. Moreover, patients with a higher fat body mass
      during the course of the disease have a significant increased survival; and higher levels of
      serum cholesterol and/or triglycerides are favourable factors for survival. The
      recommendations for the management of ALS patients, published by French and International
      groups of experts, have suggested the use of oral nutritional supplementation if food intake
      does not cover the patient's requirements.

      We propose that Oral Nutritional Supplementation (ONS) should be used (i) systematically and
      (ii) earlier (as early as the time of diagnosis) in order to enable patients to maintain
      proper nutritional status.

      Such an intervention could delay the progression of the disease if the metabolic disorders in
      ALS are not solely the result of progression of the disease, but are implicated in its course
      and outcome.

      This is a parallel randomized study aimed To assess the benefits of early oral nutritional
      supplementation (ONS) on neurological functional status evaluated by the slope of the revised
      ALS Functional rating Scale (ALSFRS-R) between inclusion (T0) and T0+6 months in newly
      diagnosed ALS pati
    
  