
    
      Georgia Tech's Center for Advanced Communications Policy (CACP) proposes the American Sign
      Language Accessible Diabetes Education (ASL-ADE) project in response to the Georgia Center
      for Diabetes Translation Research for a pilot and feasibility study on "Type II translation
      research in diabetes care and prevention." ASL-ADE will conduct an efficacy study, in the
      Engagement and Behavior Change Core, with the long-term objective of improved health outcomes
      for individuals who are Deaf and primarily communicate using ASL. The project will
      demonstrate the need for diabetes educational materials to be accessible to people who are
      Deaf and rely on ASL for clear and effective communications. ASL is a distinct language used
      by individuals of the Deaf community and is grammatically dissimilar to English. Some people
      who are Deaf rely primarily on ASL and have limited English proficiency. , Other people who
      are deaf are comfortable with written English. Due to the language diversity within this
      community, diabetes health education materials are not always accessible. For example, there
      are low levels of general health literacy among people who are Deaf which increases risk for
      developing chronic illnesses, , , including diabetes. As such, people who are Deaf also have
      an increased risk for acute complications associated with diabetes. The low level of health
      literacy among the target population is directly related to communication/language barriers,
      as much of the health education outreach mechanisms are exclusionary because of their use of
      audio and print materials. The hearing population can benefit from incidental learning such
      as overhearing conversations and watching the news, even commercials. It is a form of
      socialization that is often taken for granted by people who can hear. To address this access
      gap, the goals of ASL-ADE are to provide accessible materials to improve health literacy and
      (1) impact awareness of risk factors, preventive measures, and diabetes symptoms, and (2)
      elicit the desired behavioral response to seek medical care and modify health-related
      behaviors. The proposed project will produce a video-based ASL interpreted diabetes
      educational intervention, and using a pretest-posttest (immediate) 30-day posttest
      quasi-experimental design, evaluate the effect of the educational intervention on knowledge
      about diabetes and related health behavior changes. Data will be analyzed along the
      dimensions of age and diagnosis status to measure if variance in scores are related to age,
      with a specific interest in transition aged (18-30) people who are Deaf with a diabetes
      diagnosis compared to their non-diagnosed counterparts; the a priori hypothesis being that
      given the communication barriers experienced by people who are Deaf, that no significant
      between-group differences will be found on pretest scores based on diagnosis status.
    
  