
    
      Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is the fifth leading cause of cancer related deaths in Western
      countries. The sole curative treatment is surgical resection. Unfortunately, curative surgery
      is possible in only 10 to 15 % of cases. In a palliative way, the remaining patients can be
      treated with chemotherapy in locally advanced (Gemcitabine) or metastatic (FOLFIRINOX)
      tumors. These treatments ameliorate some clinical parameters but modestly the median
      survival. There is an urgent need in novel treatment and gene therapy is one of these
      innovative approaches. The investigators demonstrated that SST2 gene (that codes for
      somatostatin receptor subtype 2) when transferred in pancreatic experimental tumours
      significantly decreases tumor progression and exerts an anti-metastatic effect. SST2 gene
      transfer also induced a local bystander effect due to antiproliferative, pro-apoptotic and
      anti-angiogenic actions. SST2 gene transfer also sensitizes pancreatic tumors to the
      therapeutic effect of Gemcitabine. In order to improve this chemosensitization the
      investigators added the DCK::UMK gene, which is a fusion between two cDNAs each coding
      enzymes that are critical for Gemcitabine intracellular metabolism. Effect of DCK::UMK gene
      transfer in combination of Gemcitabine treatment dramatically reduced the size of primary
      tumours in experimental models of pancreatic cancer. Finally, combining SST2 and DCK::UMK
      gene transfer using a single expression plasmid intratumorally injected, the investigators
      obtained a significant "regression" of experimental primary pancreatic tumors (Patent
      Cayla-INSERM 2010). In collaboration with Invivogen company, this proof of concept led us to
      set up a pilot Phase I clinical trial of gene therapy in unresectable pancreatic cancer
      patients.

      For this phase I gene therapy trial (THERGAP-01NCT01274455 Dec. 2010 - Sept. 2012), the
      investigators produced a gene therapy product (CYL-02) in GMP grade (plasmid encoding for
      SST2 and DCK::UMK genes complexed to a non-viral synthetic vector PolyEthyleneImine 22 kDa).
      The protocol was based on two Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS)-guided direct intratumoral
      injections (at one month interval) of increasing doses of DNA (125 to 1000 µg) followed by
      Gemcitabine infusions within 2 months. After inclusion of 22 unresectable pancreatic cancer
      patients the investigators demonstrated the excellent feasibility of this protocol whatever
      the localization of the tumor and previous treatment. No serious adverse events directly
      imputable to the experimental product occurred. There was no major diffusion of CYL-02 in
      blood (none in urine) while transgene was detected and expressed in tumour tissues in a
      dose-dependent manner at one month post-injection (maximum at dose 1000µg - DNA + mRNA).
      Primary tumor was reduced in size at one month and remained stable at 2 months with no
      metastatic progression in the subgroup of locally advanced patients in whom median
      progression-free survival and overall survival were respectively of 6.4 and 12.6 months.

      These results tend to demonstrate a therapeutic effect and lead to this randomized open
      multicenter phase 2 trial comparing the therapeutic effect of the association "intratumoral
      delivery of the gene therapy product CYL-02 plus gemcitabine" versus "gemcitabine alone" in
      patients with locally advanced non metastatic unresectable/untreated patients.

      The primary objective is to compare the effect of each modality of treatment on the
      progression free survival. The secondary objectives are to compare the effect on overall
      survival, to evaluate the antitumor response, Quality of Life local and general tolerance.

      For the 6 french centers the investigators plan to include 100 patients (18 months for
      inclusion, 12 months for duration of the trial for each patient) with proven locally advanced
      non metastatic untreated pancreatic adenocarcinoma, 50 patients in each Arm: Arm A: two
      EUS-guided injections of CYL-02 (dose 1000 µg) at one month interval in combination of
      Gemcitabine infusion 1000 mg/m2 every week within two months followed by 4 months (or until
      progression) of Gemcitabine (same dose and rhythm); Arm B: Gemcitabine alone 1000 mg/m2
      within 6 months (or until progression). In each Arm patients will be subjected to clinical
      and imaging follow up after 6 months including or not other treatments. CYL-02 compound will
      be produced and supply by DBI/Eurofins and financed by Invivogen company.

      This clinical trial will be accompanied by an independent monitoring committee, which will
      review safety data and provide recommendations to the Sponsor regarding the safety of
      subjects, the conduct of the study and potential premature termination.

      Evaluation will be made upon clinical symptoms, signs of tumor progression, EUS in Arm A (at
      one month), CT-Scan, at 2, 4, 6, 9 and 12 months (ARM A and B, RECIST 1.1 criteria). Quality
      of Life every month (EORTC QLC-C30 questionnaire), local and general tolerance and
      Pharmacokinetics of CYL-02 will be also assessed.

      The dose of 1000 µg will be used and corresponds to the maximal dose tested during the phase
      1b (Thergap-1). This dose demonstrated a long lasting expression within tumor, a good
      antitumor effect and a good tolerance (buscail et al, mol her 2015).
    
  