
    
      Randomization to study drugs shall be performed using an online database system for data
      collection; the assigned arm and the randomisation code will be generated after entering
      basic patient data based on a predefined randomization scheme.

      Concomitant therapy. Acetylsalicylic acid - 500 mg i.v. initial dose, and then 100 mg oral
      daily dose. Proton pump inhibitor. Additional therapies including further antithrombotic
      treatment (GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor, heparin) and mechanical support (IABP, ECMO) shall be fully
      in the competence of the treating doctor.

      Electronic database - eCRF. The data from individual follow-up assessments will be entered
      into an electronic database. The online instrument CLADE-IS will be used for data collection;
      this instrument provides robust options for electronic case report form (eCRF) design,
      hierarchical administration of user rights and a user-friendly web interface. The system
      provides predefined validation rules, conversions of variables, and it takes into account the
      relationships between variables; user access is controlled by the hierarchical system of user
      rights and user roles, and database operations are stored for the purpose of audits and
      tracking of changes. Data safety is ensured through physical security of the servers,
      authorised access and backup procedures.

      Laboratory collections. The efficacy of the antiaggregation drugs cangrelor and ticagrelor
      will be determined using the flow cytometry analysis of intracellular VASP
      (vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein) phosphorylation.

      Study Committees: Executive c., Steering c., Endpoint adjudication c., Data safety monitoring
      board.

      Monitoring. External monitor Clinical Research Associate (CRA)

      Definitions. Death is defined as death from all causes. Death from cardiovascular causes is
      defined as death with evidence of a cardiovascular cause or any death without clear evidence
      of a non-cardiovascular cause. All deaths are considered as cardiac unless a clear
      non-cardiac cause can be determined. Any unexpected death (for example, even in patients with
      a co-existing, potentially fatal non-cardiac disease - cancer, infection) is classified as a
      death from cardiovascular causes.

      Myocardial reinfarction is defined as a new (additional) MI that must differ from the MI
      based on which the patient was enrolled into the study, satisfying the Third Universal
      Definition of MI criteria.

      Urgent revascularisation of the infarct related artery is defined as a new emergent/urgent
      revascularisation of the artery intervened upon in the initial procedure, due to repeated
      manifestations of ischemia occurring after completion of the initial PCI.

      Stroke is defined as rapid onset of a new neurological deficit due to an ischemic or
      haemorrhagic lesion in the central nervous system with the symptoms lasting for at least 24
      hours from their onset or resulting in death.

      Definitive stent thrombosis is defined according to the Academic Research Consortium
      criteria.

      Bleeding is defined according to the Bleeding Academic Research Consortium (BARC) criteria.

      External collaborating centre for statistical analyses. Institute of Biostatistics and
      Analyses at the Faculty of Medicine of the Masaryk University in Brno, Czech Republic
    
  