
    
      The morphology and composition of healthy mature articular cartilage is optimized to its
      primary function of load transfer and distribution. In the osteoarthritic state however,
      homeostasis of the knee joint is significantly altered, such that as load is placed on the
      joint there is progressive worsening of cartilage damage over time. Altered joint mechanics
      and intra-articular biological processes are thought to play pivotal roles in the initial
      breakdown and potentiation of cartilage damage which is the hallmark finding in knee OA
      leading to knee pain. Walking or running with weight support on a lower-body
      positive-pressure (LBPP) treadmill is a novel training and rehabilitation modality for
      individuals with lower extremity pathologies due to its ability to limit pain. This treadmill
      provides a controlled off-loading of the lower extremities with significant benefit being
      shown after 12 weeks of training in overweight individuals with knee OA on knee pain,
      function and muscle strength. Although this methodology alters the joint mechanics, the
      intra-articular biological effect on joint disease remains unknown.

      A recent study from our laboratory compared walking exercise on a regular treadmill at a
      defined speed with and without rest breaks in 27 participants with knee OA and demonstrated
      that one-hour rest breaks had significant benefits. This conclusion was based on reduction in
      knee joint contact force and decreased levels of a serum marker commonly associated with
      cartilage degradation (cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, COMP) at 45 minutes of walking.
      This investigation assessed patterns of walking, but the impact of varying knee joint contact
      force, such as by walking on a LBPP treadmill on the biological profiles of joint disease is
      not known. The present study will establish the conditions and parameters for a future
      longer-term clinical trial that aims to individualize the amount of joint loading during LBPP
      treadmill training in participants with knee OA based on their biomarker profile.

      Objective 1: Compare the serum biomarker changes of joint disease that occur in response to
      partially off-loaded (50%) walking exercise to regular (100%) walking exercise while on a
      LBPP treadmill.

      Objective 2: Determine the relationship between changes in the concentration of these serum
      biomarkers and participant reported knee pain while walking on a LBPP treadmill.
    
  