
    
      Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) has been shown to be an effective immune suppressant in organ
      transplantation. Its gastrointestinal side effects, however, have limited its use in liver
      transplantation (OLT). A new form of MPA that is enteric coated (Myfortic) has been developed
      to address the issue of GI side effects. While considerable experience has been gained with
      this new formulation in kidney transplants (ref) the information regarding the use of
      Myfortic in OLT recipients is limited. The purpose of the study is to assess the safety and
      efficacy of Myfortic in OLT recipients. The study will include a close follow-up of the
      patients with regard to side effects and potential adverse effects of the drug. It will also
      monitor the rate of compliance with this medication among the patients in the study. The
      efficacy of the drug will be determined by the rate of rejection but also and more
      importantly by our ability to withdraw corticosteroids and minimize calcineurin inhibitors
      (CNI).

      Several tests will be conducted as part of the study. Some of those are "Standard of Care"
      tests such as liver function tests and complete blood cell count (CBC). Some tests however,
      will be performed specifically for this study. These include a patient questionnaire to be
      filled at various time points and blood tests designed to assess the integrity of the immune
      system.

      The benefit to the patients is three-fold:

      The patients will receive the medication free of charge for the duration of the study.

      The proven efficacy of MPA as an immune suppressant may allow us to reduce or eliminate the
      use of corticosteroids and/or CNI whose long and short-term side effects are major causes of
      morbidity in OLT recipients.

      Avoidance of the GI side effects of non-enteric coated MPA, which is our standard drug in
      OLT.

      The risks for the patient include the potential deleterious side effects of MPA, namely bone
      marrow depression, GI side-effects (nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain), and infections.

      The general benefits from the study may be the addition of a better formulation of MPA to the
      list of drugs used for immunosuppression in OLT. Additionally, routine use of this drug may
      minimize the long-term adverse effects of CNI and corticosteroids thus improving long-term
      patient survival and well-being.
    
  