
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate whether treatment with gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) plus
      pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride) improves the median progression-free survival (PFS) of
      patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcoma when compared to gemcitabine plus placebo.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall response in this population to gemcitabine plus pazopanib compared to
      gemcitabine plus placebo.

      II. To assess overall survival (OS) in this population to gemcitabine plus pazopanib compared
      to gemcitabine plus placebo.

      III. To investigate differences in treatment response in different histologic subgroups
      (liposarcoma vs. all other eligible soft tissue sarcoma subtypes).

      IV. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of gemcitabine plus pazopanib.

      V. To assess the progression-free survival and overall response in patients treated with
      single agent pazopanib following administration of gemcitabine in the cross-over portion of
      this study.

      VI. To collect specimens for an exploratory analysis of potential biomarkers that predict
      response in patients receiving combination therapy with gemcitabine plus pazopanib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      1 and 8 and pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
      placebo PO on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who experience disease progression may receive single-agent
      pazopanib hydrochloride PO daily. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  