
    
      Heavy episodic drinking (HED) rates remains at unacceptably high levels on college campuses.
      Researchers on parent-based interventions (PBIs) has revealed promising results. but studies
      have generally failed to reduce HED in college students. FITSTART was developed to address
      two limitations of traditional PBIs that may contribute to the lack of the aforementioned
      effects: (I) they are purely informational and (II) they typically lack a motivational
      component to capture parents' attention and increase motivation to proactively engage their
      students. Pilot work has revealed that parents display predictable normative misperceptions
      (e.g., overestimate how approving other parents are of drinking and underestimate how often
      other parents engage with their students about drinking). As predicted by social norms
      theory, these false beliefs are associated with parents displaying more approving attitudes
      themselves and communicating less frequently. Correcting these norms should motivate parents
      to proactively engage their child in risk-reducing directions. FITSTART combined a social
      norms feedback component with informational material ("tips") characteristic of a traditional
      PBI in an in-person interactive format and successfully reduced HED. While the effects on
      weekly drinking, HED, and non-drinker alcohol use initiation were robust 1-month into college
      (3-months post intervention). FITSTART's usefulness as a universal approach is limited
      because it was delivered to parent groups on-campus during pre-college orientation sessions
      and many colleges do not hold summer orientations and/or lack the resources to administer
      FITSTART. To address this limitation, a web-based platform (or app) was developed using a new
      cutting-edge modality that draws from the computer science literature on virtual co-presence
      to create an online environment that mimics the effects of a live group social norms session.

      The current study seeks to evaluate the efficacy of the FITSTART+ PBI in a randomized control
      trial (RCT) by evaluating changes in incoming first-year students alcohol use and related
      negative consequences during the transition into college. The sample will consist of
      parent-student dyads recruited from Loyola Marymount University (LMU). Eligible dyads are
      those that include a parent of incoming LMU first-year student. The parent needs to have
      downloaded and registered the app and the student needs to have completed a baseline survey
      prior to the parent receiving the app (end of November). Parents will be invited to download
      the intervention/control app two months prior to their students arrival on campus in the
      Spring. To examine the sustained effects of the intervention, students will complete two
      baseline surveys, one in August (pre-matriculation) and another November (preceding parent
      intervention), and two follow-up surveys, approximately 1-month and 3-months after the
      students arrive on campus in the spring. (First-year students were not permitted to move onto
      campus during the Fall semester due to COVID-19.)
    
  