
    
      COPD and CHF frequently coexist, causing a significant worsening in the quality of life of
      the patients and increasing morbidity and mortality. The prevalence of COPD in the CHF
      patients ranges from 20% to 32% of cases, and CHF is prevalent in more than 20% of patients
      with COPD.

      COPD and CHF patients are complicated and frail with a high risk of re-hospitalizations; for
      this reason an individualized and multidisciplinary program need to be implemented in these
      patients. The chronic disease trend is fluctuating, burdened by many exacerbations through a
      vicious circle with dyspnoea, decreased activity, new exacerbations, depression and social
      isolation, leading to death.

      The weight of evidence from a meta-analysis of randomized trials indicates that a
      multidisciplinary disease-management approach has the best outcomes in terms of prolonged
      survival and reduced hospital-readmission rates. Home-based management might, arguably, be
      the preferred approach after hospitalization of chronic diseases patients.

      Home-base management might provide an opportunity to prevent clinical deterioration and
      hospitalizations by a comprehensive, long-term intervention with regular reinforcement of
      patient adherence, knowledge, and skills. A personalized hospital-discharge programme seems
      to be the best approach to plan the follow-up care of patients with chronic diseases.

      These programmes, particularly important in the care of patients with multiple comorbidities,
      should include a routine self-management support, consisting in education to recognize
      symptoms early, to manage medical devices, to identify barriers to adherence to therapy such
      as adverse effects of drugs, and to check that the intensity of physical therapy is
      appropriate.

      Our study want to investigate feasibility and efficacy of a multidisciplinary telehealth and
      tele-rehabilitation home based program in patients with COPD and CHF. This is an integrated,
      multidisciplinary nurse and therapist oriented program; these two figures have a central role
      during home based intervention and became an essential interface in the dialogue between
      patient and specialist. The nurse and therapist, each for their competence, collect
      information, carry out education and training, verify adherence to drug and physical therapy,
      verify the quality of caregiver assistance. When needed, they require intervention of
      specialist for consultation or second-opinion.

      After drug therapy optimization and physical rehabilitation program definition, the patient
      will be allocated randomly into 2 groups: 1. Group A (usual care): the patients will be
      followed in the usual care manner by General Practitioner (GP) and routine specialist visits.
      2. Group B (Home-based intervention): the patients will be monitored at home for 4 months by
      nurse and therapist and they will perform an individual rehabilitative program including at
      least 3 sessions/week of mini-ergometer and exercises and 2 sessions/week of walking with
      pedometer.

      At baseline, after 4 months and further 2 months of follow-up all patients in both groups
      will undergo to follows clinical and physical evaluations:

        1. ECG (T0; T4 if needed)

        2. Echocardiogram (T0, T4 if needed

        3. Spirometry (T0 or a spirometry available in the previous year)

        4. Arterial blood gases (T0; T4)

        5. Walking test (T0; T4; T6)

        6. Metabolic Holter monitoring using the Body Monitoring Multi-Sensor Armband (BMSA)
           (SenseWear) worn at the triceps of the right arm for at least 72 h. (T0; T4; T6)

      The questionnaires and scale :

        1. Minnesota (T0;T4;T6)

        2. COPD Assessment Test (CAT) (T0;T4;T6)

        3. Barthel (T0;T4;T6)

        4. Dyspnoea and muscle fatigue by Borg scale evaluation, referred by patient during his
           regular day (T0;T4;T6)

        5. Medical Research Council (MRC) scale for dyspnoea during regular day (T0;T4;T6)

        6. Physical activity scale for the elderly (PASE) (T0;T4;T6)

        7. Customer satisfaction (T4, only group B)
    
  