
    
      Background: Emerging data on serious antipsychotic medication side effects (e.g. new onset
      diabetes)has heightened concerns about sharp increases in "off label" pediatric antipsychotic
      treatment of mood/behavioral disorders, and led to increased scrutiny of pediatric mental
      health treatment. Several states are developing antipsychotic medication pre-authorization
      programs to reduce inappropriate or unsafe prescribing. This Healthcare system change,
      however, fails to address a critical underlying problem that parents are not effectively
      engaged to utilize non-medication treatments and serve an active role in their child's mental
      health recovery. Psychosocial treatments (e.g. parenting skills training to manage aggressive
      behaviors) are evidence-based interventions that are poorly utilized in community care. The
      Maryland Medicaid program developed a pediatric Antipsychotic Pre-Authorization Program that
      requires providers to make at least one psychosocial treatment referral in order to obtain
      medication approval. This program was shaped by strong input from parents, health experts,
      and child serving agency administrators to promote psychosocial treatment referral, but it
      does not provide any Family-centered services to improve treatment utilization. Objectives:
      We propose to link the Antipsychotic Pre-Authorization Program with a Family Navigator
      Service. The investigators will examine if Navigator Services improve parent empowerment,
      support, and satisfaction with child services. The investigators will also assess if
      Navigator Services are associated with improved psychosocial service utilization, improved
      child functioning, and lower likelihood of medication increases (higher dose or addition of
      another medication). The investigators' long term objective is to develop a Family Navigator
      model that is highly portable, amenable for use in underserved areas, addresses the needs of
      low income families with young children, and promotes evidence-based mental health care.
      Methods: The investigators will conduct a randomized trial of a telephone Family Navigator
      Service versus usual care for 240 Medicaid insured youth 10 years old who are approved for
      antipsychotic medication treatment. The Family Navigator is a parent who has experienced
      their own child's mental illness. Navigators will provide support, information on
      psychosocial treatment options, and options to address barriers to care. The investigators
      will assess family-centered outcomes at baseline and 90 days (medication re-authorization).
      The investigators will use generalized linear mixed effects models with the appropriate link
      functions to assess whether there is a significant difference in improvement from baseline to
      the post-treatment assessment on the outcome variables between the Family Navigator condition
      and treatment as usual condition. A significant interaction between time and study condition
      would support the hypothesis that a Family Navigator will improve parent and child outcomes.
    
  