
    
      Hysterectomy is the most commonly performed non-obstetric procedure in women in the United
      States, with approximately 400,000 hysterectomies performed each year. Minimally invasive
      techniques have all been shown to have advantages over laparotomy. These include decreased
      blood loss, faster recovery time, improved postoperative pain and decreased postoperative
      complications including wound infections, thromboembolism, iatrogenic injuries and incisional
      hernias. Due to all of these benefits, the volume of minimally invasive procedures has
      increased significantly over the last ten years making tissue extraction a widely debated
      topic.

      Morcellation is a technique that allows large pieces of tissue to be removed through small
      incisions and was originally performed either with a scalpel or manual device until the first
      power/electric morcellators were introduced in 1993. Since then, power morcellation has made
      50,000 to 150,000 minimally invasive hysterectomies possible annually. While the former has
      been an integral part in the treatment of women with large uteri and uterine fibroids, it has
      recently come under scrutiny due to multiple concerns including dissemination of undetected
      malignancy, development of iatrogenic myomas as well as increased number of reported
      complications and death. This has led the US Food and drug administration in April 2014 to
      issue a statement discouraging the use of laparoscopic power morcellation.

      In the face of the growing bias against electronic mechanical morcellators, other approaches
      must be investigated and promulgated so that patients may still benefit from minimally
      invasive gynecologic surgeries. The two commonly used methods for tissue extraction are
      manual morcellation through mini-laparotomy and vaginal morcellation. In the former, a trocar
      site enlargement or a new up to 1 inch incision is created through which the specimen is
      brought to the abdominal surface and morcellated with scalpel.In the latter, tissues are
      removed in the same fashion but via a colpotomy. The investigators intent is to compare
      manual morcellation methods (vaginal vs abdominal mini-laparotomy) in order to help surgeons
      choose the best approach for their patient.
    
  