
    
      In Denmark, 370 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer every year and approximately 100
      women die from the disease. Young women can be protected with the HPV vaccine, but it will
      take decades before the vaccine has an effect on older women. Women who are HPV positive have
      a risk of developing severe dysplasia of 25-55% within 10 years. Compared to younger women,
      older women are also more likely to be diagnosed with advanced-stage disease and their
      mortality is high. Due to retraction of the transformation zone into the cervical canal and
      atrophy of the mucosa the performance of colposcopy is low. Furthermore, the sensitivity of
      cytology decreases with age. This makes it very difficult to obtain sufficient biopsies and
      therefore postmenopausal women are often required to undergo colposcopy two to three times.
      Waiting for a final diagnosis and treatment not only has a large mental and practical impact
      on the women themselves, but it is also an economic burden for the health care system.

      "See and treat" is a procedure that involves cervical cytology and HPV test, a colposcopy,
      cervical biopsies, and finally a loop electrosurgical excisional procedure by which the
      transformation zone is removed. This approach allows women to be diagnosed and treated in one
      visit.

      In this project, the aim is to investigate if the implementation of "see and treat" in a
      gynecological outpatient clinic can optimize the diagnostics, clinical follow-up, and
      treatment of older women with abnormal cervical cytology or HPV-infection.

      Participants Women aged ≥ 45 years with cervical dysplasia and/or a positive HPV test are
      referred from the general practitioner to the gynecological department.

      Procedure At each inclusion site, the local project manager evaluates all the referred women
      for possible inclusion. Project information is sent either by e-mail or letter to eligible
      women. At the outpatient clinic, the eligible women will be informed about the project and
      asked to sign an informed consent form regarding their participation in the project.

      If the eligible women agree to participate a physician in the outpatient clinic will obtain a
      cervical smear (i.e. cytology and Human Papillomavirus (HPV) test) and perform colposcopy and
      take four random biopsies. If the transformation zone (TZ) is partly visible or not visible a
      cone biopsy will be performed in local anesthesia (Citanest).

      If the participant meet the exclusion criteria or declines to participate standard treatment
      will be offered (colposcopy and biopsies).

      The included patients will be followed up with an HPV test after 6 months.
    
  