
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recommended phase II dose of tipifarnib when given together with
      paclitaxel in patients with stage IIB-IIIC breast cancer. (Phase I) II. To determine the
      pathologic complete remission rate (including breast and breast plus axillary nodes) in
      patients treated with sequential paclitaxel and tipifarnib followed by dose-dense doxorubicin
      hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and tipifarnib. (Phase II) III. To determine the feasibility
      and safety of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of tipifarnib followed by a
      phase II study.

      PHASE I: Paclitaxel plus tipifarnib: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
      oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-3.

      Treatment repeats weekly for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with no evidence of disease progression after 12 courses proceed to AC
      chemotherapy plus tipifarnib. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib
      until the recommended phase II dose (RTPD) is determined. The RTPD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      AC chemotherapy plus tipifarnib: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 5-10
      minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1, oral tipifarnib twice daily on
      days 2-7, and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously on day 2.

      Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive paclitaxel and tipifarnib at the RTPD and AC chemotherapy plus
      tipifarnib as in phase I. After completion of AC plus tipifarnib (in both phases), patients
      are re-evaluated for surgery (i.e., modified radical mastectomy, radical mastectomy,
      segmental mastectomy or lumpectomy with an axillary lymph node dissection).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and
      then annually for 5 years.
    
  