
    
      Background Breast cancers exhibit a wide scope of morphologic features with demonstrated
      prognostic significance. These features have the advantage of easily evaluated in routine
      reporting; thus offering great clinical potential. In our earlier analysis, fibrotic focus
      (FF) was demonstrated to have added value to the current staging. FF refers to the central
      scar like area in an invasive tumor, and is surrounded by a highly cellular zone of
      infiltrating tumor cells. It is composed of fibroblasts and collagen fibers forming a
      radially expanding fibrosclerotic core, with an incidence of around 20%. The precise
      composition of the different components within FF may affect its prognostic value in breast
      cancer.

      Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) and collagen components are the most prominent features
      in FF. FF with proliferative CAF was associated with higher risk of metastasis. Moreover,
      CAFs identified by fibroblastic markers were correlated with breast cancer recurrence. In
      breast cancer, different subsets of CAF by differential fibroblastic markers have been
      characterized recently. They were present in varying proportions in breast cancer subtypes
      and conferred dissimilar impact on the immune tumor microenvironment (TME). Nonetheless, the
      relationship of CAF subtypes and FF and whether they will affect the FF prognostic impact
      remain elusive. Apart from CAF, the potent influence of collagen content in cancer is
      increasingly appreciated. Collagen stroma can modulate immune TME by inhibiting CD8 T
      lymphocytes infiltration. The expression of collagen and other extracellular matrix
      components is prognostic in different types of cancer patients, including breast cancer. For
      FF, detailed analysis on the collagen content is still lacking. The distinct collagen
      composition and organization could also impact on the prognostic capabilities of FF. The
      underlying mechanisms for effects of FF are largely unknown. To date, there are very few
      reports of molecular analysis of breast cancers with FF. FF has been associated with
      increased angiogenesis, hypoxia markers expression and activation of hypoxia-inducible
      factor-1α pathway, and concordantly increased tumor associated macrophage (TAM) infiltration.
      Exploration of other key biomarkers involved in will provide additional information on FF
      prognostication.

      In this proposal, a systemic evaluation on the FF features in breast cancers will be
      performed. We aim to further characterize FF at different levels in detail. Finally, we plan
      to develop prognostic model integrating the different FF features for a more accurate risk
      stratification.

      Study design To characterize FF based on morphologic, structural and molecular features The
      different morphologic features of FF will be examined and correlated with the
      clinico-pathologic parameters and breast cancer subtypes. To characterize the collagen
      stroma, the expression of these different collagens will be determined by IHC analysis. The
      structural characteristics of the collagen fibers will be determined on SHG signal and/or
      pico-Sirius red staining. The collagen composition and structural features in cases with
      different FF morphological features will be compared.

      For the characterization of fibroblastic components, CAF populations will be determined by
      IHC analysis. Based on the reported CAF phenotypes, CAF markers will be examined on the
      consecutive IHC slides. Co-expression of CAF markers will be evaluated using multiple IHC
      alignment. The relationship of CAF subpopulations on FF and collagen features as well as
      clinico-pathologic characteristics will be examined.

      The candidates from top differential genes and pathways implicated in FF will be examined.
      The candidates will be prioritized also based on survey of published literatures and their
      biological relevance.

      Hierarchical clustering analysis will be performed to classify FF based on the different
      features. The correlation of defined FF subsets and clinico-pathologic features will be
      investigated.

      To determine the impact of FF in immune TME To examine the effects of FF in the immune TME,
      we will investigate several immune cell populations in situ simultaneously using mIHC.
      Patients will be clustered based on their immune cell profiles. The immune cells density,
      their relative ratio, immune profile and spatial relationship with tumor cells will be
      assessed in relation to different FF features and compare between FF and non-FF cases. The
      interplay of immune features and FF in prognosis will be evaluated.

      To investigate the prognostic value of FF in breast cancer. Having examined the
      clinico-pathologic correlation of various features of FF and its relationship of tumor immune
      environment, their prognostic value on overall survival, recurrence and metastasis will be
      analyszd using the Kaplan-Meier method. Their prognostic impacts will be compared with each
      other using univariate Cox proportional hazards model. Their independent prognostic value
      will be determined by multivariate analysis together with other conventional prognostic
      markers. A novel predictive model will be constructed based on the independent risk factors
      derived from the multivariate analysis. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve will
      be used to identify the cutoff value.
    
  