
    
      Although most people with pancreatic cancer (80-85%) suffer distressing pain, it is poorly
      controlled. Currently, medical management has been focused on frequent use of opioid
      painkillers (narcotics) which are associated with several complications. Pain in pancreatic
      cancer is mainly caused by tumor invasion to nerves near pancreatic gland, but in certain
      patients with pancreatic cancer, pain is believed to be obstructive in nature and is due to
      outflow obstruction of main pancreatic duct (PD) which extracts pancreatic secretions. This
      kind of pain is specifically marked by pain occurring after eating. With this respect,
      decompression of pancreatic duct has been associated with pain relief in people with chronic
      inflammation of pancreas due to obstruction of its main duct (chronic pancreatitis).
      Therefore; we think that it might be beneficial in the management of obstructive pain in
      people with pancreatic cancer.

      Endoscopic stenting of pancreatic duct is a way for decompression and appears to be effective
      and safe palliative (pain relief) treatment for pain management in patients with chronic
      pancreatitis. Besides safety, pancreatic stenting seems to be associated with a significant
      decrease in amount of required opioids and analgesic drugs (and their side effects) for pain
      management, and may improve patients' quality of life. There are only a few old reports about
      beneficial effects of endoscopic pancreatic duct decompression for relief of obstructive pain
      in pancreatic cancer. Currently, we have improved stents. Since prior clinical practice has
      shown that pain improves, we plan to place stents with the expectation that pain will
      improve. We hope that it will decrease need for recurrent hospitalizations for pain control
      and decrease in need for medications (narcotics) and medication side effects, and also will
      improve the quality of life. Specific instruments will be applied as research tools to
      monitor pain score and quality of life before and after pancreatic duct stenting in this
      study.
    
  