
    
      Introduction: Retreatment is defined as a procedure to remove root canal filling materials
      from the tooth, followed by cleaning, shaping and obturating the canals (AAE glossary of
      endodontic terms). There is a scarcity in retreatment studies when compared to literature
      available pertaining to primary root canal treatment. Till date, only 7 studies are available
      which have attempted to analyse the factors predicting the prognosis of nonsurgical
      retreatment. However, none of these studies has systematically evaluated the role of a single
      variable on success of endodontic retreatment. These are either retrospective or cohort
      studies, with no study identifiable as a randomised controlled trial. While the evaluation of
      a single factor as the primary objective in a study is a difficult task, it unarguably
      provides more valuable information regarding the influence of that variable on outcome. The
      present study is being conducted to evaluate the effect of 5% NaOCl with 17% EDTA, and 2% CHX
      with 10% CA on outcome, when used as irrigants during the chemomechanical preparation in
      retreatment cases.

      Aim and Objectives: To evaluate and compare the success of nonsurgical endodontic retreatment
      following use of the two different irrigant regimes, using 5% NaOCl with 17% EDTA and 2% CHX
      with 10% CA.

      Setting: Study subjects will be recruited from Post Graduate Department of Conservative
      Dentistry and Endodontics, PGIDS, Rohtak, Haryana.

      Study design: Prospective randomized controlled trial Time frame: 18 months Method: Patients
      with above inclusion criteria will be selected and randomly allocated to one of the two study
      groups according to the irrigants used ( NaOCl + EDTA , CHX + CA ). The secondary root canal
      treatment was completed in two visits. Proper rubber dam isolation and aseptic conditions
      were followed throughout the procedure. Caries and /or coronal restorations were removed with
      sterile burs. The coronal two thirds of the root filling was mechanically removed with hand
      files. A sterile #15 K- file was used to create space by applying a gentle filing motion. A
      larger endodontic file was used to engage the root canal filling material and the file with
      the attached root filling material was withdrawn from the canal. The working length was
      determined with the aid of the electronic apex locator and radiographs using digital sensor
      (Carestream RVG 5200, Carestream Health Inc, Rochester, NY). Apical preparation was completed
      to the working length with hand stainless-steel files. 2 ml of corresponding chosen primary
      irrigant (NaOCl or CHX) was used after each instrument change in the respective groups. All
      the irrigation procedures were performed using a 30 gauge needle ensuring that the needle was
      placed to within 1-2mm from the apex. After preparation of the canals, the smear layer was
      removed using a rinse of 5 ml of either 17% EDTA or 10 % CA depending on the group, which was
      ultrasonically activated for 3 minutes. Then the final irrigation was done using 5 ml of
      corresponding primary irrigant of the group. The root canal walls were then dried using paper
      points. Calcium hydroxide paste mixed with sterile saline was placed with Lentulo spiral
      fillers in the entire root canal extent and the access cavity was restored with Cavit. The
      dressing was left in place for 7 days. At the second visit, the temporary restoration was
      removed. The intracanal dressing was removed with 5 ml of corresponding primary irrigant and
      with gentle filing with the use of Hedstroem file. The root canal was then irrigated with 5
      ml of corresponding chelating agent with ultrasonic activation followed by 5 ml of primary
      irrigants of the corresponding group. The canals were dried and obturated with the
      GuttaPercha using lateral condensation technique and Zinc Oxide- Eugenol based sealer in both
      the groups. After obturation, the tooth was restored permanently. Immediate post-operative
      radiograph was then taken using preset exposure parameters with Rinn paralleling device.
      Follow up clinical and radiographic examinations were carried out every 3 months, till 12
      months period.

      Statistical analysis: The data gathered will be analyzed using suitable statistical methods.
    
  