
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and related interventional cardiology field are
      rapidly growing in current era. First generation drug eluting stent (DES) needed long-term
      dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for preventing future stent thrombosis. But, second
      generation DES showed better clinical outcomes in terms of target lesion revascularization
      and stent thrombosis. Later, polymer technology that was used to release drugs gradually
      improved. BASKET-PROVE II trial compared biodegradable polymer (BP) DES (Nobori, Terumo) with
      durable polymer DES (Xience Prime, Abbott Vascular) and bare metal stent (ProKinetik,
      Biotronik) for the safety and efficacy in 2-year follow-up. BP-DES showed 7.6% of event rates
      in composite endpoint including cardiac death, myocardial infarction (MI), clinically
      indicated target-vessel revascularization (TVR) which was non-inferior to DP-DES(6.8%) and
      superior to bare metal stent (12.7%). There were no statistical differences for the event
      rates of stent thrombosis, MI and cardiac death among three groups in 1-year follow-up.
      Biodegradable polymer has begun to emerge and suggested the possibility of shortening the
      duration of DAPT. LEEDERS-FREE trial was designed to confirm the safety and efficacy of
      polymer-free drug-coated stent (Biofreedom, Biosensors International Technologies, Singapore)
      compared to bare metal stent (Gazelle stent, Biosensors International Technologies,
      Singapore) in patients with high bleeding risk. During 390 days, drug coated stent showed
      significant superiority to bare metal stent for the safety composite endpoint (cardiac death,
      MI or stent thrombosis) (9.4% vs. 12.9%, P=0.0005). Clinically-driven target-lesion
      revascularization also showed significant differences between drug-coated stent (5.1%) and
      bare metal stent (9.8%) (P<0.001). This results provided new therapeutic options that DAPT
      duration could be shortened to 1 month in patients with high bleeding risk. The rate of
      cardiovascular events was relatively higher than second generation DES. However, this result
      should be carefully interpreted because the main purpose of LEADERS-FREE trial is to enroll
      high bleeding risk patients who are generally excluded in second generation DES studies.
      Additional studies are needed because there are limited clinical evidences for extending
      these findings of LEADERS-FREE trial to generalized patients who are eligible to PCI.
    
  