
    
      This RCT with two parallel group will be conducted according to the tenets of the Declaration
      of Helsinki, the guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, and the Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials (CONSORT).

      The target population will be patients with Parkinson Disease who attend to the
      Neurorehabilitation Unit (AOUI Verona) and the Unità Operativa Complessa (UOC) Neurology ward
      (AOUI Verona) where they will be assessed for eligibility.

      Who satisfied inclusion and exclusion criteria were randomly allocated in one of two groups,
      the experimental group and control group. Each patient will undergo rehabilitation.

      Before the start of the study authors designed the experimental and the control group
      protocols. Two physiotherapists, one for each group, carried out the rehabilitation
      procedures. Patients of both groups received 10 individual sessions (60 min/session, 2
      sessions/week, five consecutive weeks). Treatments will be performed in the rehabilitative
      gym of the G.B. Rossi University Hospital Neurological Rehabilitation Unit.

      For the statistical analysis, an intention to treat analysis will be used. Descriptive
      statistics included means, standard deviation and graphs. The Shapiro-Wilk test will be used
      to test data distribution. Parametric or non-parametric tests will be used for inferential
      statistics, accordingly. The T-Test for unpaired data (or the Mann-Whitney test) will be used
      for testing between-group differences at T0 and T1. For this purpose, the changes of the
      score (Δ) between T0-T1 will be computed. The T-Test for paired data (or Wilcoxon signed rank
      tests) will be used to compare within-group changes over time. The level of significance was
      set p<0.05. Software statistics SPSS 20.0 (IBM Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS)
      Statistics for Windows, Version 20.0, Armonk, NY, USA).
    
  