
    
      Specific Aim 1: Evaluate systemic immune activation as the etiology of PPCM. We will
      determine a) the degree of immune activation in PPCM and b) the relationship of autoimmunity
      to left ventricular dysfunction and time course of myocardial recovery, in 100 women enrolled
      at 30 centers. Subjects will have blood drawn for assessment of autoantibodies, and cellular
      immune activation at presentation, 2 month and 6 month postpartum, and will have assessment
      of LVEF by transthoracic echo at presentation, 2 months, 6 months and 12 months post partum.
      This aim will explore the hypothesis that more prolonged activation of the cellular and/or
      humoral immune system is associated with greater likelihood of persistent chronic
      cardiomyopathy.

      In addition this aim will determine genetic and clinical predictors of LV recovery, and
      evaluate racial differences in presentation, remodeling and recovery. This study will
      evaluate the echo parameters of dysynchrony, diastolic function, LV size and volumes to
      determine echo predictors of subsequent recovery. In addition racial differences in
      presentation, remodeling and recovery will be investigated.

      Specific Aim 2: Investigate frequency of myocardial injury or inflammation on cardiac MRI and
      the ability of tissue characteristics to predict subsequent recovery of LVEF. Cardiac MRI
      with gadolinium enhancement will be performed in 50 subjects with PPCM from Aim 1 at
      presentation and repeated at 6 months post partum. We will test the hypothesis is that
      subjects with more extensive injury (defined as % myocardium with late gadolinium
      enhancement) will have less recovery at 6 months.

      Specific Aim 3: Establish DNA and serum to facilitate future investigations of the
      pathogenesis of peripartum cardiomyopathy. All subjects enrolled will have DNA, RNA from
      peripheral blood and serum banked at entry. Serum will be repeated at 2 and 6 months post
      partum.
    
  