
    
      RATIONALE:

      From previous studies and implementation experiences, we know that consumption of ACTs
      increases as the price declines. Declining prices of ACTs create a trade-off between access
      and targeting; lower prices improve uptake of effective therapies by those with malaria but
      also increase inappropriate use by those without malaria. Curbing inappropriate use and
      targeting ACTs to malaria cases requires parasitological diagnosis which is virtually absent
      in the retail sector. It has also been shown that RDTs can be safely deployed in the retail
      sector. Most clients will agree to have an RDT if it is free. However, uptake of RDTs is
      sensitive to the price of the RDT. Previous work has not specifically evaluated the
      relationship between the price of the drug and the price of the test, but available evidence
      suggests that uptake of the RDT is sensitive to the price of the ACT as well.

      In this work, we will link these two commodities through a diagnosis-dependent ACT subsidy.
      Access to the additional ACT subsidy depends on having a positive RDT. What we need to
      understand before scaling up a conditional subsidy is how the price of these two commodities
      should be related. Should the conditionally-subsidized ACT be less expensive than the RDT?
      Must the RDT be considerably less expensive than the retail price of ACT in order to motivate
      people to purchase a test?

      OBJECTIVES:

      In this study (Aim 1) we will use an individually-randomized experiment conducted among
      customers at medicine retail outlets to identify the combination of RDT subsidy-level and
      conditional ACT subsidy-level that maximizes uptake of diagnostic testing. We choose to focus
      on diagnostic testing because this is the first step to achieving the downstream goals of ACT
      targeting and rational use.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      We will use a factorial design to test two ACT subsidy levels and two RDT subsidy levels. The
      unit of randomization will be the individual customer.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      This study will be carried out in a sample of retail shops that carry quality-assured ACTs in
      our study area in western Kenya. Ten shops will be randomly selected to participate in the
      study. The study population will be any individual presenting to the shop with a malaria-like
      illness. Children older than 1 year of age are eligible to be enrolled provided they are
      physically present and accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. Customers with a
      prescription from a health facility, who have already received a malaria diagnostic test or
      who have already taken antimalarials prior to coming to the outlet will be excluded.
      Individuals who have signs of severe disease will be excluded and referred immediately to a
      health facility for care.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      A research assistant (RA) will be stationed at participating outlets on random days in order
      to avoid influencing treatment seeking behavior - in other words, to avoid attracting
      customers because of the study team's presence. The RA will obtain consent and offer
      participants a scratch card with a secret subsidy offer that will be revealed after the
      participant is enrolled. Using the scratch card, the participants will be randomized, in a
      1:1:1:1 ratio, to one of four study arms: 1) No subsidy for RDT (price to consumer=$0.40);
      100% ACT subsidy (price to consumer=0) // 2) No subsidy for RDT (price to consumer=$0.40);
      67% ACT subsidy (price to consumer=$0.40) // 3) 50% subsidy for RDT (price to
      consumer=$0.20); 100% ACT subsidy (price to consumer=0) // 4) 50% subsidy for RDT (price to
      consumer=$0.20); 67% ACT subsidy (price to consumer=$0.10-$0.40, dependent on patient age).

      These four arms represent a 2x2 factorial experiment.

      If the participant chooses to purchase a test at their assigned price (subsidy level), the
      outlet will collect the money and the RA will perform the test. (RAs have been trained in
      RDTs and blood safety and have conducted thousands of RDTs. If the test is positive, the
      participant is entitled to an additional discount on their ACT purchase according to their
      group identified on the scratch card. If the test is negative, the participant may purchase
      any medicine they choose, including a regularly-priced ACT. Those who opt not to purchase an
      RDT may continue with their transaction as they choose, including purchasing a
      regularly-priced ACT.

      The outlet attendant will sell the medicines to the customer, including a discounted ACT, if
      eligible. The study team will reimburse the outlet the difference between the retail price
      and the discounted price.

      The RDTs selected for the study will be a World Health Organization (WHO) approved product
      that exceed 95% sensitivity and 95% specificity for Plasmodium falciparum [Malaria Rapid
      Diagnostic Test Performance, Round 1-5, WHO 2014].

      STUDY OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome for Aim 1 is the customer's decision to purchase an RDT (yes/no). Using
      the 2x2 factorial design we will separately evaluate the effect of RDT price (2 levels) and
      of conditional ACT subsidies (2 levels) on the primary outcome.

      The main secondary outcome is the proportion of tested participants who are adherent to the
      test result among those tested. Adherence is defined as taking a quality-assured ACT if the
      RDT is positive or taking another drug (or no drug) if the test is negative. We will also
      measure the proportion of people who purchase a full-price ACT among those who do not use an
      RDT.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      We estimated the sample size required in each of the four study arms for a design with equal
      numbers of individuals allocated to each arm and where we wish to detect a 15-percentage
      point increase in RDT testing between an unsubsidized RDT compared to a subsidized RDT and to
      detect a 10 percentage-point difference in testing uptake between a partially and a fully
      subsidized ACT (conditional on a positive RDT) with at least 90% power and 5% chance of a
      two-tailed Type I error for each of the two comparisons. To do so, we estimate that we will
      need 210 subjects per arm (total=840).

      ENROLLMENT AND FOLLOW UP:

      All participants will be screened and enrolled on the day they visit the outlet. Data
      collection will be brief and will be completed on the same day. Participants will be screened
      as they arrive, enrolled if eligible and willing, tested if they choose and then allowed to
      proceed with their transaction at the outlet. Upon completion, they will be briefly
      interviewed again before leaving. Because the interaction with the participant is short and
      completed in one encounter, we expect minimal loss to follow-up (for example, participants
      leaving before the final questions).
    
  