
    
      Swallowing is one of the main functions in which oral, pharyngeal and laryngeal functions
      cooperate. Tumors in this area, as well as their treatments, can seriously impair the
      swallowing function, inducing dysphagia, a common complication still badly diagnosed.
      However, its impact is constant and always negative on the nutritional status, the treatment
      feasibility and the patients' quality of life.

      Many teams have tried to determine assessment tools, prevalence and dysphagia treatment
      strategies. Thus, recently, in 2014, Kraaijenga et al. made a systematic review of the
      literature on these topics. Only 19 studies had been selected on the two previous years. Out
      of them, 7 were also literature reviews, including Raber-Durlacher's paper listing all
      dysphagia publications from 1990 to 2010. In the other 12 selected studies, 9 were
      prospective ones but with either a small number of patients or a specific treatment focused
      (e.g. Intensity Modulation Radiation Therapy, radiochemotherapy). For the dysphagia
      assessment, Kraaijenga et al. concluded that there is a need for simple self-evaluation
      scales compared to professional evaluation ones. The recording of some global indicators of
      functional status such as weight, dietary changes, nutritional tube dependence, is also
      advised. They concluded that patient-reported measures were commonly applied and provided
      complementary perspectives.

      More recently, in 2015, Schlinder et al. reported a consensus proposition on the management
      of swallowing difficulties in head and neck patients treated by radiotherapy, that was
      discussed in the 2013 Milan congress. Six clusters of statements about these difficulties
      were reached related to: 1 and 2/ the assessment scales: one patient-reported -the MD
      Anderson Dysphagia Inventory- and one operator-reported outcome scales -NCI CTCAE criteria;
      3/ the risk factors: research of signs and symptoms of dysphagia consequences e.g.
      aspiration; 4/ a preventive swallowing dysfunction evaluation (nutritionist and deglutologist
      evaluation); 5/ radiotherapic precautions; 6/ Preventive and therapeutic swallowing
      exercises.

      The aim of the present prospective study was to assess dysphagia (occurrence, severity,
      length) in head and neck cancer (HNC), from diagnosis to 18 months after their first line
      treatment regardless of the treatment. The investigators have complied with the pre-listed
      clusters.

      For this purpose, pursuant to consensus on the dysphagia assessment, the investigators used
      the Deglutition Handicap Index (DHI) questionnaire (Silbergleit 2012) for dysphagia screening
      and patient's self-perception. This was the only questionnaire validated in French evaluating
      the swallowing function by the patient.

      Clinical evaluation according to NCI-CTCAE v4.0 criteria and objective measures of swallowing
      function were also recorded and compared to DHI results.
    
  