
    
      Evidence has shown that trunk performance is related to measures of balance, gait and
      functional ability. Yet, several aspects of trunk performance such as sitting balance, trunk
      muscle strength, selective trunk movements and trunk position sense are impaired after
      stroke. This implies that impaired trunk performance will inevitably lead to impaired
      postural control during activities performed while standing and walking. Nonetheless, the
      interaction between increased trunk performance and improvements in activities performed
      while standing and walking is not evident. It has previously been stated that therapy
      primarily induces treatment effects on the abilities at which training is specifically aimed.
      However, previous research has shown that additional trunk exercises improve not only trunk
      performance but also standing balance and mobility. Yet, the clinical outcome measures used
      in previous studies are not suitable to explore the relationship between trunk and gait
      performance and cannot explain the underlying mechanisms of the therapeutic effects. Since
      studies using sensitive motion analyses to investigate trunk biomechanics during gait are
      sparse in both healthy subjects and subjects with stroke. Data will be gathered by a Vicon
      analysis system (©Vicon Motion Systems Ltd., London, UK) with a measuring frequency of 100 Hz
      and eight infrared automated cameras (Vicon T10 cameras, 100 fps, 1 Megapixel) measured the
      3D coordinates of the reflective markers. In addition, initial contact and toe off were
      defined based on the ankle trajectories of the reflective markers together with 3 AMTI type
      OR 6-7 force plates (1000 fps, 46x50x8 cm) and 1 AccuGait® (1000 fps) force plate recordings.
      Reflective motion trackers were attached to anatomical landmarks on the participant's body
      according to the standard Plug-In-Gait model. Furthermore, a 16 channel telemetric wireless
      EMG system (Arion Zerowire) will measure muscle activity.
    
  