
    
      Diagnosis of, and living with a life-threatening illness can result in symptoms similar to
      those seen in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), and these symptoms may persist even if
      the individual recovers, or their illness goes into remission. These symptoms may include
      emotional avoidance and numbing, difficulty relating to or connecting with friends or loved
      ones, difficulty sleeping, a sense of foreshortened future, and intrusive thoughts or
      memories related to the illness. These symptoms are an additional burden for the individual
      experiencing them and for their caretakers, and reduces quality of life.

      Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy is an experimental treatment for
      anxiety disorders, and initial findings suggest that it holds promise for treatment of PTSD.
      This study will examine brain activity in participants enrolled in an investigation of the
      safety and efficacy of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in people with anxiety stemming from
      diagnosis with a life-threatening illness to see whether MDMA-assisted psychotherapy alters
      emotional reactivity to anxiety-provoking material, including positive and negative images.
      The study will also examine brain activity related to the experience of
      self-compassion/empathy in response to personalized audio scripts, and whether that response
      is altered by MDMA-assisted psychotherapy. Brain imaging may offer a measure of neural
      markers of anxiety and self-compassion that do not rely on self-report.

      A subset of participants in the study "Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Phase 2
      Pilot Study of MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy for Anxiety Associated with a Life-Threatening
      Illness" (NCT02427568) without any contraindicating factors for brain imaging will undergo
      three fMRI scans as part of this observational study. The first scan will occur prior to
      experimental sessions and a second scan will occur after two experimental sessions of MDMA or
      placebo-assisted psychotherapy. Participants will then be scanned a third time after they
      have completed a total of three sessions of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy (this includes both
      subjects that are originally in the MDMA-assisted psychotherapy group, as well as the
      subjects in the placebo group who will cross over and complete three active MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy sessions subsequent to their placebo-assisted psychotherapy. The primary
      endpoint will be the scan after the second session of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy.

      During each scanning session, participants will be undergoing brain scans with functional
      magnetic imaging (fMRI) while they perform an emotional regulation task that involves
      observing images possessing negative emotional valence. These images are drawn from, and have
      their emotional valence validated by, the International Affective Picture System (IAPS).
      Participants are instructed either to view passively or attempt to reduce the negative affect
      associated with the images. In addition, resting state brain scans will also be acquired
      while subjects fixate on a central cross with no explicit task. Heart rate variability will
      be measured during these resting state scans. The comparison of changes in brain activity
      during execution of the emotional regulation task (as compared to baseline scans) after
      receiving psychotherapy with MDMA or placebo, as well as comparison of changes in resting
      state functional connectivity, are the primary outcome measures. Study observations are
      intended to assess changes in response to emotion-provoking material at several levels, most
      notably brain activity in response to anxiety producing images.

      While in the scanner, subjects will also listen to prerecorded audio scripts about life
      stresses for themselves and for another person with instructions to practice compassion for
      themselves or for others. In yet another task, subjects will perform an attentional bias task
      where they respond to a dot-probe that appears following a brief presentation of paired
      images known to produce positive and negative emotions as their brain activity is measured
      and their reaction times are recorded
    
  