
    
      The study will compare performance to typical values obtained with commercially available
      dialyzers used for high flux hemodialysis and comparing the Clearum HS dialyzer to the
      baseline values of a control FX80 Dialyzer.

      The duration of the trial is 2 weeks for the FX80 control dialyzer + 6 weeks with the Clearum
      HS dialyzer used for 3x weekly high flux hemodialysis.

      The sampling, reported in Table 1 below, will be done at mid-week sessions (pre and post
      session sampling) and consists of a blood draw for baseline dialysis with the FX80 weeks 1
      and 2, or Clearum HS dialyzer at weeks 3, 5 and 8 for uremic toxins: urea, creatinine,
      phosphate, B2-microglobulin, albumin, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, platelets and
      leucocytes, and platelets. In addition, a presession sample will be taken for coagulation
      parameter TAT, hematocrit and inflammatory markers IL6 and C reactive protein at baseline for
      FX80 at mid-week sessions during weeks 1 and 2 and during weeks 3, 5 and 8 for the Clearum HS
      dialyzer.

      Instantaneous B2M clearance sampling will be done at week 7 during the Clearum HS dialyzer
      phase and consists of a blood sample prior to the dialyzer and immediately after the dialyzer
      at two time points, 15-30 min and at 120-150 min, respectively.

      Blood rest will be done by comparing the dialyzer to a set of 5 illustrations and giving a
      score of 1 (worst) to 5 (best) that best correlates the dialyzer with the illustration, at
      the end of the dialysis session after blood has been returned to the patients (both FX80 and
      Clearum HS) on the sampling days.

      The patients will be treated for 2 weeks with a standard dialyzer (FX80) and an additional 6
      weeks with the Clearum HS dialyzer (experimental period). Both hemodialyzers will be used for
      3 times a week. Expected duration for the study including enrolment will be 3 months.

      The study duration will be approximately 3-4 months. Each patient will receive 6 hemodialysis
      sessions with FX80 and 18 sessions with Clearum HS hemodialyzer, and the treatment time will
      be between 3.5 and 4.5 hours
    
  