
    
      This study involved participants including Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and its
      subtypes、Sporadic Alzheimer's disease (SAD)、 Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)、Vascular
      dementia (VaD)、Normal control in community population and hospital population. Research
      contents are as follow:

        1. Through the collection of basic demographic information and clinical data from the
           multi-center cohort, we will calculate the prevalence and incidence rate of AD, VaD,
           other dementia (mixed dementia, FTD, DLB, PDD, alcohol dementia, hydrocephalus dementia,
           post-traumatic dementia, etc.), and update the numbers every 1-2 years.

        2. To clarify the conversion pattern from normal elderly to MCI and from MCI to dementia.
           Through the collection and analysis of current medical history, past history, family
           history, living habits, drug use, physical examination and other information, we will
           explore the protective and risk factors of dementia and its main subtypes (AD, VaD,
           Other dementia), including age, gender, education level, rural/urban, marital status,
           parental dementia history, dietary habbit, blood pressure, drinking, smoking, diabetes,
           hyperlipidemia, cerebrovascular disease, heart disease, depression, hearing impairment,
           exercise habits (Tai chi, etc.), dementia specialist influence on patients, occupation,
           BMI, lifestyle changes, air pollution, head injury , social contact, low-income, and
           other unknown protective or risk factors. To investigate the role of ApoE gene,
           especially ApoEε4 in the disease onset and development, and to explore the
           non-pharmacological interventions For the study purpose we do follow-up every 2or 3
           years.

        3. By using exome sequencing, GWAS, WGS and other methods, we will search for new mutations
           of known pathogenic genes (APP, PSEN1, PSEN2) of AD in China, find new pathogenic genes
           and susceptible genes of dementia and its main subtypes (AD and VaD), and understand
           their distribution. We will explore the independent and combined effect of
           susceptibility gene variation on the risk of illness in Chinese AD population, and to
           obtain the key mutation sites that have a clear relationship with the incidence of AD.
           We will do regular follow up visits for the FAD members with new mutations of pathogenic
           genes, and clarify the important role of new mutations of pathogenic genes during the
           onset and progression of AD.

        4. We will collect the biofluids (blood, cerebrospinal fluid, urine, etc.) and 18F-FDG /
           11C-PIB PET/MR multimodal imaging data from people with normal cognition, MCI, AD
           (sporadic and familial) and VaD, and conduct regular follow up. Discover and verify the
           SAD related susceptible gene and FAD related pathogenic gene mutation. Through analyzing
           the imaging data (such as MRI brain regional volume, 18F-FDG PET and cortical Aβ load),
           cerebrospinal fluid and plasma markers (such as Aβ, T-tau and P-tau) and clinical
           features (such as psychiatric symptoms and age of onset), we will develop gene chip with
           high sensitivity and high specificity for early screening of dementia; develop
           diagnostic kits for biofluid markers (blood and cerebrospinal fluid); determine imaging
           cut-off values at all stages of dementia in Chinese people. We will do correlation
           analysis to establish early diagnosis and risk prediction model for dementia, and verify
           the newly developed instruments that can detect the peripheral markers of dementia
           patients and predict the disease progression in national large sample.

        5. Through the unified and standardized neuropsychological scales, including MMSE, MoCA,
           CDR, NPI, ADL, etc, we will conduct investigation to subjects in baseline and follow-up
           period, and analyze the changes of cognitive function, ability of daily life and mental
           behavior symptoms in different cognitive disorders. According to the social, cultural
           and material changes in China in recent years, we will develop psychological assessment
           scales with high sensitivity and specificity, and in line with the characteristics of
           Chinese people. Meanwhile, on the basis of the international diagnostic standards of
           various subtypes of dementia, combined with the etiology, clinical manifestations, scale
           classification, imaging characteristics, biofluid examination, etc., we will study the
           novel typing method and diagnostic standards of cognitive normal, MCI, dementia and its
           subtypes (clinical and molecular subtypes) in Chinese population.

        6. Through designing randomized controlled trials, we will study the systematic and
           effective NPT intervention program, including lifestyle (diet and sleep habits, smoking,
           drinking and social networking), health products, exercise habits, cognitive training,
           risk factor control, etc. We will explore the quantitative and objective evaluation
           criteria of NPT in AD and dementia, clarify its prevention and control efficacy on APOE
           ε4 carriers, MCI and dementia patients, and potential neurobiological mechanism. At the
           same time, we will carry out dementia related education in the community, improve the
           public knowledge, attention and awareness of dementia, so that patients can get early
           detection, early diagnosis and early intervention.

        7. To explore the relationship between dementia as well as its major subtype AD and
           cerebral circulatory disorders (cerebral ischemic and hemorrhage diseases, cerebral
           arteriosclerosis and stenosis, cerebral venous diseases, etc.), especially clarify the
           relationship between chronic cerebral ischemia and AD, as well as its effect on AD
           onset, and whether or not it's risk factor for AD. Whether the therapeutic strategies
           for cerebral circulatory disorders should be included in the treatment of AD.
    
  