
    
      Purpose:

      Primary aim:

      Three dimensional volumetric assessment of the changes in orbital soft tissues in patient
      with post-enucleation socket syndrome, using the new 16-slice multi-detector computed
      tomography scanner.

      Background:

      Post-enucleation socket syndrome (PESS - enophthalmos, superior sulcus deformity, ptosis or
      upper eyelid retraction and lower eyelid laxity1) is a well recognized late complication of
      enucleation surgery. The underlying pathophysiology, however, has not been well established.
      It is especially prominent when there is inadequate orbital volume replacement or contraction
      of the socket.2

      Superior sulcus deformity (Fig.1) manifests as a deep groove or space between the upper
      eyelid and the superior orbital rim. In a review by Smerdon and Sutton, it was the only
      significant factor related to poor cosmetic satisfaction.3 It was suggested that the loss of
      orbital volume and relaxation of tissues were the causes.4

      With the advance in orbital implant development, most patients received implant replacement
      during their enucleation surgery or shortly afterward to improve the cosmetic outcome. A
      survey among members of the American Society of Ophthalmic Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
      reported a total of 2,779 primary orbital implant being performed in a year.5

      An ideal orbital implant replaces 70-80% of the volume enucleated (~5ml, i.e. implant size
      20-22mm), while the ocular prosthesis fills the rest (~2ml). But the predictions of implant
      size have been relatively subjective and inaccurate. They are influenced by factors like
      phthisis, configuration of the orbit, placement of the extraocular muscles, shape of the
      implant, the use of implant warps and the orbital fat volume.6 In a retrospective study by
      Kaltreider et al, 76% of the patients would benefit from a larger implant and 63% would need
      an implant size larger than 22mm.7 On the contrary, in a prospective study by Custer and
      Trinkaus, no implant of larger than 22mm was needed.8 However in both studies, patients with
      less volumetric replacement showed significantly more severe enophthalmos and superior sulcus
      deformity.

      Different surgical procedures, mostly by secondary volume augmentation 9-19, have been
      suggested to treat superior sulcus deformity and PESS. They can be categorized into
      subperiosteal implants on the orbital floor or eyelid implants.20 Besides filling up the
      orbital volume, subperiosteal implants produce upward and forward displacement of orbital
      content to correct the superior sulcus deformity. Cosmetic improvement with the eyelid
      implants or filler material is achieved by adding bulk to the hollowed area below the brow
      and above the upper eyelid crease directly. In spite of these, information on accurate
      pre-operative volumetric assessment of the anophthalmic sockets remained inadequate,
      resulting in occasional revision of the volume augmented.21

      Conventional imaging studies have been used for various oculoplastic conditions for more than
      two decades. In studying orbital anatomy and pathology, Nugent RA et al has demonstrated
      changes in the extraocular muscle (diameter & volume) in patients with Graves' orbitopathy
      with the second generation CT scanner and found to correlate well with the clinical
      findings22. In the area of anophthalmic sockets, both computed tomography (CT) and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) have contributed to the understanding of the condition. With the use
      of high resolution CT, Smith et al had demonstrated deepening of the superior sulcus, sagging
      & retraction of the superior muscle complex, distal elevation & retraction of the inferior
      rectus and downward & forward redistribution of the orbital fat in 22 anophthalmic sockets
      without orbital implant insertion. They had further suggested a rotatory displacement of
      orbital content from superior to posterior and from posterior to inferior.23 In anophthalmic
      sockets with orbital implant, Detorakis's group had used 2mm cut MRI scan to demonstrate
      statistically insignificant decrease in rectus muscles volume and no change in orbital fat
      volume in 5 patients with enucleation surgery.24 Despite the information obtained, there were
      multiple drawbacks: poor image quality for detailed volumetric assessment, increased
      radiation exposure with separate scanning in axial and coronal planes, contra-indicated in
      patient with metallic foreign body injury, and long exposure time with possible motion
      artifact,25 and neither of the investigations have been translated into pre-operative
      volumetric assessment for surgical planning.

      Multi-detector CT (MDCT) is the newest advance in CT technology. It provides unparalleled
      capabilities for detailed analysis of normal anatomy and pathology. MDCT allows very high
      resolution sub-millimeter image acquisition, and potentially true isotropic datasets, which
      is important in the production of good quality images on multi-planar reformation and
      volumetric assessment. In the study of anophthalmic sockets and PESS, high quality three
      dimensional reconstruction images mean accurate analysis of orbital soft tissue without the
      need of additional CT acquisition in a different plane. In a study comparing radiation
      exposure between MDCT and conventional CT in the imaging of para-nasal sinus, Zammit-Maempel
      et al have demonstrated an 84% reduction in radiation exposure with MDCT, the radiation dose
      of 9mGy was 54 times less than the threshold dose of 0.5-2Gy for detectable lens opacities26.
      Moreover, since the required coverage is less in the imaging of anophthalmic sockets, we can
      expect an even smaller and safer dose of radiation exposure. Last but not least, the 16-slice
      MDCT scanner is faster than conventional scanner, it can shorten the examination time and
      minimize motion artifact.

      Despite all the published data, the patho-physiology of PESS remained unclear and the
      management of it is far from satisfactory. We are planning to answer some of the questions
      with anophthalmic sockets in 3 stages:

        1. Anatomical and radiological analysis

             1. With this pilot study we are trying to identify the volumetric changes and the
                changes in anatomical relationship of the orbital soft tissue in anophthalmic
                sockets by comparing with contra-lateral eyes.

             2. Although MRI provide superior soft tissue contrast, CT still provides better detail
                of the eye, orbital soft tissue and bony orbit which is important for pre-operative
                surgical planning of secondary sub-periosteal orbital implant27.

        2. Bioengineering and animal study (with the information obtained in part 1)

             1. We will assess the usefulness of MDCT in i. correct sizing of primary orbital
                implant in preventing PESS; and ii. correct sizing and effective placement of
                secondary orbital implant in restoring both the volumetric and positional changes
                in PESS.

             2. In addition, with the use of VGStudio MAX software, we may be able to offer
                customized secondary orbital implant for optimal correction of PESS.

        3. Clinical trials
    
  