
    
      It is well established in the peer-reviewed literature that elective keratorefractive surgery
      is contraindicated in individuals with granular corneal dystrophy type 2 (GCD2).1,2,3,4
      Although all reported cases of exacerbation of dystrophic stromal deposits have been in
      individuals with GCD2, it may be assumed that a similar accelerated deposition would occur in
      individuals with any of the TGFBI dystrophies, and thus elective keratorefractive surgery
      should be avoided in any individual with a TGFBI dystrophy. The commercially available
      Avellino Refractive Surgery Safety Test (Avellino Universal Test) offers an accurate, rapid
      and affordable way to screen for five corneal dystrophies associated with mutations in the
      TGFBI gene prior to keratorefractive surgery. These dystrophies are granular dystrophy type 1
      (GCD1), GCD2, lattice corneal dystrophy type 1 (LCD1), Reis-Buckler corneal dystrophy, and
      Thiel- Behnke corneal dystrophy.

      This is a multicenter, cross-sectional, observational study of the prevalence of TGFBI
      corneal dystrophies in a North American population. Patients presenting to the clinical site
      for an ocular examination with a refractive complaint (non-medical complaint) or for
      refractive surgery consultation will be asked to participate in this study. Prior to the
      collection of any study data, Informed Consent will be obtained.

      A a serial number / bar code controlled case report form (CRF) single nucleotide variants
      implicated in the pathogenesis of the TGFBI corneal dystrophies. The CRF will be used to
      collect demographic information from the patient. Slit lamp examination of the corneas will
      be performed, and the presence or absence of corneal opacities, whether characteristic or not
      of a TGFBI dystrophy, will be documented on the CRF form.

      Once all data has been collected, descriptive statistics will be computed to identify the
      prevalence of each of the TGFBI corneal dystrophies as defined by the genotype. Demographic
      data will be compared between unaffected individuals and those identified to have a coding
      region mutation associated with one of the five aforementioned TGFBI corneal dystrophies.
    
  