
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Complete response (CR) rate and overall response rate (ORR) for patients with relapsed
      aggressive high-risk non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) treated with brentuximab vedotin,
      bendamustine and rituximab (S-BR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate 2-year progression-free survival (PFS). II. To evaluate rate of positron
      emission tomography (PET)-CR and correlation to 2 year PFS.

      III. To evaluate the toxicity of six cycles of S-BR. IV. To evaluate mobilization, stem cell
      collection, engraftment in patients that proceed to salvage autologous stem cell transplant
      (ASCT).

      SCIENTIFIC OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate percentage of tumor cells that are positive or negative for cluster of
      differentiation (CD)30 by immunohistochemistry (IHC), the subcellular location of CD30
      (membrane or cytoplasmic only with absence of membrane expression), intensity of scoring, and
      correlating with clinical outcomes.

      II. To evaluate gene expression profiling (GEP) by Nanostring Technology and comparing
      expression levels of target genes in CD30 membrane positive, CD30 cytoplasmic only positive
      or CD30 negative tumor cells.

      III. To evaluate correlation between mutations identified through next generation sequencing
      (NGS) including ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing of the tumor transcriptome, and correlating
      to GEP and CD30 IHC, and correlating to clinical outcomes.

      IV. To evaluate the levels of soluble CD30 at baseline and in response to treatment.

      SCHEDULE:

      Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1,
      bendamustine IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-2, and rituximab IV on day 2. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  