
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      One hundred seventy-five consecutive patients referred for continuous ambulatory
      electrocardiographic (Holter) monitoring because of palpitations were studied. The
      investigators assessed cardiac symptoms, psychiatric diagnosis, life stress, beliefs about
      heart disease, somatization, and bodily absorption and amplification. Cardiac awareness,
      cardiac symptoms and cardiac activity were assessed during Holter monitoring and exercise
      tolerance testing (ETT). The referring physicians completed instruments rating their
      diagnostic impressions and clinical interventions. The patients' clinical course was then
      followed over the ensuing 12 months with telephone interviews and in-person assessments.
      These data permitted description and distinguished three subgroups of palpitation patients:
      those with panic disorder, in whom the symptom resulted from sympathetic nervous system
      arousal; those who were somatizing after a life event caused them to suspect that they had
      heart disease, in whom the palpitation resulted from a cognitive misattribution of benign
      bodily sensation; and those with clinically significant arrhythmias, whose symptoms resulted
      from a major cardiac irregularity. These findings were used to develop a clinical algorithm
      to aid in the differential diagnosis of palpitations and in identifying the patients most
      appropriate for Holter monitoring.

      The patients' longitudinal course was followed to determine the predictors of continued
      somatization and chronicity, and to study their medical care by examining the referring
      physicians' diagnostic impressions and interventions. By comparing cardiac symptoms with
      concurrent cardiac activity during Holter monitoring and ETT, the investigators hoped to
      develop measures of cardiac awareness. They would then be able to describe inter-individual
      differences in cardiac awareness, examine several psychological factors which amplify or
      modulate awareness, and investigate the relationship between somatization and accuracy of
      symptom reporting. It was hoped that the findings would ultimately lead to improved cognitive
      and educational techniques to reassure and palliate palpitation patients, and to the early
      identification of patients who were unlikely to obtain symptomatic relief from antiarrhythmic
      therapy.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  