
    
      Approximately 35 % of Americans sleep ≤6h per night, an amount that has been deemed
      sub-optimal by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine and Sleep Research Society, the
      National Sleep Foundation, American Thoracic Society, and the American Heart Association.
      These consensus statements echo findings from many reviews on this topic. This is alarming,
      given epidemiologic and experimental research showing that reduced sleep time is associated
      with a variety of negative health outcomes including obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular
      disease, and mortality. As such, short sleep represents an unmet public health problem. There
      are, however, no empirically supported interventions for insufficient sleep. The proposed
      study addresses this critical gap by evaluating the efficacy of a novel intervention that is
      theoretically grounded, feasible, and has positive impacts on sleep duration.

      Previous studies have associated habitual short sleep duration with important adverse
      cardiometabolic outcomes, including weight gain, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
      stress, etc. They suggest that those that report short sleep may be more likely to experience
      functional impairments and are less likely to engage in behaviors consistent with a healthy
      lifestyle. A proposed mechanism of these relationships is that insufficient sleep duration
      triggers metabolic disturbances and increased immune response resulting in appetite
      dysregulation, adverse cardiovascular outcomes, and resultant disease states. In addition to
      cardiometabolic effects, behavioral and functional consequences of short sleep have been
      well-documented. For example, short sleepers are more likely to exhibit difficulties
      initiating and/or maintaining sleep daytime sleepiness drowsy driving, and other impairments
      as a result of sleep loss. Laboratory studies have extensively documented neurocognitive and
      behavioral effects of sleep loss, including increased objective sleepiness, impaired
      vigilance using computer-based psychomotor assessments, and deficits in working memory,
      decision-making, and executive function, as assessed using standardized neuropsychologic and
      neuroimaging techniques.

      Most, if not all, sleep disorders have targeted interventions. Interventions have not been
      developed or evaluated for insufficient sleep. An effective and disseminable intervention for
      insufficient sleep will likely differ from those of sleep disorders- rather than an
      in-clinic, visit-based, medication/device/procedure-focused, non-tailored approach, a
      successful approach for insufficient sleep will likely be out-of-clinic,
      population/community-based, lifestyle-focused, and individually-tailored. The problem of
      insufficient sleep is less like other sleep disorders and more like other health behaviors,
      such as smoking, poor diet, and lack of physical activity, in that the reasons for
      insufficient sleep involve beliefs and attitudes, home and work demands, and environmental
      constraints.

      With this in mind, a behavioral intervention was developed based on concepts originally
      implemented in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBTI), the most well-supported
      treatment approach for insomnia. Although CBTI does not routinely increase sleep duration, it
      has sleep efficiency as its primary endpoint and employs concepts that can potentially be
      used to increase sleep time while maintaining high levels of sleep efficiency. The
      intervention originally developed included algorithms that recognize the natural "ebb and
      flow" of sleep ability within an individual seek to use an individual's own sleep data to
      predict (1) when is an optimal time to make a change to sleep, and (2) what sort of
      incremental change should be made with the eventual goal of increasing sleep efficiency and
      duration.

      Different people may need different amounts of sleep. And some people may not be able to make
      large changes to their sleep schedule all at once. Many individuals have situational
      constraints that change over time. The intervention in the proposed study is by design
      self-correcting, individually-tailored, and not dependent on unknown individual sleep needs.
      It can adapt to any schedule and situation and can adapt to changes in a person's sleep
      schedule.

      This sleep extension intervention specifically uses a novel approach, where individualized
      feedback will be provided to each participant, based on information provided by the wearable
      devices and the sleep diary. The goal is recognizing the optimal time to make a change to
      sleep patterns and deciding what kind of change should be made.
    
  