
    
      Preventable errors in healthcare are a leading cause of patient injury and death. Despite
      extensive effort and the expenditure of billions of dollars, computerization has failed to
      solve this problem. Research has shown that software design and debugging of a paper
      prescription markedly decreases the rate of injury and death associated with use of opioids
      in hospitalized patients. To further the application of insights from software engineering to
      the practice of medicine, the PIs will design and build a Patient-Oriented Prescription
      Programming Language (POP-PL) and evaluate if this new platform can be used to improve
      medical management of patients. The design of POP-PL will be based on building an
      understanding of the process of medical treatment of patients. This project is a
      collaboration between computer scientists and clinicians at Northwestern Medicine. The
      collaborating clinicians are co-investigators on this research project and also are providing
      healthcare to the patients that are being observed. The computer scientists and other
      research staff have undergone human subjects research training and are co-investigators on
      this research project as well. The clinician-investigators will oversee research project
      staff during all observations of patients, clinical encounters between healthcare providers
      and patients, and interactions between healthcare providers and healthcare information
      systems. Researchers involved in this study will observe interactions between health care
      providers and patients and will collate these observations with data from electronic data
      sources. Since this research is based mainly upon observation and chart review and will not
      involve any interventions or changes to patient care, the risk to study participants is
      minimal, involving inadvertent disclosure of healthcare information. This risk will be
      mitigated by anonymizing collected data.
    
  