
    
      Assignment of intervention:

      Allocation sequence generation: The participants will be randomly allocated to either a EG or
      a NMESsham. The randomization process will be generated by an independent research assistant
      who is not involved in the treatment or data collection using online randomization website
      (https://www.graphpad.com/quickcalcs/randomize1.cfm).

      Allocation concealment: All randomized allocations of participants will be placed in a sealed
      envelope for each participant. A research assistant will prepare envelopes and withholds
      information from assessors and participants. After completing the baseline assessment, a
      research assistant will inform the training therapist who is not involved in the study about
      the patients' allocation.

      Blinding: In this double-blind study, the assessors and patients will be blinded to groups'
      allocation. Assessors will be banned from attending interventional sessions for both groups,
      and participant's allocation will be managed in schedules to minimize contact between
      participants in both groups.

      After the inform consent, participants will complete an intake form or demographic data (age,
      sex, occupation), past medical history, past surgical history and activity level.
      Additionally, they will be screened for inclusion/exclusion criteria. Participants who meet
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be evaluated on the main outcomes prior and post to the
      intervention. The participants will be randomized into 2 groups.

      All participants will receive conventional rehabilitation program (CRP) including warming up,
      strengthening, stretching exercise, gait training for 45 minutes per a day for three times a
      week for four weeks. In addition, EG will receive 30 minutes active NMES and the control
      group will receive 30 minutes NMESSham. The NMES delivered the electrical current through
      electrodes inserted in saline-soaked sponges. The intensity of stimulation will be set within
      the subject's tolerance level. The amplitude was adjusted to produce muscle contraction
      without affecting the patient's comfort. The cathode electrode will be placed over the common
      peroneal nerve as it passes over the head of the fibula and the anode will be placed on
      mid-muscle belly on one third of the line between fibular head and medial malleolus on
      paretic limb. For NMESsham group, electrode sponges will be placed at the same position as
      the active NMES condition; however, the current intensity will gradually decreased after few
      seconds to 0. Therefore, the participant will experience a passage of current on the muscle
      at the beginning but received no current for the rest of the stimulation period. The
      participants will be informed that the stimulation below the sensory level.

      The pre- and post-training assessments will be completed within 3 days before and after the
      training sessions. Assessment data will be obtained by another physical therapist who blind
      to the group assignment.
    
  