
    
      3A. Teen driving Motor vehicle crashes (MVCs) are the leading cause of death for teens in the
      U.S.1 Young people aged 15 to 24 years account for approximately $26 billion of the total
      costs related to motor vehicle injuries each year.2 In the state of Ohio for 2013, this age
      group accounted for over 240 deaths with costs exceeding $200 million for medical expenses
      and lost work time.3,4 Teen drivers aged 16 to 19 years account for much of this morbidity
      and mortality. Teens are at the highest risk of an MVC compared to any other age group5-per
      mile driven, they are three times more likely to be in a fatal MVC than drivers 20 years and
      older.6 Driving an automobile requires a complex set of cognitive, perceptual and motor
      skills that must be utilized in concert for successful and safe driving performance.
      Specifically, it involves the simultaneous control of the lateral and longitudinal position
      of the vehicle in combination with a high amount of visual attention to the roadway, which is
      necessary to inform decisions and resultant driving actions to manage current and future
      driving situations.7-9 Driving also requires timely and efficient responses to a complex
      array of stimuli (e.g., traffic signs and signals), and potential challenges (e.g.,
      pedestrians and other automobiles). Accordingly, the latency of a driver's perceptual-motor
      responses (i.e., reaction times) to these stimuli and challenges may be critically important
      for the avoidance of MVCs.

      Unfortunately, teen drivers are known to drive faster and allow shorter headways than older,
      more experienced drivers10. Even more troubling is that teen drivers are more likely to use
      attention-distracting technologies (e.g., cell phones) while driving11, and are more prone to
      attentional lapses with two or more passengers in the automobile than experienced adults.10
      Thus, given their inattentiveness, teen drivers likely are forced to rely more heavily on
      reaction times and shorter cognitive and perceptual-motor responses to avoid adverse driving
      events than experienced drivers.

      3B. Driving related deficits in patients with mTBI Closed head injuries such as concussion
      are becoming more prevalent in teenage populations: Over a recent 10-year period there was a
      200% increase in sports related emergency room visits for concussion among teens 14 to 19
      years of age.12 Negative sequelae associated with concussion include reduced attention span,
      longer reaction times, impaired cognitive function and deficits in oculomotor
      control13-17-all critically important factors for safe, effective driving performance.
      Moreover, these symptoms tend to linger even after patients are cleared to return to normal
      activities, and in some cases may persist for several months following the initial injury.18
      Very little is known about the severity and duration of perceptual-motor and cognitive
      deficits related to acute concussion (≤ 1 week from initial injury) in pediatric populations,
      although some conclusions can be drawn from research on young adult mTBI populations. For
      example, adults with mTBI exhibit slower reaction times at the time of initial injury and for
      up to 6-weeks post-injury compared to healthy, matched controls13. Moreover, adult patients
      exhibited longer performance times on simple reaction-based response and memory tasks even
      after their physical symptoms resolved and the patients were cleared to resume normal
      activities14. In fact, in that particular study no patient returned to baseline reaction time
      performance on the day clearance was given to return to contact sports (M = 4 days).
      Similarly, a series of studies on high school and collegiate football players demonstrated
      that both groups exhibited greater cognitive impairment, as indexed by the Standardized
      Assessment of Concussion (SAC) test for the evaluation of neurocognitive functioning, in the
      first several days after initial injury.15,19 Specifically, both age groups exhibited below
      pre-injury baseline performance in orientation, concentration and memory for up to 48 hours
      after the initial injury; however, cognitive processing was found to have resolved 7 days
      post-injury for collegiate athletes.15 Disruptions to the neurological networks associated
      with oculomotor control impair visual task performance in patients with mTBI as well20. For
      example, adults with mTBI exhibited impaired eye movements17,20 which were manifested as
      longer, more frequent self-paced saccades and slower reflexive saccades. These impairments
      gave rise to lower visuospatial accuracy as well as decreased smooth pursuit tracking
      performance.17,20 Other work has demonstrated that the variability of saccades during working
      memory tasks correlates with white matter integrity in the brains of patients with mTBI, and
      indicates that oculomotor behavior may be linked to the degree of diffuse axonal injury in
      these patients.21-23 Similar oculomotor deficits have been observed in children (6-16 years
      of age) with acquired brain injury.24 Those deficits were shown to constrain their ability to
      process high frequency sensory information, making it difficult for the children to utilize
      anticipation strategies and feedback. Taken in combination, this evolving oculomotor symptom
      profile may be emblematic of problems these patients have participating in activities of
      daily living, including driving, and the symptoms that arise (e.g., nausea, dizziness,
      fatigue) due to participation in such activities.

      3C. The profile of driving performance for patients with mTBI is incomplete At present, there
      is no data on if or when it is safe to allow acutely concussed teenagers to drive. This is a
      critical gap in the literature. Acute concussion symptoms have the potential to greatly
      exacerbate the already high-risk driving behaviors exhibited by healthy teenagers. Further,
      in the absence of return-to-drive criteria, physicians are forced to decide whether a teen is
      fit to drive following a concussion with limited information. This has the potential to put
      the teen at higher risk for MVCs and the accompanied costs.

      Recently, research has begun to examine the relation between neurocognitive deficits and
      negative characteristics of driving performance in adults with mTBI.25,26 Patients with mTBI
      were required to watch videos of genuine traffic scenes filmed from a driver's point of view
      and to respond with a mouse click to potential traffic hazards as early as possible. The
      results indicate that patients demonstrated slower responses to traffic hazards in the
      initial 24 hours after injury compared to matched controls.26 More directly, actual driving
      performance of adults with mTBI up to 3 days post-injury has been assessed on a driving
      simulator.27,28 In one such study patients exhibited greater deviation from the center of the
      driving lane in the absence of deficits in speed management.27 However, a separate study by
      the same research group found speed management to be more variable, while overall deviation
      from the center lane was not found to differ between patients and controls.26 While
      conflicting, the results from both studies indicated improvements in measures of driving
      performance that positively correlated with improvements in cognitive performance and
      reaction time (assessed with ImPACT testing), as well as reductions in clinical deficits from
      three days post-injury (session 1) compared to when patients were cleared to return to normal
      activities (session 2).27,28 Thus, changes in driving performance in this population are
      believed to be correlated with changes in cognition and reaction time performance in the
      first several days after injury. However, the link between these measures and driving
      performance is not clear.

      There are several additional gaps in the current literature on concussion and driving
      performance. First, while reaction time deficits are known to manifest as longer response
      latencies to identify adverse risks, the underlying mechanisms that drive such behavior are
      not well understood. In order to understand how longer response times manifest in this
      context, it is necessary to examine several testable components of reaction time behavior:
      (1) adequate and efficient visual attention to the roadway (2) the oculomotor control that
      drives the visual search, (3) the efficiency of cognitive-perceptual processes to identify
      the situation as one of "adverse risk", (4) the decision making that dictates whether or not
      action(s) be taken to avoid the risk, and (5) the motor output that drives the specific
      action(s) for risk avoidance. Therefore, the identification of response latencies in this
      population is merely the first step in understanding the underlying mechanisms that lead to
      any potential changes in their driving performance.

      Adequate and efficient visual attention to the roadway is one potential mechanism for slower
      response times by patients with mTBI. Healthy and experienced adult drivers utilize a
      strategy called timesharing to safely shift attention to and from the roadway. This strategy
      involves a set of saccadic eye movements toward and away from the secondary task (e.g.,
      changing a radio station) until it is completed (Figure 1),29,30 and successful timesharing
      limits the duration of each glance away from the roadway to less than or equal to 2
      s29,31(this translates to approximately 160 feet of distance if driving 55 mph). However, 45%
      of teen drivers exhibit glances greater than or equal to 2.5 s away from the roadway (a
      critical threshold for MVC risk), compared to only 10% of experienced drivers.32 The
      investigation of this question therefore requires an analysis of oculomotor performance, and
      specifically self-paced and reflexive saccade behaviors. This is because patients with mTBI
      may timeshare equally to their healthy peers, but simply exhibit slow reaction times
      transitioning out of the timeshare. Alternatively, a lack of control of visual saccades may
      potentially lead to greater inefficiency in timesharing for these patients, as precious

      milliseconds may be spent correcting for inexact self-paced saccades. This behavior might
      take away from time attending to a given task, and may thus lead to protracted glances away
      from the roadway. For similar reasons, inefficient self-paced and reflexive saccades may lead
      to greater delays (slower reaction times) before recognition of an adverse event, decreasing
      driver response time. Further, inefficiencies in tracking moving objects (smooth-pursuit
      tracking deficits) may lead to miscalculations in purposeful steering deviations for risk
      avoidance once an object has been identified, or potentially, poor risk assessment altogether
      as visual information (e.g., time to contact) may be degraded. Such smooth-pursuit tracking
      deficits, combined with slower cognitive and processing times in these patients, may
      ultimately lead to reduced performance capabilities that may be difficult for the patient to
      overcome.

      Importantly, to the investigators knowledge no research has examined the effect of oculomotor
      control deficits on driving performance for individuals with mTBI. This is surprising given
      that such oculomotor processes likely underlie perceptual-motor and cognitive behaviors that
      are critical to safe and effective driving. Also, while standardized assessments of cognition
      and simple reaction time are sensitive and specific measures of concussion33,34, evidence is
      lacking as to their relation to driving performance for teenage patients with mTBI. In
      addition, no research has examined such a profile of driving performance in teenage drivers
      over the time-course of recovery.
    
  