
    
      Background

      Vestibular imbalance is prevalent in the United States and around the world. According to
      NIDCD, 4% (8 million) of American adults report a chronic problem with balance (visit
      vestibular.org for more information). The leading cause of imbalance is vestibular
      dysfunction. Various vestibular disorders due to aging, diseases, ototoxicity, and injuries,
      etc. can cause damage or degradation of the vestibular system, resulting in loss of
      vestibular feedback. Symptoms associated with vestibular loss include: difficulty maintaining
      straight posture; stumbling or unable to walk straight; lose balance on uneven surfaces or
      under dim lighting; floating sensation and tendency to look downward to confirm the location
      of the ground. Vestibular imbalance greatly increases risk of falling and has such disabling
      effects ranging from reduced activity levels to total loss of mobility.

      Vestibular rehabilitation therapies (VRT) may help vestibular patients to compensate with
      vision and proprioception. However, such compensation is not adequate because the brain often
      needs a reliable reference in order to use visual and somatosensory information for
      perception of self-motion and spatial orientation. Consequently, many patients with
      vestibular imbalance fail to compensate, especially those with profound vestibular loss. Even
      those who respond to VRT may experience constant physical and mental stress due to
      overreliance on vision and proprioception that can be misleading in busy environments.

      EquiCue™ Intraoral Balance Aid

      The intraoral balance aid EquiCue™ V1 is a hidden and noninvasive balance device that
      vestibular patients can use in various indoor and outdoor activities. It is a retainer-like
      device entirely worn inside the oral cavity, with no need of surgical implantation, and can
      be removed when not in use. The device provides in-situ sensory feedback of head tilt and
      motion by applying small electrical pulses on the roof of the mouth. By sensing the feedback
      from the device, an individual with vestibular loss can have better judgment of the tilt and
      motion of the head and make physical adjustment accordingly for better balance of the body.
      Since the device does not cause alteration to the appearance of the user, patients may use it
      in public places such as shopping malls, supermarkets, and metro stations, while offering
      balance assistance and improved postural stability and gait in these busy environments.

      Human Subject Study

      The current study is an initial stage of a clinical trial on the use of EquiCue™ for patients
      with vestibular imbalance. The hypothesis is that EquiCue™ can at least partially substitute
      the lost vestibular function and therefore helps a vestibular patient to achieve better
      postural stability in daily activities. The basic questions regarding the technology are: 1)
      How to represent head movement using electrical pulses on the palate; 2) Whether the
      electrotactile presentation on the palate can be reliably recognized and used for balance
      control. The study also helps to understand the role of multisensory integration on balance,
      especially the impact of alternative sensory feedback on the balance system.

      Subjects participating in the study will be expected to wear a custom-made retainer-like
      device and perform movements to test their balance. If a patient is determined to be a
      suitable subject, the sensitivity profile on the palate of the patient will be measured.
      After an EquiCue™ intraoral device is custom made, the patient will be asked to fit the
      device inside the mouth, and verify the basic functionality of the device by identifying
      direction, perceived intensity, and sensory characteristics of stimuli from the device. The
      subject will then go through 3-4 sessions of training and testing in which the subject tries
      to associate the feedback with head movement and to integrate the feedback with other senses
      to achieve a better spatial orientation and balance. The improvement in balance and gait with
      the device will be evaluated by using standard tests on balance platforms (Computerized
      Dynamic Posturography) and Dynamic Gait Index. Tests will be made without wearing the device
      at the beginning and wearing the device at the end of each training session.
    
  