
    
      Background: There is now accumulating evidence that patients with heart failure (HF) have a
      high prevalence of thiamin deficiency (TD). Since thiamin is a key cofactor in the enzyme
      systems that produce energy from both carbohydrates and fats, TD may contribute to the energy
      depletion frequently observed in the failing heart. Altered energy reserves with a reduction
      in myocardial ATP have now been recognized to play a critical role in the development and
      progression of HF. Therefore, correction of TD may enhance cardiac energy substrate
      availability and utilization, leading to improvement of ventricular function and symptoms.

      Primary Hypothesis: The left ventricular ejection fraction in stable, ambulatory patients
      with systolic heart failure receiving 6 months of oral thiamin supplementation will be
      significantly higher in comparison with those receiving a placebo.

      Secondary Hypothesis: In heart failure patients oral thiamin supplementation will 1)have
      favourable effects on ventricular remodelling (reduction in diastolic and systolic volumes)
      and regional function; 2)reduce neurohormonal stimulation (BNP and norepinephrine) as well as
      oxidative stress; 3)improve exercise capacity and 4)improve symptoms and quality of life.

      Ambulatory patients attending heart failure clinics at Mount Sinai, University Health
      Network, Trillium Health Centre and St. Michael's Hospital with systolic heart failure (NYHA
      class II-IV, left ventricular ejection fraction <45%) will be screened for eligibility to
      participate in our randomized trial. We will randomize seventy eligible patients using a
      stratified, permuted block randomization scheme, to be given either 100mg BID of thiamin HCl
      or a matching placebo BID in a 1:1 ratio to be taken for six months. All study personnel will
      be blinded to treatment assignment.

      Participants will have baseline and follow-up visits which include collecting demographic
      data, history of medication use, symptoms, anthropometrics as well as a physical exam. Left
      ventricular ejection fraction, volumes, and regional function will be measured using a
      standardized echocardiogram and cardiac MRI at baseline and after six months of
      supplementation. At this time, blood markers of thiamin status, oxidative stress (F2
      isoprostanes) and neurohormonal activation (norepinephrine and BNP) will also be measured.
      Participants will also complete a six-minute walk test, a 3-day dietary record, the Living
      with Heart Failure quality of life instrument and a 24-hour urine collection (to measure
      urinary thiamin excretion) at both baseline and follow-up visits. Compliance will be measured
      using returned pill counts and verified by measuring plasma thiamin levels which respond
      rapidly to thiamin supplementation.
    
  