
    
      In Korea, an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) was occurred twenty thousand person per
      year, and among them sixty percent was occurred in their home. We already knew that a
      survivor rate and neurological outcome of OHCA patient has a close relation with initial
      emergency management in field, like a bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), Basic
      Life Support (BLS), etc. However, in Korea, a witness almost did not the bystander CPR or BLS
      in field until highly trained rescuers arrived there. So, total survivor rate is just 2.4 %
      irrespective of neurologic outcome in Korea.

      Generally, in Korea, a beginning of the bystander CPR progress throughout dispatcher's
      instruction of emergency response system. This system for OHCA patient activate only when the
      witness recognize cardiac arrest and call the emergency response system. Therefore, cardiac
      arrest recognition by the witness is very important.

      However, a conventional recognition of cardiac arrest in field is often difficult, because
      there are no monitoring devices, healthcare providers. The conventional recognition method of
      cardiac arrest is that it is firstly to check mental status, secondly check pulse on
      patient's carotid artery and self-respiration. This method is too difficult for the witness,
      especially general persons. Even, it is difficult for an emergency physicians, too.

      Consequentially, the recognition of cardiac arrest by the witness is generally delayed, a
      golden-time is running out until highly trained rescuers arrive there. An average arrival
      time of highly trained rescuers is eight to ten minutes. A hypoxic brain damage is begin from
      four minutes after cardiac arrest. As a result, this delayed time is already passed four
      minutes after cardiac arrest. So, the survivor rate and the neurologic outcome are not good
      enough.

      In this study, we want to find out whether the recognition of cardiac arrest using a smart
      watch is feasible or not. If this idea is possible, the recognition of cardiac arrest using
      the smart watch is easy and fast to the witness, like a general person. By using the smart
      watch, the emergency response system for cardiac arrest and the bystander CPR or BLS is
      beginning earlier than using conventional cardiac arrest recognition method in field.
    
  