
    
      In MedEx-UK the investigators propose to conduct a feasibility study in three UK centres
      (Norwich, Birmingham, Newcastle) which collectively will recruit 108 UK older adults (55-74y)
      who are at above average risk of dementia, but pre-clinical. Primary outcome is to evaluate
      the feasibility of a multi-domain intervention to increase MDP adherence and PA over a 24
      week period, and to demonstrate the possibility of achieving meaningful behavioural change in
      a UK population. Secondary outcomes will be to measure the sensitivity of various cognitive
      assessments and measure the variability of our primary and secondary outcome measures in this
      population at baseline and in response to intervention.

      There are three intervention arms to the study, and participants will be randomised with
      minimisation for gender and Mediterranean Diet Adherence Screener score (MEDAS; a validated
      questionnaire)

        1. MDP:

           Participants will be asked to alter their consumption of foods consistent with a
           Mediterranean Diet. Examples include increased intake of fruits and vegetables, nuts,
           olive oil as the main culinary fat, moderate wine consumption (if they already consume
           alcohol), preferring white meat over red, and a reduction in commercial sweet and
           pastries, and sugar-sweetened drinks.

        2. MDP plus PA:

           As well as the dietary intervention as in 1., participants will be asked to increase
           their PA using a mixture of structured (e.g. dancing, Zumba classes, swimming etc.) and
           non-structured (walking up stairs, gardening etc.) activities.

        3. Control:

      Participants will be given generic healthy eating advice based on the NHS 'Eatwell' plate and
      UK British Heart Foundation (BHF) guidelines.

      The overall purpose of this study is to inform the feasibility and design of a future
      large-scale UK dementia risk reduction RCT, to observe whether a multi-domain intervention
      over 2 to 5 years promoting MDP adherence and increased PA can reduce cognitive decline and
      brain atrophy in adults at above average risk of dementia.
    
  