
    
      Asthma affects 20 million people in the United States. It can be caused by many factors,
      including exposure to tobacco smoke, infections, and other allergens. Recent research
      suggests that there may be a relationship between obesity and asthma. It is not fully
      understood how these two conditions are linked, but inflammation may play a role.
      Obesity-related inflammation may increase the risk of airway inflammation, thereby elevating
      the risk of developing asthma. Increased inflammation related to obesity may also reduce the
      effectiveness of inhaled steroid asthma medications, including glucocorticoids. Compared with
      people of normal weight, people who are overweight or obese may have a higher risk of
      developing glucocorticoid insensitivity, resulting in intolerance to glucocorticoid
      medications. The purpose of this study is to examine the effect that obesity has on
      glucocorticoid insensitivity and inflammation. This study will also examine differences in
      the response to asthma steroid medications between people who are overweight or obese and
      those who are not.

      This study will use previously collected data from participants in two clinical trials of the
      NHLBI-funded Asthma Clinical Research Network (ACRN): the Best Adjustment Strategy for Asthma
      in Long Term (BASALT) study (NCT00495157) and the Tiotropium Bromide as an Alternative to
      Increased Inhaled Corticosteroid in Patients Inadequately Controlled on a Lower Dose of
      Inhaled Corticosteroid (TALC) study. There will be no additional study visits specifically
      for this study. Researchers will examine blood samples collected at participants' first
      BASALT or TALC study visit to analyze levels of inflammation biomarkers (including tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-α], interleukin-6 [IL-6], and leptin) and proinflammatory
      cytokines levels, which influence glucocorticoid insensitivity. Additional BASALT and TALC
      study data, including lung function, asthma symptoms, and asthma exacerbations, will also be
      analyzed.
    
  