
    
      Following a fracture, few persons are screened or treated for osteoporosis (Feldstein et al).
      It is not surprising, then, that the risk of future osteoporotic fractures remains high.
      Although little data exists on the secondary prevention of osteoporosis, calcium, vitamin D,
      and bisphosphonates have all been shown to be effective in the primary prevention of
      osteoporotic fractures, and they are likely beneficial in reducing secondary fractures as
      well. Targeting falls prevention is another approach that is likely effective in reducing the
      risk of fracture.

      In the U.S., acute rehabilitation (rehab) settings offer a unique environment to initiate
      osteoporotic therapy. Therefore, this study will develop and implement evidence based
      interventions for the secondary prevention of osteoporotic fractures in the acute rehab
      setting with the following objectives:

      Specific Aim I: Assess overall compliance with pharmacological and non-pharmacological
      interventions initiated in an acute rehab setting following a fragility fracture. Hypothesis:
      Non-compliant participants are less likely to show improvement in functional status, muscle
      strength, or vitamin D levels following the intervention.

      Specific Aim II: Describe the incidence of fragility fractures and falls in participants at
      6-months and one-year following the osteoporotic intervention introduced during acute rehab.
      Hypothesis: Similar to community based studies, a number of participants will go on to
      experience repeat falls and resulting fractures within one-year of follow-up. Compliant
      participants are less likely to experience falls and fractures.

      Specific Aim III: Confirm the high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in a rehab setting.
      Describe the relationship between changes in vitamin D levels in participants between
      baseline and 6-month follow-up and changes in functional outcomes. Hypothesis: There will be
      a direct association between a change in vitamin D levels and a change in functional status.

      Consecutive individuals admitted with the primary or secondary diagnosis of fracture in the
      rehabilitation unit of Hebrew Rehabilitation Center will be offered enrollment. All
      participants enrolled will receive the same intervention: calcium, vitamin D, a weekly oral
      bisphosphonate, and falls prevention interventions. Specific interventions for preventing
      falls include optimization of visual acuity, a review of medications associated with falls,
      personalized exercises to improve strength and balance, and a home hazards safety evaluation
      when indicated.

      All participants will have their functional status, muscle strength, and vitamin D level
      measured at baseline during their rehab stay. At the six-month follow-up, a home visit will
      be performed for all participants to again assess functional status, muscle strength, vitamin
      D level, satisfaction with the intervention, and reasons for non-compliance. A history of
      interim falls and fractures will be collected by telephone interviews, during home nursing
      visits, and during the exit 6-month visit.
    
  