
    
      Introduction

      Good mental health is of high value from an individual, economic and social perspective.
      Depression is a serious threat to such a good mental health and highly prevalent worldwide.
      On a yearly basis about 7% of the European population (around 30 million people) suffer from
      a major depression (MDD) (Wittchen et al., 2011). If we take subclinical forms of depression
      into account the prevalence rises up to 15%.

      Depression is not only highly prevalent; it is marked by disabling emotional and physical
      symptoms. It has a severe negative impact on mental wellbeing, quality of life and social and
      work-related functioning of those who suffer from it both on the short and longer term. This
      impact equals at least conditions such as diabetes mellitus, heart disease and arthritis
      (Sprangers et al., 2000). Depression is associated with increased morbidity, mortality,
      health care utilization and health care costs. The World Health Organisation has predicted
      that depression will be the foremost overall cause of disability by 2030 (Mathers, & Loncar,
      2006).

      Objective

      The main objective of the planned research is to compare the clinical and cost-effectiveness
      of blended Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) for adults with major depressive disorder
      (MDD) with treatment as usual (TAU).

      Study design

      The study is a two-arm randomised controlled non-inferiority and cost-effectiveness trial.
      The trial will be conducted in routine mental health care in Poland, and is a part of the
      bigger project funded by European Commission (Grant Agreement No: 603098). A total of 150
      patients with MDD will be assigned to one of two conditions: 1) blended CBT, 2) TAU.
      Respondents in both conditions will be followed until 12 months after baseline (measures will
      be taken at baseline, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months).

      Study population

      A total of 150 patients with MDD will be recruited from routine clinical practice in Poland
      and will receive either depression treatment as usual or blended CBT depression treatment.

      Treatment fidelity

      To ensure treatment fidelity it is required that: (1) a detailed treatment manual is
      available to guide therapists through the treatment, (2) regular meetings are organized
      between the therapists and the research team to prevent drift, (3) therapists will register
      the number of sessions, the frequency of the sessions, the main strategies used in each
      session and the duration of each contact.

      Randomization

      Randomization will be conducted by an independent researcher who is not involved in the
      trial. Randomisation will take place at an individual level, stratified by country, after the
      eligibility and baseline assessment. The independent researcher will create the allocation
      scheme with a computerised random number generator (Random Allocation Software). The
      allocation ratio will be 1:1. We will use block randomization with variable block sizes that
      vary between 8 and 14 allocations per block. Subjects will be randomized into two groups:
      Internet based blended depression treatment or treatment as usual. All investigators and
      clinicians will be unknown to the randomization scheme.

      Sample size calculation

      Sample size calculation is based on the non-inferiority design and calculated for the primary
      clinical outcome symptoms of depression. 150 patients in Poland will enable us to detect a
      clinically significant effect size of d=0.24 (Cuijpers et al., 2014).

      Statistical Analysis

      Multiple imputation will be used to impute missing cost and effect data. Intention-to-treat
      analyses (ITT) increase the risk of type I errors in non-inferiority (NI) trials and
      non-intention-to treat analyses are preferred over ITT analyses in NI designs. Therefore, the
      primary statistical analyses will be per protocol analyses meaning that only those patients
      that have completed the treatment will be included in the analyses. ITT analyses will be used
      in sensitivity analyses to increase confidence in the results obtained by including all
      participants in the analyses independent of whether they have completed the treatment or not.
      Blended depression treatment is considered no less effective than care-as-usual when the
      two-sided 95% confidence interval (the range of plausible differences between the two
      treatments) lies entirely above the standard mean difference of 0.20 which is the
      non-inferiority margin and the smallest clinically acceptable difference.
    
  