
    
      Lung transplantation has become the treatment of choice for selected patients with end-stage
      lung disease. Long-term survival after transplantation remains disappointing. Chronic
      rejection in the form of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) has emerged as the leading
      obstacle to better long-term outcomes, and is the leading cause of death beyond the first
      year after transplantation. This disorder is a fibroproliferative scarring process that
      involves the narrowing of the airway lumen and ultimately complete luminal obliteration.
      Physiologically and clinically, this luminal narrowing results in airflow limitation and
      breathlessness. Histologic confirmation of BOS is difficult with bronchoscopy obtained lung
      biopsies because of the patchy distribution of the disorder and inadequate sampling of small
      airways with transbronchial lung biopsies. As a result, BOS is diagnosed and staged by the
      decline in Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 Second (FEV1) measurement from a pulmonary function
      test.

      In general, BOS is treated by intensifying the immunosuppressive regimen. The specific
      approach is variable from center to center, but typically includes optimizing the maintenance
      immunosuppressive regimen to include tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil, high-dose
      steroids, and a course of anti-thymocyte globulin. Despite treatment, most patients continue
      to show progressive decline in lung function resulting in worsening functional status,
      quality of life, and ultimately graft failure and death.

      Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) has been used at some centers as a salvage treatment for
      progressive BOS. ECP involves separating the patient's blood into a leukocyte-enriched
      component (buffy coat) and a leukocyte-depleted component. The buffy coat is then
      photosensitized with 8-methoxypsoralen and treated with ultraviolet light within a
      photosensitization chamber, resulting in leukocyte apoptosis. Although the exact mechanism of
      action of ECP is unclear, re-infusion of this apoptotic leukocyte population into the
      patient's circulation is thought to result in alterations in antigen presenting cells,
      cytokine profiles, and the expansion of regulatory T cells.

      On May 2, 2012, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services issued a Decision Memo stating
      that ECP is covered for Medicare beneficiaries for the treatment of BOS following lung
      allograft transplantation only when the procedure is provided under a clinical research
      study.

      This study looks at (1) Early detection of bronchiolitis obliterans or refractory BOS using a
      standardized, more frequent spirometry monitoring approach (i.e., defined as using either
      more frequent laboratory based spirometry every 4-8 weeks) and (2) Early implementation of
      ECP in both participants with early stage refractory BOS and also as first line therapy in a
      subset of participants at the initial diagnosis of BOS, in the context of a new randomized
      controlled trial.

      The study will look at whether certain coexisting disease states or patient-related
      demographic, functional, treatment-related or diagnostic variables (e.g. extent or
      statistical significance of the rate of pre-ECP FEV1 decline) might prove to have predictive
      value in identifying subsets of BOS patients that are likely, or unlikely, to experience
      reduced rate of decline or stabilization in FEV1 following ECP treatment. Therefore this
      study will look to enroll a large series of patients from multiple U.S. centers to confirm
      that ECP significantly reduces the rate of FEV1 decline in BOS patients refractory to
      standard immunosuppressive drug therapy, and to capture and assess specified patient
      demographic, treatment-related, diagnostic, functional and co-morbidity-related variables
      that may predict outcomes after ECP therapy.

      This study includes a randomized controlled trial that will compare outcomes in patients with
      newly diagnosed BOS who receive either conventional (i.e., that involves the standard of care
      at the respective enrolling center) or ECP for first line management of New BOS. The
      randomized controlled trial component of the study will enable evaluation of potential
      survival and quality of life benefits of early treatment of BOS with first-line ECP.

      Subjects with Refractory BOS who agree to participate in the study will be informed of the
      following: to limit the use (and attendant risks) of ECP therapy to those patients who are
      most likely to benefit, their eligibility to receive ECP within the study will be determined
      by the study team's analysis of their pre-enrollment pulmonary function testing along with
      input from their physician.

      Subjects with Newly-Diagnosed BOS who agree to participate in the study will be informed that
      they will be randomly assigned to either a control group (Control) who will receive the local
      Standard of Care for management of their BOS or to an Early Photopheresis Intervention (EPI)
      group who will receive ECP as first line management of BOS.

      The protocol states specific inclusion and exclusion criteria for both the Refractory BOS
      participant and the newly diagnosed BOS participant. Once eligibility is confirmed and the
      patient has provided informed consent, all FEV1 measurements captured within the 12 months
      prior to enrollment will be entered in the electronic database. Based on the slope of the
      FEV1 decline over time and achievement of a statistically significant rate of decline in lung
      function in the FEV1 the Refractory BOS participant will be electronically assigned to either
      ECP treatment or Observation. The newly diagnosed BOS participant will be randomized to
      either ECP treatment and standard immunosuppression therapy or Control treatment which is
      Standard immunosuppression Therapy alone.

      The participant will be assigned a unique identification number created from the electronic
      data base. The patient demographics, co-morbidities, medical history including date of lung
      transplantation, underlying disease necessitating lung transplantation, vital signs, height,
      weight, and current immunosuppression regimen will be entered at baseline. A Quality of Life
      Questionnaire will be asked at baseline and every 3 months the first year and then annually.
      A pulmonary function test will be captured every 30 days for the first year on all patients
      except the Refractory BOS participant assigned to Observation. Pulmonary function tests will
      be captured every 30 days for the first six months for the Observation patient. Following the
      first six months, the timing of pulmonary function testing must be every 3 months at the very
      least to maintain eligibility for ECP Treatment. Certain de-identified source documents will
      be required and verified on all forms electronically submitted. Data points will be verified
      against de-identified source by the Data Coordinating Center. The online data entry portal
      and study database will contain a mechanism to a) clearly denote the status of each submitted
      Case Report Form, including whether the case report form is complete; b) list the source
      documentation needed c) indicate if the site staff member and investigator have attested to
      the validity of the data on the Case Report Form; and d) indicate if the Data Coordinating
      Center has verified the accuracy of key elements of the study data and what data queries
      remain. This centralized monitoring will complement our remote monitoring visits during
      COVID. For most sites an initial remote site monitoring visit will occur after the first
      three patients are enrolled to ensure that the site personnel understand study processes and
      expectations, and to permit early completion of additional training to address any
      deficiencies. Should remote or on-site monitoring reveal areas of particular deficiency or
      concern, the monitoring plan will be adjusted to focus on those particular areas for the
      site. In general, sites and patients affiliated with a major violation will be monitored with
      greater completeness. Sites deemed to be largely compliant with the protocol and regulatory
      requirements based upon the initial monitoring visit are expected to have subsequent visits
      performed at a reduced level of frequency. Overall, the study team will seek to optimize
      resource use by focusing on the most critical data elements that may impact subject safety
      and/or data quality and integrity.

      Participants who receive ECP treatment will receive 24 treatments over the 6-month period
      following enrollment.

      Allowed Treatment for Refractory BOS patients in the Observation will be ordered at the
      physicians discretion.

      Treatment for the Newly Diagnosed BOS patients in the Control Arm of the randomized control
      trial will be dictated by the standard of care within each enrolling institution and will
      involve changes in immunosuppressive agents. These patients will not be eligible to receive
      ECP treatment.

      Other than ECP, no other interventions for BOS will be used except for Azithromycin for
      patients in the randomized Early Photopheresis Intervention arm.

      An improvement in the FEV1 measurement taken from the pulmonary function test will be used to
      assess the success or the benefit of the ECP treatment. Patients will have spirometry the
      first week of therapy, which is repeated every 30 days for the first year, and then annually
      in the Refractory BOS cohort assigned to ECP treatment. Patient's will have spirometry the
      first week of therapy, and repeated every 30 days for the first year, and then every 2 months
      in the NEW BOS cohort. All patients will be followed for 5 years. There are considerations
      for crossover built into the protocol.

      Statistical Methods. The primary outcome in the RCT or New BOS will look at annual cumulative
      mortality. The outcomes between the two BOS disease severity strata will be assessed
      separately. In Refractory BOS, a clinical response will be determined using FEV1 as the
      primary endpoint and will be defined as a 50% or greater reduction in the rate of decline of
      FEV1 assessed by comparing the average rate of FEV1 decline over the 6 months prior to ECP
      against the average rate of FEV1 decline over the 12 months following initiation of ECP.

      The participants will be followed for up to five years or until their date of death and the
      following data will be collected annually after the first year: Spirometry results, the
      number of maintenance Extracorporeal Photopheresis treatments performed and Quality Of Life
      surveys will be tabulated.
    
  