
    
      Pulmonary nontuberculous mycobacterial (PNTM) infection has increased over the past several
      decades, especially in older women. No consistent immunological abnormalities have been found
      despite extensive investigation. In cystic fibrosis and primary ciliary dyskinesia,
      mucociliary dysfunction predisposes individuals to high rates of PNTM disease that increases
      markedly with age.

      We studied the respiratory biology of subjects with PNTM and healthy controls and found
      decreased levels of nasal nitric oxide (nNO) in vivo. Ex vivo analysis of ciliated
      respiratory epithelium from subjects with PNTM demonstrated an abnormally low resting ciliary
      beat frequency (CBF) and an abnormal response to toll-like receptor ([TLR]2,TLR3, TLR5,
      TLR7/8, and TLR9) agonists, compared with respiratory samples from healthy controls. The low
      CBF response was normalized ex vivo by augmenting the nitricoxide-cyclic guanosine
      monophosphate pathway; this supplementation had no appreciable effect on the differences in
      TLR responses observed in subjects with PNTM and healthy controls. The reduced CBF and nNO
      levels in these subjects reveal possible mechanisms of susceptibility to respiratory
      infections, as well as possible avenues of directed investigation and therapy.

      This is an open-label, interventional study evaluating the effects of sildenafil on CBF in
      subjects with PNTM infection. The study will also measure the effects of sildenafil on nNO,
      and it will evaluate the quality of life, exertional capacity, pulmonary function, lower
      airway microbiology, inflammatory markers, and the safety and tolerability of sildenafil
      treatment in this population.

      The first 5 subjects will receive an oral bolus of sildenafil (40 mg) on day 0 followed by an
      oral dose of 20 mg 3 times a day (tid) starting on day 1 for approximately 6 days until the
      study visit on day 7. The remaining 5 subjects will receive an oral dose of sildenafil (20
      mg) tid on day 0 for approximately 1 week until the study visit on day 7. Subsequently, the
      dose will be increased for all subjects to 40 mg tid and will be administered for another 3
      weeks until the study visit on day 30 (4 weeks in total). Administering an initial oral bolus
      will help us examine sildenafil s immediate effects on CBF and safety parameters. The dosing
      necessary to modulate CBF in this subject population is not yet known, thus, we feel that
      undertaking a dose-ranging study will allow a thorough evaluation of sildenafil s effects on
      CBF.
    
  