
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free survival of postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor- and/or
           progesterone receptor-positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer that
           relapsed or progressed during prior treatment with nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors
           treated with fulvestrant with vs without anastrozole vs exemestane alone.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the objective complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) rate and duration
           of response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the clinical benefit (i.e., 6-month CR, PR, and stable disease) rate and
           duration of clinical benefit in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to treatment failure in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tolerability of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, partially double-blind and placebo-controlled, multicenter
      study. Patients are stratified according to the setting in which prior nonsteroidal
      aromatase-inhibitor therapy was given (adjuvant therapy vs first-line therapy) and
      participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (fulvestrant and anastrozole): Patients receive fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM)
           on days 1, 15, and 29 and then once monthly. Patients receive oral anastrozole once
           daily.

        -  Arm II (fulvestrant and placebo): Patients receive fulvestrant as in arm I and oral
           placebo once daily.

        -  Arm III (exemestane alone): Patients receive oral exemestane once daily. In all arms,
           treatment repeats every month in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 750 patients (250 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  