
    
      The study population will included all participants who participated in the TDA202 study at
      the Vaccine Trial Centre (VTC), Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok.

      Participants from all 3 vaccine groups (i.e., participants who had received a single dose of
      one of the 3 study vaccines (Boostagen®, Pertagen®, or Adacel®) and completed 1-year
      follow-up visit at Day 336±28 days during the TDA202 study will be called in for informed
      consent process at Visit 1 at approximately 5 years after vaccination (±56 days) based on
      Vaccination Date in the TDA202 study. Participants aged ≥18 years who have signed the written
      Informed Consent Form or participants aged less than 18 years who have co-signed the Informed
      Consent Form with their parent/legal will be screened for general health status (a survey for
      medical history, immunization history, history of receiving blood, blood component,
      immunoglobulin, immunosuppressive drugs or systemic corticosteroid and physical examination)
      and those who fulfill the pre-defined inclusion criteria and do not meet an exclusion
      criteria will be enrolled into the study.

      Once enrolled, a blood sample (approx. 5 mL) will be taken from all participants. After blood
      collection, this will be considered as study end for all participants. Participants will be
      offered a licensed influenza vaccine at the end of Visit 1.

      Blood samples collected from all participants who have come back for the 5-year follow-up
      visit (Visit 1) will be processed for serum preparation. Serum samples will be stored at the
      laboratory at the study site and will be further shipped to BioNet Human Serology Laboratory
      where immunogenicity testing (ELISA antibodies against Pertussis Toxin (PT), Filamentous
      hemagglutinin (FHA), Diphtheria Toxin (DT), and Tetanus Toxin (TT) and PT-neutralizing
      antibody by Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells assay) will be performed. ELISA testing to
      detect antibodies against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis antigens (PT and FHA) will be
      performed for all enrolled participants while CHO cells assay to detect PT-neutralizing
      antibody will be performed only in the same subset of participants who had been selected for
      PT-neutralizing antibody study in the initial TDA202 study.

      The knowledge from this long-term 5-year antibody persistence study will provide supportive
      data to identify the best alternative acellular pertussis vaccines to conventional
      chemically-inactivated vaccines for controlling the resurgence of pertussis disease.

      Data management and statistical analysis will be performed by Center of Excellence for
      Biomedical and Public Health Informatics (BIOPHICS), Bangkok, Thailand.
    
  