
    
      Suicides among military personnel doubled from 2001 to 2015 and have remained elevated.
      Although new treatments and interventions have been shown to reduce the occurrence of
      suicidal behavior, they are predominantly available only in mental health clinics. Data
      indicates that the large majority of military personnel who die by suicide do not access
      mental healthcare services in the months preceding their deaths. New strategies that are
      based on these empirically-supported interventions but can be delivered outside the mental
      healthcare system, thereby reaching a larger proportion of the military community, are
      therefore needed. Peer to peer (P2P) support programs hold promise as a method for achieving
      these aims, but the evidence supporting this intervention model remains limited or, in the
      case of suicide prevention, absent. In light of this gap, the proposed project aims to test
      the efficacy of a P2P program for the reduction of suicidal behaviors among military
      personnel. The proposed P2P program, called Airman's Edge, is a hybrid model that includes
      both group-based peer educator and individual-based peer support components; these P2P
      program models have demonstrated the strongest outcomes with respect to changing attitudes,
      perspectives, and behaviors, all of which are key targets for reducing suicidal thoughts and
      behaviors. The Airman's Edge program is comprised of several skills-based strategies that
      have been shown to directly reduce suicidal thoughts and behaviors (i.e., sleep habits,
      firearm safety procedures, crisis response planning), and targets population-level contextual
      variables known to reduce suicide risk (i.e., purpose and meaning in life, social support).
      The mechanisms by which these strategies reduce suicidal behavior align with an
      empirically-supported conceptual model, the suicidal mode, which has guided recent advances
      in military suicide prevention. The delivery platform for the skills-based strategies
      employed in the Airman's Edge program have demonstrated very good acceptability and
      feasibility when used with military personnel.
    
  