
    
      Background:

      Keratoconus is a progressive, non-inflammatory corneal disease in which irregular refractive
      properties of the cornea result in loss of visual acuity. Keratoconus usually arise in
      adolescence, is bilateral and has an estimated incidence of 1:2000. The aetiology of
      keratoconus is largely unknown, genetic predispositions are currently under investigation.
      Treatment is aimed at improving vision, principally using (rigid) contact lenses. With
      progression of the disease non-correctable refractive abnormalities and/or corneal scars
      arise. For these advanced stages of keratoconus, a corneal transplant is the only treatment
      modality.

      The first corneal transplant for keratoconus was conducted in 1936 by Ramon Castroviejo in
      New York's Columbia Presbyterian Medical Centre. Ever since, corneal grafting is subject to
      many technical developments. For over 70 years, a technique is used in which a circular donor
      disc is cut with a trephine and sutured in a concordantly prepared recipient, called a
      perforating keratoplasty (PKP).

      With the advent of refractive surgery in the years 1990, equipment appeared to split a cornea
      in horizontal lamellae. This made partial thickness grafting possible, tailoring grafts
      according to the nature and location of corneal pathology. For keratoconus, only the anterior
      part of the cornea needs to be transplanted. The posterior (endothelial) part is particularly
      involved in graft rejections. The chance of graft rejection decreases significantly when the
      patient's endothelium is left in place.

      For keratoconus, this new treatment modality is called a deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty
      (DALK). The transplanted anterior corneal thickness is maximized, and the patient retains its
      own endothelium and Descemet membrane, owing to lower graft rejection rates and less
      secondary cataract formation.

      The biggest drawback of a DALK procedure is the risk of inadvertent peroperative corneal
      perforation; the lamellae is cut to thick necessitating a conversion to a complete thickness
      graft similar to an regular PKP. To prevent inadvertent perforation, several techniques are
      described to dissect the stroma from the posterior lying Descemet membrane and corneal
      endothelium. Failure and perforation are described in 20-36% of cases though, leaving the
      patient with an inferior end product and leading to poor surgical predictability.

      To circumvent this problem we utilize a method in which, in addition to a anterior lamellar
      keratoplasty (ALKP), a partial endothelial trepanation (PET) is performed. This technique was
      first performed by Massimo Busin, Villa Serena Hopsital, Forli, Italy. The endothelium en
      Descemet are paracentrally and circular loosened, but some tissue bridges are left in place.
      This 'island' is able to mould to the healthy donor curvature. By doing this, the surgeon can
      retain a safer graft thickness margin leading to a lowered number of preoperative
      perforations. The addition of PET is believed to make corneal grafting safer and more
      predictable.

      Research statement/question To investigate the additional value of partial endothelial
      trepanation (PET) in a anterior lamellar keratoplasty (ALKP) procedure in terms of efficacy
      and safety in patients with keratoconus, compared in a randomized clinical trial with a
      regular ALKP procedure.

      Primary outcome is:

      • Peroperative corneal perforation;

      Secondary study objectives are:

        -  Best corrected visual acuity one year post op;

        -  Manifest refraction one year post op;

        -  Contact lens use (soft/rigid/scleral) or spectacle use;

        -  Self-rated improvement questionnaire;

        -  Graft rejection rate;

        -  Corneal endothelial function one year post op;

        -  Correlation of DALK outcomes with atopic constitution.

      Significance of this research:

      The PENTACON trial is designed to answer questions on new treatment modalities for ophthalmic
      disease, especially keratoconus. Current available research describes various techniques for
      a lamellar approach of corneal grafting. Most literature concerns retrospective case series,
      susceptible to several forms of bias. With our prospective randomized approach we aim to
      supply more clinical relevant information, especially regarding the risk of inadvertent
      corneal perforation during surgery.

      On theoretical grounds we presume that this new technique has even additional value for more
      progressive keratoconus patients. In early keratoconus visualization during surgery is
      generally not a big problem. In progressive keratoconus however, scarring occurs and the
      Descemet membrane underlying the conus behaves differently. We suppose these factors lead to
      the high corneal perforation rate of 20%. With partial endothelial trepanation larger safety
      margins can be used and the biggest gain is to be expected in the progressive keratoconus
      group.

      We plan to store the removed patient corneas in the UMCU Biobank. With the enrollment of
      patients for our PENTACON trial we will gather a significant amount of keratoconus corneas.
      In the future, we plan to conduct genetic/histopathologic research on these corneas to
      achieve a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying ophthalmic disease. Currently,
      all our effort is projected on starting our treatment trial. These etiological questions will
      be assessed in a later stage.
    
  