
    
      Project Plan

      This is a single centre, feasibility, parallel two group, randomised controlled trial. We
      will investigate the effect of adding 3-months of tele-coaching to usual care (UC) versus UC
      on daily physical activity levels following lung transplantation.

      Planned interventions

      Following lung transplantation patients will be randomised to: 1) 3 months of tele-coaching
      in addition to usual care or 2) usual care. Randomisation will be performed independently,
      with 1:1 allocation and stratified by functional capacity assessed by the 6-min walk distance
      immediately prior to hospital discharge. Stratification will ensure that patients in the two
      groups are matched in terms of post-surgery functional capacity. Additionally, whilst in
      hospital all patients will receive sessions (1-3) where behavioural strategies will be
      implemented to promote physical activity.

      Semi-automated Tele-coaching

      The tele-coaching intervention will last for 3 months and will consist of 1) a one-to-one
      interview exploring motivational factors, potential physical barriers, preferred and
      non-preferred activities and strategies to become more active. Patients develop a plan to
      increase physical activity with the interviewer, based on preferred and achievable
      activities; 2) a step counter providing direct feedback to the patient; 3) smartphone with
      tele-coaching application providing an activity goal (daily steps) and feedback on a daily
      basis. Patients' targets are automatically revised every 7 days based on performance in the
      preceding week; 4) Booklet containing home exercises, which are available in 3 levels of
      difficulty and consist of general strengthening and stretching exercises; 5) weekly activity
      proposals; 6) telephone contacts triggered in the case of failure to transmit data or
      progress. Patients will be asked to wear the step counter during waking hours and interact
      with the application on a daily basis.

      Whilst on the waiting list and during hospital stay post-surgery patients will be
      familiarised with the operation of the step counter and will be taught how to monitor their
      daily activity levels (daily/steps), how to transfer data from the step counter to the smart
      phone and to the platform and how to follow ques to adjust their daily step goals.

      Behavioural strategy sessions

      Sessions implementing behavioural strategies to promote physical activity will be
      administered to all patients. Strategies that will be used include; education on the benefits
      of physical activity, creating a "pros and cons" list, goal setting, self monitoring and
      rating achievement/pleasure of physical activities.

      Assessments

      Whilst on the waiting list patients will be screened for any contraindications and will
      undertake a 6-minute walk test (6MWT) to assess functional capacity and questionnaires to
      assess anxiety, depression and health related quality of life (HADS and SF-36). Additionally,
      patients will be given an accelerometer for 7 days to record daily physical activity levels.
      Prior to hospital discharge or soon afterwards, the following assessment measures will be
      undertaken; 6MWT, HADS, SF-36 and daily physical activity levels using an accelerometer. All
      measures will then be repeated after 3, 6 and 12 months. In addition, a record of hospital
      admissions and emergency department visits will be taken.
    
  