
    
      RATIONAL Implantable medical devices (meshes) used in pelvic organ prolapse surgery (genital
      prolapse, rectal prolapse), or incontinence surgery may be source of severe complications.

      MAIN OBJECTIVE Estimate the incidence of severe complications during or after surgery of
      urinary incontinence or pelvic organ prolapse in adult women depending on the type of surgery
      performed.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES Estimate the incidence of severe complications after urinary
      incontinence or prolapse surgery as a function of time since surgery.

      Compare the incidence rates of severe complications considering the type of procedure (with
      or without mesh, vaginal or laparoscopic, etc.), comorbidities, mesh type, surgeon
      experience, and surgical volume centre.

      Report the health and satisfaction of operated women. Estimate the risk of revision surgery
      for failure or recurrence.

      MAIN OUTCOME Per- and post-operative complications (less than 12 months after surgery), or
      late (after 12 months) severe (grade III or higher according to the Clavien-Dindo
      classification)

      OTHER OUTCOMES Time lapse of occurrence of severe complications Surgical recovery for failure
      or recurrence Health and perceived improvement (OMS, EQ5D, an PGI-I questionnaires)

      DESIGN Prospective multicentre cohort allowing the constitution and analysis of an
      observatory off surgery for genital prolapse, rectal prolapse and urinary stress incontinence
      in women.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Operated for urinary incontinence, genital prolapse, or rectal prolapse in one of the
           centres participating in the observatory

        -  18 years old or more.

      SUBJECTS NUMBER Estimated at 3000 per year during 5 years in 18 participating centres

      STUDY LENGTH Duration of the inclusion period: 2 years with the initial grant from ANSM
      (Agence Nationale de Sécurité du Médicament et des produits de santé, French Medicines and
      Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency), after new funding by ANSM 5 years of inclusion in
      total.

      Duration of participation of subjects: 2 years with grant from ANSM, after the new funding by
      ANSM 10 years.

      Total duration of the study: 3 years with the grant from ANSM, 15 years with the new funding.

      ANALYSIS PLANNED The one-year analysis will be based on multivariate logistic regression
      analysis (considering confounding factors). The 10-year (or intermediate-term) analysis will
      use survival analysis methods to account for delays in complications: Kaplan-Meier curves;
      Model of Cox proportional hazards.

      PERSPECTIVES The observatory should make it possible to precise the tolerance and the short-
      and long-term consequences of the use of these implantable devices (meshes) in pelvic organ
      prolapse or incontinence surgery in women and to specify the risk factors for severe
      complications.

      The observatory will enable to make comparisons between the different types of meshes and
      different surgical procedures, and to identify those that may present problems.

      Clinical practice recommendations may be issued as well as standards for marketing.
    
  