
    
      Detailed Description:

      Design: This will be a randomised, double-blind 'placebo' controlled trial of optimised
      programming versus standard rate-response settings, aiming to determine whether the short
      term improvements translate into longer term benefits.

      Study participants: 360 adult patients (>18years).

      Study Procedures: Patients attending the heart failure clinic, the pacemaker clinic or
      previous research participants will be approached with a standard letter and information
      sheet and then a telephone call to make sure any remaining questions are answered.

      Patients agreeing to participate will attend the clinical research facility (CRF) and will be
      asked to sign a consent form. Each patient will have a standard device check, check of their
      demographic data, and co-morbidities. The investigators will record a resting cardiac
      ultrasound, and measure the force frequency relationship (FFR) to determine critical heart
      rate (HR), and the optimal range of HR rise. All images will be stored for offline analysis.
      Participants will then be asked to do a symptom-limited walk test on the treadmill (until
      they cannot do any more). At this first visit, participants will also complete quality of
      life questionnaires and be invited to participate in substudies including cardiac magnetic
      resonance, blood tests, tests of autonomic dysfunction. All of these activities will take
      place in the Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General Infirmary.

      Randomisation: Each patient will then be randomised to either optimised programming (n=120)
      as predicted by their force-frequency curve, standard settings (n=120) or no rate response
      programming (n=120). In the optimised group, programming will keep heart rates below the
      critical HR. Randomisation will be by a random number generator and programming will be
      undertaken by one of my colleagues to maintain blinding.

      Follow-up: Each patient will be called at one month to check that they are tolerating any
      changes and will then be invited back at 6 months for a repeat resting echocardiogram,
      treadmill walk test and quality of life assessment.

      Data: All data will be stored on a bespoke Excel spreadsheet on an LTHT server in a
      password-protected folder.

      Primary Endpoint: The effects of heart rate programming that optimises heart rate for
      contractility on change in treadmill-based walk distance over six months in patients with
      heart failure and a pacemaker.

      Secondary endpoints: 1) the safety of pacemaker programming optimised for heart rate in
      patients with heart failure and a pacemaker, 2) the effect of this programming on change of
      quality of life at 6 months 3) the effect of this programming on change in cardiac function
      at 6 months.

      Mechanistic endpoints: 1) The effect of heart rate programming on measures of autonomic
      function, 2) Changes in cardiac function during exercise, 3) The effect of optimised heart
      rate programming on strain, wall stress and perfusion by cardiac magnetic resonance, 4)
      changes in biomarkers associated with heart failure
    
  