
    
      Hypothesis:

      The objective of this clinical practice protocol is to determine whether use of BNP in
      addition to standard therapy, will preserve renal function and facilitate diuresis in
      patients with CHF and renal impairment as compared to standard therapy alone. The study is
      targeted at patients with mild to moderate renal dysfunction with adequate blood pressure who
      do not require inotropic therapy and are not felt to need intravenous vasodilator therapy for
      acute symptom control. Patients will be randomized on admission to the heart failure service
      and prior to initiation of therapy. Patients who receive initial therapy in the emergency
      department will be eligible but the therapy given in the emergency department will be
      recorded.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Clinical diagnosis of class III-IV CHF requiring hospitalization for treatment of CHF.

        -  Mild - moderate renal insufficiency (20< Creatinine Clearance < 60 ml/min as calculated
           by the Cockcroft-Gault formula)

        -  Systolic BP > 90

        -  Stable cardiac rhythm

        -  Unlikely to require cardiac catheterization

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Inability to give informed consent

        -  New onset atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response (HR >110 bpm)

        -  Active ischemia

        -  Known or suspected stenotic valve disease

        -  Acute clinical need for intravenous vasodilator (including BNP) therapy (Severely
           symptomatic despite rest, oxygen, initial standard therapy)

        -  Primary reason for admission other than treatment of decompensated CHF (rhythm, device,
           other medical problem)

      Primary Endpoints:

        1. Creatinine, Creatinine Clearance at 1,2,3 days and at discharge

        2. Wt loss at 1,2,3 days and at discharge

        3. Fluid balance at 1,2,3 days and at discharge

        4. Use of advanced therapy for diuretic resistance (inotropes, renal dopamine,
           ultrafiltration, dialysis)

        5. Meets criteria for diuretic resistance as defined in standardized diuretic protocol

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. LOS

        2. 30 day readmission for CHF (hospital records ¡V Mayo and patient phone call at 30 days)

        3. Plasma renin activity, aldosterone, ANP, BNP, N-proBNP, Angiotensin II, cGMP, ET,
           Cystatin C at baseline and just prior to end BNP infusion (BNP group) or at 48 hours
           after entry (standard care group).

      Cockcroft-Gault Formula (Weight in Kg; Creatinine in mg/dL - Use estimated Dry Weight) Men
      Crt Cl = ((140-Age)*Weight) / (72*Crt) Women Crt Cl = 0.85 * ((140-Age)*Weight) / (72*Crt)

      Power calculation/Sample size:

      We tabulated the HF hospital service profile in regards to renal function during a
      three-month period from May-July 2002 where 140 patients were admitted to the CHF service.
      Data to calculate creatinine clearance was not available from this data base. Mild-moderate
      renal dysfunction was characterized by creatinine of 1.4 - 3.0 mg/dL and was present in 60
      (43%) patients. This likely represents a significant underestimation of those patients
      eligible for the study as our patients are elderly where creatinines < 1.4 mg/dL often
      correlate to creatinine clearances in the 20-60 range. In the 60 patients with creatinines of
      1.4-3.0 mg/dL, the mean change in creatinine during the hospitalization was +0.022 + or -
      0.377 mg/dL. Using this change as that expected in the standard therapy group, enrolling 52
      patients per treatment group (n=104 total) would provide 80% power (significance level of
      0.05) to detect a change of 0.222 mg/dL in mean creatinine (from + 0.022 to -0.200). Using
      creatinine, the 0.222 mg/dL change represents an effect size of 0.58. If one allocates
      representative weights and ages to the creatinines at admission and discharge and calculates
      the mean change in creatinine clearance, a value of 1.54 + or - 6.51 ml/min is obtained. In
      this case, a difference of 5 ml/min in the mean change in creatinine clearance between
      standard therapy and treated groups would represent a somewhat higher treatment effect
      (0.768) indicating more than adequate power to detect a difference of 5 ml/min in the mean
      change in creatinine clearance between the two groups.

      Randomization:

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 standard therapy to BNP + standard therapy. Randomization
      will be stratified by creatinine clearance with two groups (20-39 ml/min and 40-59 ml/min).

      Analysis:

      Primary endpoints: Mean change in creatinine, creatinine clearance, fluid balance, and body
      weight will be calculated at 1, 2, 3 days and at discharge and compared between the BNP and
      standard therapy groups. Percent patients meeting criteria for diuretic resistance and
      percent patients receiving advanced therapy for diuretic resistance in the two groups will be
      compared. All data will be analyzed by intention to treat and by received active therapy for
      full 48 hours.

      Secondary endpoints: Mean length of stay and readmission rate will be compared between the
      two groups. Differences between groups will be compared by Students unpaired t test for
      continuous variables and Fischers exact test for nominal variables. Data entry will be the
      duty of the nurse coordinator and will utilize both paper and an electronic case report form
      currently used by the CV studies unit. The Investigators will utilize the Center for Patient
      Oriented Research for consultation in setting up the analyses.

      Recruitment potential:

      > 560 patients/year admitted to CHF service If 46% have crt creatinine clearance 20-59 ml/min
      = 257 patients/1 year If 50% eligible patients enrolled = 129 patients/1 year If 40% eligible
      patients enrolled = 103 patients/1 year If 30% eligible patients enrolled = 77 patients/1
      year

      BNP therapy - in treatment arm only 2 ug/kg bolus and 0.01 ug/kg/min x 48 hours as long as:
      Systolic BP (SBP) > 90 and no symptoms thought related to decreased BP If SBP < 90 and
      asymptomatic- dc infusion, 250 cc NS , resume at 0.007 ug/kg/min (no bolus) once BP > 90 If
      SBP < 90 and symptomatic - dc infusion, 250 cc NS bolus , Trendlenberg, do not restart

      Standard therapy (to be used in both arms):

        -  ACE inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers - initiate or adjust per clinical judgement

        -  Digoxin - per clinical judgement

        -  Hydralazine/Isordil - per clinical judgement

        -  Coumadin/Aspirin - per clinical judgement

        -  Beta Blockers - per clinical judgement

        -  Calcium channel blockers - per clinical judgement

        -  Non-cardiac meds - per clinical judgement

        -  Spironolactone

             1. already on - continue at current dose or dc as appropriate

             2. already on - increase at dc if clinically indicated

             3. not on - add at dc if clinically indicated

        -  Other diuretic - discontinue and follow algorithm

             -  Diet - 2 gm NaCl and 1.5 Liter total fluid restriction

             -  Daily weights (same scale)

             -  Accurate I and O

             -  Oxygen - per clinical judgement

      Diuretic therapy - Standardized Diuretic Algorithm based on initial creatinine clearance (see
      below). BNP must be started within 1-2 hours of randomization Diuretics will be started at 1
      hour after start of the BNP infusion in BNP group. Diuretics can be started immediately after
      randomization in the standard therapy group. The study period is considered to start with
      initiation of BNP (BNP group) or diuretics (Standard therapy group).

      Laboratory monitoring:

      Standard clinical care which includes daily electrolyte panel (creatinine, blood urea
      nitrogen, sodium, potassium). Humoral function (BNP, ANP, PRA, Aldosterone, ET, N-proBNP,
      Angiotensin II, cGMP) at baseline and prior to end of Natrecor infusion (research labs).
      Twenty ml of blood in standard EDTA tube and five ml of blood in EDTA tube with ACE inhibitor
      will be needed per blood draw.

      Vitals monitoring:

      Standard clinical care which includes established nursing protocols for use of BNP infusion
      on telemetry. Introduction of BNP into clinical practice was piloted in the CCU and then on
      the cardiology telemetry units (4 Domatilla and 4 Joesph) by the CHF group and is now
      standard clinical practice on these floors.

      Diuretic Algorithm:

      Initial dosing and subsequent dosing of diuretics are to follow the diuretic algorithm
      outlined below. Can substitute bumex (1 mg bumex/ 40 mg furosemide). Can delay progression to
      next level if within 10% of goal fluid balance/weight. Clinician may use fluid balance OR
      weight to make decisions regarding progression to next level.
    
  