
    
      COVID-19 has a higher incidence in males compared to females and cancer patients have a
      higher risk of contracting COVID-19, and developing complications, and deteriorate more
      rapidly. COVID19 pandemic poses significant challenges in clinical decision-making, which has
      impacted management of GU patients. In order to mitigate the risk associated with COVID19
      pandemic while also providing the best clinical care for patients a screening approach is
      essential. Clinicians taking care of cancer patients will be expected not only to understand
      impact of COVID19 but also incorporate a triage tool to decide which patients need immediate
      treatment. This prospective study presented in this IRB is about establishing a screening
      tool for GU patients with pre-existing cancer or with benign urological disease (e.g. BPH,
      kidney stone, bladder infection, urinary tract infections etc) and for those who are dealing
      with decisions for biopsy, active surveillance, surgery, radiation, hormonal and
      chemotherapy.

      The study team is expecting to enroll 15240 subjects under this study.

      Procedures involved in the study:

        1. Consenting patients for the study.

        2. Screening/Baseline REDCap survey to determine their COVID-19 symptoms.

        3. Blood sample collection: This will be obtained for research studies including immune
           monitoring assays

        4. Urine sample collection for bio-marker analysis.

        5. Data collection from medical records, such as:

             -  Clinical diagnoses, including date of confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 infection

             -  Any pertinent medical history, including concomitant medications, and comorbidities
                that pre- date enrollment in the study, or that occur during enrollment in the
                study

             -  Laboratory values from time of blood procurement

             -  All imaging (X-ray, MRI, CAT, PAT, PSMA, Ultrasound, and Pathology etc.) performed
                from time of initial diagnosis until death, and any needed imaging that pre- date
                enrollment that may serve as a comparative to pre/post treatment imaging.

             -  Collection time of samples in relation to study treatment

             -  Demographic data

             -  REDCap questionnaire, COVID-19 symptoms and severity of the symptoms
    
  