
    
      Nine municipalities with 11807 inhabitants 65 years and older were allocated to intervention
      or control, five and four municipalities in each group, respectively. A panel of psychiatric
      nurses, university lecturers and members of the competence centre of dementia in Northern
      Norway have worked out a program of stimulation therapy adjusted to each participant taking
      the stage of functional impairment, education level and work experience into consideration.
      The individual stimulation program is selected and implemented, based on the life history for
      each patient, and carried out for a minimum of 30 minutes 5 days a week in the intervention
      group, as compared to the control group receiving routine care. The individual stimulation
      program was monitored and adjusted during the period of intervention. All patients included
      in the nine municipalities were randomized to donepezil or placebo in a double blind manner.

      Consequently, the present study has a double design; - an open prospective non-pharmaceutical
      intervention with control group, to which a double blind and randomized placebo-controlled
      trial is superimposed (2x2 factorial design). Each patient have been followed-up for one
      year. The clinical period was three years, two of them allocated recruitment and the third to
      secure a one-year intervention for all participants.

      The Progress of the Study The recruitment of patients through routine general practice has
      not been successful. The participating general practitioners (GP) rarely examined patients
      suffering from cognitive impairment. Sometimes patients with a presumptive diagnosis of
      dementia were prescribed cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEI) without a preceding clinical
      examination. As a result of this lack of corporation only 27 patients were recruited to the
      study during the first year. During the subsequent six months some of the nine participating
      municipalities reorganized their caring routines for patients suffering from dementia. More
      patients were examined and diagnosed and another 60 patients were recruited to the study.

      As a consequence of the unsatisfactory progress in recruiting patients to the study by GPs in
      routine clinical practice, the study protocol was changed and the recruiting procedures were
      supplemented by a population-based screening. The study population (65 years+) was invited to
      attend the survey by responding to and return a postal questionnaire containing five simple
      questions regarding memory and cognitive deficits. The screening program was accomplished in
      June 2007 with a response rate of approximately 32 % for self-reported memory deficits. An
      algorithm categorizes the responders. Those belonging to the category with the highest risk
      of having a diagnosis of dementia were invited to a clinical examination carried out by
      physicians from the study administration. Those fulfilling the inclusion criteria were then
      asked to be included in this Dementia Study in Northern-Norway.

      More than 700 responders answered NO to the five questions about cognitive impairment but YES
      to a question about participating in the study. From this group of presumptively cognitive
      healthy people we randomly draw a sample of 500 persons who was invited to participate in a
      control group for the AD participants. Of these 200 individuals were confirmed cognitively
      healthy and included in the control group. The two groups have been compared according to
      clinical data, co-morbidity and drug consumption. A biobank containing whole blood, plasma
      and serum from AD participants and the cognitively healthy control group is established.

      The stimulation program was executed as presupposed, and the randomisation procedures and
      administration of the medical treatment (placebo/donepezil) has been accomplished without any
      problems.

      The following papers have been published in BMC Methodology and in BMC Geriatrics:

      http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2318/11/58

      http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2288/10/35
    
  