
    
      The study is a randomized, crossover, single-center trial with one screening visit (Visit 1;
      Week -1) and 2 test periods [Test Period I (Visits 2, 3, and 4; Weeks 0, 3, and 6) and Test
      Period II (Visits 5, 6, and 7; Weeks 9, 12 and 15)] separated by a minimum 3-week washout
      period.

      At Visit 1 (Week -1), subjects will provide informed consent and undergo assessments of
      medical history and medication/supplement use, and inclusion and exclusion criteria. Fasting
      (12 ± 2 h) blood samples will be collected for chemistry and hematology. Subjects will be
      counseled to exclude fermented foods or beverages that do or might contain live probiotics
      (e.g., yogurt, kombucha). Subjects will also be dispensed a gastrointestinal (GI) and Bowel
      Habits Diary and stool collection kit. Subjects will be instructed to complete the GI and
      Bowel Habits Diary during the 3 days prior to Visit 2 (Week 0) and to collect fecal samples
      from one bowel movement during the 3 days prior to Visit 2 (Week 0).

      At Visit 2 (Week 0), subjects will arrive at the clinic fasted (12 ± 2 h, water only) to
      undergo clinic visit procedures. Adverse events (AE) will be assessed and the SF-36
      Questionnaire will be administered. Fecal samples will be collected and the GI and Bowel
      Habits Diary will be collected and reviewed. Subjects will be randomly assigned to a study
      product for home consumption with or without breakfast in the morning. Subjects will be
      dispensed a GI and Bowel Habits Diary and stool collection kit and will be instructed to
      complete the diary during the 3 days immediately prior to Visit 3 (Week 3) and to collect
      fecal samples from one bowel movement during the same 3 days immediately prior to Visit 3
      (Week 3).

      At Visit 3 (Week 3), subjects will return to the clinic for clinic visit procedures. AEs will
      be assessed and the SF-36 Questionnaire will be administered. The fecal samples will be
      collected and the GI and Bowel Habits Diary will be collected and reviewed. Study product
      will be re-dispensed back to subjects for home consumption. Subjects will be dispensed a GI
      and Bowel Habits Diary and stool collection kit and will be instructed to complete the diary
      during the 3 days immediately prior to Visit 4 (Week 6) and to collect fecal samples during
      the same period.

      At Visit 4 (Week 6), subjects will arrive at the clinic fasted (12 ± 2 h, water only) to
      undergo clinic visit procedures. AEs will be assessed and the SF-36 Questionnaire will be
      administered. Subjects will be queried about compliance with study instructions. The fecal
      samples will be collected and GI and Bowel Habits Diary will be collected and reviewed.
      Fasting (12 ± 2 h) blood samples will be collected for chemistry and hematology. Subjects
      will be dispensed a stool collection kit and will be instructed to collect fecal samples from
      one bowel movement during the 3 days immediately prior to Visit 5 (Week 9). Subjects will be
      instructed to begin the 3-week washout period and return to the clinic to begin Test Period
      II at Visit 5 (Week 9).

      At Visit 5 (Week 9), subjects will return to the clinic fasted (12 ± 2 h, water only),
      crossover to the other study product in their test sequence, and repeat the procedures from
      Visits 2 (Week 0) with the exclusion of the randomization procedure. At Visit 6 (Week 12),
      subjects will repeat the procedures from Visit 3 (Week 3) and at Visit 7 (Week 15), subjects
      will repeat the procedures from Visit 4 (Week 6). Subjects will be dismissed at the end of
      Visit 7.
    
  