
    
      Asthma and COPD are common chronic conditions in older adults. Adherence to therapy is an
      important consideration since patients typically take two or more medications a day and often
      have difficulties with inhaled breathing medications. Therefore, oral preparations, such as
      leukotriene modifiers, have considerable appeal for older adults with asthma or COPD. Phase 3
      primary studies of the leukotriene modifier, montelukast sodium (Singulair), for the
      management of asthma have included very few older adults.

      The following randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was designed as a pilot
      study to evaluate the efficacy of montelukast, in addition to usual therapy, in the treatment
      of older adults with asthma and/or COPD. Primary outcomes included pre-bronchodilator forced
      expiratory volume in one-second (FEV1) and average daytime asthma symptom scores.

      Participants were recruited from Kaiser Permanente Northwest (KPNW), an HMO with 450,000
      members in Portland, OR. All were adults ≥50 years of age with asthma and/or COPD who were
      symptomatic despite using daily breathing medications. They were screened by phone to collect
      information on asthma symptoms, medications, health care utilization, and co-morbid
      illnesses. Eligible persons attended a baseline visit to further assess eligibility and
      collect baseline data, including smoking status, co-morbidities, and participant
      demographics. Spirometry was performed before and twenty minutes after administration of four
      puffs of inhaled albuterol delivered by metered dose inhaler. All participants received
      instructions about the use of a peak flow meter; maintenance of a daily asthma diary with
      peak flow measurements, symptoms, and medications; and optimal use of an MDI by spacer.

      Participants completed a two-week run-in period with placebo pills and used diaries to record
      peak flow each morning, use of inhaled ß-agonist, nocturnal awakenings for asthma, and
      occurrence of asthma attacks.

      A total of 149 participants were randomized and received either montelukast(one 10 mg
      tablet/day) (N=71) or placebo(one tablet/day) (N=78). Spirometry was repeated at the
      randomization visit, and information on health status, asthma quality of life, and asthma
      control was collected. Participants were followed for 6 weeks after randomization. A
      telephone call was made at three-weeks to collect information about adverse experiences. At
      the final visit, participants completed spirometry, and answered questions on health status,
      asthma QOL and asthma control. Unscheduled health care visits for asthma during the six-week
      study period were noted.

      Results showed that improvement in asthma control was mixed. A small improvement in the
      montelukast group was seen using one of the two control measures. There was no difference in
      lung function, asthma symptom scores, health care utilization, or health-related quality of
      life between the treatment and control groups.
    
  