
    
      Study hypothesis:

      The investigators assume that connectivity within the DMR will be increased in unipolar
      patients compared to bipolar patients. Similarly the investigators assume, in agreement with
      the results of our studies using N-Back (Harvey et al, 2005) and studies in self reference
      process in the unipolar depression (Grimm et al, 2009; and Lemogne al, 2009) that the DMR and
      frontoparietal networks connectivity (intraparietal cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex) will be unusually positive in unipolar patients compared to bipolar patients.

      Methods:

      Transversal, multicenter, comparative study evaluating unipolar and bipolar patients in
      depressive phase and controls group without psychiatric disorders. The study involves one
      single assessment with fMRI, which is used to characterize a mono or bipolar major MDE. The
      question is not to predict subsequent progression towards a unipolar or bipolar disorder.

      Primary outcome :

      Comparison of unipolar and bipolar depressed patients in depressive acute phase and control
      subjects with fMRI resting task and an itself reference task and a diffusion tensor sequence.
      Patients will be evaluated clinically by: the MADRS, the YMRS, the BDRS, the Mathys, the
      SCID.

      Secondary outcome:

      verifying the RFR functional integrity in bipolar depression or unipolar by comparing the
      brain activity patterns of depressed patients than the control group;

      Experimental arm: patient with bipolar disorder type I or II and patient with unipolar
      disorder Control arm: subjects without psychiatric disorders assessed by the SCID Number of
      patients per arm : 40 Total number of patients : 123 Duration : inclusions 3 years. Duration
      of inclusion per patient : 16 days Number of participating centres : 4 Statistical analyses:
      fMRI data analysis strategy

      The primary criterion is the variation of BOLD signal during resting state and during
      self-referential processing task in both groups of depressed patients compared to control
      group. Functional connectivity within and between DMN (default mode network), CEN (central
      executive network) and SN (salience network) will be tested using a multivariate approach,
      independent component analysis (ICA). This analysis simultaneously decomposes group fMRI data
      into modes describing variations across space, time per subject to identify independent
      functional spatial maps corresponding to coherent brain functional networks.

      A between-group analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be performed to assess the difference of
      functional connectivity within and between DMN, CEN and SN comprising a between factor group
      (unipolar, bipolar, controls) for resting state data and data from the self-referential task.

      Correlations:

      Correlations will be explored between fMRI parameters (in default mode and central executive
      network) and clinical criteria (e.g scores in MATTIS, MADRSn, YMRS).
    
  