
    
      According to statistics, more than half of patients who have undergone cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (CPR) die from acute cardiovascular or cerebral insufficiency caused by global
      ischemia. The survival rate after cardiac arrest and successful CPR is about 10%, with good
      neurological recovery from 0.9% to 7.8%.

      The most common cause of cardiac arrest is heart failure, followed by respiratory failure.
      Despite progress in the provision of specialized medical care, the proportion of patients who
      underwent post cardiac arrest syndrome (PCAS) and discharged from the hospital remains very
      low, and neurological and mental disorders persist forever.

      The prevalence of nosocomial cardiac arrest in adults varies, with an average of 6 to 9 cases
      per 1000 hospitalizations. The prevalence of nosocomial cardiac arrest in adults varies, with
      an average of 6 to 9 cases per 1000 hospitalizations. About half of inpatient cardiac arrests
      occur in specialized wards, and the remaining half in other locations, such as intensive care
      units (ICU) and operating rooms. Common causes of cardiac arrest include coronary artery
      disease, pulmonary embolism, poisoning with cardiotoxic agents (drugs, antidepressants,
      cardiac glycosides), metabolic disorders (most often hypo- or hyperkalemia), and sepsis.

      Modern methods of intensive care of PCAS provide good results, but require significant
      diagnostic, therapeutic, human and economic resources. The recommendations of the European
      Resuscitation Council and the European Intensive Care Society on post-resuscitation care have
      had an impact on improving the quality of care. In Russia, such recommendations are not
      accepted. One of the conditions for the development and implementation of methods aimed at
      increasing the survival rate of patients with PCAS is the collection of up-to-date
      information on the prevalence, causes and patterns of the development of the disease.

      In recent years In Russia, not a single multicenter study has been published on the
      statistics of survival after cardiac arrest and the results of intensive care. There is also
      no single algorithm for the treatment of post cardiac arrest syndrome, with the exception of
      the organ donation protocol; meanwhile, the majority of patients suffering from severe
      multiple organ failure in the postresuscitation period cannot be donors and die as a result
      of the progression of multiple organ failure.

      Targeted therapy for PCAS includes respiratory and hemodynamic support, temperature
      management, laboratory monitoring, and anticonvulsant therapy. Predicting the degree of
      neurocognitive dysfunction remains a clinically difficult issue.

      The study of PCAS is undoubtedly relevant and can help identify a number of additional
      prognostic factors affecting the outcome of the disease.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the prevalence of PCAS in Russia, to analyze the
      effectiveness of intensive care methods, to evaluate the factors associated with death and
      the development of severe neurological deficits. Research centers are located on the
      intensive care units. A multicenter retrospective registry cohort study is planned.

      The research centers are located on the basis of the ICU, of the Irkutsk Regional Clinical
      Hospital, Irkutsk City Clinical Hospital No.1, City Clinical Hospital No.3, Irkutsk; Federal
      research and clinical center of intensive care medicine and rehabilitology, Moscow; Orenburg
      regional clinical hospital, Orenburg City N.I. Pirogov Clinical Hospital, Orenburg; Kuzbass
      Clinical Emergency Hospital named after M.A. Podgorbunsky, Kemerovo; Regional clinical
      hospital, Krasnoyarsk interdistrict clinical hospital of emergency medical care named after
      NS Karpovich, Krasnoyarsk interdistrict clinical hospital №20 named after I.S. Berzona,
      Krasnoyarsk interdistrict clinical hospital №4, Krasnoyarsk.

      Against the background of the assessment of vital functions, methods of respiratory support,
      laboratory data, and drug therapy will be compared. Continuous data will be presented as the
      median and interquartile range for the nonparametric distribution and as the mean and
      standard deviation for the parametric distribution. The categorical variables will be
      presented as the number of patients and the percentage of the total number of patients. For
      record keeping, an individual registration card.
    
  