
    
      The proposed project utilizes a randomized controlled trial design to explore the efficacy of
      a commercial app-based mindfulness training (AMT) intervention for women with breast cancer,
      compared to waitlist control (WC).

      Recruitment commenced in August 2015 and will continue until March 2016. Up to 180
      participants will be recruited using a combination recruitment strategy, including social
      media, word of mouth, registries, and informing colleagues of the project. The proposed
      sample size, powered to detect changes in quality of life, is adequate for 70% power, while
      accounting for attrition.

      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to app-based mindfulness training (AMT; n=90)
      or waitlist control (WC; n=90). Group assignment will be stratified by endorsement of past
      year mind-body complementary or alternative medicine practice indicated at baseline.

      Informed consent will be obtained at baseline, prior to completion of assessments.
      Participants will also be asked to sign a data authorization allowing the research team to
      obtain app metadata at the completion of the study:

      At baseline (pre-group assignment), participants will be required to complete web-based
      survey assessments related to quality of life, mindfulness, health literacy, health apps, and
      chronic pain. A unique web link to a secure data collection website will be emailed to each
      participant. Participants will have up to 7 days to complete assessments. Group assignment
      will be ongoing, as participants enroll.

      All participants completing baseline assessments will receive a welcome email indicating
      group assignment. Participants assigned to AMT will receive app download instructions and
      pass code in the welcome email.

      All participants will receive weekly check-in emails to facilitate engagement and retention.

      At week 5 and week 9, all participants will complete web-based survey assessments related to
      quality of life, mindfulness, and chronic pain. A fidelity check will be completed to
      identify group contamination or new use of other health apps.

      At 12-week follow up, all participants will complete web-based survey assessments related to
      quality of life, mindfulness, and chronic pain. A fidelity check will be completed to
      identify group contamination or new use of other health apps. At this time, participants
      assigned to WC will receive app download instructions and pass code.

      At the study completion, app developers will provide the investigators with app log data at
      the individual level. This information will help the investigators observe which app
      characteristics are most useful, as well as the optimal amount of time needed to obtain
      benefit from the app.
    
  