
    
      The project follows the EORTC model of module development and covers the first three phases:

      Phase I This phase is aimed at compiling an extensive list of quality of life issues relevant
      for lung cancer patients. The following sources will be used: (1) existing questionnaires on
      lung cancer and respiratory illnesses, (2) the literature, (3) investigator's brochures (IB)
      on new drugs, and (4) interviews with health care professionals and patients.

      Phase II Phase I data will provide information about the issues that should be included in an
      improved lung cancer module. These issues are being converted into items that follow the
      EORTC format with four point response scales ranging from "not at all" to "very much". For
      the sake of consistency and whenever possible, items of the existing QLC-LC13 will be used or
      other items will be taken from the Item Bank that currently includes more than 6.000 items.
      After this stage, the procedure will be formally peer-reviewed by the EORTC QLG Module
      Development Committee. After approval, the provisional list of items is ready for Phase III.

      Phase III The provisional lung cancer module will be pre-tested in an international group of
      patients with lung cancer. Patients will be first asked to fill in the QLQ-C30 and the
      provisional revised lung cancer module. After completing the forms, patients will be
      interviewed with regard to the revised lung cancer module. The interview will identify
      questionnaire items that patients find annoying, confusing or upsetting. A further issue is
      relevance: patients should indicate whether there are issues they find irrelevant or whether
      issues not yet included in the provisional module need to be added. The interviewer, either a
      physician or a study nurse, will record patients' comments on the debriefing questionnaire.

      The sample matrix specifies three main groups according to primary therapy which can be
      either surgery, radiochemotherapy or targeted therapy.

      The singular use or combination of these therapies yields nine subgroups of patients:

      1.1 Surgery alone 1.2 Surgery in combination with any other therapy 1.3 Surgery (late
      effects) 2.1 Chemotherapy alone 2.2 Radiotherapy alone 2.3 Sequential radiochemotherapy 2.4
      Concurrent radiochemotherapy 3.1 Targeted therapy alone 3.2 Targeted therapy in combination
      with any other therapy

      The recruitment goal is n = 15 per subgroup, resulting in a total of 135 patients.

      Recruitment will take place in the following study regions: English speaking countries
      including the United Kingdom and Australia; Northern Europe including Norway and Germany;
      Southern Europe including Italy and Spain; Eastern Europe, and one non-European country
      (e.g., Taiwan).
    
  