
    
      Given that the cost of particle therapy (PT) is considerably higher than that of conventional
      radiotherapy (RT) with photons, it is necessary to establish whether these higher costs are
      worthwhile in light of the expected advantages. Thus, clear evidence of the situations in
      which PT outperforms conventional photon treatment is needed. ROCOCO (Radiation Oncology
      COllaborative Comparison) is commenced at MAASTRO in May 2007 to evaluate PT's
      cost-effectiveness .

      It is well known that during radiation treatment of head and neck cancer (HN), shrinkage and
      displacement of tumour and organs at risk (OARs, e.g. parotid glands), as well as weight loss
      may cause significant radiation dose changes to target volumes and organs at risk , , . These
      phenomena may cause the necessity to re-plan the treatment at a certain moment in time. In
      the last years many different treatment planning studies have been performed showing that the
      optimum moment for re-planning varies: after 20 Gy, 35 or 46 Gy. But what the actual effect
      of the deformation is on dose in actually treated patients has not been reported.

      The investigators propose an in silico trial to investigate the relevance of contour changes
      for OAR as well as tumor during chemo radiation in H&N patients which will eventually lead to
      replanning. In that way the investigators will be able to assess and compare the optimal
      timing for replanning for photon and proton therapy.

      The investigators compare different treatments focusing on the effect of deformation on PTV
      coverage and normal tissue radiation exposure. A fixed tumor dose, using the same delineation
      of gross target volume (GTV), clinical target volume (CTV) is used. The planning target
      volume (PTV) will be determined by each treatment modality.

      For the initial plan the best possible dose distribution will be determined using the
      planning-CT (reference scan). For every time point (CT-scan) the reference treatment plan
      will be projected on the actual CT scan and the dose will be recalculated without changing
      the treatment parameters. This will be done using both photons and protons. All treatment
      uncertainties including robustness will be taken into account. Dose differences in the target
      volume (CTV-GTV and PTV) and the OAR, as a result of tumor shrinkage during treatment will be
      evaluated for each time point and each treatment modality.

      The objective of this study is to assess plan robustness and the optimal timing for
      replanning for photon and proton therapy.
    
  