
    
      Obesity is a growing problem in east London with a fifth of women entering pregnancy as
      obese. In addition to obesity, other metabolic risk factors such as raised lipids, high blood
      pressure and insulin resistance are increasingly prevalent. With a large proportion of ethnic
      minority mothers in east London, dietary habits and underlying genetic predisposition are
      major contributors to this phenomenon. Obesity and raised serum lipids, especially
      triglycerides increase the risk of complications such as preeclampsia in pregnancy and
      cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction, stroke and death in the long term.
      Preeclampsia, a condition in pregnancy, with raised blood pressure and increased protein in
      the urine is a leading cause of maternal and fetal deaths. Its treatment gives rise to large
      health care costs. Preeclampsia contributes to preterm birth, one of the leading causes of
      perinatal deaths in east London. It accounts for 65% of neonatal deaths and 50% of
      neurological disability in childhood. Around £900 million in extra costs for care of preterm
      babies per year in the NHS are linked to neonatal care. Preeclampsia, characterised by
      insulin resistance, widespread endothelial damage and dysfunction, coagulation defects and
      increased systemic inflammatory response, shares metabolic risk factors with cardiovascular
      disease. Obesity, dyslipidaemia and hypertension are independent risk factors for
      pre-eclampsia. Interventions that reduce cardiovascular events by modifying metabolic risk
      factors also have the potential to reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia.

      Early identification of mothers at risk of preeclampsia will allow clinicians to deliver
      these targeted interventions in pregnancy, with the potential to prevent preeclampsia and
      modify cardiovascular risk in the long-term. Currently, low dose aspirin, recommended as a
      prophylactic measure reduces preeclampsia risk by only 10%. Simple, low-cost and effective
      acceptable interventions are required to reduce this risk further. Dietary interventions in
      pregnant women with metabolic risk factors such as obesity and insulin resistance are shown
      to reduce the risk of preeclampsia. But the existing studies are of poor quality and do not
      evaluate preeclampsia as the primary outcome. Furthermore, they focus on specific components
      of the diet, rather than modifying the overall dietary pattern. Mediterranean diet with high
      consumption of vegetables and fruits, olive oil and nuts and low consumption of red meat and
      processed food significantly reduces lipid levels and cardiovascular adverse events in
      non-pregnant high risk population. In pregnancy, the beneficial effect of the Mediterranean
      dietary pattern was observed in a large prospective study of nulliparous pregnant women with
      a 28% reduction in the risk of preeclampsia (RR 0.72; 95% CI 0.62, 0.85). These results need
      confirmation in a sound experimental study.

      There is a need for an adequately powered randomised trial to evaluate the beneficial effect
      of lipid modifying diet in pregnancy that is simple, accessible and acceptable. The
      investigators hypothesis is that pregnant women with metabolic risk factors will derive
      benefit from dietary intervention in preventing maternal and fetal complications.
    
  