
    
      Claustrophobia and disruptive patient motion are common impediments to MRI examination, but
      they may be prevented or ameliorated with a non-pharmacologic behavioral intervention
      administered by trained staff. The potential benefits of such an intervention are highly
      significant, considering that the alternatives are to cancel the study or administer
      sedation. Inability to complete their MRI scans adversely affects an estimated 700,000
      patients every year in the US. These patients are either deprived of a diagnosis, subject to
      diagnostic delays, or are exposed to risks of pharmacologic sedation, including death. The
      imaging facilities in turn, typically cannot fill the suddenly vacated examination slots in
      time before the next scheduled patient and thus incur considerable lost revenue and
      efficiency. The long-term goal is to provide a validated, clinically feasible means for
      non-pharmacologic amelioration of claustrophobia and disruptive patient motion, achieved by
      training MRI staff to use advanced rapport skills and comforting language to help patients.
      Phase I will design and perform a formative evaluation of a Comfort Talk® Training
      intervention so that definitive testing of the hypothesized benefits for the intervention can
      be accomplished in Phase II.

      In Specific Aim 1 the Comfort TalkTM intervention sequence will be designed to include
      training in advanced rapport skills, using basic comforting language and avoiding negative
      language for all facility staff (including receptionists, technologists, nurses, and
      physicians). A core of licensed healthcare professionals will be taught how to guide patients
      in self-hypnotic relaxation techniques, using scripts, found to be safe and effective in the
      radiology department. Techniques are designed to easily integrate into the normal workflow
      without adding time. Training will include 2x8 hrs live at three test sites. Acceptance,
      observation of staff behavior, qualitative feedback, and rates of noncompletion will be used
      to assess efficacy of training, guide prototype development, and develop train-the-trainer
      materials. Using in-market piloting techniques, niche applications with their metrics will be
      explored to develop situation-specific supplemental materials. In Aim 2 an interactive
      web-based electronic platform will be developed to supplement training and provide
      post-training support. It will provide scenarios and practice applications, guided dialogue
      options, functions for online live interactive classes, and interface with smartphones. The
      prototype will be beta-tested with 20 experts in hypnosis and refined through user input from
      the test sites. Aim 3 is to conduct a formative evaluation of the entire Comfort Talk®
      intervention. Effects will be evaluated in 3-months intervals and compared to baseline
      performance. Criteria will include acceptance, qualitative feedback, content mastery, staff
      behavior, rates of noncompletion, patient recall and satisfaction. Additional metrics
      identified through in-market exploration will be analyzed for their potential as economic
      drivers and evaluation instruments.
    
  