
    
      This is a prospective randomized double blind study. 700 children 6 months to 18 years of age
      who are dehydrated and are unable to drink and who's parents sign an informed consent form
      will participate in this study (see inclusion and exclusion criteria). Our pharmacy
      department will prepare identical bags half of which will contain NaCl 0.9% and the other
      half NaCl 0.9% + 5% dextrose. The bags will be randomly numbered using SAS (Statistical
      analysis system). Only the pharmacy department will know the content of each bag. The
      children will receive a bolus of 20 mL/Kg of IV fluid. A repeat bolus will be given according
      to clinical decision from the same bag. A blood glucose level will be taken 2 hours after
      initiation of the study with a glucometer in order to ascertain that no hypoglycemia is
      occurring secondary to hyperinsulinism because of fast glucose administration. A urine test
      in order to check the presence of ketones will also be done. The end point of this study is
      the moment the physician decides whether to hospitalize or to release the patient from the
      ER. On the day following his visit to the emergency department, parents will be asked to
      answer a questionnaire about the child's well being. The questionnaire will be completed in
      the hospital if the child was admitted or by telephone if the child was discharged.

      In addition to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, children in whom an IV catheter could
      not be introduced, children who's blood glucose after 2 hours of fluid IV administration is
      below 60 mg/dl or in whom a need for IV antibiotics or surgical intervention will be decided
      during the ER stay will be taken out of the study.

      The data will be analyzed using PASW (predictive analysis software) statistics.

      Chi square will be used in order to check statistically significant differences between both
      groups.
    
  