
    
      In this 24 week randomized controlled trial, hospitalized insulin-requiring patients with
      type 2 diabetes and poor glycemic control (HbA1c >8.5%) will receive standard of care insulin
      therapy including basal insulin glargine U300 (TOUJEO®) plus additional background therapy
      (non-insulin and prandial insulin therapies) with either a diabetes focused discharge order
      set (DOS) and follow-up communication to facilitate insulin titration and outpatient
      follow-up or enhanced standard care (ESC). 222 patients (type 2 diabetes) will be recruited.
      Hospitalized patients with type 2 diabetes (HbA1c >8.5%) who are receiving basal insulin at
      least 10 unit per day and are able to provide informed consent and complete study procedures
      will be approached. All patients will be discharged on glargine U300 with initial doses
      determined by the discharging team. Patients in the DOS group will receive instructions for
      self-titration of basal insulin as part of the discharge order. The DOS contains a
      comprehensive checklist for basic diet, hospital follow-up, glucose targets and instructions
      for monitoring, insulin pens and pen needles, glucose testing supplies, and ancillary orders.
      Patients will have follow-up phone calls at week 2, 6, and in-person visits at week 12 and
      24. Phone calls will assess adherence with instructions for self-titration in the DOS group
      but are information gathering only in the ESC group, and questions related to care will be
      referred to the usual provider. Glucose lowering medication management following discharge
      will otherwise be conducted by the patient's usual or designated standard of care provider.
      The study and all study-related documents will be approved by the OSU IRB. All data analyses
      will be completed as intention to treat analyses. Longitudinal outcomes (e.g., HbA1c) will be
      analyzed using mixed models utilizing all available measurements from individuals randomized.
    
  