
    
      As a leading cause of death around the world, the mobility and mortality of CRC also increase
      in china with aging. Currently, distant organ metastasis, most commonly appearing in liver,
      diminishes the life expectancy in more than 50% of CRC patients. Surgical resection of the
      tumor primaries and metastases has been the first choice of patients with CRLM with five-year
      survival rate of 44.2%. With only 25% resectable CRLM, however, most patients lose the
      operation chance at diagnosis.

      In the past two decades, RFA in CRLM treatment has been gradually approved and showed great
      value in clinic. According to some retrospective researches, for small metastases, the
      effectiveness of RFA is not inferior to surgery. However, what really makes sense is to
      ensure if patients with unresectable metastases could benefit from RFA. The results from some
      former researches and CLOCC study in 2017 noticeably reflected that RFA enabled to prolong
      the survival significantly in unresectable CRLM patients, which determined its essential role
      in clinical application.

      As a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
      bevacizumab shows great potential in tumor therapy: pruning the tumor vessels rapidly by
      blocking VEGF signaling pathway; straightening and normalizing tumor vessels which ensure the
      effective perfusion of chemotherapeutics. In addition, depending on durable angiogenesis
      inhibition, bevacizumab restrains tumor growth and metastasis. To date, bevacizumab combined
      with chemotherapy is approved in metastatic CRC treatment.

      For long term survival, patients with CRLM can benefit from bevacizumab combined with
      sencond-line chemotherapy basing on the strong evidence from above researches. While the role
      that RFA plays in this therapeutic regimen is still confused. In this designed clinical
      trial, the main purpose is to evaluate the effectiveness of RFA combined with second-line
      chemotherapy + bevacizumab on CRLM patients plans, which is expected to polish up the
      clinical treatment approaches.

      This study is a randomized, controlled, prospective, open, and two-center clinical experiment
      for patients with metastatic CRC. After screened by inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
      eligible subjects will be randomly allocated into the experimental group and control group
      equally. Liver biopsy or specimens of liver metastases are required in all eligible patients
      for the second pathologic diagnosis by pathology department in Nanfang hospital, Southern
      Medical University.

      Supported by Logrank test in PASS II software, this study will compare the survival
      differences between experimental and control group. In CLOCC study, the ratio between hazard
      ratio (HR) of chemotherapy bevacizumab combined with RFA and that of chemotherapy bevacizumab
      was 0.58. Considering that the subjects in this study are after second-line therapy and
      extrahepatic metastases are allowed, so the HR will supposedly achieve 0.62. In addition,
      with the four stratified blocks and 5% expulsion rate in both experimental and control
      groups, 80 subjects in each group (total 160 subjects) are needed to detect the difference
      with 80% confidence at the a=0.05 (bilateral) significant level.

      In control group, subjects are treated with bevacizumab + second-line chemotherapy, while
      treated with RFA + bevacizumab + second-line chemotherapy in experimental group. The detailed
      descriptions of these interventions are as follow. Bevacizumab is given to patients in all
      arms every 2 weeks (5mg/kg) or 3 weeks (7.5mg/kg), intravenous drip(VD). The second-line
      chemotherapies depending on the judgement of researchers and the wills of subjects include
      FOLFIRI [Irinotecan 180 mg/m2 D1+Calcium folinatc 400 mg/m2 or Calcium Levofolinate 200 mg/m2
      D1+5-FU 400 mg/m2 D1, 2400 mg/m2 D1-2(46-48h), q2W] or irinotecan monotherapy (125 mg/m2 D1,
      8, q3W or 180 mg/m2 D1, q2W) with the historical first-line treatment of oxaliplatin but not
      irinotecan, mFOLFOX6 [Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 D1+Calcium folinatc 400 mg/m2 or Calcium
      Levofolinate 200 mg/m2 D1+5-FU 400 mg/m2 D1, 2400 mg/m2 D1-2(46-48h), q2W] or CapeOX
      (Oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 D1+Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 Bid D1-14, q3W) with the historical
      first-line treatment of irinotecan but not oxaliplatin, and mFOLFOX6, CapeOX, FOLFIRI,
      irinotecan monotherapy or irinotecan+oxaliplatin (Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 D1+Irinotecan 200
      mg/m2 D1, q3W) with the historical first-line treatment of fluorouracil but not oxaliplatin
      and irinotecan. Among these strategies, the treatment cycle of FOLFIRI, irinotecan
      monotherapy and mFOLFOX6 is two weeks, while three weeks in CapeOX and irinotecan +
      oxaliplatin. Navigated by CT-ultrasound merged images, RFA is taken in the experimental arm
      at the first day of the first cycle during the second-line therapy. The initial power is 30w
      and increases 20w per minute until 90w is reached. Then the operation will last for 15
      minutes or until the power fall to 0w. If any severe unfit or abnormal vital signs occur in
      subjects during the process and cannot be improved by symptomatic treatment, RFA should be
      stopped immediately. After ensuring that the ablation area assessed by the hyperechoic area
      in ultrasound has reached the intended target, the operation finishes successfully and
      postoperative observation (including pulse, breath, and blood pressure etc.) is needed in all
      experimental patients. To make the residual volumes of metastases as small as possible,
      repeated RFA can be operated within 1 week after initial RFA treatment if the criteria of
      normal coagulation function, platelets (PLT) 80/L and neutrophils 1.5/L, and RFA related
      adverse events grade 1 are satisfied, but at most 3 times.

      Tumor burden will be evaluated by imaging according to RECIST 1.1. For the assessment of
      baseline level and at the first day ( 3 days) of the second cycle, PET-CT is designated.
      While the subsequent method-enhanced CT or MRI is determined by researchers. Thoracic,
      abdominal and pelvic examinations are involved at each assessment. And the evaluation should
      be taken every 2 months ( 7 days) until progression or deaths occur. Baseline assessment
      refers to whole body PET-CT, and additional head CT/MRI or bone scanning are required if
      suspected brain or osseous metastases exist.

      The safety will be evaluated through the analysis of adverse events (AE), severe adverse
      events (SAE) and laboratory abnormalities, especially the specific events-hemorrhage and
      elevated transaminase. The observational parameters include the type, incidence, severity,
      time, correlation, risk factors, measurements and outcomes. The severity of every AE will be
      classified into 5 grades according to National Cancer Institute (NCI-CTCAE), v 4.03. Main
      researcher will be responsible for the documentation of AE and SAE.

      The study will conduct at 24-month baseline and 36-month follow-up, and the anticipated
      duration is 5 years.
    
  