
    
      Locomotive syndrome is described as a condition in which mobility functions such as gait or
      Sit-to-stand are decreased due to impairment of the locomotive organs. Progression of
      locomotion syndrome causes limitation in carrying out activities of daily living (ADL)
      independently. So interventions are required to limit the progression of the syndrome and to
      sustain the functions of locomotive organs. Locomotive system of the body consist of 3
      components which are Bones (support), joint and intervertebral discs(mobility, impact
      absorption) and muscular and nervous system (drive , control). Any dysfunction in these
      locomotive organs can lead to the development of pain, limited range of motion at joints
      muscle weakness and balance deficits. Common diseases of the locomotive organs which are
      non-traumatic etiology are chronic diseases disc degeneration, lower extremity cartilage
      degeneration and traumatic causes includes fractures due to osteoporosis.

      Population of Japan is aging so rapidly 8-10% of people are 65 or above, and is already be
      seen as super aged society, it has great impact on social system including public health.
      Japanese did great work in this perspective and also the world .First described the term
      locomotive syndrome . Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) proposed the term of locomotive
      syndrome (LS) in 2007 to describe the conditions of patients with high-risk musculoskeletal
      diseases requiring Nursing care.GLFS-25 is geriatric locomotive function scale a screening
      tool developed by the JOA in 2012. A score >16 indicates the presence of locomotive syndrome.
      GFLS is used to Assess a participant's physical condition and lifestyle over a prior month.
      It is self-administered and comprehensive questionnaire having 25 items, which include
      questions related to pain, Activities of daily living (ADL),social function and mental health
      status. 25 points are Graded from 0 points(no impairment)to 4 points (severe impairment. The
      (SPPB )Short Physical Performance Battery Protocol And Score Sheet is commonly used To
      measure balance ,gait speed and lower limb strength and endurance. There is more rapid
      functional decline in lower extremities than in lower extremities in individuals with
      locomotive syndrome. SPPB score of 6 is a low performance score. Different types of
      intervention strategies are used for the strengthening of muscles in adults but as far as
      elderly individuals are concerned there is a need for the intervention which is effective,
      inexpensive ,easy and most importantly safe to execute. To strengthen the weakened
      musculature resistance exercises are commonly performed. Elastic bands are the bands or tubes
      of plastic material which can provide load or resistance in all directions. Elastic bands of
      different resistance. are available and their coloring shows strength levels. Force that an
      elastic band generate is directly proportional to its length. By changing the length and
      thickness of these bands their resistance levels can be increased or decreased. Depending on
      the brand of resistance band most common colors are yellow, green, red, blue, black, silver
      and gold with yellow being the lightest and gold the strongest. It is easy to adjust the
      resistance of elastic band in muscle strengthening so these are commonly used for
      rehabilitation treatment of disorders and sports injuries because of their low cost and
      simplicity. In addition to increase in physical performance elastic band exercises also
      decreases the depression and anxiety. It is difficult for the elderly population to adhere
      with a continued training so elastic band exercises can be incorporated in training which are
      easy and simple to perform. Almost all the exercises with elastic bands can be performed at
      any place while walking ,travelling and everywhere because no tool or equipment is required.
      Previous studies did not used elastic band exercises in community-dwelling elderly to
      increase the physical performance.
    
  