
    
      This study aims to assess the real-life safety of Lenalidomide/Dexamethasone (Len/Dex) in
      patients with (Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma (rrMM), by evaluation of adverse
      events of special interest (infections, gastrointestinal events, thrombocytopenia,
      neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and thromboembolism). In addition, due to the scarce
      information regarding the impact of frailty in Len/Dex treatment in rrMM, this study will
      prospectively assess Len/Dex safety and effectiveness by patient frailty groups.

      The following study assessments will be performed:

        -  Recruitment: patients will be recruited within 15 days after the start of Len/Dex (from
           day 1 to day 15). In case patients are not recruited at the day of Len/Dex start (day
           1), baseline information respective to this day will be collected retrospectively.

        -  Treatment period: during this period, the following assessments will be carried out:

             -  Every 30 days (± 5 days) for adverse events, changes in concomitant medication and
                change in Len/Dex dose.

             -  Every 90 days (± 15 days) for the remaining information to be collected in the
                treatment period

        -  Assessment at the end of Len/Dex treatment (until 5 days after end of treatment).

      Follow-up assessment 90 days (± 15 days) after the end of Len/Dex treatment.

      No visits were predefined for this study. Study data is planned to be collected when the
      patient goes to the study site for a clinical routine visit. No assessments will be imposed
      for the purposes of this study. If the patient goes to the clinical routine visit at a date
      out of the time intervals predicted above, no information will be collected. Information will
      be collected in the context of routine clinical practice.

      The patient will be followed until the end of Len/Dex treatment, death or discontinuation for
      any reason for a maximum period of 36 months, Patients within treatment after this maximum
      period will stop being followed in the study.
    
  