
    
      All patients were administered 300 mg of oral ranitidine the night before the surgery and 10
      mg intravenous (IV) metoclopramide in combination with 150 mg ranitidine one hour before
      arrival to the operating room. Upon the arrival to the operating room, an electrocardiogram,
      noninvasive blood pressure, SpO2, rSO2 (INVOSTM 5100C oximeter; Covidien, Massachusetts, USA)
      and neuromuscular monitorization (TOF-WatchTM SX, Organon, Dublin, Ireland) were performed on
      the patients. Afterwards, preoxygenation was performed with 4 L/min oxygen (80%) for three
      minutes by using facemasks, and anesthesia was induced with an IV propofol injection (1.5-2.5
      mg/kg of ideal body weight) and an IV bolus administration of remifentanil [1 mcg/kg of lean
      body weight (LBW)] for 30-60 s, and then switched to infusion at 0.25 mcg/kg of LBW/min.
      After the eyelid reflex disappeared, a neuromuscular blockade was performed using rocuronium
      (1.2 mg/kg of LBW), ensuring that the train-of-four count and the post-tetanic count (PTC)
      were both zero, and performed tracheal intubation. Mechanical ventilation was performed with
      a Draeger FabiusTM Plus anesthesia workstation (Draeger Medical, Lübeck, Germany), and
      volume-controlled mechanical ventilation was applied. Breathing gases (oxygen, carbon
      dioxide, sevoflurane) were measured using Draeger ScioTM gas measurement module (Draeger
      Medical, Lübeck, Germany). The tidal volume was set as 7-8 mL/kg of LBW, inspiratory:
      expiratory ratio as 1:2, positive end-expiratory pressure as 5-8 cmH2O, and the respiratory
      rate was determined to obtain an end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure (PETCO2) of 32-37
      mmHg. These ventilator settings were not changed throughout the operation. Furthermore, after
      the induction of anesthesia, a radial arterial line was placed in all patients for the
      continuous measurement of mean arterial pressure and intermittent arterial blood gas
      analysis.

      Oxygen/air (fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 0.40), inspiratory fresh gas flow of 2
      L/min), sevoflurane (1 minimum alveolar concentration [MAC]) and remifentanil IV infusion
      (0.1-0.25 mcg/kg of LBW/min) were used in the Inhalation group for the maintenance of
      anesthesia. Propofol infusion (4-8 mg/kg of total body weight/h), oxygen/air (FiO2 of 0.40;
      inspiratory fresh gas flow of 2 L/min) and remifentanil IV infusion (0.1-0.25 μg/kg of
      LBW/min) were used in the TIVA group. Neuromuscular blockade was performed during the
      operation by rocuronium infusion (0.3-0.7 mg/kg of LBW/h), ensuring that PTC was zero. IV
      normal saline or lactated Ringer's solution at 5-7 mL/kg of LBW was also used for
      perioperative fluid maintenance. Nasopharyngeal temperature was monitored throughout the
      surgery, and the patient temperature (36-37°C) was ensured by using a forced-air warming
      system for the maintenance of intraoperative normothermia during the procedure.

      After anesthesia induction, a neutral head position of the patients was preserved to prevent
      alteration of cerebral venous drainage. Carbon dioxide insufflation was performed with an
      electronic laparoflator using a closed Veress needle technique, and intra-abdominal pressure
      was automatically kept at the desired level (14-16 mmHg) during the surgery. After the
      insufflation of carbon dioxide, the patients were positioned in a 30° reverse-Trendelenburg
      and at a 10° right lateral position.

      At the end of the surgery, the blockade was reversed by administering 4 mg/kg of adjusted
      body weight sugammadex with a PTC of 1-2. All patients were extubated in the beach chair
      position when fully awake. The patients were referred to the recovery unit and monitored for
      50 minutes for complications. In cases where no complications were apparent, the recovery was
      evaluated using the modified Aldrete scoring system. Once the score was ≥9, the patients were
      taken to unit. For postoperative nausea and vomiting, 4-5 mg dexamethasone was used (except
      for diabetic patients on insulin) 90 min before anesthesia induction and 4-8 mg IV
      ondansetron 20-30 min before the end of the operation. For postoperative pain management, 1 g
      IV acetaminophen was administered 20 min after induction and 30 mg IV ketorolac 20 min before
      onset. Then, 1 g IV acetaminophen was administered every 6 h + 50 mg IV dexketoprofen every 8
      h for the first 48 hours. In addition, morphine was administered using a patient-controlled
      analgesia delivery system (demand dose, 20 µg/kg of ideal body weight; lockout time, 6-10
      min; 4 h limit, 80% of the total calculated dosage) for 48 h postoperatively.
    
  