
    
      Preclinical studies have demonstrated that nab-paclitaxel may play a role in sensitizing the
      tumor to chemotherapeutic agents and specifically increases the antitumor efficacy when
      combined with gemcitabine. While the mechanism of action for the synergy is unclear,
      preclinical studies have generated hypothetical models. One hypothesis is a remodeling and
      weakening of the stroma barrier, allowing the chemotherapeutic agents to have better access
      to the tumor cells. Weakening the tumor-stroma barrier is particularly important in cancer
      that is characterized by dense stroma, such as pancreatic cancer. In mice with primary
      patient derived pancreatic tumor xenografts, nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine versus
      gemcitabine alone resulted in increased tumor regression and depleted the desmoplastic stroma
      as observed by the less dense, disorganized, wisps of collagen type1 fibers after 4 weeks of
      treatment. In this study, the intratumoral concentration of gemcitabine was increased by
      2.8-fold after 5 days of treatment when nab-paclitaxel was added to gemcitabine. It was
      hypothesized that nab-paclitaxel may play a role in reducing the dense stroma and may have
      contributed to the increased intratumoral gemcitabine uptake. Additional preclinical studies
      in a genetically engineered mouse model of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, coadministration of
      nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine also demonstrated tumor regression and increased intratumoral
      gemcitabine levels after 8 days of treatment. Apoptosis of tumor epithelial cells were
      observed; however, there were no changes in stromal components or collagen density in this
      short term treatment model. The increased intratumoral gemcitabine levels were attributed to
      a marked decrease in the primary gemcitabine metabolizing enzyme, cytidine deaminase, by
      nab-paclitaxel. Finally, a recent clinical study in subjects with resectable pancreatic
      cancer treated with neoadjuvant nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine showed reduction in fibrotic
      collagenous stroma, further supporting a stroma active mechanism for nab-paclitaxel.

      In a clinical Phase 1/2 dose ranging study (CA040, NCT003980860), nab-paclitaxel plus
      gemcitabine (CA040, NCT003980860) antitumor activity and tolerability were established in
      patients who had no prior treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer. The maximum tolerated
      dose and recommended dose for further studies was determined to be 125 mg/m2 nab-paclitaxel
      in combination with 1000 mg/m2 gemcitabine.

      In the subsequent randomized international Phase 3 study (MPACT, CA046, NCT00394251) that
      enrolled 861 patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer, nab-paclitaxel in combination with
      gemcitabine exhibited a clinically meaningful, statistically significant improvement in OS
      and progression-free survival (PFS). The median OS (primary endpoint) in the intent-to-treat
      population was 8.5 months (95% CI = 7.89-9.53) with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine compared with
      6.7 months (95 % CI = 6.01-7.23) with gemcitabine, p < 0.0001, HR = 0.72 (95% CI =
      0.617-0.835). Long-term survival was improved in the nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine arm versus
      gemcitabine alone, with a 59% increase at 1 year (35% versus 22%) and doubling at 2 years (9%
      versus 4%). The secondary (PFS, overall response rate [ORR]) and all other efficacy endpoints
      showed consistent, statistically significant improvements with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine,
      supporting the results from the primary analysis of OS. Specifically, PFS (by independent
      review) was 5.5 months (95% CI = 4.47-5.95) versus 3.7 months (95% CI = 3.61-4.04) in the
      nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine arm versus gemcitabine alone arms, respectively p < 0.0001; HR =0
      .69; 95% CI = 0.581-0.821). The improvement in PFS corresponded to a 31% reduction in the
      risk of progression or death with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine. Furthermore, in this study of
      metastatic unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, subjects in the combination arm were
      on therapy longer than those receiving single agent gemcitabine, indicating disease
      improvement and tolerable treatment. The suitability of the dosing regimen was confirmed by
      the observation that the majority of patients did not require a dose reduction, and that 71%
      of nab-paclitaxel doses were delivered at the starting dose of 125 mg/m2. The safety profile
      for both regimens was consistent with previous reports. Serious life threatening toxicities
      were not increased; AEs were acceptable and manageable. The most notable differences in
      toxicity between the 2 treatment arms was peripheral neuropathy, which was cumulative and
      rapidly reversible with dose delay and reduction, and neutropenia, which was manageable with
      dose delays and dose reductions. The incremental risks of sepsis and pneumonitis were managed
      by protocol amendments to increase awareness, and for early diagnosis and treatment to reduce
      the risk of fatal outcomes. Since the above described initial analysis of the MPACT study,
      the updated OS with a cutoff of May 2013 showed that the benefit continued to improve with
      nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine, with 8.7 versus 6.6 median months,
      respectively. The updated survival rates also significantly favored nab-paclitaxel plus
      gemcitabine at year 1 (35% versus 22%), year 2 (10% versus 5%), and year 3 (4% versus 0%) as
      compared with gemcitabine alone.
    
  