
    
      Upper gastrointestinal disorders are common in clinical practice. Currently, the diagnosis of
      peptic ulcer only depends on laboratory exams such as clinical symptoms, blood test, urine
      test and feces test. But the result can be only auxiliary exams which don't gain correct
      diagnosis on helping assess ulcer severity. As the most suitable diagnosis method,
      panendoscopy can directly observe lesions, judge disease severity, carry out a biopsy, test
      lesion is benignant or malignant, Helicobacter Pylorus infection or not, the degree of
      inflammation, etc. But panendoscopy belongs to invasive test. If we can observe tongue
      characteristics of patients with upper gastrointestinal diseases through scientific tongue
      diagnosis, physical discomfort caused by the test will be significantly reduced.

      Based on clinical observational study, this project will employ the Automatic Tongue
      Diagnosis System (ATDS) developed. The ATDS was developed to capture tongue images and
      extract features reliably to assist the diagnosis of TCM practitioners demonstrates the steps
      in the three major functions, i.e., image capturing and color calibration, tongues area
      segmentation, and tongue feature extraction, included in the ATDS.

      Variations in background lighting may change the color and brightness of the acquired images,
      greatly affecting consistency and stability of the extracted tongue features. The ATDS
      developed can automatically correct lighting and color deviation caused by the change of
      background lighting with a color bar attached in the ATDS. The color bar placed beside the
      patient is used for color calibration to make sure the image quality is consistent even taken
      at different circumstances. Tongue images are analyzed by first isolating the tongue region
      within an image to eliminate irrelevant lower facial portions and background surrounding the
      tongue, thereby facilitating feature identification and extraction; and then extracting the
      tongue features by employing criteria such as the aspect ratio, color composition, location,
      shape, and color distribution of the tongue, as well as the quantity of neighboring pixels.
      Features including tongue color, tongue fissure, fur color, fur thickness, ecchymosis, tooth
      mark, red dot, saliva, and tongue shape are extracted to further generate detailed
      information regarding length, area, moisture, and number of fissures, marks, and dots to be
      employed in tongue diagnosis. Nine primary tongue features, including tongue color (slightly
      white, slightly red, red, dark red, dark purple), fur color (white, yellow, dye), fur
      thickness (none, thin, thick), saliva (none, little, normal, excessive), tongue shape (thin
      and small, moderate, fat and large), tongue fissure, red dot, ecchymosis, and tooth marks
      (the last four features are divided into categories of none, mild, moderate, and severe), are
      selected for tongue diagnosis.

      This project will employ the ATDS verified to extract the tongue features of patients with
      upper gastrointestinal disorders. Through statistically analysis of the data collected and
      cross-referencing the existing indices of western medicine, we aim to derive meaningful TCM
      indices from tongue diagnosis of upper gastrointestinal diseases, such as peptic ulcer, etc.
      A TCM indices derived through the non-intrusive tongue diagnosis procedure can provide
      valuable information for clinical doctors to analyze the current status of a patient and
      dynamically schedule a treatment plan, facilitating early detection and diagnosis of upper
      gastrointestinal disorders.
    
  