
    
      Degenerative disease of the lumbar spine is ubiquitous in older adults, but low back pain is
      not. Treatments that focus exclusively on degenerative spine disease, such as spinal
      injection and surgery, have resulted in rising costs and exposure to potentially
      life-threatening morbidity but outcomes have not improved. The investigators posit that to
      improve treatment outcomes for older adults with chronic low back pain (CLBP - back pain that
      has been present on at least half the days for at least 6 months), the condition should be
      approached as a syndrome, that is, a final common pathway for the expression of many
      contributors, in the same way that geriatricians approach the evaluation and treatment of
      delirium and falls. Using this model, the lumbar spine is considered a weak link, but is
      rarely the sole treatment target. Conditions that commonly contribute to pain and disability
      in older adults with CLBP include hip osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia, anxiety, maladaptive
      coping, and myofascial pain, each of which is associated with specific evidence-based
      treatments. Because such conditions are not routinely evaluated in patients with CLBP, it is
      perhaps not surprising that first line treatments that do not specifically target multiple
      contributors (e.g. spine-focused physical therapy and analgesics) often provide suboptimal
      treatment outcomes. This often results in continued treatment-seeking including potentially
      toxic medications and invasive, expensive, and potentially life-threatening procedures such
      as complex spinal fusion.

      The central question that the proposed randomized trial is designed to answer is: What is the
      efficacy of caring for older adults with CLBP in Aging Back Clinics (ABC), where the patient
      is first treated as an older adult, and second as a patient with CLBP, compared with usual
      care (UC)? The investigators have developed evidence and expert-opinion based guidelines for
      the evaluation and treatment of 12 key contributors to pain and disability in older adults
      with CLBP. The investigators' prior work also supports the commonplace nature of multiple
      contributors to CLBP in older Veterans and the feasibility of delivering patient-centered
      comprehensive care that follows the investigators' published guidelines. The investigators
      now wish to implement these guidelines in the investigators' ABC clinics and compare this
      approach to that of UC in older Veterans. Proof of the hypotheses could significantly impact
      patient care by reducing pain and disability and identifying key conditions whose treatment
      could prevent the pursuit of invasive treatments and their associated potential morbidity and
      cost.

      About 450 Veterans age 65-89 with CLBP will be recruited from primary care provider practices
      at 3 VAs - VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System, Dallas VA, and Richmond VA to meet a target
      randomization of 330. Individuals will be randomized to receive either ABC care or UC and
      they will be followed for one year. Those in ABC care will be referred to a generalist (e.g.,
      geriatrician, physiatrist, rheumatologist) that has been identified and trained in a
      structured assessment to identify the conditions for which evidence and expert opinion-based
      algorithms have been created. Usual care will not be constrained. Outcomes will be assessed
      at baseline and over the telephone at three later time points: 6 months, 9 months and 12
      months. Health Care Utilization will be assessed monthly. Gait speed, a strong predictor of
      morbidity and mortality in older adults, will be measured at baseline. The proposed clinical
      trial has the potential not only to improve pain-related disability, but also to reduce
      morbidity, increase quality of life, and limit healthcare utilization.
    
  