
    
      A cytokine polymorphism analysis in 100 individuals with aseptic implant intolerance reaction
      (patients of the implant allergy special ambulance) and in 100 asymptomatic patients with
      implanted endoprostheses will be done. Furthermore, supplementary clinical data (such as type
      of implant, hospital stay, discomfort), questionnaire-based history and a clinical score
      (WOMAC score) are recorded. In the subgroup analysis in 10 patients of implant patients with
      complaints with special found cytokine polymorphisms and 10 implant patients without problems
      the cytokine response to particles in vitro will assessed.

      Test parameters:

        1. total collective:

           the DNA of cryopreserved blood sample will be isolated. By polymerase chain reaction,
           four different known polymorphisms will be analyzed, three IL-1B genes (IL-1B-3954
           IL-1B-31, and IL-1B-511), and a IL-1ß receptor antagonist gene (IL -1-RN, intron 2
           VNTR). Molecular analysis includes DNA isolation, polymerase chain reactions (PCR) and
           gel electrophoresis.

        2. Subgroup analysis:

      Peripheral blood cells will be isolated from 10 implant patients with complications and 10
      symptom-free persons and stimulated in cell culture with control stimuli, the IL-1ß-inducer
      lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and ceramic particles (BIOLOX delta)*, CoCrMo particles and
      XPE-particles** cultured separately or in combination. The secretion of IL-1ß and selected
      proinflammatory cytokines will be measured. The methods include cell isolation by density
      centrifugation and analysis of cell culture supernatants by a multiplex cytokine measurement
      assay by flow cytometry.

      * Supplied CeramTec

      ** Generated and processed by the Working Group of the cooperation partner Prof. R. Bader
      (University Hospital Rostock) in special carrier system for cell culture stimulation approach
    
  