
    
      Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) remain a leading cause of mortality and morbidity in
      immunosuppressed patients who undergo allogenic haematopoiectic stem cell transplant (aHSCT).
      Both yeast and moulds cause serious IFIs in this cohort of patients, especially during the
      pre-engraftment neutropenic phase, and post-engraftment period when patients need to be on
      prolonged course of corticosteroids for severe graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD). Other risk
      factors for IFIs include environmental factors, genetic factors, and co-viral infections.
      Candida spp accounts for most of the invasive yeast infections whereas Aspergillus spp is the
      most common mould in aHSCT recipients. The estimated incidence of proven and probable
      invasive Candida infections without antifungal prophylaxis ranged from 8% to 24%; on the
      other hand the incidence of invasive aspergillosis was reported to be in between 3% to 14%.
      IFIs are often associated with mortality rate as high as 60%, and have been identified as one
      of the independent predictors of death in multivariate analysis. Other complications include
      extended hospital stay from invasive fungal infections, intensive care admissions, huge
      treatment cost and significant morbidity and reduced quality of life in patients.

      Antifungal prophylaxis with fluconazole in aHSCT recipient has become a routine in the 1990s
      after several studies demonstrated fits efficacy in reducing morbidity and mortality in this
      group of patients. In 2007 two multi-centres, double-blinded trials, involving either aHSCT
      patients with GVHD or non-transplantation patients with haematologic malignancy and prolonged
      neutropenia, proved superiority of the mould-active agent with posaconazole to fluconazole in
      preventing invasive aspergillosis and death from IFI. This finding was further confirmed by a
      systemic review and meta-analysis in 2012 that included 20 randomised trials, comparing
      mould-active prophylaxis with fluconazole prophylaxis in aHSCT recipients or patients with
      haematologic malignancy receiving chemotherapy. Consequently, current Australian guideline
      proposed that all patients at high risk of IFIs (>10%) be administered mould-active
      antifungal prophylaxis, and these patients include aHSCT recipients with expected neutropenia
      of >14 days, extensive chronic GVHD, severe steroid refractory or dependent GVHD and patients
      with acute leukaemia or myelodysplasia who are undergoing induction or re-induction
      chemotherapy. Broad-spectrum triazole posaconazole is the recommended first-line therapy,
      with other triazoles such as voriconazole, itraconazole or echinocandin as alternative
      therapy.

      In Australia, until 2015 posaconazole was only available in liquid form. Posaconazole
      suspension needs to be taken with high-fat meal or supplements to enhance its absorption. The
      unpredictable absorption of the suspension, especially in patients with mucositis or
      neutropenic colitis from chemotherapy prompted the recommendation of monitoring the trough
      posaconazole level. However in Victoria, this assay was not widely available and the
      turnaround time was often long, hence it could not be performed in real-time fashion for
      optimal management. A delayed-release tablet formulation of posaconazole was approved by TGA
      in 2013 and it was added to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) in Australia in
      mid-2015. At the same time an intravenous formulation was also approved by TGA. The tablet
      formulation has improved bioavailability as its absorption was not dependent upon high fat or
      supplement content like its liquid counterpart, and it is anticipated that its administration
      will likely result in therapeutic drug levels. As a result routine therapeutic drug
      monitoring is not required during prophylaxis with posaconazole tablets. The availability of
      the intravenous and tablet formulation may have a positive impact on the rates of IFIs,
      however this has not been formally reviewed in Australia. Patients on posaconazole
      prophylaxis with the Bone Marrow Transplant Clinical Service are currently on either tablets
      or the intravenous formulation (if patients have factors that impaired oral intake).

      Although the introduction of mould-active antifungal prophylaxis has reduced the incidence of
      IFIs significantly, there have been numerous studies reporting on the changing epidemiology
      of these infections and concerns raised over the rates of breakthrough IFIs and emergence of
      azole-resistant strains, including non-albicans species of invasive candidiasis. Winston et
      al reported of a breakthrough IFI rate 7.5% while on posaconazole liquid formulation, and
      this finding was consistent with some European studies, which found incidence of 3-14% of
      breakthrough invasive mould disease. On the other hand, Tverdek et al reported a much
      improved rate of breakthrough IFI of 2% in 343 patients who received intravenous or
      delay-released tablet formulation of posaconazole, suggesting that these new formulations
      resulted in better absorption of the medication with direct implication on rates of IFI.

      Most of the studies mentioned above, that reported incidence of IFIs in the era of
      mold-active antifungal prophylaxis, were conducted in the United States or Europe.
      Specifically there has not been a study done locally in Australia looking at this question,
      including breakthrough IFIs. The epidemiology of fungal isolates in Australia may be very
      different compared to that of European or American continents. For example there have been
      reports of higher incidence of systemic infection due to Lomentospora prolificans in
      Australia and Spain, involving patients with acute leukemia or with aHSCT.

      The introduction of the posaconazole tablets may have improved IFI breakthrough rates in our
      local Bone Marrow Transplant Centre, although this has not yet been examined. Anecdotal
      evidence suggests that the rates of posaconazole therapeutic drug monitoring at our
      institution are low, but again this has not been formally documented.

      It is imperative to evaluate the epidemiology of these infections in this cohort in the new
      era of posaconazole prophylaxis, to monitor the rates of breakthrough IFIs and if there is
      emergence of azole-resistance fungal isolates in the Australian context. This study aims to
      establish an overview of IFIs in patients receiving stem cell transplant. Not only will it
      provide invaluable information on local epidemiology and microbiology of invasive fungal
      infections, it will also enable more appropriate planning of antifungal prophylaxis
      strategies in these high-risk patients.

      Study's hypothesis:

        -  Invasive fungal infections remain an ongoing challenge and one of leading sources of
           morbidity and mortality post allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant (aHSCT)
           despite the widespread use of anti-mould prophylaxis.

        -  Improvements could be made in the prophylaxis, treatment and monitoring of fungal
           infections.

        -  Knowledge of local epidemiology could inform efforts to improve current practice.

      Aims of the study:

        1. To describe the epidemiology of invasive fungal infections (IFIs) in patients undergoing
           allogeneic haematopoiectic stem cell transplant (aHSCT) in the era of antifungal
           prophylaxis with posaconazole delay-released tablets.

        2. To report the incidence of IFIs, and in particular breakthrough IFIs in this cohort of
           high-risk patients.

        3. To identify the risk factors of acquiring IFIs in this cohort of patients.

        4. To evaluate the current practice and use of antifungal agents as prophylaxis, the
           reasons for selection, the frequency of therapeutic drug monitoring, adverse effects and
           appropriateness of antifungal prescription.

        5. To determine the all-cause mortality rate and fungal infections related death following
           aHSCT at 3, 6 and 12 months post aHSCT.

        6. To identify areas of current divergence from best practice in the prevention and
           treatment of invasive fungal infections in patients receiving allogeneic HCT.
    
  