
    
      CONCISE SUMMARY OF PROJECT:

      The study design will be a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial to be conducted
      in the PICU of CMC Dallas (UT Southwestern Medical Center) following a pilot trial enrolling
      10 patients. This study will be undertaken after consultation with and acceptance by the
      resuscitation committee and PICU at CMC. Pediatric patients that experience in-hospital CPA
      who remain in cardiac arrest despite CPR and an initial, standard dose of epinephrine (0.01
      mg/kg), will be randomly assigned to receive either standard dose epinephrine (0.01 mg/kg) or
      vasopressin (0.8 units/kg) rescue as the second vasopressor medication.

      SUMMARY OF STUDY PROCEDURES:

      When a patient experiences a CPA, standard Pediatric Advanced Life Saving (PALS) protocols
      will be followed. This will include: establishment of an airway, support of breathing
      including supplemental oxygen, evaluation of cardiac rhythm, chest compressions, electrical
      defibrillation if appropriate, and administration of epinephrine as the first vasopressor
      medication. The quality of CPR will be monitored and reported by the documenting nurse for
      the event, to include rate of ventilation, rate and depth of chest compressions, and no-flow
      time (time without chest compressions). In addition, monitoring of end-tidal CO2, diastolic
      blood pressure via arterial line if present, and human observation and coaching will be
      employed to track CPR quality. The patient will then be randomized to receive either
      epinephrine (control group) or vasopressin (treatment group) as the second vasopressor
      medication if needed. If further doses of medication are required in either group,
      epinephrine will be administered according to the PALS algorithm until the end of the CPA
      event as defined below. Thus, the only difference between the groups will be the replacement
      of epinephrine with vasopressin as the second vasopressor medication in the algorithm. A
      total of 120 patients will be enrolled in the randomized, controlled trial portion of the
      study.

      After completion of PICU staff training and prior to the randomized, controlled trial, a
      pilot trial of vasopressin resuscitation involving 10 patients will be conducted to test the
      feasibility and safety of study methodology. Pilot participants who meet inclusion criteria
      will be enrolled serially from the PICU at CMC. Study protocol for the treatment group of the
      randomized, control trial (vasopressin + epinephrine) will be followed. Collected information
      will be reviewed by members of a Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) before proceeding to
      the next phase of the trial. These patients will not be included in the final analysis.

      The requirement of two doses of resuscitation medications will provide adequate time for
      randomization and use of vasopressin. It will also exclude those children with rapidly
      reversible conditions who would not have time to benefit from vasopressin versus epinephrine
      intervention. Stratified randomization technique will be used to control for the effect of
      vasopressor infusions the patient is receiving at the time of cardiac arrest. Stratification
      will be based on 4 groups i.e., epinephrine, vasopressin, both, or neither. In order to avoid
      extreme imbalance in the size of the treatment arms, a permuted block design will be used and
      the size of each block will be set at 6. SPSS pseudo-random number generator will be used to
      design the randomization charts. Randomization will be accomplished by the PICU pharmacist
      via sealed envelopes designating study arm assignment that will be available on every code
      cart in the PICU. Thus, the study medication will be blinded to all but the pharmacist.

      On admission to the PICU, families of all patients will be informed and educated of this
      ongoing study with exception from informed consent (EFIC) via posters in the waiting rooms
      and a brochure regarding the study clearly explaining how to "opt out" of inclusion. The
      number of patients who "opt out" of inclusion will be documented and available to the IRB at
      their request. Representatives of the study will be available by phone 24 hours a day and in
      person in the waiting room daily to discuss the study and answer questions. Parents will be
      informed of inclusion within 24 hours in person or by phone or letter if unavailable. This
      notification will be documented and consent will be elicited for follow up data collection.
      CPA events will be limited to those occurring in the PICU only. Providers that respond to CPA
      events will be in-serviced regarding the study protocol prior to implementation via didactic
      sessions. Input from pharmacists and providers in the PICU will be sought to assure the
      easiest implementation possible. Vasopressin is currently available for administration on all
      resuscitation (code) carts at CMC. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be posted on all
      code carts to assist providers. Current protocol at CMC to enter all CPA events into the
      National Registry of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (NRCPR) will be followed. This data is a
      complete account of the events of the CPA and will be sufficient to meet all of the study's
      stated goals and objectives. Only data pertinent to the outcomes of this study will be
      reviewed from the database. This data will also be reviewed to assure standardization of
      execution of the study protocol.

      Time to Completion Given that 89 CPA events met inclusion criteria from January 2005 to June
      2006 in the PICU at CMC, approximately 30 months will be required to enroll 130 total
      patients into this study (10 patients in pilot trial, 120 patients in main study). Subjects
      will be enrolled in the study until discharge or in-hospital death.

      Definition CPA End of Event

        1. . ROSC that is sustained for > 20mins with no further need for chest compressions,
           including with a pacemaker or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation OR

        2. . Resuscitation event is terminated and patient is declared dead (unresponsive to
           advanced life support, medical futility, advance directive, restriction by family
           member)

      SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS:

      A full resuscitation team will be present whenever vasopressin is administered including a
      physician, nurse, respiratory technician, clinical technician, and pharmacist. A sign will be
      clearly posted on the bed of any patient whose proxy has "opted" the patient out of the study
      or who meets any other exclusion criteria. The DSMB will evaluate the study for clear benefit
      or harm, lack of efficacy, or unacceptable toxicity of vasopressin.

      SOURCES OF RESEARCH MATERIALS/ COLLECTION OF FOLLOW UP DATA:

      Data from CPA events will be collected from the NRCPR database which is completed at the
      conclusion of every CPA event currently at CMC. Data is collected in six major categories of
      variables: (1) Facility data, (2) Patient demographic data, (3) Pre-event data, (4) Event
      data, (5) Outcome data, and (6) Quality improvement data. All patient identifiers will be
      destroyed at the earliest possible opportunity. Data will be de-identified for analysis. This
      data will include laboratory and treatment data from the hospitalization in the PICU at CMC
      before, during, and after resuscitation. Specifically, this data will include: age, gender,
      vital signs, treatments, laboratory results, neurologic exam (PCPC and POPC scores) and
      physical exam. The data collection is based on in-hospital Utstein-style guidelines.
    
  