
    
      For those with COPD, both physical activity (PA) interventions and pulmonary rehabilitation
      (PR) seem to be promising to potentially lower the risk of CVD. PA interventions seem to be
      promising in improving outcomes of COPD but there is lack of evidence on how the
      effectiveness of PA interventions compared with the gold standard intervention of PR.

      However, the outcomes of both interventions have not been extensively investigated, nor have
      they been directly compared. The immediate effects of pulmonary rehabilitation and PA
      interventions on cardiovascular risk factors for individuals with COPD have not been
      extensively investigated or compared.

      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility of conducting a trial to
      compare the impact of pulmonary rehabilitation and physical activity interventions in a
      number of important clinical outcomes including cardiovascular risk.

      Investigation and data collection will be taking place within University Hospitals of
      Leicester NHS trust sites. The investigators are aiming to recruit 50 COPD patients who are
      eligible for a pulmonary rehabilitation programme to investigate the effect of physical
      activity intervention compared to pulmonary rehabilitation with respect to cardiovascular
      risks.

      The study will measure various outcomes, immediately before, immediately after interventions.
      These outcomes will include measures in aerobic fitness (walking test), strength tests,
      physical activity level, quality of life, breathlessness questionnaires. In addition, blood
      sampling and body measurements will be completed. The investigators will also measure
      arterial stiffness with a non-invasive technique. Arterial stiffness is a hardening of the
      artery wall.

      In a subgroup study, 20 participants will have additional visits and measures. The
      investigators will be doing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diagnostic pictures of the
      inside of the body which is used for picturing the fat tissue around the abdomen. The
      investigators will be also doing a postprandial lipaemic test which is testing the fat level
      in the circulating blood after a high-fat meal. The investigators will do this test as before
      and after the intervention to allow for comparison.
    
  