
    
      The objective is to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of a patient-centered,
      physician led, transition of care, telehealth intervention. The intervention begins at the
      bedside prior to hospital discharge and involves remote patient monitoring of daily vitals,
      weekly virtual visits, detailed Electronic Medical Record (EMR) documentation and use of risk
      stratification as well as data from the Health Information Exchange (HIE).

      The hypothesis is that in comparison to standard care:

        1. Preventable hospital readmissions will be reduced through patient-centered virtual
           visits, daily biometric surveillance, and increased data access.

        2. Patient satisfaction during the transition of care period will be improved

        3. Adverse healthcare outcomes leading to ED visits or death will be reduced The primary
           aim of the study is to determine the effect of telehealth on unplanned hospital
           readmissions within 30 days of the index hospitalization discharge. In addition, data is
           collected in order to provide secondary analyses on the effect of telehealth on
           emergency department utilization, patient satisfaction, qualitative patient experience,
           patient self-management and self-efficacy attitudes.

      The Telehealth patient is provided with a smart phone device and Bluetooth-enabled blood
      pressure monitoring cuff, weighing scale, and pulse oximeter. Telehealth patients measure
      their vitals daily and have weekly virtual visits with a transition of care physician
      (teledoc). The teledoc in this trial, is a senior resident physician in preventive medicine
      or family medicine.

      Patient enrollment and randomization occurs at the bedside prior to hospital discharge. All
      patients are consented for the HIE in addition to the trial, and are risk stratified though
      an EMR data, based validated algorithm. The care management team is notified of all study
      participants in order to communicate to the telehealth team the date and time of hospital
      discharge. An introduction is made in person with the teledoc to evaluate the patient in
      person prior to virtual visits. Upon hospital discharge the patient receives the telehealth
      equipment by a vendor service to their home within 48 hours.

      Risk stratification is done by an internally and externally validated High Risk Readmission
      Tool across many different hospital systems.

      The patient follows prompts from the smart phone to register vitals daily, using a blood
      pressure cuff, pulse oximeter and digital scale. The teledoc determines the safety range
      parameters of the vitals depending on the patient clinical history and status. The telehealth
      vendor, notifies the teledoc of any abnormal values.

      Weekly telehealth visits are conducted for the first 30 days after a hospitalization.
    
  