
    
      Pulmonary emphysema, within the spectrum of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), can
      be described as the destruction of alveolar walls and enlargement of the airspaces distal to
      the terminal bronchioles, with inflammatory infiltrate and no detectable fibrosis. Despite
      significant advances resulting from the introduction of new therapeutic approaches, such as
      pulmonary rehabilitation, an effective and not only palliative clinical treatment is yet to
      be achieved. Surgical treatment, in turn, involves highly complex procedures and, in the case
      of lung transplantation, the shortage of donors. In this context, cell therapy with stem
      cells is presented as a promising therapeutic alternative with great potential for
      applicability. The main goal of this study is to evaluate the safety of the infusion of bone
      marrow mononuclear cells (BMMC), adipose-derived stem cells (ASC), separately or conjugated,
      in COPD patients. The sample will consist of 20 advanced COPD patients (grade 3 by GOLD
      criteria). Patients will be, by lot, divided into four distinct groups, namely: Group 1:
      Control; Group 2: Bone marrow mononuclear cells; Group 3 - Stem cells derived from adipose
      tissue and Group 4: bone marrow mononuclear cells and stem cells derived from adipose tissue.
      After the selection of patients, clinical and laboratory evaluation will be conducted
      (cardiology, laboratory examinations and tests to define the score of dyspnea). The cells
      used for the cell therapy will be obtained from the patient's own bone marrow or adipose
      tissue (autologous). The separation of the bone marrow mononuclear (BMMC) will be performed
      by centrifugation in density gradient (Ficoll), while stem cells derived from adipose tissue
      will be isolated by enzymatic digestion (collagenase) and cultivation. The infusion will be
      performed by a peripheral vein (brachial) after preparation, separation, expansion and
      quality control of the cells. The patients will be followed for a period of 12 months. It is
      expected that this clinical protocol will allow an expansion in knowledge about cell therapy
      in pulmonary diseases and represents a significant step towards the establishment of new
      therapeutic approaches in COPD treatment.
    
  