
    
      Introduction: diagnosis of acute myocarditis is challenging in the specific population of
      patients without any significant risk factors of atheromatous disease.

      Both cardiac MRI and coronary angiography (cardiac CT, invasive coronary angiography) are
      usually performed for the definitive diagnosis of myocarditis and for ruling out a coronary
      artery disease.

      Spectral cardiac CT could be particularly useful in suspected myocarditis in the setting of
      acute chest pain in this specific population of patients with low cardiovascular risk
      factors. Indeed, both coronary arteries and myocardial tissue can be assessed on the same
      technique (cardiac CT scan) which offers the advantages of being non-invasive, more available
      and more easily used than MRI in emergency situations. Cardiac CT allows the detection of
      abnormal myocardial territories by showing subepicardial iodinated contrast enhancement with
      the spectral mode imaging. It also allows the direct visualization of coronary arteries, thus
      preventing the necessity of performing coronary angiography in a significant number of
      patients with suspected myocarditis in the setting of acute chest pain.

      Primary objective: to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of spectral cardiac CT imaging for the
      diagnosis of acute myocarditis using cardiac MRI as the gold standard, in patients with
      suspected myocarditis in the setting of acute chest pain. The diagnosis of acute myocarditis
      using spectral cardiac CT scan will be based on the presence of late subepicardial contrast
      enhancement detected using iodine imaging obtained after subtraction of water imaging. The
      gold standard will be the diagnosis of acute myocarditis based on the state-of-the-art MRI
      criteria.

      Secondary objective: to assess the radiation dose delivered in spectral cardiac CT scan using
      the latest generation of machines from different manufacturers (such as GE Healthcare and
      Siemens).

      Experimental plan: Multicenter diagnostic accuracy study, conducted within the scope of
      routine care of patients admitted for suspected acute myocarditis, conducted according to the
      Standards for the Reporting of Diagnostic (STARD) guidelines. Clinical, laboratory, cardiac
      MRI, and invasive coronary angiography are performed in routine care. Cardiac MRI serves as
      the reference standard for the definitive diagnosis of acute myocarditis. Cardiac CT is also
      performed in routine care in order to rule out a coronary disease. The investigators will add
      a second acquisition using the spectral mode imaging in order to identify inflammatory areas
      of the myocardium on the iodine map imaging.

      All patients will undergo both cardiac CT scan with spectral mode acquisition and cardiac MRI
      to avoid work-up bias. Spectral CT imaging and cardiac MRI will be performed within 72 hours.
    
  