
    
      An interventional study to empower congestive heart failure patients who have a cardiac
      resynchronization therapy-cardiac implantable electronic device (CRT-CIED) by using a
      personal health record (PHR) to directly message them their device data and send alerts based
      on percent left ventricular pacing.

      There will be three phases in this study. In the first phase the investigators will employ a
      user-centered design approach to better understand what types of information that patients
      who have a remotely monitored CRT-CIED would find beneficial towards understanding and
      managing their disease. The investigators also hope to uncover expectations for alert
      mechanisms and two-way messaging between provider and patient around CIED remote monitoring
      data. In the second phase the investigators will implement the PHR intervention as designed
      in phase 1. In the third phase of this study, the investigators will test the PHR
      intervention in a single arm, 6-month trial.

      A maximum of 120 participants (including patients and their caregiver, partner, and/or
      support persons) will be enrolled in the focus groups for phase 1. A maximum of 10 patients
      will be enrolled in the design session to follow in phase 1. After building the intervention
      in phase 2, a maximum of 30 patients will be enrolled in the technology trial for phase 3.
      Enrollment is projected to be complete within six months for phase 1, and within one year for
      phase 3.

      In phase 3, adult subjects (N=30) with a diagnosis of congestive heart failure undergoing
      chronic resynchronization therapy through their CIED will receive interventional messaging
      through their PHR regarding percent left ventricular pacing.

      The study duration will commence at the time of informed consent documentation during the
      first focus group and conclude at the time of the last patient visit during the technology
      trial.

      Impact of PHR messaging will be evaluated by timeliness of patient calls to clinic for
      adjustment in therapy, an improved percentage of LV pacing over 6 months compared to
      historical controls from the same clinic, as well as self-reported patient engagement.
      Timeliness of patient calls to clinic will be evaluated through record of patient calls to
      clinic 6 months prior to study and 6 months during study. Patient engagement will be
      evaluated through patient survey at start and end of study.

      Patients will follow standard of care + intervention during study.
    
  