
    
      There is evidence that cancer diagnosis and treatment during young adulthood puts survivors
      at risk for a number of medical and psychosocial difficulties including cardiovascular
      disease, second cancers and psychological distress. The proposed research is aimed at
      developing a physical activity and relaxation intervention for young adult cancer survivors
      in order to address some of their medical and psychosocial risks. The objective of the study
      is to pilot test a 12-week physical activity and relaxation intervention in this population.
      We hypothesize that the intervention will be feasible for and acceptable to young adult
      cancer survivors. We also hypothesize that the intervention group will demonstrate increased
      levels of physical activity, improved mood and reduced fatigue relative to the wait list
      control group at the 12-week and 24-week follow-up assessments; statistically significant
      differences may not be found due to the small sample size, however. In addition, we will
      conduct exploratory tests of intervention effects on fitness, flexibility, body mass, and
      waist circumference. Sixty participants will be recruited for the pilot study. Participants
      will be randomly assigned to receive a 12-week physical activity and relaxation intervention
      or to a wait list control group. Intervention group participants will receive 12 weeks of
      behavior change counseling, based on the Transtheoretical Model and Social Cognitive Theory,
      to help them adopt a program of brisk walking and learn mindfulness meditation. They will
      also be given access to an online discussion group. Participants in both arms of the study
      will be assessed at baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks. Following the 24-week assessment, wait
      list control participants will offered the 12-week intervention and one additional assessment
      (i.e., at 36 weeks). Data will be collected on intervention feasibility (e.g., number of
      counseling sessions delivered) and acceptability (e.g., general satisfaction ratings).
      ANCOVAs will be used to conduct preliminary tests of intervention effects (e.g., on physical
      activity, mood, and fatigue).
    
  