
    
      QL blocks will be done intraoperatively after induction. All procedures will be placed under
      the supervision of the attending anesthesiologist on the acute pain service.

      All patients will receive 1 gm acetaminophen and 600 mg gabapentin preoperatively. Patients
      above 70yo will receive 300mg gabapentin. Patient will be randomized to one of the two arms.

      For the QL block, Shamrock sign consistent of the quadratus lumborum muscle, psoas major
      muscle, erector spinae muscles and the L4 transverse process will be identified. Under
      ultrasound guidance with an in-plane technique, the needle will be advanced into the fascial
      plane between the quadratus lumborum and psoas major muscles. For the LB group, 0.125%
      bupivacaine 20ml plus Exparel®10ml will then be injected into the fascial plane on each side.
      For the SB group. 30ml 0.25% bupivacaine will be injected on each side. Saline will be used
      for hydro-dissection until the QL block target is confirmed on ultrasound.

      As part of the ERAS protocol, all patients will receive ketamine and lidocaine drip during
      surgery, which is the investigator's current standard of practice.

      All patients will be scheduled on PO acetaminophen and PO gabapentin daily postoperatively
      per ERAS protocol. PO oxycodone PRN will be started once patients tolerate diet. PRN IV
      dilaudid may be given for severe breakthrough pain.

      Opioid usage at 1, 24, 48 and 72 hours after the block will be recorded by a member of the
      research team. Pain scores at rest and on movement (knee flexion) will be measured by the
      investigator using Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Nausea will be measured using a categorical
      scoring system (none=0; mild=1; moderate=2; severe=3). Sedation scores will also be assessed
      by a member of the study team using a sedation scale (awake and alert=0; quietly awake=1;
      asleep but easily roused=2; deep sleep=3). All these parameters will be measured at 1, 24, 48
      and 72 hours after the QL block and patients will be encouraged to ambulate on postoperative
      day 1 under supervision. Their ambulation activity will be recorded.
    
  