
    
      Despite the effectiveness of antiretroviral treatment to maintain or restore stable health,
      substantial numbers of HIV+ patients remain out of the mainstream and do not work. One
      important barrier is fatigue, which is prevalent and often disabling. After months to years
      of inertia and little activity, there is a need to rebuild one's life, which often requires
      support, guidance, time and reinforcement. Prior placebo controlled trials of modafinil and
      armodafinil to treat fatigue demonstrated efficacy. However, only 28% of those who wished to
      do so returned to work. Therefore the study team developed a manualized brief behavioral
      intervention, Behavioral Activation for Energy and Productivity (BA-PEP), derived from the
      validated Behavioral Activation Treatment for Depression, to be used in conjunction with
      armodafinil, with the primary goal of returning to work or vocational training.

      The current study is a medication/behavioral intervention randomized controlled trial to test
      the efficacy of armodafinil/BA-PEP vs. armodafinil/Supportive Counseling (SC) in increasing
      energy, activity level and employment goal attainment for people with HIV/AIDS whose
      presenting problem is clinically significant fatigue and unmet work goals. The study will
      enroll HIV+ patients with clinically significant fatigue in a 4-week trial of armodafinil,
      those who experience improved energy will be eligible for the counseling program and
      randomized to BA-PEP or SC. To broaden the potential generalizability of the intervention,
      the study will also enroll HIV+ adults who do not meet criteria for clinically significant
      fatigue but who seek counseling to help them return to work. The study will be conducted at
      both New York State Psychiatric Institute and Callen Lorde Community Health Center, to
      examine intervention implementation within a real-world community clinic.

      Primary aims: conduct a randomized clinical trial:

        1. Determine if more participants in BA-PEP return to work compared to SC.

        2. Determine if other outcome measures to assess behavioral activation and related
           dimensions, including the Environmental Reward Observation Scale [EROS], and Behavioral
           Activation for Depression Scale [BADS], differentiate response to BA-PEP and SC;

        3. To identify predictors of success in work goal attainment, including moderator variables
           such as concurrent Axis I depression, age, education, health history and status, time
           since last employed full-time, and substance use history, as well as mediator variables
           (e.g. "dose" of counseling).
    
  