
    
      This is a prospective randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, phase 2, 12-month pilot
      to study the efficacy of abaloparatide in postmenopausal women needing lumbar spinal fusion
      surgery. Seventy-two women with low bone mass who are scheduled to undergo spinal fusion
      surgery will be randomized 2:1 in a blinded fashion to receive either 80 mcg of abaloparatide
      subcutaneously (SC) every day or an identical-appearing placebo SC for 6 months. This study
      has 3 objectives:

        1. In this pilot study we will evaluate surgical outcomes at one year and the primary
           outcome will be fusion based on CT exam with categories of Fusion/ Indeterminate/ Not
           fused and this will be compared between groups receiving 6 months of abaloparatide vs.
           placebo. Secondary outcomes for surgical success will be evidence of pedicle screw
           loosening, adjacent segment fracture and proximal junctional kyphosis. This data will be
           used to determine effect sizes and variance to power the next larger clinical trial.

        2. To determine if abaloparatide/Tymlos versus placebo leads to a faster reduction in pain
           as assessed by both the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) and the Oswestry Disability Index
           (ODI) for low back pain at 6 months.

        3. As an exploratory proof of concept objective we will determine if abaloparatide/Tymlos
           versus placebo results in greater fusion bone mass volume (FBMV) as a marker of bone
           union at 6 months and 1 year to see whether at one year post lumbar spinal fusion
           surgery, greater FBMV is associated with improved spinal surgery outcomes including:
           enhanced bone union, reduced pedicle screw loosening, adjacent segment fracture and
           proximal junctional kyphosis. This would serve as evidence that FBMV can be used as an
           early validated marker of fusion surgery success.

      All analyses will be two-sided and the alpha level will be set at 0.05. FBMV, pain and
      function will be compared by drug (Abaloparatide vs. placebo) at 6 months. Compliance will be
      considered as taking 80% of the study drug. For the primary analysis we will evaluate bone
      union and reduced pedicle screw loosening, adjacent segment fracture, and proximal junctional
      kyphosis as dichotomous variables at 12 months using logistic regression and comparing the
      placebo group to the abaloparatide group. We will also evaluate FBMV as a continuous variable
      and evaluate differences in this outcome between abaloparatide and placebo groups at 6 months
      as an exploratory outcome variable. We will determine if FBMV differs in those with or
      without markers of surgical success for validity of FBMV, regardless of prior treatment
      group. In addition, these data will be used to determine effect sizes and variance to power
      the next larger clinical trial.

      We will evaluate NRS and ODI score by using repeated measures of these variables over time by
      treatment group and evaluate NRS at 6 months in the placebo versus abaloparatide group.
      Comorbidity, age, prior fracture, prior use of bisphosphonates and other covariates will be
      evaluated, via multivariable regression, as to whether they lead to a change in the estimate
      of effect in order to be considered for inclusion in the models.

      If abaloparatide can improve outcomes following lumbar spine fusion surgery, this pilot study
      could lead to the requisite two year trial that may have an impact on the treatment of fusion
      surgery patients.
    
  