
    
      From manuscript draft Methods:

      2.1 Setting, Participants and Data Collection In this qualitative study the investigators
      examined authentic examples of intraoperative teaching exchanges between attending and
      resident surgeons. These examples were taken from two previous studies conducted at a large
      women's hospital: the objectives of those studies were to compare attending and resident
      responses regarding avoiding intraoperative errors[31] and to develop the previously
      mentioned Intelligent Cooperation framework.[10] The 10 surgical cases were gynecologic,
      representing open abdominal, laparoscopic, and vaginal approaches. Surgical cases were chosen
      by convenience, according to the schedule of the filmographer. Participants included ten
      surgical attendings, four fellows, and eleven Obstetrics and Gynecology residents, ranging
      from PGY1 to PGY4. the investigators conducted interviews with all ten attending surgeons and
      five of the residents. The data for this study included the case video, deidentified
      transcripts of the cases, and deidentified transcripts of the interviews. Our qualitative
      approach was most informed by Sandelowski's concept of developing rich qualitative
      descriptions.[32]

      2.2 Research Team the investigators' interdisciplinary research team consisted of a female
      pelvic surgeon with twenty years of surgical teaching experience (GS), a medical education
      researcher and educational sociologist (LA), a neurosurgeon and administrator with 30 years
      of experience across the continuum of medical education (SK), and a cognitive psychologist
      with expertise in surgical education research (EBL).

      2.3 Data Analysis the investigators reviewed and discussed the works of key sociocultural
      learning scholars, as described in our Introduction. The discussions were converted into a
      list of "key tenets" of the SCLTs, with associated examples from K-12 and Higher Education.
      (see Table 1) the investigators then independently coded all transcripts according to the key
      tenets and examples from our list, noting which exchanges reflected various sociocultural
      theories. Counting themes was not part of the methodological approach in this study because
      it was inconsistent with the intent of the study to develop deep, rich, and comprehensive
      insights about teaching in the OR.[33] the investigators subsequently met as a group to
      review coding, convert them into themes of teaching and learning advanced surgical skills,
      and select notable examples from our data. (see Table 2) These themes were then transformed
      into instructional strategies to improve surgical teaching, based on the sociocultural
      theories. (see Table 3) Disagreements were settled by group discussion. Data saturation was
      determined according to our study objective[34], to identify intraoperative instructional
      strategies related to the social cultural learning theories. the investigators stopped
      analyzing transcripts when the investigators had generated no new instructional strategies.

      2.4 Reflexivity and Ethics During the meetings, the investigators maintained a reflexive
      atmosphere, reflecting on their backgrounds, experience, and biases and how those might
      affect their interpretation of the data. the investigators challenged those biases often. the
      investigators reached consensus regarding differences in data interpretation through group
      discussion. The University IRB approved this study as exempt.
    
  