
    
      Purpose of the study:

      To determine whether day and night automated closed loop glucose control combined with pump
      suspend feature will improve glucose control as measured by glycated haemoglobin and reduce
      the burden of hypoglycaemia compared to sensor augmented insulin pump therapy.

      Study objectives:

        1. EFFICACY: The objective is to assess efficacy of day and night automated closed loop
           glucose control combined with pump suspend feature in maintaining glucose levels within
           the target range from 3.9 to 10.0mmol/l (70 to 180mg/dl) based on subcutaneous
           continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), as compared to sensor augmented insulin pump
           therapy.

        2. SAFETY: The objective is to evaluate the safety of day and night automated closed loop
           glucose control combined with pump suspend feature, in terms of episodes of severe
           hypoglycaemia and other adverse events.

        3. UTILITY: The objective is to determine the frequency and duration of the use of the
           automated closed loop system.

        4. PSYCHOSOCIAL: Subjects' and family members' perception in terms of life-style change,
           diabetes management and fear of hypoglycaemia will be assessed using validated
           questionnaires and semi-structured qualitative interviews. Cognitive functions will be
           assessed using validated computerized cognitive tests.

      Study design:

      An open-label, multi-centre, multi-national, randomised, single-period, parallel group study,
      contrasting day and night automated closed loop glucose control combined with pump suspend
      feature with sensor augmented insulin pump therapy

      Population:

      84 participants randomised (42 youth and 42 adults). Each centre will aim to recruit between
      05 and 20 participants.

      Maximum duration of study for a subject :

      18 weeks

      Recruitment:

      The subjects will be recruited through the paediatric and adult diabetes outpatient clinics
      at each centre.

      Consent:

      Written consent/assent will be obtained from participants and/or guardians according to
      REC/IRB requirements.

      Screening assessment:

      Eligible participants will undergo a screening evaluation where blood samples for full blood
      count, renal, liver, thyroid function and anti-transglutaminase antibodies with IgA levels
      will be taken (if not done in the previous 3 months). Random C-peptide, glucose and HbA1c
      will also be measured, and a urine pregnancy test in females of child-bearing potential.

      Questionnaires investigating participants' quality of life, psychosocial functioning and
      response to their current treatment will be distributed. Cognitive assessment will be made
      using validated computerized cognitive tests.

      Study Training:

      Training sessions on the use of study CGM, insulin pump (and closed loop system for those
      randomised to the intervention group) will be provided by the research team. Training session
      on the use of real-time CGM and on how to interpret real-time and retrospective stored data
      will be provided to all subjects/carers using written material.

      Run-in Period:

      During a 4 week run-in period, subjects will use study CGM and insulin pump. The research
      team will contact subject once weekly during the run-in period, and subjects will also be
      able to contact the research team for support and treatment optimisation as necessary. For
      compliance and to assess the ability of the subject to use the CGM and study pump safely, at
      least 12 days of CGM data need to be recorded and safe use of study insulin pump demonstrated
      during the last 14 days of run-in period.

      Competency assessment:

      Competency on the use of study insulin pump and study CGM will be evaluated using a
      competency assessment tool developed by the research team. Further training may be delivered
      as required.

      Randomisation:

      Eligible subjects will be randomised using randomisation software to the use of real-time CGM
      and pump suspend feature combined with day and night closed loop or to sensor augmented
      insulin pump therapy.

        1. Automated day and night closed loop insulin delivery (intervention arm) combined with
           pump suspend feature (interventional arm):

           At the start, a blood sample will be taken for the measurement of HbA1c and a urine
           pregnancy test in females of child-bearing potential.

           A subset of participants will be interviewed to enable their historical diabetes
           management practices, everyday work and family lives, and their initial expectations of
           using closed loop technology to be captured and explored in-depth.

           Subjects will be admitted to the clinical facility on Day 1. Training on the use of
           closed loop and pump suspend feature will be provided by the research team. During the
           next 2-4 hours patient will operate the system under the supervision of the clinical
           team. Competency on the use of closed loop system will be evaluated. Subjects will use
           closed loop and pump suspend feature for 12 weeks.

        2. Sensor augmented insulin pump therapy (control arm):

      A blood sample will be taken for the measurement of HbA1c and a urine pregnancy test in
      females of child-bearing potential. Subjects will use sensor augmented insulin pump therapy
      without pump suspend feature for 12 weeks.

      End of study assessments:

        -  A blood sample will be taken for measurement of HbA1c.

        -  Validated questionnaires evaluating the impact of the devices employed on life change,
           diabetes management will be completed.

        -  Cognitive assessment will be made using validated computerized cognitive tests.

        -  Follow-up interviews will be undertaken with the subset of participants/family members
           at the end of the closed loop intervention.

      Procedures for safety monitoring during trial:

        -  Standard operating procedures for monitoring and reporting of all adverse events will be
           in place, including serious adverse events (SAE), serious adverse device effects (SADE)
           and specific adverse events (AE) such as severe hypoglycaemia.

        -  Subjects will be asked to test and record blood or urine ketones if their finger prick
           glucose is above 14.0mmol/l (250mg/dl) in the morning on waking, as part of the safety
           assessment for hyperglycaemia.

        -  A data safety and monitoring board (DSMB) will be informed of all serious adverse events
           and any unanticipated serious adverse device effects that occur during the study and
           will review compiled adverse event data at periodic intervals.

      Criteria for withdrawal of patients on safety grounds:

      A subject, parent, or guardian may terminate participation in the study at any time without
      necessarily giving a reason and without any personal disadvantage. An investigator can stop
      the participation of a subject after consideration of the benefit/risk ratio. Possible
      reasons are:

        1. Serious adverse events

        2. Significant protocol violation or non-compliance

        3. Failure to satisfy competency assessment

        4. Decision by the investigator, or the sponsor, that termination is in the subject's best
           medical interest

        5. Pregnancy, planned pregnancy, or breast feeding

        6. Allergic reaction to insulin

        7. Technical grounds (e.g. subject relocates)
    
  