
    
      Integrated whole-body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-positron emission tomography (PET)
      scanners have recently been introduced for clinical use. This technology combines the
      anatomic and perfusion data obtained with Dynamic Contrast Enhanced (DCE) MRI with functional
      imaging data obtained from PET. For breast imaging, the combination of MRI and PET has
      important potential to improve diagnostic accuracy and provide molecular characterization of
      breast cancer. The overall purpose of this research is to assess the analytic validity of
      simultaneous breast DCE MRI with 18F-FES PET for measuring estrogen receptor (ER) in patients
      with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and identifying patients with low-risk of disease
      recurrence. The hypothesis is that quantitative 18F-FES uptake parameters from PET/MRI will
      correlate well with the ER immunohistochemistry score and with low-risk recurrence scores.

      Primary Objective 1) To compare quantitative 18F-FES uptake of biopsy-proven DCIS measured
      using PET/MRI with ER protein levels determined by immunohistochemistry.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine the optimal cut-point 18F-FES uptake value for distinguishing between ER+
           and ER-negative DCIS

        2. To determine the test-retest reproducibility of quantitative assessment of tumor 18F-FES
           uptake

        3. To determine the optimal cut-point 18F-FES uptake value for distinguishing between
           low-risk DCIS and intermediate/high-risk DCIS

        4. To estimate the association of quantitative 18F-FES uptake (continuous SUVmax) with
           research-based Oncotype DX DCIS scores (0-100)

        5. To measure the upgrade rate to invasive cancer at surgical excision

        6. To correlate tumor 18F-FES uptake with serum estradiol and sex hormone binding globulin
           levels.

      Exploratory Objective

      1) To correlate tumor cell density with 18F-FES uptake on PET/MRI
    
  