
    
      There will be two parts to this study, part 1: a feasibility study, and part 2: a randomised
      controlled trial (RCT).

      The aim of part 1 is to evaluate the feasibility of using videos as a facilitation tool for
      training community instructors and the implementation of the Steady Feet (SF) classes.

      Part 1 comprises a pre-post design and qualitative methods. Community instructors' competency
      levels of class execution will be compared before and after the video-facilitated training.
      Interviews or focus group discussions will be conducted for community providers, instructors,
      and community-dwelling older adults to explore the acceptability, appropriateness,
      feasibility of the exercise video, and to obtain feedback and any recommendations for
      improvements. This part of the study aims to recruit 30 participants.

      The aim of part 2 is to examine the effectiveness of the SF Programme on improving functional
      outcomes in older adults (aged 60 years and above) with a high risk of falls.

      Part 2 comprises an open-label, parallel randomized controlled trial. At least 260
      participants (130 intervention and 130 control) with a Short Physical Performance Battery
      (SPPB) score of 7 to 10, no significant cognitive impairment and vision issues will be
      recruited to be part of the study. Participants will be randomized to the intervention or
      control group before the baseline visit and will be followed-up prospectively at the 3rd
      month, 6th month, and 12th month. Repeated measures will be performed at the pre-defined time
      points. The primary outcome of interest is the difference in Short Performance Physical
      Battery (SPPB) scores between the intervention and control groups at 6 months. Intention to
      treat analysis will be used. Other outcomes, such as functional assessments, balance
      confidence, fear of falling, quality of life, healthcare utilisation, and cost, and fall
      history will also be examined.
    
  