
    
      The project includes two parts:

      Part 1: With a longitudinal semicross-over, randomized control design the investigators will
      compare the clinical efficacy of a 6 month specific neck rehabilitation with standard primary
      health care on patients with unilateral headache and neck pain ( also termed cervicogenic
      headache) and study whether self-efficacy and fear avoidance beliefs predict 12 month
      self-reported neck function and headache frequency superior to the active range of neck
      movement The patients will either receive a specific neck rehabilitation program or 6 month
      standard primary health care before they cross over to neck rehabilitation. Sociodemographic
      and clinical characteristics will be collected before each treatment session and 6 and 12
      months later.

      Part 2: With a non-randomized comparative design including a subsample of the patients (n:
      36) and healthy controls (n: 36) the investigators will explore whether there are structural
      changes in the cerebral grey and white matter, and whether cerebral connectivity within the
      default mode network (DMN and other major cerebral networks) are significantly different and
      whether the changes correlate to symptom severity and degree of disability.

      Structural (cortical volume and thickness) changes will measured by volumetric magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRi) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), while cerebral connectivity by
      resting state fMRI (rs-fMRI). Whether the anticipated cerebral changes in volume, structure
      and connectivity are reversed after specific neck rehabilitation will be tested by repeated
      measurements. Analyses of MRI scans and clinical characteristics will be performed before
      each treatment session and 6 months later.

      Statistics: Power calculations based on previous studies indicate that for the clinical part
      a number of 21 patients within each treatment group (a total of 42 patients) and for the MR
      analyses a subsample of 34 patients and 34 health controls will be sufficient to obtain a
      statistical power of 80% with a p-value of 5%. Due to a high drop out rate we have included a
      total of 57 patients. Changes between baseline and the 6 month follow up will be used for
      "between and within group" comparisons while 12 months data will be included for in
      "within-group" comparisons. Statistical predictor analyses will be performed by regression
      analyses. The statistician who are performing the primary end point analysis, are blinded to
      group assignment.
    
  