
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To screen for an indication that the addition of vandetanib to chemoradiotherapy may
           prolong disease-free survival as compared to a combination of chemoradiotherapy in
           patients with resected, high-risk stage III or IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether this treatment regimen can be delivered safely and successfully
           following surgical resection for advanced head and neck cancer.

        -  To estimate the locoregional progression, distant metastasis, and overall survival rates
           for patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To examine the distribution of selected biomarkers that may include but are not limited
           to EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor, total and phosphorylated), E-cadherin, pMAPK
           (phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase), pAKT, Stat-3 (signal transducer and
           activator of transcription 3), Ki-67, COX-2 (cyclooxygenase 2), and cyclin B1
           (G2/mitotic-specific cyclin-B1)expression in this group of patients and to explore the
           potential correlation between these markers with the ultimate treatment outcome

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Zubrod performance
      status (0 vs 1) and primary site of disease (oral cavity/hypopharynx vs larynx vs oropharynx,
      HPV+ (human papillomavirus positive) vs oropharynx, HPV- (human papillomavirus negative)).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 times a week for up to 6.5 weeks and receive
           cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 22, and 43 of radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I and receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour
           once a week beginning on day 1 of radiotherapy. Patients also receive oral vandetanib
           once daily beginning 14 days prior to the start of radiotherapy.

      In both arms, treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Tissue samples from all patients are collected and reviewed. Tissue from patients with
      oropharyngeal carcinoma is analyzed for human papillomavirus.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 4 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  