
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI) is a common and lethal form of respiratory failure, occurring in
      200,000 people each year and in as many as 25% of mechanically ventilated patients. Despite
      multiple clinical studies, there are presently no effective medical therapies for ALI, and
      its mortality remains unacceptably high at about 40%. Common co-morbid conditions that can
      alter the susceptibility to ALI are chronic alcohol abuse and diabetes mellitus (DM). The
      incidence and severity of ALI is increased in critically ill patients with a history of
      chronic alcohol abuse. With respect to DM, the group has previously reported that a history
      of diabetes mellitus is associated with a decreased incidence of ALI in patients with septic
      shock. As the biological mechanism for this association was unknown, a cross-sectional
      epidemiological study was conducted by broadly examining the role of diabetes in the
      development of respiratory failure associated with sepsis. Using national hospitalization
      data, it was found that diabetics with sepsis were less likely to develop any form of acute
      respiratory failure than non-diabetics.

      ALI occurs through a common pathway of oxidant stress and inflammation, injuring the lungs
      and rendering them dysfunctional for gas exchange. The alveolar macrophage (AM) is an
      important mediator of the inflammatory response, with roles such as phagocytosis and
      secretion of inflammatory cytokines that are key components of lung injury and repair. While
      more than one mechanism may explain the previous observations of a decreased incidence of ALI
      in diabetics, the data in chronic alcoholics suggests that AM dysfunction may play a role in
      the in the development of ALI leading us to hypothesize that DM may similarly alter the
      pulmonary microenvironment, thereby decreasing the susceptibility to ALI. Furthermore, early
      preliminary data suggests that the AM activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
      gamma (PPARγ), a transcription factor with anti-inflammatory properties, may be increased in
      diabetics. In addition, evidence suggests that macrophage activation into a pro-inflammatory
      versus an anti-inflammatory state may be tissue specific and altered by obesity and insulin
      resistance (i.e. compartmentalized in the lung). However, the effect of DM on the pulmonary
      inflammatory response and specifically AM function is as yet unknown. PPARγ is highly
      expressed in AMs, and thus PPARγ ligands have direct affects on AMs to influence lung
      inflammation by inhibiting oxidative burst and enhancing AM phagocytic function. PPARγ and
      its ligands influence AM differentiation into M1 (pro-inflammatory) and M2
      (anti-inflammatory) phenotypes and a recent preclinical study demonstrated effective
      prevention of ALI by pretreatment with a PPARγ ligand. However, the effect that DM and PPARγ
      ligands have on AM phenotypic differentiation, PPARγ expression, oxidative stress and AM
      phagocytic function has not been well investigated. To our knowledge, there is no data on AM
      PPARγ activity in DM, and little is known about how this disease state may alter the
      pulmonary inflammatory milieu. The investigators hypothesize that DM reduces the risk of ALI
      by modulating AM differentiation and function via PPARγ expression, oxidative stress and AM
      phagocytic function, which may be positively influenced by exposure to a PPARγ ligand.
      Examining the impact of DM and PPARγ on AM phenotype and function may identify mechanisms
      responsible for the decreased incidence of ALI in diabetics; improve our understanding of the
      pathogenesis of a common and lethal disease, and lead to novel therapies for both diabetic
      and non-diabetic critically ill patients
    
  