
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Demonstrate that the graft versus host disease (GVHD) prophylactic regimen
      consisting of T-cell depletion and cyclosporine results in less toxicity than the control
      regimen of methotrexate and cyclosporine in recipients of peripheral blood stem cell
      transplants. II. Monitor safety of the two regimens in order to assure that the treatment
      regimen dose not result in any increase in serious or unexpected toxicities, does not
      compromise the efficacy of GVHD prophylaxis, and does not compromise the efficacy of the
      disease therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, controlled, randomized trial. Patients are assigned to high
      or low risk groups and randomized to the control or treatment arms. Patients are stratified
      by risk group and by site. Mobilization, apheresis, and successful cryopreservation of the
      minimum number of CD34 cells for transplant has to be achieved prior to initiating
      cytoreductive therapy. Following intensive cytoreductive therapy, patients receive either
      unselected peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) together with the control graft versus host
      disease (GVHD) prophylaxis regimen or CD34+ cells isolated from PBSC with cyclosporine. In
      the control group, GVHD prophylaxis consists of two drug therapies, cyclosporine and
      methotrexate. The cyclosporine is administered first by IV continuous infusion and then later
      orally, twice a day, in decreasing increments for 180 days. Methotrexate is administered by
      IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11. Cyclosporine is discontinued after day +180 if there is no
      evidence of GVHD. In the treatment group, GVHD prophylaxis consists of T cell depletion of
      the transplant product using the Isolex positive selection procedure (Isolex selected CD34+
      cells) and cyclosporine. The cyclosporine is administered at the same doses and increments as
      in the control group. In cases where there still is acute or chronic GVHD, the patient is
      given the appropriate salvage regimens. Patients are followed monthly for 6 months after
      transplant, and then for 2 years to monitor relapses.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 200 patients accrued (100 in each arm) in this study.
    
  