
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether substituting adjuvant concurrent high dose cisplatin (CDDP) and
      fluorouracil (5-FU) with gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) and paclitaxel will result
      in superior progression-free survival. (Detectable Plasma Epstein Barr Virus [EBV]
      Deoxyribonucleic Acid [DNA] Cohort randomized Phase II) II. To determine whether omitting
      adjuvant CDDP and 5-FU (observation alone in the adjuvant setting) will result in
      non-inferior overall survival as compared with those patients receiving adjuvant CDDP and
      5-FU chemotherapy. (Undetectable Plasma EBV DNA Cohort Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Time to distant metastasis. (Randomized Phase II and Phase III) II. Time to local
      progression. (Randomized Phase II and Phase III) III. Time to regional progression.
      (Randomized Phase II and Phase III) IV. Progression-free survival (Undetectable Cohort). V.
      Overall survival (Detectable Cohort). VI. Acute and late toxicity profiles based on
      clinician-reported Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version (v.) 4.
      (Randomized Phase II and Phase III) VII. Death during or within 30 days of end of protocol
      treatment. (Randomized Phase II and Phase III) VIII. Quality of life (general and physical
      well-being). (Randomized Phase II and Phase III) IX. Quality of life (hearing). (Randomized
      Phase II and Phase III) X. Quality of life (peripheral neuropathy). (Randomized Phase II and
      Phase III) XI. Cost effectiveness. (Randomized Phase II and Phase III)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) 5 days a week
      for 6.5 weeks and receive low-dose cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes once
      weekly during IMRT. Beginning 1 week after chemoradiation, plasma samples are collected for
      EBV DNA analysis.

      PHASE II: Patients with detectable EBV DNA from pre-treatment analysis are randomized to 1 of
      2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive PF regimen comprising cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes and
      fluorouracil IV over 96 hours continuously beginning at least 4 weeks after completion of
      IMRT. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive GT regimen comprising paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and gemcitabine
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 at least 4 weeks after completion of IMRT.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE III:

      Patients with undetectable EBV DNA from pre-treatment analysis are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      ARM III: Patients receive PF regimen as in Arm I.

      ARM IV: Patients undergo clinical observation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  