
    
      Aseptic osteonecrosis of the hip (AOH) concern 1 Swiss young adult to 1000 (30-40 years old).
      They are responsible to a severe joint destruction and in the majority of cases a joint
      replacement. AOH represented 10% of the hip replacement in Switzerland. It could be multiple.
      In this situation, they can be associated with a specific disease, justifying more
      collaboration between surgeon and specialist on bone diseases or rheumatologist.

      Initially patient with AOH presents mechanical pain and dysfunction. Either surgeon or
      rheumatologist can suspect the diagnosis. To the hip, we can distinguish 4 stages of
      osteonecrosis according to Ficat: 1, 2, 3, 4. The unfavourable evolution to a worst stage is
      common and depend on the necrosis surface: less than 10% at 3 years if the surface is small,
      25% if the surface is moderate, 84% if the surface is extended. In case of fortuitous
      discovery, natural evolution to the collapse from stage 1 is 55%, from stage 2 56% and from
      stage 3 96% with a median time of 39 months.

      Mainly, in case of early Ficat stage (1), the final diagnosis is supported by a specific
      image on MRI. It could be confounding with a differential diagnosis of transient
      osteoporosis. Stage 3 and 4 AOH management are unanimous surgical. But management of stage 1
      and 2 are unclear. Based on the physiopathology, associating 2 hypothesis (one vascular, one
      osseous), bisphosphonates could be interesting to decrease the pain and the bone defect whom
      evaluated to a joint collapse.

      Bisphophonates are mainly used for bone and osteoporosis diseases. They decrease the bone
      turn over, and the risk of fracture. They decrease the bone marrow oedema and the pain
      associated to this oedema. Ibandronate is a bisphosphonate with a rapid effect, a short
      half-life, easy to manage, and with few side effects.

      Regarding these considerations, a study gathering surgeons, specialist in bone diseases and
      radiologist is necessary. An interdisciplinary approach is needed to increase the knowledge
      in this pathology and to well manage patients. The exact diagnosis of AOH needs a radiologic
      expertise, the well management of movement and staging evolution needs an orthopaedic
      management, the deliverance of treatment and bone efficacy of it needs a bone diseases
      expertise.

      A prospective randomized double blind with placebo study was designed. All consecutive
      patients (18-50 yo) seen in OTP and RHU/CMO units of the CHUV with a confirmed diagnosis of a
      single stage 1 or 2 according to Ficat AOH by an MRI could be included. After informed and
      signed consent, they will be randomized to receive either placebo or 3 mg of ibandronate.
      Infusion will be performed in 15 minutes. Size effect (pain VAS, Harris, Womac, EQ5D, gait
      parameters, blood analysis) and side effects will be record at day 3, 7, month 1, 3, and 6.
      If a patient has a persistent pain (same or worse VAS) at M3, a second infusion will be
      performed, only with ibandronate.

      At M1 and M3 an MRI will be performed to confirm the stage 1 (DD transient osteoporosis) only
      for the stage 1 previous diagnosed patients.

      At M3 and M6 an X ray and an MRI will be performed for all patients to analyze the stage
      progression.

      The primary end point will be at M6 for pain VAS and radiological progression. Patients who
      need a second infusion at 3 months would be considered as not survival.

      We hypothesize a reduction of 20 mm on the VAS scale (SD 10mm) in the ibandronate group
      versus placebo, and a non radiological progression in the treated group. With a power to 90%
      and an alpha of 0.05 we want to include 50 patients. Drugs: Patients will be allowed to have
      pain killers or NSAI prescribe by the investigator or the GP. All drugs have to be noted in
      the diary. All patients will receive a physiotherapy prescription of one treatment per week,
      over a period of 3 months. Moreover, the patient may freely choose any physiotherapist. The
      prescription will be given by the investigator. Furthermore, the sessions can be spaced out
      during the last three months, at the investigators discretion. On one hand participants will
      be asked to not overwork. On other hand, participants will be asked to not adapt a non
      weight-bearing status either.

      From the economical point of view, looking at the CHUV scale only, 10% of the hip
      arthroplasties made for AOH means 30 patients each year. If the treatment allows postponing
      10 years the need of an arthroplasty as one study published with a lower methodology
      suggests, it means an economy of CHF 1'200'000 each year.
    
  