
    
      Osteoporosis is a common disease among elderly people, the progression of which leads to an
      increased bone fracture risk, which can adversely affect quality of life and increase
      age-related morbidity/mortality. The National Osteoporosis Foundation forecast that by 2015,
      osteoporosis will be responsible for three million fractures resulting in $25.3 billion in
      healthcare costs. This highlights an urgent demand for methods to accurately predict
      osteoporotic fracture risk for clinical assessment and management of osteoporosis.

      In clinical practice, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is the traditional and only
      method of diagnosing osteoporosis based on BMD measurements. However, DEXA has certain
      limitations, and a considerable overlap exists in BMD values between individuals who develop
      fractures and those who do not. This reflects that BMD does not capture all of the factors
      that contribute to bone strength. One such factor is trabecular microarchitecture of bone,
      well recognized in the definition of osteoporosis.

      Ex vivo studies have demonstrated that trabecular bone microarchitecture constitutes an
      important component of bone strength, independent of BMD. However, trabecular
      microarchitecture is not considered in the evaluation of fracture risk in clinical practice.
      Several imaging techniques have been reviewed as potential candidates for clinical evaluation
      of trabecular bone microarchitecture. Technological improvements in high resolution X-ray
      imaging and MRI are providing increasingly accurate data on bone microarchitecture, but can
      be used only at peripheral sites (femur and forearm) and have not yet been incorporated into
      standardized clinical imaging protocols due to the lack of central site (lumbar spine)
      assessment, where osteoporotic fractures are most prevalent.

      The current literature suggests a potential to increase the diagnostic accuracy of
      bone-strength prediction by incorporating advanced mathematical descriptors of bone
      structure. The project collaborators in Rochester have demonstrated that geometrical features
      characterizing the femoral trabecular compartment can complement conventional BMD
      measurements and improve bone strength prediction in ex vivo femur specimens. However, little
      effort has been made to actually utilize this complementary image information in clinical
      practice. This study should encourage the further development of these techniques and
      implementation into clinical practice.

      Our goal is to start to bridge the gap between fundamental research on bone strength
      prediction and clinical management of osteoporosis, reflecting a translational research
      approach from "bench to bedside". To this end, a novel methodology will be evaluated by both
      a retrospective analysis and a prospective pilot study. The specific choice of using
      dual-energy CT (DECT) for the prospective pilot study is motivated by the potential to
      improve BMD measurement beyond what Quantitative CT (QCT) can, and it also allows for
      material decomposition into calcium and soft-tissue components, which has applications for
      other clinically relevant disease entities and will eventually result in the widespread
      availability of this relatively new technology.
    
  