
    
      We enroll consecutive asymptomatic patients with moderate mitral stenosis who are candidates
      for both early percutaneous mitral commissurotomy (PMC) and conventional treatment at 3
      centers in Seoul, Korea.

      Echocardiographic evaluation is performed before enrollment, immediately after PMC and
      annually during follow-up. All patients undergo two-dimensional echocardiography and/or
      transesophageal echocardiography to detect left atrial thrombi. Morphologic features of the
      mitral valve (MV) are categorized as described previously (14), and total echocardiographic
      score is obtained by adding the scores for leaflet mobility, thickness, calcification, and
      subvalvular lesions. The MVA is measured by direct planimetry of the mitral orifice, and MS
      severity is graded as mild, moderate, or severe when MVA was > 1.5, 1.0 to 1.5, or < 1.0 cm2,
      respectively. The severity of mitral and tricuspid regurgitation is assessed
      semiquantitatively or using quantitative methods and classified as mild, moderate, or severe.
      Pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PAP) is estimated by continuous wave Doppler with the
      simplified Bernoulli equation.

      All study patients regularly visit their attending physicians at 3 monthly interval for
      maintenance of anticoagulation therapy or every year for annual re-evaluation. Patients in
      the conventional treatment group who become symptomatic during follow-up are referred for PMC
      or mitral valve surgery. An embolic event is defined as a systemic embolism fulfilling both
      prespecified criteria: acute onset of clinical symptoms or signs of embolism and occurrence
      of new lesions confirmed by imaging studies. A specific diagnosis of cerebral infarction is
      confirmed by an experienced neurologist and additional brain magnetic resonance imaging is
      performed if indicated.

      We estimate that a sample size of 166 patients would provide 80% power to detect a
      significant difference with respect to the primary end point at the 2-sided significance
      level of 0.05, assuming 3-year event rates of 13% in the conventional treatment group and 2%
      in the early PMC group, and drop-out rate of 5%. These rates are based on the results of our
      previous study. Analyses are performed on an intention-to-treat basis. To analyze primary
      outcome, estimates of cumulative event rates are calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method and
      compared employing the log-rank test. For Kaplan-Meier analysis, we analyze all clinical
      events by time to first event. Hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals are derived with
      the use of the Cox proportional hazards model.
    
  