
    
      Peripheral blood stem cell transplant research carried out by the NHLBI BMT Unit focus on
      transplant techniques designed to decrease graft versus host disease (GVHD), increase the
      graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect and reduce the risk of post-transplant graft rejection.

      Through incremental transplant clinical trials we have shown that by controlling the stem
      cell (CD34+ cell) and T lymphocyte (CD3+ cell) dose, severe GVHD can be reduced whilst
      beneficial GVL effects can be preserved. We found that T cell depleted transplants using the
      Nexell/Baxter Isolex 300i system and subsequently, the Miltenyi CD34+ CliniMACs system to
      obtain high CD34+ doses depleted of lymphocytes were safe to administer and associated with
      less severe acute GVHD and promising response rates and overall survival. Our previous trials
      have helped us to create the transplant environment (significant lymphodepletion and minimal
      post transplant immunosuppression) that make for an ideal platform for adoptive cellular
      immunotherapy

      This protocol is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an improved ex vivo graft
      manipulation procedure using the Miltenyi CliniMACs CD 34, 3 and 19 selection system in
      HLA-matched sibling allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant. The manipulation of the
      graft is the primary research intervention and all other aspects of clinical management on
      this protocol are the standard of care. The target CD34+ dose range will be 3 times 10(6)/kg
      to 10 times 10(6)/kg and the target CD3+ dose range will be 5 x 10(4)/kg to 1 times 10(6)/kg.
      The technique will preserve greater numbers of NK cells. Once we demonstrate adequacy of
      engraftment in the first ten recipients, we plan an amendment to permit further use of this
      protocol to serve as a platform for several planned adoptive cellular therapy initiatives.

      The protocol will accrue up to 44 subjects aged 10-75 with a hematological malignancy and
      their HLA-matched sibling donors, in whom allogeneic stem cell transplantation from an
      HLA-matched sibling would be routinely indicated. Diagnostic categories will include acute
      and chronic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, lymphomas, multiple myeloma and
      myeloproliferative syndromes.

      Subjects will receive a myeloablative conditioning regimen of cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg
      total), fludarabine (125 mg/m(2) total) and total body irradiation (1200 cGy with lung
      shielding to 600 cGy), followed by an infusion of a stem cell product prepared using the
      Miltenyi CliniMACS system for CD34, 3 & 19 selection. Older subjects will receive a lower
      dose of irradiation (600 cGy) without lung shielding to reduce the regimen intensity.

      The overall objective is to assess the feasibility of using this system as a platform for
      cellular immunotherapy initiatives. The primary study endpoint will be overall survival at
      day plus 200. Non-relapse mortality at day plus 200 will be monitored for safety. Secondary
      endpoints will be standard transplant outcome variables such as non-hematologic toxicity,
      incidence and severity of acute and chronic GVHD and relapse of disease.
    
  