
    
      Asymptomatic bacteriuria is common in pregnancy. If the disease is not detected early in
      pregnancy and treated it often progresses to an acute symptomatic disease, pyelonephritis
      which is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes including preterm birth.

      It is recommended that every woman be screened for asymptomatic bacteriuria by urine culture
      test at initial antenatal care visit so that the disease is if identified is treated early to
      prevent preventable complications of the disease in pregnancy. Culture test is expensive and
      therefore unavailable at several primary care settings especially in low resource settings
      where majority of pregnant women register and visit for antenatal care. In Zimbabwe antenatal
      care at primary care clinics is not including screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria.
      Majority who present with symptoms are empirically treated.

      In this study the Griess nitrite test, an effective inexpensive screening test for
      asymptomatic bacteriuria is used. the test detects nitrite in urine which is associated with
      presence of nitrate reducing uropathogens, commonly the gram negative bacteria. All the
      positive samples will then be further tested by culture for bacteria identification,
      quantification and antibiotic sensitivity. A Randomized controlled trial research design is
      being used. participants are randomly allocated to intervention group or control group. Urine
      samples will be collected and tested 3 times for each recruited participant in the
      intervention arm. treatment will be initiated for positive result according to sensitivity
      test. Control group will only be subjected to routine existing antenatal care.

      Participants will be recruited before 22 weeks gestation and followed on for second contact
      by 28 weeks and third contact by 36 weeks. Follow up will be stopped on delivery for noting
      gestation at delivery, whether preterm or term.
    
  