
    
      In this prospective study, adult patients ranging in age from 18-80, routinely seen in the
      Brooke Army Medical Center Gastroenterology clinics will be eligible for enrollment.
      Approximately 950 adult patients will be enrolled. In phase I the prevalence of NAFLD and
      NASH will be determined, non-invasive imaging techniques for the diagnosis of NAFLD and NASH
      will be explored, and the relationship between colon polyps and NAFLD will be evaluated.
      Phase II will be offered to participants that qualified for a liver biopsy. In phase II the
      prevalence and severity of CAD, endothelial dysfunction, and diastolic dysfunction within the
      population of subjects with NAFLD will be determined.

      Phase I:

      After obtaining informed consent and confirming that the subject has met inclusion and
      exclusion criteria for the study, the study will employ a questionnaire to be completed by
      the subject. This questionnaire will include data such as race and ethnic group, past medical
      history, current medications, etc. The subject will then have routine labs (liver function
      tests, fasting insulin, glucose, and a pregnancy test for all female subjects), FibroScan®
      and MRE/MRI done to assess for the presence or absence of hepatic steatosis, inflammation,
      fibrosis, iron quantification and diameter and luminal characteristics of the abdominal
      aorta. Subjects will be called by the PI or an AI to return to the clinic for additional
      study procedures to include a core liver biopsy if they are identified to have one or more of
      the following:

        -  greater or equal to 5% steatosis on MRI or

        -  liver stiffness greater than 7 kPa on Fibroscan®, or

        -  evidence of fibrosis on MRE or

        -  LIF score of 2.0 or greater

      The PI/AI will let the subject know that he/she qualifies for further diagnostic testing as
      part of the trial and will discuss tests results with them in detail.

      FibroScan examination will be performed to assess liver stiffness according to the
      manufacturer's recommendation and in accordance with the device's FDA clearance. The device
      is equipped with two probes (M and XL) dedicated to different morphology and operating at
      different measurement depths. The M probe operates between 25 and 65 mm below the skin
      surface and the XL probe operates between 35 and 75 mm. The device's software automatically
      recommends which probe is the most appropriate during examination based on the real time
      assessment of the skin to liver capsule distance (automatic probe selection tool). The
      FibroScan used in this study will be equipped with a software allowing, in addition to liver
      stiffness, measurement of the Controlled Attenuation Parameter (CAP) which is related to
      liver steatosis with different algorithm. This additional software feature is FDA approved.
      Operators will be trained and certified by the manufacturer or its local representative.
      Recommendation from the Automatic Probe Selection tool will be followed. At least ten valid
      measurements should be obtained. De-identified acquisition files will be reviewed by the
      device's manufacturer (Echosens) to confirm the operator's choice of measurement depths and
      eventually change them as well as analyze the additional ultrasonic signals.

      In addition to the Fibroscan, a second non-invasive imaging technique, MRE/MRI Liver
      MultiScan for detecting steatosis, inflammation and liver fibrosis or stiffness will be
      conducted. This data will be used to correlate with the presence of NAFLD/NASH. MRI-Liver
      MultiScan is a post MRI processing software. It involves a specialized magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) technique/sequences that measures fat, iron and fibrosis in the liver using T1
      mapping. The procedure has no need for intravenous contrast. LiverMultiScan is currently
      approved by the FDA for use with Siemens 3T MRI with E11 software. However, this MRI model is
      not being used at BAMC. Therefore, the use of LMS locally will conducted under an IDE
      exemption for diagnostic devices (21 CFR 812.2(c))(3). The LMS software will not be used to
      clinically diagnose subjects. Rather, data will be collected and analyzed by the site and
      manufacturer (Perspectum) with the knowledge that MRI is not performed in accordance with LMS
      labeling.

      BAMC Radiology will work in collaboration with Perspectum to complete the post processing
      review of the MRI image data to correlate with the presence of NAFLD/NASH. The BAMC Radiology
      Department AI's will de-identify the image data (remove all PHI), load on a secure server and
      have Perspectum Diagnostics complete the post-processing interpretations.

      The MR elastography scan will be conducted in conjuncture with the MRI scan and
      post-processed by AIs within the BAMC Radiology Department. In addition, AIs in the BAMC
      Radiology Department will conduct a safety read of all scans. The results of the MRE and the
      safety read will be placed in the subject's electronic medical record.

      Participants that qualify for a core liver biopsy based upon the results from the FibroScan
      and MRE/MRI LiverMultiScan will be asked to return to specimen collection for additional
      blood work prior to the liver biopsy. This will consist of a complete blood count (CBC),
      coagulation panel, fasting lipid panel, GGT, vitamin D level, renal function panel, ferritin,
      hemoglobin A1C, and chronic hepatitis panel.

      Subjects will then undergo a percutaneous liver biopsy to establish diagnosis of NASH. This
      will occur in the Gastroenterology Clinic at Brooke Army Medical Center. The liver tissue
      will be submitted to BAMC Pathology Department for evaluation by an AI, an experienced
      hepatopathologist. The pathology results will be used to identify subjects who have the more
      severe form of NAFLD, NASH. The pathologist will provide an overall diagnostic interpretation
      based on the criteria reported by Brunt et al. and by the NAFLD Activity Score (NAS).
      According to this scoring system, the degree of steatosis and inflammatory activity is
      measured using a zero to eight scale (steatosis=0-3; lobular inflammation=0-3;
      ballooning=0-2). The NAS is the unweighted sum of steatosis, lobular inflammation, and
      hepatocellular ballooning scores. The stage of fibrosis will be assessed using a zero to four
      scale (0=no fibrosis; 1=mild/moderate zone three perisinusoidal fibrosis, or
      portal/periportal fibrosis only; 2= perisinusoidal and portal/periportal fibrosis; 3=
      bridging fibrosis; 4= cirrhosis). Additionally, at the time of liver biopsy, 4 additional
      unstained slides will be prepared for morphometry analysis by Echosens. The liver
      histological diagnosis will be established by an experienced pathologist blinded to the
      clinical characteristics of the subjects, radiographic studies and the serum biomarkers. The
      outside expert pathologist will use the same scoring system as the local pathologist. If
      there is a discrepancy between the two pathology results for a subject the final
      determination will be made by the local BAMC pathologist. An addendum will be placed in the
      electronic medical record by the BAMC pathologist. The subject will be informed of the change
      and documentation of the new diagnosis and any further treatments will be made in AHLTA.

      Echosens will use the liver biopsy slides to correlate the FibroMeter™ NAFLD/VCTE test with
      liver fibrosis and the presence of NAFLD and NASH. FibroMeter™ is a non-invasive diagnostic
      test that evaluates the level of fibrosis in the liver using patient clinical data (age and
      weight) and a proprietary selection of standard clinical lab results including platelets,
      AST, ALT, ferritin, glucose and Alpha-2-macroglobulin levels. The results of these locally
      run tests will be entered into the Echosens FibroMeter website for FibroMeter NAFLD/VCTE
      calculation. This test is approved in Europe and provides means for detection of significant
      fibrosis, detection of cirrhosis (screening for esophageal varices and hepatocellular
      carcinoma) and a quantitative estimate of fibrosis staging, thereby providing opportunity for
      serial monitoring of fibrosis in suspected cases. The FibroMeter test result will then be
      used by Echosens to correlate with the morphometry analysis. All results are identified with
      only the subject study number. Results from the FibroMeter test will not be used to support a
      FDA marketing application. Additionally, the results of the FibroMeter will not be used
      clinically nor to determine the performance of any subsequent research procedure. The results
      will not be placed in the subject's medical records.

      An additional 5 ml of whole blood and 5 ml of serum will be collected and stored by a
      research coordinator, nurse, research assistant, or investigator for analysis of specific
      biomarkers to include Hyaluronic acid, CK-18 (M30), FGF-21, Mac-2BP, FAS, AFP, YKL-40,
      Alpha-2-macroglobulin and a panel of 46 fatty acids during the liver biopsy appointment.
      Phlebotomies will be performed in Hepatology Research. The stored serum will be kept in the
      BAMC Gastroenterology Clinic in a -80 degree freezer and batch shipped to an outside lab
      periodically for analysis. Specimens will be identified by a designated research code only
      available to the local study team, thereby removing any personal identifiers on specimens
      prior to shipment to an outside lab.

      In order to address aim 3, subjects enrolled in the study who have undergone or will undergo
      colonoscopy during study participation as part of their routine clinical care will have their
      AHLTA/CHCS records reviewed and those with colon polyps or colon masses will be evaluated
      against their imaging study findings. The correlation between colon polyp number/severity and
      the presence of NAFLD will be ascertained.

      Subjects qualifying for a liver biopsy will be referred to the study team members in the
      Cardiology clinic with the option to enroll in Phase II of the protocol.

      Phase II:

      Phase II will consist of three cardiology procedures.

        1. Coronary CT angiography: All subjects who meet inclusion criteria for a percutaneous
           liver biopsy, are consented to phase II, and do not have known CAD defined as prior
           percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or have
           not undergone CCTA within the previous 12 months, will undergo a CCTA with CAC score.
           Subjects undergoing this portion of the analysis will need a renal function panel within
           30 days of the scan date with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of ≥ 60 mls/min/1.73m2
           by the Cockcroft-Gault equation, no prior history of an allergic reaction to intravenous
           CT contrast, and no contraindications to administration of sublingual nitroglycerin and
           nodal blocking agents. All CCTA scans will be analyzed by a cardiologist with level III
           ACC/ACR certified imaging expertise in accordance with the Society of Cardiovascular
           Computed Tomography (SCCT) guidelines. Scans will be performed in accordance with SCCT
           guidelines. Studies will be obtained utilizing a 128-slice dual source scanner with a
           high pitch, single heart beat image acquisition capabilities (Somatom Definition Flash
           CT®, Siemens, Erlagen, Germany). CAC scanning will occur first at a standard tube
           voltage of 120 keV and 3 mm slice acquisition and CareDose® modulation of tube current
           enabled for all scans. CT technologist will be responsible for contacting the on-call CT
           imaging specialist for CAC score ≥400 prior to proceeding to CCTA acquisition.
           Continuation to CCTA will be at the discretion of the CT imaging specialist. Tube
           voltage and image acquisition protocoling will be selected by the CT technologist in
           consultation with the on-call cardiac CT imaging specialist in accordance with the
           flowsheet depicted in Appendix 3. Tube voltage of 120keV will be used for BMI > 30 and
           lowered to 100keV for BMI ≤ 30. CareDose® modulation of tube current will be enabled for
           all scans. Pretreatment with nodal blocking agents will be as follows: for HR < 70 bpm
           and systolic blood pressure (SBP) > 100 mm Hg will be given 50mg orally, for HR > 70 bpm
           and SBP > 100 mm Hg will be given 100mg orally, and nodal blocker will be held for
           patients with HR < 50 bpm or SBP < 100 mm Hg at the time of evaluation. Additional nodal
           blocker will be administered following initial dosing at the discretion of the cardiac
           imaging specialist. All subjects with SBP > 90 mm Hg and without a history of
           phosphodiesterase inhibitor usage in the preceding 72 hours received nitroglycerin spray
           0.4-0.8 mg within 2 minutes of scan acquisition. High-pitched, prospective,
           ECG-triggered helical scanning will be performed with heart rate (HR) < 60 bpm and HR
           variability < 5 beats or with HR < 60 bpm at the discretion of the imaging specialist.
           The remaining scans will be performed using prospective, ECG triggering acquisition
           centered at 70%-phase with between 10-20% padding (40-80% of the R-R interval).
           Visapaque® intravenous (IV) contrast will be used for all scans. A triphasic injection
           protocol consisting of 75mL of IV contrast followed by 40 mL of 50% contrast mixed with
           normal saline chased with normal saline at a flow rate of 5 mL/second will be used for
           all scans with total IV contrast volume of 105-125 mL. Contrast flow rates will be
           increased to 6 ml/second for patients with BMI > 30. Coronary artery stenosis by CCTA
           will be determined on a per-patient and per-vessel basis using an 18 segment model in
           accordance with SCCT guidelines for interpretation. The major epicardial coronary
           arteries (left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex, and right coronary
           arteries) will be graded for severity of CAD, defined as obstructive CAD (>50%
           stenosis), non-obstructive CAD (≤50% stenosis), or no CAD (vessels free of angiographic
           evidence of disease), respectively. The posterior descending artery will be included in
           the left circumflex or right coronary artery groups depending on its origin. The subject
           will have the option of declining the CCTA and CAC scan. Subjects with known CAD as
           defined on recent prior CCTA (within last 12 months) will not undergo CCTA, but their
           CAD history and/or prior CCTA results will be included in the analysis.

        2. Transthoracic Echocardiography (TTE): All subjects who meet inclusion criteria for a
           percutaneous liver biopsy and consented to phase II will undergo an assessment of
           cardiovascular diastolic performance measured using 2D and 3D transthoracic
           echocardiography (TTE) with Doppler technology. The TTE will be performed during a
           scheduled outpatient time slot at the convenience of the patient.

        3. EndoPAT: Endothelial function will be measured in subjects who qualify for liver biopsy
           and consent to phase II using the EndoPAT 2000®.. Every effort will be made to conduct
           the EndoPat test on the same day as the CCTA for subject convenience. The EndoPAT 2000®
           uses digital pulse amplitude tonometry. The EndoPAT device comprises a pneumatic
           plethysmograph that applies uniform pressure the surface of the distal finger.
           Throughout the test, the inflation pressure of the device will be set at 10 mmHg below
           the diastolic blood pressure or 70 mmHg, whichever is lower. Baseline pulse amplitude
           measurements will be taken for 5 minutes. Arterial flow will then be transiently
           interrupted by inflating a pneumatic cuff placed on the patient's forearm. The cuff will
           be inflated to 200 mmHg or 60 mmHg plus the systolic blood pressure, whichever is
           higher. The pulse amplitude will be recorded for 5 minutes during the occlusion phase.
           The blood pressure cuff is then deflated and post test measurements are recorded for 5
           additional minutes. Pre and post test pulse amplitudes are compared to assess the degree
           of reactive hyperemia.

      Subjects found to have evidence of coronary artery calcium, endothelial dysfunction,
      diastolic dysfunction and/or presence of non-calcific atherosclerosis on CCTA with maximal
      stenosis < 50% will be referred to the cardiology clinic for assessment of cardiovascular
      risk and aggressive medical and lifestyle risk factor modification. Patients with stenosis ≥
      50% will also be referred to the cardiology clinic to be evaluated further for the need for
      additional ischemic testing at the discretion of the treating physician.
    
  