
    
      Transient ischemic attack (TIA) and acute minor ischemic stroke are common and often lead to
      disabling events. In China, there are approximately 3 million new strokes every year, and
      approximately 30% of them are minor ischemic strokes. The incidence of TIA in China has not
      been determined, but on the basis of the incidence in other countries, there are probably
      more than 2 million TIAs annually in China. The risk of another stroke occurring after a TIA
      or minor stroke is high, with approximately 10 to 20% of patients having a stroke within 3
      months after the index event; most of these strokes occur within the first 2 days. The role
      of antiplatelet therapy for secondary stroke prevention has been well established.

      As yet, aspirin is the only antiplatelet agent that has been studied in the acute phase of
      stroke, during which its benefit is modest. Clopidogrel in High-Risk Patients with Acute
      Nondisabling Cerebrovascular Events (CHANCE) trial shows that among patients with high-risk
      TIA or minor ischemic stroke who are initially seen within 24 hours after symptom onset,
      treatment with clopidogrel plus aspirin for 21 days, followed by clopidogrel alone for a
      total of 90 days, is superior to aspirin alone in reducing the risk of subsequent stroke
      events. The combination of clopidogrel with aspirin did not cause more hemorrhagic events in
      this patient population than aspirin alone. The analytical results provided basis for the
      synergistical effect of Aspirin and clopidogrel in inhibiting platelet aggregation. However,
      long term use of clopidogrel bring people financial burden so that the patients have less
      compliance of medication. Therefore, the investigators need to explore new treatment for more
      effective, safe and economic.

      Sanchi is one of the most widely used herbal medicine in China for ischemic stroke, of which
      panax notoginseng saponins (PNS) are the main active components. Previously there were lots
      of clinical trials on agents of PNS for ischemic stroke in China and had positive results.
      Sanchitongshu capsule is a new Chinese patent medicine extracted from sanchi. 80% of the
      ingredients in sanchi-tongshu capsule are panaxatriol saponins (PTS) and 60% of PTS are Rg1
      which has strongest anti-platelet activity of all the PNS. PTS were proven by experiment and
      phase III clinical trials to have antithrombosis effect through mechanisms of inhibiting
      platelet aggregation, decreasing blood viscosity, strengthening activities of fibrinolysis
      system, and promoting vascular endothelial NO releasing. More recent experimental studies
      indicated anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effect of PTS. Compared with other agents of
      Sanchi, Sanchitongshu capsule contains higher purity of PTS and Rg1. Thus, Sanchitongshu
      capsule theoretically should be vigorous in improving ischemic status after ischemic stroke.

      Include, the investigators will investigate the synergistic action of aspirin combined with
      sanchitongshu capsule in the treatment of patients with minor ischemic stroke and transient
      ischemic attack.
    
  