
    
      Definition: Extended description of the protocol, including information not already contained
      in other fields, such as comparison(s) studied.

      APL is a specific type of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) characterized by its morphology (M3 or
      M3v in the FAB classification), t(15;17) translocation leading to PML-RARa fusion gene, and
      by a specific coagulopathy combining D.I.C., fibrinolysis and non specific proteolysis. ATRA
      can differentiate APL blasts in VITRO and in vivo. The combination of ATRA and anthracycline
      based chemotherapy yields CR rates greater than 90% in newly diagnosed APL. With early
      introduction of anthracycline AraC chemotherapy during induction treatment, and maintenance
      combining continuous 6MP and MTX to intermittent ATRA, the relapse risk in APL therefore now
      appears to be in the range of 10 to 15%.

      Nevertheless, 5 to 10% of the patients do not achieve CR and 10% to 15% still relapse.
      Another subset of patients (5 to 7% in APL 93 trial including 17% of patients aged greater
      than 65 years) die in CR, from complications of the consolidation treatment phase, mainly
      from infection during chemotherapy induced aplasia. Failure to achieve CR with current
      treatment approaches is almost exclusively due to early death during induction treatment.
      Causes of death are predominantly bleeding, ATRA syndrome and less often infection. Early
      deaths predominate in elderly patients and patients with high WBC counts. Reducing the amount
      of chemotherapy administered to newly diagnosed APL patients diminishes this toxicity. The
      Spanish PETHEMA group reported results of two successive phase II trials in newly diagnosed
      APL with ATRA and chemotherapy with intercalating agents (idarubicin and mitoxantrone)
      without AraC followed by maintenance combining ATRA and low dose chemotherapy (LPA96 and
      LPA99 trials). Results appeared similar to those of the best arm of APL 93 trial, but with
      less toxicity and only 2 to 3 % death in CR were seen, including in elderly patients.

      Arsenic trioxide (As2O3 or ATO) is an effective agent in relapsing or refractory APL, which
      induced 85% hematological and 79% molecular CR rates in a pivotal US study. The interest of
      ATO in the front-line therapy of newly-diagnosed APL has been strongly suggested in three
      studies which showed high complete remission rate, low incidence of relapse and limited
      toxicity.

      In this study, patients will be stratified based on age (≤ 70 years and > 70 years) and WBC
      count at diagnosis (WBC<10.000/mm3 and >10.000 /mm3).

      -Patients aged 70 years or less with WBC<10.000/mm3.

      In this population (about 70 % of APL) the best treatment group of APL2000 trial (ATRA with
      early introduction of anthracycline-AraC chemotherapy but where Idarubicin will be
      substituted for Daunorubicin, followed by 2 anthracycline-AraC consolidation courses and
      maintenance combining continuous chemotherapy and intermittent ATRA) will be compared to the
      same regimen, but without AraC during consolidation courses which will be replaced by:

        -  either ATO

        -  or ATRA It is hoped that the investigational arms will further increase the event-free
           survival at 2 years, with reduced toxicity and without increasing the relapse rate by
           comparison with a classical anthracycline-AraC consolidation regimen.

             -  Patients aged 70 years or less with WBC>10.000/mm3 Patients ages 70 years or less
                with initial WBC counts > 10000/mm3 (ie very high counts for APL), which represent
                about 20% of APL, remain at relatively high risk of relapse even with the current
                reference treatment. The main objective of the study will be to test the addition
                of ATO during consolidation courses to our current standard ATRA and chemotherapy
                regimen. Patients will receive the best treatment group of APL 2000 trial (but
                where Idarubicin will be substituted for Daunorubicin) with or without ATO during
                the 2 consolidation cycles.

             -  Patients older than 70 years with WBC<10.000 /mm3. Elderly patients with initial
                WBC ≤ 10000/m3 (about 8% of APL) and no contra indication to this treatment will
                receive a regimen with reduced cumulative dose of chemotherapy but addition of ATO
                during consolidation courses and during the first year of maintenance treatment.
                The main purpose of this non randomized part of the trial is to reduce the early
                death mortality and death in CR observed in elderly patients, without increasing
                the relapse rate.

             -  Patients older than 70 years with WBC>10.000 /mm3. Elderly patients with initial
                WBC > 10000/m3 (about 2 to 3% of APL) and no contra indication to intensive regimen
                will receive the same regimen as those with low WBC but with moderate doses of
                Aracytine during the induction and during the first consolidation course. The main
                purpose of this non randomized part of the trial is to reduce the early death
                mortality and death in CR observed in elderly patients, without increasing the
                relapse rate.
    
  