
    
      The goal of this research study is to develop an organizational-level intervention to enhance
      the adoption of screening for and treatment of substance use disorders among HIV-positive
      patients receiving care at the Institute for Advanced Medicine HIV primary care clinics. The
      primary research question is: What is the impact of a brief substance abuse screener and
      treatment referral process on substance use and HIV-related health outcomes among
      HIV-infected patients attending HIV care clinics?

      The study team will achieve four specific aims:

      Aim 1: Develop an intervention to integrate substance abuse treatment with HIV care in a
      consortium of HIV clinics in New York City. The principal investigator will conduct formative
      research and utilize the study team's findings about existing systems and approaches utilized
      at the Mount Sinai Health System to: 1) incorporate a brief screening tool to identify
      patients in need of further assessment or treatment for substance abuse; and 2) train patient
      health navigators (PHNs) in motivational interviewing (MI) to engage patients for substance
      abuse treatment.

      Aim 2: Test the effectiveness of the intervention using a stepped wedge trial design to
      sequentially implement a screening tool and training of PHNs at the IAM HIV clinics. The
      primary goal is to test the effectiveness of intervention components versus treatment as
      usual (TAU) in identifying HIV infected persons with a substance use disorder and in linking
      them to substance abuse treatment. Secondary goals include examining the intersection among
      problematic substance use, HIV medication adherence, and HIV-related and other comorbid
      conditions.

      Aim 3. Develop optimized technologies within the electronic health record (EHR) system used
      at the HIV clinics and integrate these with existing substance-use treatment mobile
      applications to retain patients in recovery and relapse prevention. This will specifically
      entail use of a MyChart mobile patient portal in an Office of the National Coordinator for
      Health Information Technology (ONC) certified EHRs (Epic, Epic Systems Corporation, Verona,
      WI). The Affordable Care Act (ACA) and the Health Information Technology for Economic and
      Clinical Health (HITECH) Act place strong emphasis on the widespread adoption and
      implementation of EHR systems.

      Aim 4: Assess the cost-effectiveness of implementing this organizational-level intervention.
      In order to enhance the likelihood of widespread implementation, the study team will conduct
      analyses to assess the cost-effectiveness of implementing the intervention components versus
      TAU alone.
    
  