
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the
      combination of cabozantinib s-malate (cabozantinib) and nivolumab (cabo-nivo) and separately
      the combination of cabozantinib, nivolumab and ipilimumab (cabo-nivo-ipi) in patients with
      genitourinary tumors. (Phase I) II. Assess safety and tolerability of cabozantinib, nivolumab
      and ipilimumab (cabo-nivo-ipi) in patients with genitourinary tumors at this novel dose.
      (Dose Level 8 Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Preliminarily evaluate the activity, as determined by objective response rate using
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and the modified Immune-Related
      Response Criteria (irRC), derived from RECIST 1.1, of Ia. Cabo-nivo and cabo-nivo-ipi in
      patients with advanced/refractory metastatic urothelial carcinoma (checkpoint inhibition
      therapy naive) and with renal cell carcinoma in the second-line and beyond setting.

      Ib. Cabo-nivo in patients with adenocarcinoma and with rare histologies (including squamous
      or small cell carcinomas of the bladder, renal medullary carcinoma, sarcomatoid bladder and
      renal cell carcinomas, plasmacytoid carcinoma of the bladder and others) in the first line or
      beyond setting.

      Ic. Cabo-nivo in patients with urothelial carcinoma previously treated with checkpoint
      inhibition therapy in the second line or beyond setting.

      Id. Cabo-nivo-ipi in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis.

      II. To evaluate the activity as determined by progression free survival (PFS) and overall
      survival (OS) of:

      IIa. Cabo-nivo and cabo-nivo-ipi in patients with advanced/refractory metastatic urothelial
      carcinoma (checkpoint inhibition therapy naive) or with renal cell carcinoma in the
      second-line and beyond setting.

      IIb. Cabo-nivo in patients with adenocarcinoma and with rare histologies (including squamous,
      small cell carcinomas of the bladder, renal medullary carcinoma, sarcomatoid bladder and
      renal cell carcinomas, plasmacytoid carcinoma of the bladder and others) in the first line or
      beyond setting.

      IIc. Cabo-nivo in patients with urothelial carcinoma previously treated with checkpoint
      inhibition therapy in the second line or beyond setting.

      IId. Cabo-nivo-ipi in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis. III. To obtain
      additional data to evaluate the safety of both combinations in patients with clear cell renal
      cell carcinoma (ccRCC).

      IV. To assess the number of malignant soft tissue and bone lesions on fludeoxyglucose F-18
      (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) (scan 1) versus
      combined fluorine F 18 sodium fluoride (18F-NaF) and 18F-FDG PET/CT (scan 2).

      V. To assess response assessment by RECIST 1.1 using CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
      with intravenous (IV) contrast versus assessment by combined 18F-NaF and 18F-FDG PET/CT (scan
      2) using number of malignant and change (modified PET RECIST [PERCIST]) of soft tissue and
      bone lesions.

      VI. To test the feasibility of automated density and volume application (ADaVA) as a means of
      assessing tumor response.

      VII. To assess PDL-1 and MET expression data and in exploratory fashion analyze their
      association to response or clinical benefit.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall response rates (ORR) on patients who have been challenged or
      re-challenged with ipilimumab therapy post disease progression.

      II. To assess effects of treatment in patients with bone-only disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      PART I: Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and
      nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 22 cycles, patients
      receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After progression, patients may receive cabozantinib s-malate PO,
      nivolumab IV, and ipilimumab IV at the part II RP2D for 4 cycles followed by cabozantinib
      s-malate PO QD and nivolumab IV every 2 weeks or 4 weeks if post-cycle 21 in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PART II: Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate PO QD on days 1-21, nivolumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1, and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After
      completion of 4 cycles with ipilimumab, patients continue receiving cabozantinib s-malate PO
      QD on days 1-28 and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 21 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      After 26 cycles, patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 4 weeks in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After progression, patients may receive
      cabozantinib s-malate PO, nivolumab IV, and ipilimumab IV at the part II RP2D for 4 cycles
      followed by cabozantinib s-malate PO QD and nivolumab IV every 2 weeks or 4 weeks if
      post-cycle 21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 16 weeks, and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  