
    
      Transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) is a neurophysiological technique capable of
      modulating the excitability of the neuronal tissue of the central and peripheral nervous
      system through the application, for a finite time length, of an electrical field. This
      electric field is generated by the application of weak electrical currents through the scalp
      and into the brain. It has been demonstrated in recent years that the technique is safe and
      beneficial if used within the known bounds of intensity, density and duration.

      The tES technique is classified into three types according to the waveform of the stimulation
      current that is applied: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS),Transcranial
      Alternating Current Stimulation (tACS) and Transcranial random noise stimulation (tRNS).
      Additionally, the Sham mode can be used for controlled experiments.

      TDCS is a neuromodulatory technique that delivers low-intensity, direct current to cortical
      areas facilitating or inhibiting spontaneous neuronal activity. In general, the current is
      injected into the brain (anodal stimulation) over a cortical region leading to excitatory
      effects; and collected from the brain (cathodal stimulation) leading to inhibitory effects.
      tDCS produces short term effects on neuronal excitability, and long lasting plastic
      after/effects involving synaptic modification.

      Research has shown that applying anodal tDCS to the non-dominant motor cortex can improve
      motor performance for the non-dominant hand, presumably by means of changes in synaptic
      plasticity between neurons. Other studies suggest improvement on cognitive functions such as
      memory, language, and attention after a tDCS program.

      TDCS secondary effects have been measured in several studies. The most frequent secondary
      effects described in literature are a mild tingling sensation, moderate fatigue, itching
      sensation, slight burning and mild pain sensation under the electrodes during the
      stimulation. A visual sensation, associated with switching on and off the stimulation, have
      been also described. Less frequent are the difficulties in concentrating, headache, felt
      nervous or overexcited and nausea after the stimulation.

      The present study is focused in evaluate the safety of a TDCS pilot program by measuring
      secondary effects incidence in a group of healthy subjects. In addition, manual dexterity and
      upper limb strength will be measure to identify improvement in motor performance after
      intervention.
    
  