
    
      3.1 research object 3.1.1 case: 3.1.1.1 Beijing University of Chinese Medicine Dongzhimen
      hospital 48 cases 3.1.1.2 54 cases of Oriental Hospital of Beijing University of Chinese
      Medicine 3.1.1.3 Chinese Academy of traditional Chinese medicine, Wangjing Hospital, 20 cases
      3.1.1.4 28 case of Beijing Pinggu Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine 3.1.2 diagnostic
      criteria: 3.1.2.1: syndrome score standard: according to the traditional Chinese medicine
      clinical research guiding principle (2002), chronic renal failure syndrome of deficiency of
      both qi and Yin compiled score table and determine the inclusion criteria.

      Diagnostic criteria of hypotension in 3.1.2.2:

      Referring to the Ministry of health of the people's Republic of China promulgated the "blood
      purification standard operating procedures (2010 Edition)" in the "blood dialysis hypotension
      prevention and control standards for the prevention and control of standard operating
      procedures", the diagnostic criteria are as follows: (1) can be diagnosed: (1) systolic blood
      pressure reduction of more than 20mmHg; (2) the average arterial pressure decreased more than
      10mmHg.

      3.1.2.3 mouth thirst intensity score The investigators will mouth thirst intensity score
      table (XQ) eight problems in the translation into Chinese questionnaire, each question by
      visual rating scale method and by the patients according to their own scoring. The higher
      score indicated the mouth thirst more serious or mouth thirst caused discomfort heavier, and
      the summation of the scores of each question and convert it to a range of 0 to 100 score,
      resulting score higher mouth thirst more serious degree.

      3.1.4.2 on the treatment of Chinese and Western medicine treatment of poor compliance.

      3.1.4.3 infection, fever, acute heart failure or diabetes and blood glucose control is not
      ideal.

      3.1.4.4 for the preparation of the capsule and the skin allergic patients with adhesive tape.

      3.1.4.5 patients can not cooperate or not sign the informed consent. 3.1.5 removing and
      dropping standard 3.1.5.1 all cases that are not included in the criteria for inclusion in
      the inclusion criteria shall be excluded; 3.1.5.2 clinical information is not the whole case
      to be removed. 3.2 case grouping method This research is to set up experimental group
      (Western medicine routine + acupoint therapy combined with birth control group) and the
      control group (Western medicine group). To meet the inclusion exclusion criteria of the
      subjects, using random number table method to produce random sequence number, according to
      the random sequence number to the subjects were assigned to different treatment groups.

      3.3 treatment method and treatment The clinical design of this study was a randomized
      crossover trial. This experiment research is divided into two stages, each stage is 8 weeks.
      Experimental group on regular hemodialysis based on given auricular therapy selected export
      sympathetic endocrine, God door, massage time for about 1 minute, 3 ~ 5 times / day, each
      taking one side ear, 3 ~ 7 days take on the other side of the ear; Shengmai capsules and
      Shengmai Capsules (ChiaTai Qingchunbao Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Chinese medicine quasi word
      Z33021036, every grain of 0.3g. Ingredients: ginseng, ophiopogon root, Schisandra 3 capsules
      / time, 3 times / day. Control group received regular hemodialysis treatment, completed in
      the treatment of the first stage. After 4 weeks after a washout period, two groups of cross
      accept the next phase of treatment.

      3.5 observation index 3.5.1 safety index: Into the group, crossover trial and the end of the
      experiment were used to detect the blood routine hemodialysis patients, before and after
      dialysis and renal ion, and serum albumin.

      3.5.2 evaluation index:

        1. and KT/V: and URR were measured in the clinical observation of the biochemical,
           dialysis, and body weight at the end of the biochemical, dialysis, and weight gain of
           hemodialysis and Improvement Center. URR = (BUN) /BUN (BUN = 100%) + (4 *) + (3.5 * R) *
           KT/V (R = R) (BUN = 0.03) (LN = UF/W) (BUN =).

        2. thirst improvement: combined with clinical experience, thirst was divided into eight
           levels (combined with patients' self perception and thirst intensity score), making a
           thirst scale, in the group, when the end of the experiment and the end of the
           experiment, respectively, to observe the improvement of thirst before and after
           treatment.

        3. on the basis of the analysis of the improvement of the low blood pressure (first):
           according to the diagnostic criteria of hypotension in hemodialysis patients, the
           incidence of hypotension in the experimental group and the second stage was compared
           with that of the experimental group and the control group.

        4. the quality of life improvement in dialysis patients: in the clinical observation, the
           patients were treated with in-depth interviews, the use of key data extraction methods,
           to reflect the quality of life of patients with dialysis information; in the clinical
           observation of the patients, the cross exchange and the end of the life quality of SF-36
           patients.
    
  