
    
      After institutional review board approval, a Pilot study including 30 patients will be
      conducted to validate Morisky Medication Adherence Scale 8 to validate the questionnaire for
      cross cultural variation. The data collected will be analyzed and result will be submitted to
      institutional review board for approval to conduct the parent study. Following the above
      approval, all adult patients , more than 18 yrs. of age, who are on a strong opioid for their
      chronic cancer pain, taken prescription from pain clinic at least once in past, who are able
      to understand and communicate Hindi will be invited to participate in the study. Each patient
      will be verbally asked about their medication and same will be confirmed by their previous
      medical records. An informed written consent will be obtained. Data will be collected by PI
      or co-investigator after obtaining written consent at Pain clinic(general and private) of
      Tata Memorial Hospital. Fund for purchasing the copyright to use the Hindi translation of
      Morisky Medication Adherence Scale 8, was provided by the department of Anesthesia Account,
      Tata Memorial Hospital, after due permission obtained from, Director Tata Memorial Center and
      Head of the department of Anesthesiology, critical care and pain, Tata Memorial Center. The
      precise scoring and permission to use the Hindi translation of the scale has been obtained
      from the developer. For income we will be considering private and general category of the
      patients respectively.Data will be analyzed using International Business machines software
      package for statistical analysis version 20.0.Pilot study data will be analyzed applying
      tests as internal consistency (Cronbach's alfa), Test retest variability and factor
      analysis.For parent study in the uni-variate analysis all variables listed above will
      consecutively tested for significant associations with ''good adherence'' as the outcome
      variable. Chi-square tests and Student's t-tests will used for categorical and continuous
      variables, respectively. All variables will be unconditionally entered into a binary logistic
      multi variate analysis. All p values #0.05 will regarded as statistically significant.
    
  