
    
      The impetus for CREST derives from the observation that rural patients are unlikely to
      acquire on-site access to appropriate specialist care for high stakes, high acuity,
      crisis-mode conditions such as sepsis and trauma. Novel, collaborative approaches are
      necessary to provide rural patients with access to appropriate specialist care for sepsis and
      trauma. CREST is an innovative, technologically levering mechanism that provides the
      opportunity to lessen the inferior outcomes and "rural penalty" paid by patients in rural
      communities.

      Rural patients are less likely to have onsite access to specialist care for sepsis and trauma
      for several reasons:

        -  Personnel: there is a nation-wide shortage of appropriate specialty providers including
           intensivists, trauma surgeons, and other critical care staff 1. Small, rural communities
           lack the economies of scale to support resource intense services and if a community has
           these specialties, there is often not around the clock coverage necessary for best
           quality care for these conditions 1.

        -  Physical and material resources: Sepsis and trauma patients require immediate
           availability of resources such as multidisciplinary ICU staff, large blood banks,
           operating rooms, and advanced radiological facilities.

        -  Availability of resources such as multidisciplinary ICU staff, large blood banks,
           operating rooms, and advanced radiological facilities.

        -  Location and distance: Patients in rural communities have inferior outcomes in sepsis
           and trauma 2, 3. This is likely multifactorial and includes delays in entry to the
           Emergency Medical System network, longer travel times to definitive care facilities and
           delays in definitive care delivery. Inter-hospital transfer may be limited both by
           severity of patient illness, acute care and ICU bed shortages in tertiary care centers.
           Additionally, the scarcity of tertiary care hospital beds increases the importance of
           initiating transfer for patients who will maximally benefit from tertiary care referral
           4, 5.

      The impact to rural patients with sepsis and trauma, due to lack of access to appropriate
      specialist care, is substantial. Sepsis is one of the most common serious critical illnesses.
      It kills 28-50% of patients diagnosed 6, 7 and is the 10th leading cause of death in the US
      8. Furthermore, the incidence is increasing in conjunction with the aging of the US
      population 9. The impact of rurality on sepsis has received modest investigation, but rural
      patients likely have worse outcomes.3 In SC, patients referred from Emergency Departments
      (ED's) in smaller, typically rural hospitals have a 22% increase risk of death as compared to
      those referred from ED's in larger, urban hospitals (CREST preliminary analysis) suggesting
      the benefits of specialist directed care available to patients at larger facilities. Equally
      concerning is an apparent race-associated disparity in which African American patients
      presenting to rural ED's in SC are twice as likely to be discharged from the ED with a
      diagnosis of sepsis as compared to white patients. Although the rates for discharge from an
      ED with a diagnosis of sepsis are low at 3.95% for whites and 8.71% for African Americans
      (CREST preliminary analysis), it is concerning that any patient is discharged from an ED with
      this diagnosis and the disparate rates may reflect the well-described phenomenon of unequal
      treatment 10. Critically ill patients with any diagnosis benefit from intensivist-directed
      care including a 30-40% reduction in mortality.11 Unfortunately, over half of US hospitals
      have no intensivist coverage at all and rural hospitals are disproportionately affected by
      this problem 12.

      Likewise, trauma is the leading cause of death among Americans up to age 45 and the fourth
      leading cause of death overall for all ages 8. Deaths from injury occur in a tri-phasic
      distribution: 50% of deaths from injury occur at the scene, 30% occur in the first 1-2 hours
      and 20% occur during hospitalization between 1-2 weeks after admission. Trauma care at
      designated trauma centers improves survival 13. Yet, rural hospitals are rarely trauma
      centers and in SC patients injured in rural communities have inferior outcomes and higher
      costs 14. Significant disparities can be identified among SC's elderly and minority
      populations. 14 An important barrier to facilitating quality care for SC trauma patients
      relates to triage efficiency between rural hospitals and a trauma center. Outcomes for
      seriously injured rural patients are negatively affected when patients are taken to
      non-trauma EDs and then transferred to a trauma center 13 . Conversely, transfer of patients
      with low risk of death and disability to trauma centers represents over-triage, and creates
      additional stressors at already busy trauma centers accruing financial burden on the health
      care system.

      CREST is scientifically innovative on multiple levels. It is the first prospective,
      mixed-methods evaluation of telemedicine; as well as one of the few studies in
      remote/telemedicine not sponsored by industry. CREST is the first study to demonstrate
      improved outcomes for sepsis using telemedicine and will augment the sparse literature on
      trauma and telemedicine. CREST also serves as a demonstration project showing that access to
      specialist care for rural patients with high stakes, high acuity conditions can be reliably
      provided through telemedicine. CREST technology is non-proprietary and relatively low cost
      and thus allows important cost-effectiveness analyses to ascertain the viability of
      telemedicine in rural settings.

      CREST includes two elements - an educational program for rural providers and clinical
      consultation for patients with sepsis and trauma. Collaborating hospitals receive
      telemedicine hardware and software, usage instruction, and 24/7 access to MUSC experts in
      sepsis and trauma for patient consultation in real-time. This project uses a
      quasi-experimental design, which incorporates a controlled experiment using pre-existing
      patient groups as the controls. This design minimizes threats to external validity and offers
      efficiency in the longitudinal aspect of the research. Main dependent measures include time
      to initiation of appropriate antibiotics for septic patients and reduced transfer rates of
      less-severe trauma patients as measured by average increase in the Injury Severity Score
      (ISS). Data collection for the controls in the retrospective groups and the prospective
      intervention group will be conducted by using structured audit forms by trained staff. The
      research plan includes investigation of outcomes, including treatment decisions.

      Rural hospitals are the primary targets for CREST because these institutions tend to have
      fewer specialty providers and often cannot provide definitive care for patients with sepsis
      and trauma. Eligible rural hospitals are strategically identified based on several criteria.
      First, the hospital is located in a rural area as designated by the US Department of
      Agriculture. Second, the hospital has substantial resource limitations as indicated by a
      Level III or IV Medical Facility Status from the Joint Accreditation Committee for Hospital
      Organizations. Third, the hospital is within MUSC's typical 120 mile catchment area.

      CREST investigators are mindful of the importance of collegial and collaborative approaches
      to recruiting rural hospitals and providers. To establish a framework for the working
      relationships important to the success of CREST, collaborating hospitals and MUSC sign a
      Memorandum of Agreement stipulating the roles and expectations. The fundamental duties for
      the rural hospitals are: 1) work with MUSC research team to facilitate human subjects
      approval of CREST; 2) coordinate their providers' availability with CREST's educational
      program; 3) facilitate working relationships between MUSC clinical experts and appropriate
      clinicians at rural hospitals and 4) allow CREST investigators access to patient records to
      ascertain outcome measures. MUSC provides: 1) an educational program 2) the technical
      expertise and equipment; 3) 24/7 availability for clinical evaluations; 4) training and
      support of chart abstractors to acquire outcome data; and 5) the conducting of analyses and
      writing of reports for CREST.

      CREST allows rural spoke hospitals 24/7 access to MUSC sepsis and trauma experts who provide
      formal consultation for patients with these conditions including appropriate documentation in
      the medical record. Rural hospitals can utilize the telemedicine consultants on a one-time
      basis for initial evaluation and recommendations or request ongoing collaborative care with
      MUSC clinical experts. If a patient benefits by transfer to MUSC, this is identified and MUSC
      clinicians are already familiar with the patient's clinical status, representing another
      advantage of telemedicine services. Alternatively, if patients can be adequately managed at
      referring spoke sites this is determined, thus improving triage efficiency for tertiary care
      referrals.
    
  