
    
      Although noninvasive diagnostic studies [ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT), sestamibi
      scanning, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)] detect parathyroid pathology in one-half the
      patients referred to NIH with recurrent or persistent hyperparathyroidism (1), the invasive
      studies (direct aspiration for PTH, arteriography, venous sampling) must be performed in the
      remaining patients to provide definitive preoperative localization (2). Arteriography is
      positive in less than half the patients who must then proceed to parathyroid venous sampling,
      a technique requiring broad experience and yielding positive, but imprecise results as
      regards localization. The abrupt lowering of calcium in blood perfusing a parathyroid adenoma
      should stimulate the release of PTH which could be detected by simultaneous venous sampling.
      This principle, the intraarterial injection of a secretagogue with subsequent sampling for
      released hormone, has been applied successfully in the localization of insulinomas (3) and
      gastrinomas (4). In fact, portal venous sampling is no longer performed in this group of
      patients, having been completely replaced by the intraarterial injection of secretin or
      calcium as appropriate secretagogues for gastrin and insulin.

      Since release of PTH from parathyroid adenomas is stimulated by hypocalcemic perfusions, we
      propose to perform serial venous sampling from a catheter positioned in the SVC to detect
      abrupt elevations of PTH following the injection of contrast agent into each of the vessels
      selectively catheterized at the time of parathyroid arteriography (superior thyroid arteries,
      thyrocervical trunks, internal mammary arteries). Samples from the SVC catheter will be
      obtained at 20 second intervals up to one minute and in some patients simultaneous peripheral
      samples. An elevation of parathyroid hormone 1.5 times above the baseline will be considered
      diagnostic. This technique will be applied routinely at each injection of standard
      parathyroid arteriography even in the absence of an angiographically-visualized adenoma: an
      elevation of PTH will provide localizing information comparable to venous sampling. In
      addition, when any of the imaging studies suggest that a particular anatomic site is the
      likely location of the patient's adenoma, sodium citrate, a calcium chelating agent, will be
      injected into the artery supplying this region. Blood samples will be obtained in similar
      fashion to those samples taken with contrast injections to measure PTH release following
      sodium citrate injection and determine whether this is a more effective hypocalcemic
      stimulant.
    
  