
    
      Primary goals:

      Safety:

      1) To determine the safety of administration of topical 5% imiquimod cream with or without
      administration of a peptide-based vaccine in patients with cutaneous metastases of melanoma.

      Biologic effect:

      1) To evaluate whether topical imiquimod at sites of melanoma metastasis, with or without
      vaccine, increases a) endothelial expression of E-selectin and b) T cell infiltration.

      Secondary goals:

        1. To assess whether T cells infiltrating melanoma metastases after imiquimod, with and
           without vaccination, are reactive to peptides in the vaccine.

        2. To evaluate whether topical imiquimod decreases the proportion of FoxP3+ CD25hi CD4+
           cells (putative regulatory T cells, Tregs) among tumor infiltrating T cells.

        3. To estimate the effects of vaccine on CXCR3, CLA, and activation marker expression by
           circulating and tumor-infiltrating antigen-experienced CD4 and CD8 T cells.

        4. To obtain preliminary data on the clinical response of cutaneous metastases of melanoma
           to the proposed combination regimen.

        5. To determine the expression of TLR7 by immune cells and/or melanoma cells in the
           metastatic melanoma microenvironment.

        6. To obtain preliminary data on associations between metastatic melanoma T cell
           infiltration patterns (immunotypes) and molecular and clinical responses to imiquimod.

      Design:

      The present proposal is for a clinical trial and associated correlative studies that bring
      together several observations and unmet scientific and clinical needs that have promise for a
      new effective immunotherapy for melanoma metastases. This is an open-label two-cohort,
      nonrandomized, pilot study of a combination of topical imiquimod plus systemic vaccination
      with MELITAC 12.1 vaccine, an emulsion of a mixture of 12 class I MHC-restricted melanoma
      peptides (12-MP) and a class II MHC-restricted tetanus toxoid helper peptide (tet). Cohort 1
      will receive the combination of imiquimod + vaccine; Cohort 2 will receive imiquimod only.
      Patients will be eligible for cohort 1 if they are eligible for the vaccine based on HLA type
      and clinical factors. Cohort 2 is for patients who are not eligible for the vaccine.

      Primary Endpoints:

      Safety:

      1) Toxicity profile of topical imiquimod at sites of melanoma, with or without MELITAC 12.1
      vaccine.

      Biologic effect:

      1) Change in levels of intratumoral E-selectin and infiltrating TCD4 and TCD8 lymphocytes:

        1. pretreatment vs after vaccine + imiquimod;

        2. with vaccine vs. without vaccine (cohorts 1 vs 2);

        3. lesions with imiquimod vs. without imiquimod.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      The following will be evaluated by comparing pretreatment to after vaccine + imiquimod, and
      comparing findings from patients with and without vaccine (cohorts 1 and 2), as well as
      lesions with and without imiquimod.

        1. Change in the number of vaccine-reactive T cells in the melanoma metastases, as
           determined by ELIspot and tetramer analyses.

        2. Change in the percentage of FoxP3+ CD25hi CD4+ (putative regulatory T cells, Tregs)
           among tumor infiltrating T cells as determined by immunohistochemistry and flow
           cytometry.

        3. Expression of CXCR3, CLA, and activation markers (CD69, CD137, HLA-DR, CD27 and CD28) on
           vaccine-reactive cells in the blood and within the melanoma metastases by
           immunohistochemistry and flow cytometric analyses.

        4. TLR7 expression by cells in the metastatic melanoma microenvironment.

        5. Changes in T cell infiltration patterns of metastases (immunotype)

           The following will be evaluated post-treatment

        6. Clinical regression of individual imiquimod-treated and untreated metastases
    
  