
    
      There have been recent reports in medical literature about the discovery that young mice's
      blood plasma when infused into aged mice caused regeneration of organs such as liver, and
      brain. There are certain factors present in the young blood which have been shown to improve
      the function of the organs.

      In humans, transferring of young blood plasma to treat the effect of aging has already been
      attempted by a few doctors. In addition, fresh frozen blood plasma is currently used to treat
      patients who have disorders of blood clotting and immune disorders and is regarded as the
      standard of care by the medical community and as a safe treatment.

      Over the past 25 years, peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) concentrates have replaced bone
      marrow as the source for autologous stem cell transplants. Each year approximately 20,000
      healthy individuals receive a protein call Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) in
      order to stimulate and release stem cells from the bone marrow into the peripheral blood and
      these stem cells are collected and reinfused into patients who have blood cancers and other
      immune disorders. Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) has been approved by the FDA
      for mobilization of the stem cells and collection of an individual's own stem cells. In a
      standard peripheral blood stem cell transplant the stem cells as well as the plasma are
      collected from the donor and is reinfused into the patient for treatment. There are recent
      reports in the medical literature that mobilized stem cells secrete certain factors into the
      plasma of the blood and that these factors may be important for the regenerative capabilities
      of stem cells.

      The transfusion of the plasma which contains these factors, secreted by the stem cells, which
      come from young individuals and are free of stem cells, may be an effective treatment for
      frailty and immune dysfunction in older individuals.

      In this study, the treatment is considered experimental (investigational) because we are
      evaluating the safety and effectiveness of healthy donor plasma which contains the factors
      secreted by stem cells for the treatment of frailty and immune dysfunction. The plan of this
      study is to enroll about 30 subjects for treatment and follow up evaluation over a time
      period of two years (24 months).
    
  