
    
      Therapeutic fasting has been used for many decades in naturopathy and integrative medicine
      clinically successfully in the treatment of chronic diseases and pain syndromes. In
      particular, fasting therapy is used for chronic rheumatic, inflammatory, and metabolic
      diseases with increasing patient demand in specialized clinical facilities (fasting clinics).

      Within the various historically developed forms of fasting, the fasting program according to
      the Buchinger Wilhelmi method has established itself worldwide as the most frequently applied
      method. This involves a subtotal caloric restriction with a daily caloric intake
      (200-400kcal/day) in the form of liquid components over a defined period of at least 10 days,
      accompanied by supporting measures of a health-promoting lifestyle program with elements such
      as exercise therapy, manual procedures, stress reduction and hydro-balneotherapy.

      In early randomized studies and a systematic review, the effectiveness of inpatient fasting
      therapy for patients with rheumatoid arthritis was proven with 1a evidence. For the other
      indications, there is mainly empirical evidence or data from observation or prospective
      uncontrolled studies. In recent years, extensive basic science research activity has
      developed in the area of caloric restriction and intermittent fasting. In this context, a
      large number of favorable animal experimental findings have been demonstrated by defined
      fasting periods, including reductions in insulin, IGF-1, increases in adiponectins, insulin
      sensitivity, neurotrophic factors, and, over longer observation periods, a decrease in the
      incidence of cardiovascular, inflammatory, and metabolic, and more recently oncological
      diseases in a wide variety of animal species.

      Numerous experimental studies have demonstrated that fasting or total or subtotal caloric
      restriction is a potent inducer of cellular autophagy. For autophagy, numerous beneficial
      effects on chronic diseases or disease defense functions have now been experimentally
      documented and also hypothesized for humans, including neurodegenerative and metabolic
      diseases, but also acute infections and inflammatory diseases. Unclear to date is the
      kinetics of the autophagy enhancing effect of fasting. In theoretical transfer from animal
      experimental data, an increase is postulated between 12 and 36h of fasting and possibly a
      decrease after several days.

      Against this background, autophagy will now be investigated for the first time in blood
      samples from fasting healthy and diseased individuals in an exploratory clinical study.
    
  