
    
      The study aims are:

        -  To evaluate the percentage of subjects at risk of diabetes in the general population

        -  To evaluate the percentage of type 2 diabetics with and without complications in the
           identified population at risk

        -  To evaluate whether the new computer system is able to identify subjects at risk of
           developing complications or aggravation of complications already in progress
           (cardiovascular and neurological complications).

      Through the IT platform made available within the framework of the project, the selected
      sample will be given the questionnaire to detect the risk of diabetic disease (FINDRISC
      adapted) and, in the case of a positive outcome, the subject at risk will be assessed with
      laboratory tests, to confirm or not the condition of prediabetes or diabetes. Therefore, all
      the subsequent phases of patient care and management will be followed, from the modification
      of lifestyles for prediabetics to the management of overt diabetic pathology and the
      complications associated with it, thus experimenting with all the modules of the software
      platform integrated.

      Subjects who have a high diabetic risk score will be referred to the Neuromed laboratories
      for the analysis of fasting blood glucose and the glycemic load test. Consistent with the
      diagnostic protocol developed, the subjects will follow a triple address:

        1. Subjects at risk with fasting blood glucose or normal glycemic load

        2. Subjects with prediabetes

        3. Subjects with diabetes Patients in whom a vascular or neurological complication is
           diagnosed will be managed by the Neuromed clinic work groups using dedicated modules
           developed within the project.

      At time T0 for diabetic patients without or with cardiovascular and neurological
      complications who will come to visit as from normal clinical practice, the presence of risk /
      complication parameters will be checked and risk scores will be applied to ascertain the
      patient's condition. The patient will then be followed as per normal clinical practice and
      risk parameters and the derived scores will be re-evaluated.
    
  