
    
      Malnutrition is a common and serious problem in intensive care units. Negative energy balance
      has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality in critically ill patients. The
      increased incidence of complications related to malnutrition correlates with increased length
      of hospital stay and overall health care costs. Although early enteral nutrition is the
      preferred method of feeding critically ill patients, enteral nutrition alone often fails to
      supply adequate calories and nutrients to critically ill patients, who are frequently
      hypermetabolic.

      Artificial nutrition support has evolved into a primary therapeutic intervention to prevent
      metabolic deterioration and loss of lean body mass with the aim to improve the outcome of
      critically ill patients. Apart from the timing of initiation and the targeted amount of
      macronutrients, the route of delivery is viewed as an important determinant of the effect of
      the nutritional intervention.

      Using the enteral route is considered to be more physiologic, providing nutritional and
      various non-nutritional benefits including maintenance of structural and functional gut
      integrity as well as preserving intestinal microbial diversity.

      The disadvantage of enteral nutrition is related to a potential lower nutritional adequacy
      particularly in the acute disease phase and in the presence of gastrointestinal dysfunction.

      In contrast, parenteral nutrition may better secure the intended nutritional intake but is
      associated with more infectious complications, most likely due to hyperalimentation and
      hyperglycemia.

      Supplementation of insufficient enteral nutrition with parenteral nutrition may optimize
      nutritional support and avert negative energy balance in critically ill patients, thereby
      improving outcome.

      Combining parenteral nutrition with enteral nutrition constitutes a strategy to prevent
      nutritional deficit but may increase risk of overfeeding, which has been associated with
      liver dysfunction, infection, and prolonged ventilatory support.
    
  