
    
      Pakistan, the world's seventh most populous country of about 138 million people, is beset
      with severe problems in its maternal and child health sector. The official maternal mortality
      ratio for Pakistan is reported as 340 per 100,000 live births.

      The overall goal to conduct a prospective observational study to identify the risk factors
      for adverse pregnancy outcomes including reproductive tract infections such as BV, and other
      physical, dental, nutritional, psychosocial, and behavioral characteristics. The primary
      objective is to examine the association between BV in pregnant women at 20-26 weeks gestation
      and various other biochemical infection markers with adverse pregnancy outcomes (i.e.,
      perinatal mortality [PNM], neonatal mortality, low birth weight [LBW], spontaneous preterm
      delivery [SPTD], premature rupture of membranes [PROM], histological chorioamnionitis).

      Additionally, this study will explore the relationship of various health behaviors and health
      status to the presence of perinatal infections. A total of 1,500 pregnant women will be
      enrolled in the study. A matched case-control study will be conducted at the end of the data
      collection period to evaluate the use of markers for the prediction of infection related
      perinatal mortality and infection related SPTD. All investigators and laboratory personnel
      will remain blinded to the identity of specimens through the use of unique study identifier
      numbers. Collected data will then be unblinded, analysed, and correlated with the previously
      collected demographic, obstetrics, and neonatal outcome, microbiology and histopathological
      data.

      Based on the findings of this study, appropriate interventions to address reproductive tract
      infection (RTI) could be developed and field-tested in Pakistan. We expect that these
      interventions, once successfully field-tested, could be widely used to improve maternal and
      child survival in Pakistan and other developing countries. Given the critical state of
      maternal and child health in Pakistan, and considering the emerging evidence that infections
      could lead to poor pregnancy outcomes, this study is extremely relevant and timely, and it
      has the potential to contribute significantly toward the improvement of reproductive health
      in Pakistan. Primary outcome is perinatal mortality. Secondary outcomes include birth weight;
      spontaneous delivery occurring before 37 weeks gestation; rupture of fetal membranes before
      37 weeks of gestation; and maternal death. The sample size was based on 25% prevalence of BV
      in the control group; 10 percent dropout rate; 80 percent power; and a two-tailed type I
      error of 0.05.
    
  