
    
      Study Design. For the primary outcomes (reduction in SDCAS and increase in HIV disclosure to
      sex partners), the proposed online study utilizes a 2-arm RCT design, with 10 intervention
      video vignettes grounded in SLT/SCT, to evaluate an innovative, multisession, video-based
      online intervention tailored to 1,500 English-speaking virally unsuppressed HIV+ White, Black
      and Hispanic MSM. Men will be randomized to receive 10 sessions of theory-driven video
      treatments or "attention" video controls. Men will be classified as White, Black, or Hispanic
      based on self-identification, and computerized randomization will occur within race/ethnicity
      to assure balanced representation across the experimental arms. All participants will receive
      online surveys at baseline, 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-up. All participants will receive
      incentives after completion of each online survey.

      Preparation for Online RCT (AIM 1) (Months 1 - 12). In AIM 1 the investigators will finalize
      intervention materials for the RCT, plan online recruitment, program and test the online
      platform and work with the CAG to ensure appropriate literacy levels of the materials and
      surveys.

      Theory-Driven Treatment Videos:

      Employing a dramatic video series grounded in Social Learning and Social Cognitive theories,
      the Sex Positive![+] study engages learners through storytelling and promotes critical
      thinking on issues of HIV disclosure to sex partners, medication adherence and viral
      suppression, and serodiscordant condomless anal sex (CAS). In collaboration with a local
      production team, including a script writer, producer, and director, we produced Just a Guy, a
      six-episode video series that follows the story of "Guy", an openly gay man living with HIV
      in Brooklyn, NY. The video series is based, in part, on the HIV Big Deal project described
      above, which was launched online in 2008.

      Attention Control Videos: The control arm receives ten healthy living videos that cover a
      range of topics including nutrition, physical exercise, smoking, and sleep quality. Attention
      control videos were selected from video-sharing websites and voted on by members of the
      research team.

      Implementation of Online 2-Arm RCT (750/Arm) (AIM 2) (Months 17 - 35). In AIM 2 we will
      conduct the online 2-arm, video-based RCT, recruiting and randomizing 1,500 U.S. virally
      unsuppressed HIV+ White, Black and Hispanic MSM from POZ, Barebackrt, Facebook, Grindr and
      Craigslist. This 12-month online intervention has been designed to reduce high risk behavior
      using multi-session video vignettes and boosters.

      Dissemination of the treatment and control videos will occur: 1) between baseline and 3-month
      follow-up, with men viewing 6 video vignettes, spaced 1 week apart; and 2) between 6- and
      9-month follow-up, with men viewing 4 video boosters, spaced 1 week apart. *We will be able
      to track whether men click on the video links. All participants will complete baseline, 3-,
      6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-up surveys. To reduce the chance of instrument reactivity (i.e.,
      assessment effect), we will provide detailed online survey assessments at baseline and
      12-month follow-up and brief online assessments at 3-, 6- and 9-month follow-up. All
      participants will receive a text or email with a link to the 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month
      follow-up surveys.

      Arm 1: Video Treatment arm will complete baseline, 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month online survey
      assessments. Between baseline and 3-month follow-up, men will view 6 video vignettes
      (participants will receive a link to view a video vignette once a week for 6 weeks). Based on
      our team's experience of attenuated intervention effects at 6 months, men will receive 4
      video boosters, spaced 1 week apart, after the 6-month assessment survey. Spacing the dose
      over time can improve critical thinking. The additional videos will be a continuation of the
      dramatic series plus additional video scenes on disclosure and serodiscordant partnerships.

      Arm 2: Video Control arm will complete baseline, 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month online survey
      assessments. For comparability of study arms, the control group will be provided the same
      number of videos over the same time period.

      The treatment video vignettes to be delivered weekly for 6 weeks between Baseline and 3
      Months include: 1) Condom use/anal sex without HIV status disclosure (potentially SDUAI); 2)
      Condom use/anal sex without HIV status disclosure and perceived responsibility; 3) Discussion
      of nondisclosure of HIV status prior to sex and perceived responsibility, STIs; 4) Stigma
      associated with disclosing HIV status to sex partners; 5) HIV/STI testing; and 6) Diagnosis
      of an STI; STI disclosure to sex partners and perceived responsibility. Topics of the video
      boosters to be delivered weekly for 4 weeks between 6 and 9 Months include: 7) HIV status
      disclosure, condom use, STIs; 8) STI disclosure to sex partners, disclosure to friends,
      serodiscordant partnerships; 9 & 10) Support of HIV disclosure and perceived responsibility.

      ART Adherence Content and Educational Messages. In response to the NIH review, we have
      expanded ART adherence-related content in the surveys for all participants (in addition to
      the adherence message they will see at the end of each survey). We will measure health
      literacy and numeracy, knowledge regarding clinical indicators, and self-efficacy to adhere
      to ART. A recent ART adherence study showed that, although low literate HIV+ patients were
      more likely to be non-adherent, self-efficacy mediated the impact of low literacy on ART
      adherence. We will conduct exploratory analyses of adherence with the social cognitive
      factors and primary outcomes.

      Study Population. The target sample for this online RCT is 1,500 high-risk, virally
      unsuppressed HIV+ White, Black and Hispanic MSM in the US. Men will be identified via social
      networking (i.e., Facebook), sexual networking and dating websites (i.e., POZ.com,
      Barebackrt.com) as well as a GPS-based app (i.e., Grindr) and online classifieds (i.e.,
      Craigslist). POZ is the largest site for HIV+ individuals and has 104,000 active MSM members.
      Barebackrt.com is the largest barebacking website for U.S. MSM with 56,305 unique monthly
      visitors. Grindr is the largest sexual networking GPS-based app with over 1.5 million U.S.
      users.

      Inclusion Criteria. Subjects participating in any aspect of the study must report that they
      are 1) biologically male and identify their current gender as male; 2) age 18 or over; 3)
      able to read and respond in English; 4) reside within the U.S.; 5) report condomless anal sex
      with any HIV-negative or unknown status male partners in the past 6 months; 6) identify as
      HIV+; 7) in the past year, report a detectable viral load OR report not being on ART and not
      knowing their viral load OR report past month suboptimal ART adherence; 8) report their race
      and ethnicity as White, Black or Hispanic; 9) be willing to participate in an online
      intervention study for 12 months; and 10) have a working email address and cell phone number
      for intervention follow-up. We will employ quota sampling and targeted recruitment to ensure
      balanced representation of White (n=500), Black (n=500) and Hispanic (n=500) HIV+ MSM.
      Further, we will include the following Black racial/ethnic categories: Black, African
      American, Caribbean, African, or Multi-ethnic Black. Quota sampling and targeted recruitment
      will also be used to ensure representation of young MSM (18-29) in the sample (20%, n=300).
      All men enrolled in the study will be HIV+ by self-report, but health status will be less
      likely to influence participation since all study activities are online. Men who meet study
      criteria will automatically be randomized into 1 of the 2 study arms.

      Exclusion Criteria. HIV-negative or untested MSM, women, transgendered persons, and anyone
      under age 18 will be excluded from the online study, as this is a study for biologically male
      virally unsuppressed HIV+ MSM; transgender women and biological females have different risk
      factors and sexual behaviors than MSM and deserve to have their own study. Further exclusions
      include those who are unwilling to provide key data (i.e., age, race and ethnicity, HIV
      status) on the online screener survey. Those who are found ineligible on the online screener
      survey will be informed that they are ineligible and thanked for their time. Those who drop
      out during the online screener, who refuse consent, or who drop out during online
      registration or before randomization will be considered non-responders. Those who drop out
      prior to completing the baseline assessment, but after study registration will be considered
      study applicants.

      Online Recruitment (Months 17-23). As most online HIV prevention work has had low
      representation of minority MSM, we have set quotas to ensure balanced representation by race
      and ethnicity. To ensure recruitment goals are met for the racially/ethnically diverse U.S.
      sample of 1,500 virally unsuppressed HIV+ MSM, we will pursue multiple online venues for the
      online video-based RCT, which will also enable us to reach men with differing levels of
      connectedness to the HIV+ community. We will recruit equal numbers of HIV+ White (n=500),
      Black (n=500), and Hispanic (n=500) MSM.

        -  POZ.com recruitment. 104,000 POZ Personals members identify as gay (96,000) or bisexual
           (8,000) with the following racial/ethnic breakdown: 50% White (52,000), 20% Black
           (21,000), 12% Hispanic (12,000) and 18% mixed/other race (19,000). POZ.com will
           distribute e-mail blasts to POZ Personals members and will also recruit from their main
           webpage, Twitter account, and ads in their magazine.

        -  Facebook recruitment. We will simultaneously recruit on Facebook, as we may reach a
           different pool of HIV+ MSM on a social networking site. We have had success in
           recruiting racially/ethnically diverse HIV+ MSM from Facebook. For this study, we will
           use psychographic targeting (in-depth publicly available consumer data such as
           interests, occupation, and city).

        -  Bareback Real-Time Sex (Barebackrt.com). This U.S.-based hook-up site is for men seeking
           bareback sex (UAI). Barebackrt.com will work with us (sending emails to HIV+ members) at
           no cost.

        -  Craigslist. This free online classifieds service is one of the most popular websites in
           the U.S. and has been used successfully in our online work. For this study, research
           assistants will post ads on Craigslist in the Volunteers section and will repeatedly
           work his or her way through a targeted list of U.S. cities on Craigslist in order to
           reach a diverse (i.e., age, race and ethnicity) sample of MSM who reside outside of HIV
           epicenters.

        -  Grindr and Scruff. These GPS-based mobile (Smartphone) applications will target men in
           U.S. cities and towns to receive study advertisements (e.g., broadcast messages). Grindr
           will also distribute broadcast messages to users in Puerto Rico.

        -  BGCLive. Black Gay Chat is a sexual networking website with over 500,000 members.
           BGCLive will distribute e-mail blasts to its U.S. member base.

        -  MR X and Daddyhunt. We will purchase banner advertisements to appear online at Daddyhunt
           and on the mobile applications for MR X and Daddyhunt. We will also purchase broadcast
           messages to appear on the mobile applications for MR X and Daddyhunt.

        -  Wapo. We will purchase banner advertising to appear on the Wapo mobile application for
           gay and bisexual men. We will also purchase direct messaging to reach all U.S. users of
           the Wapo mobile application.

        -  Randomization. Once registration is completed, participants will automatically be
           randomized into 1 of 2 study arms. A computer program will assign each participant via
           stratified block randomization (by race/ethnicity and age) and will balance groups
           within a 5% range. Once men are randomized, they will begin the baseline survey. They be
           kept in their original assignment group (i.e., intent to treat) and be sent a link to
           the 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-up surveys even if they do not participate in
           intervention activities. Randomization will be stratified by race/ethnicity and age
           (18-29, 30 and older), so that randomization will occur within each group (i.e., White,
           Black, or Hispanic). We will stop recruitment for HIV+ White MSM at 500, and over-sample
           HIV+ Hispanic MSM (n=500) and HIV+ Black MSM (n=500).
    
  