
    
      Each of the six transfer pathways will be tested and measured in a controlled, ventilated
      study chamber at the University of Minnesota's School of Public Health Industrial Hygiene
      Laboratory. To test each pathway, human volunteers will perform repeated contact activities
      using an identical protocol (e.g., identical number of contacts, type of material contacted,
      measured pressure of contact, measured time of contact, measured temperature and humidity) so
      that inter- and intra-individual variability can be characterized.

      The qualitative and quantitative sampling methods that will be used have been developed,
      tested, and published by researchers from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and
      Health (NIOSH) and other institutions such as ASTM. Specifically, quantitative transfer
      efficiencies will be measured using accepted wipe sampling protocols taken from several
      papers in the peer-reviewed literature. Semi-quantitative transfer patterns will be measured
      using fluorescent tracer intensity techniques that have also been presented in the
      peer-reviewed literature. The skin surface wipe samples will be sent to an accredited
      American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA) laboratory for analysis.

      These sampling results will allow the investigators to report the measured quantitative
      dermal transfer efficiencies of elemental metallic lead and Tinopal for each pathway in mass
      per square surface area of skin, and also calculate the relative transfer efficiencies in
      terms of percent transferred versus originally loaded. Fluorescent tracer maps will allow the
      investigators to demonstrate the patterns of transfer for each pathway using intensity of the
      tracer following transfer. Following this analysis, the investigators will then use the data
      to better inform the relative importance of the pathways in the conceptual model with respect
      to dermal exposure assessment and modeling efforts. These results are very important for
      improving the quality of workplace dermal exposure assessments and techniques. The current
      approaches are not well validated, and it is unknown if the results of existing dermal
      exposure models are accurate. It is expected that the results of this study will help to
      improve the protection of workers from certain dermal exposure hazards in the workplace by
      providing better inputs to the existing dermal exposure models, since it is not possible to
      collect exposure samples for each job task in the workplace.
    
  