
    
      Specific Aims

      Primary Aims

        1. Describe the person and environment characteristics and activity patterns of residents
           in LTC facilities.

        2. Modify the OBCHI grounded on the evidence-based results of Aim 1 specific to these
           facilities and residents.

        3. Test the effectiveness of the OBCHI conducted by activity department staff, relative to
           usual activities, as measured by quality of life, activity engagement, and social
           participation.

           H1a-c: Those receiving OBCHI will have significantly greater improvement in

           a) quality of life, b) activity engagement, and c) social participation at
           post-intervention relative to those receiving usual activities.

           H2a-c: Those receiving OBCHI will have greater maintenance of improvements in a) quality
           of life, b) activity engagement, and c) social participation at 1-month follow-up,
           relative to those receiving usual activities.

        4. Determine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention in terms of quality adjusted life
           year (QALY) and other health factors.

           H3: When OBCHI is proven to be more effective in promoting quality of life than usual
           activities, the investigators will expect the OBCHI to produce a higher QALY at a lower
           cost per QALY.

           H4: Between these two mutually exclusive treatments, the OBCHI intervention will be more
           efficient (more effective and less costly) or cost saving with a negative incremental
           cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) when compared to those receiving usual activities.

           Exploratory Aim

        5. Examine person characteristics (i.e. cultural heritage, life experiences social support,
           resilience, depression, and resident demographics [age, gender, ethnicity]) and select
           environment characteristics (i.e., participant perceptions of the intervention and
           facility) as potential moderators of the relationship between treatment condition (OBCHI
           versus usual care) and change in adaptation outcomes from pre- to post-intervention.

      Table 1. Timeline of Person/Environment Factors, Outcomes and Tools

      Person Characteristics Tools Baseline 1 wk. post 1 m. follow-up

      Cognitive Screen SPMSQ x

      Life Experience Interview x

      Social Support Yesterday Interview x x x

      Resilience Resilience Scale x

      Depression GDS-15 x x x

      Environment Characteristics

      LTC Facility Setting Site Demographics x

      Resident Perceptions SCES x x x Intervention Evaluation (midway) x

      Staff Perceptions Questionnaire x x

      Outcomes

      QoL QOLI/SF-12 x x x

      Cost Effectiveness SF-12 x x x

      Activity Engagement and Social Participation Yesterday Interview x x x

      Significance

      As the need for LTC increases with the steady growth of older adults, relocation into
      residential settings will grow. About 70 percent of persons over 65 will require spending
      time in LTC services, with 40 percent requiring nursing home care for a period of time.
      Relocation is moving from one permanent home to another permanent home which is sometimes
      precipitated by an illness and considered a significant life event. Skinner noted a forced
      relocation could have disturbing effects upon the elderly including loss of social and
      community connections. However, even with a planned relocation, encountering this new and
      unfamiliar environment requires the older person to rethink the ways in which his or her life
      will differ with adjustment duration of a few weeks to several years. Many factors determine
      the ways in which this 'new life' will evolve including: past adaptive strategies and life
      experiences, family support systems, socioeconomic resources, and cultural values.

      Moving from a familiar environment to an unfamiliar one involves adaptation, regardless of
      age. Adaptation is a process involving interaction between the person and environment.
      Indicators of successful adaptation to LTC have included: developing a sense of identity and
      place, having care needs met, knowing and being known to other residents, maintaining or
      developing social networks, continuity of lifestyle, and maintaining control over life
      situations. As defined for this study, adaptation is a normal process by which a person
      encounters a perceived challenge in the environment and is able to successfully manage that
      challenge as measured by increased quality of life, activity engagement and social
      participation. Central to adaptation is the cultural heritage that an individual brings to
      the LTC facility upon relocation. Because culture is the learned beliefs, values, customs,
      actions, communication, and life ways of an individual, it can be expected to permeate all
      aspects of life in a residential facility. Attention to an individual's cultural heritage has
      begun to make in-roads to the daily life routines encountered in these facilities.

      Acknowledgement of the resident's culture is a major contributing factor to his/her quality
      of life (QOL). However, QOL is a complex construct and has been used synonymously with terms
      like well-being, life satisfaction, and functional health. Lawton asserted that QOL is a
      collection of dimensions comprised of both objective and subjective factors which may include
      all or some of the following: behavioral competence, objective environment, perceived QOL,
      psychological well-being, and health-related status. Other factors associated with QOL
      include: interaction with family and friends, personal qualities, room and meal items, number
      of health problems, staff-resident ratios and continuity of care. These findings attest to
      the importance of a person-environment 'match' when QOL issues for residents are considered.

      Incorporating meaningful activity and social connections into the lives of elders that have
      been circumscribed by illness and disability is particularly important to QOL. Gerontological
      literature concerning the activities of elders has concentrated upon personal care and
      instrumental activities and how they contribute to health and functional status. These
      obligatory tasks are essential to one's survival, but perhaps even more significant to an
      elder's well-being are those discretionary activities involving social and meaningful
      occupations; such findings support the proposition that activity and social support systems
      are important in mediating the impact of illness on well-being.

      In summary, the relationship of relocation, culture, adaptation, QOL, activity engagement,
      and social participation is reflected in outcomes where failure to provide culturally
      competent and culturally sensitive care have occurred. With increasing diversity of the US
      population, practitioners are challenged to deliver culturally competent services and to
      improve the QOL for diverse LTC residents.
    
  