
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether ASN-002 alone or in combination
      with 5-FU is safe and effective in the treatment of nodular basal cell carcinoma (nBCC).

      Patients aged 18 or over, who have been diagnosed with nodular Basal Cell Carcinoma (nBCC),
      may be eligible to join this study.

      Study details:

      ASN-002 is an immunotherapeutic product that is injected into the BCC spot to be treated. It
      is made from modified adenovirus serotype 5 (also called Ad5). Adenoviruses are common in
      nature worldwide and can cause mild colds and respiratory infections from which people
      usually recover without treatment. The Ad5 used in this study has been modified so that it
      cannot grow in the body or cause an infection. The modified Ad5 in this study will deliver
      artificially made genetic material into the cancerous and surrounding cells. This genetic
      material will produce human interferon which is normally produced by the body to stimulate
      the immune system. It is hoped that injected ASN-002 will cause the body's own cells to
      produce interferon and stimulate the immune system to attack the cancerous cells and reduce
      the size of or eliminate the nBCC. Participants will attend the study centre weekly for an
      injection of ASN-002 alone of in combination with 5-FU into the nBCC. The participants
      recruited will have 3 injections over 3 weeks, and then undergo surgical excision of the
      tumor.

      Patient outcomes will then be assessed using a tumour sample collected during surgery and by
      the incidence of adverse events which occur throughout the study.

      It is hoped that the findings of this trial will provide information on the safety and
      efficacy of using ASN-002 alone or in combination with 5-FU for nBCC, particularly for
      patients in whom the standard treatment of surgery is not possible or not recommended.
    
  