
    
      Erectile Dysfunction (ED) is broadly defined as the inability to achieve or maintain an
      erection sufficient for sexual intercourse or activity. Current treatment for ED consists of
      oral medications, vacuum devices, intracavernosal injections, and surgically placed penile
      prosthetics. In the literature, this has been described as a Stepwise Approach, offering
      therapy beginning with the least invasive treatment option.

      The low intensity extracorporeal shock wave therapy (LISWT) was recently approved by the FDA
      for treatment of diabetic ulcers. But it is still under evaluation for treatment of ED.
      Recently, the European Association of Urology updated their guidelines related to ED and
      included LISWT for men with mild to moderate ED. Studies have reported that LISWT can be
      effective in treating ED. This was attributed to increase in angiogenesis, neurogenesis and
      other rejuvenating tissue effects. Doppler ultrasound studies have demonstrated a sustained
      increase in blood flow in patients treated with LISWT. Published studies have also reported a
      response rate of 40-80% with this treatment. In addition, the energy/pulse used in this
      application is approximately 10% of the energy used for disintegrating kidney stones; and no
      serious side effects have been reported till date.

      Additionally, most completed studies included men who score in the moderate to minimal ranges
      on the International Index of Erectile Function. In the proposed study, men with severe to
      moderate ED based on IIEF-EF score will be included. The goal of this study is to improve
      and/or restore erectile function in men with erectile dysfunction. The investigators
      hypothesize (Alternate Hypothesis) that patients in the active treatment group (DualStim +
      Wharton's Jelly) will show an improvement of at least 4 points for moderate ED and at least 7
      points for severe ED on IIEF-EF scale/questionnaire, and this difference will be
      significantly different from their baseline. In addition, patients in the DualStim + Saline
      group will be significantly different from their baseline, however, will show less
      improvement compared to DualStim + Wharton's Jelly. Our null hypothesis is that there is no
      difference between DualStim with Saline and DualStim with Wharton's Jelly groups and no
      difference between the baseline and after-treatment within the treatment groups for
      alleviating ED measured using International Index of Erectile Function score (IIEF-EF).
    
  