
    
      This study will assess whether this FDA approved treatment taken for 14-days is at least 85%
      effective in eradicating H. pylori infection.

      The study participants will be

        -  Adults ages 18-65 years

        -  Able to and who provide written informed consent

        -  Who meet the inclusion and inclusion criteria

      Females of Reproductive Potential

      If a female subject becomes pregnant while on this study, the study drug will be discontinued
      immediately and the subject followed until the outcome of the pregnancy is known. If a
      pregnancy occurs, it will be reported as an unexpected AE.

      Premature Subject Discontinuation

      A subject may be discontinued from the study for the following medical or administrative
      reasons:

        -  occurrence of an AE, which in the judgment of the investigator suggests an unacceptable
           risk to the subject (The investigator will follow the subject until satisfactory
           resolution of the AE or the AE is determined to be stable.);

        -  development on-study of any condition fulfilling one of the exclusion criteria;

        -  pregnancy; and/or

        -  subject request.

      The investigator may discontinue individual subjects from the study at any time.

      Subjects will be encouraged to complete the study; however they may voluntarily withdraw at
      any time. The investigator must provide written documentation of the reason for
      discontinuation on the appropriate study form. Regardless of the reason for or source of
      withdrawal, all subjects will be asked to undergo an end of therapy evaluation and a 45+-day
      after completing the study medication. Additionally, subjects who discontinue study drug for
      any reason, without meeting any of the criteria listed above, may continue in the study. Such
      subjects will have no further efficacy evaluations following the last study drug dose, but
      will continue all safety assessments through the 10 days of follow-up. Subjects who withdraw
      or are withdrawn will not be replaced under this protocol.

      Procedures:

        -  Screening for Helicobacter pylori infection

      The investigators will use a novel antibody immunoassay test to detect H. pylori antibodies
      in urine specimens will be used. The urine sample (0.5 mL) for the RAPIRUN H. pylori antibody
      test was transferred into a sample diluent tube and will be mixed with the aid of disposable
      pipette. Approximately 0.2 mL of this mixture will be dropped onto the test device. The test
      will be considered positive if a colored line is seen in both the test and control windows.

        -  Confirmation of Helicobacter pylori infection status

      For UBT, breath samples will be collected at a visit scheduled 45+ after the end of the
      eradication treatment, in disposable bags with a one-way valve designed for the use of the
      UBit 300 (Meretek Diagnostics, LaFayette, CO). A baseline breath sample will be collected at
      the start of the interview then the subject will be given 150 ml of a drink containing citric
      acid and 75 mg of 13C-urea. After 20 minutes, a second breath bag will be collected.

        -  Culture of Helicobacter pylori

      Baylor brush cutoffs will be place in 1 ml of cysteine transport medium with 20% glycerol and
      stored at -70 C until processed at the Laboratory of co-I Dr. Graham where will be cultured
      in medium consisting of of a horse blood agar (HBA) plate (nonselective medium) or an HBA
      plate containing 10 μg/ml nalidixic acid, 5 μg/ml trimethoprim, 3 μg/ml, vancomycin and 2
      μg/ml amphotericin B (selective medium). MIC testing for clarithromycin, tinidazole and
      amoxicillin will be conducted using agar dilution methods.

        -  Screening for Eligibility, pregnancy testing and physical evaluation

      Subjects who tested positive to a screening urine test, and subsequently to a urea breath
      test, will be invited to a visit where the aims, procedures, risks, benefits, and issues of
      confidentiality and subject's right will be revisited and a consent form will be given for
      them to take home and review. Subjects will be asked questions to screen for eligibility
      prior to a clinical evaluation by the Medical director, and will be asked about current
      medical conditions, dyspepsia symptoms, if currently pregnant, medical personal and family
      history, and their weight, height, 3' resting blood pressure, heart beat, and temperature
      will be measured and recorded, a blood sample will be collected to screen for kidney and
      liver conditions. If the research assistant deems the persons eligible, and willing to take
      part s/he will schedule an appointment to be seen by Dr. Salazar and bring the signed
      consent. Subjects will be asked to be fasting for at least eight hours. Once the results of
      kidney and liver functions are available, the subjects will be seen by Dr. Salazar to assess
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. At that time, while subjects have been fasting for at least
      3 hours, Dr. Salazar will collect samples for culture from gastric mucosa using the Baylor
      oro-gastric brush as follows: after topical oral anesthesia, the brush assembly is swallowed,
      the brush is extended in the stomach and to and fro for 3-4 cm, 3-4 times and then retracted
      into the protective sleeve and withdrawn from the patient (total time after anesthesia ~1
      min). The brush will be gently touched to a glass slide for Gram staining, then tip of the
      brush will be cut off and the brush shaken in a dram vial containing approximately 1 mL of
      cysteine transport media with 20% glycerol.

        -  Study medication, dosing and dispensation

      Patients will be given a 14-day quadruple [omeprazole (20 mg twice daily) + (420 mg of
      bismuth subcitrate potassium four times a day)+metronidazole (375 mg four times a day)+
      tetracycline hydrochloride (375 mg four times a day) for 14 days.

      Each subject will be given 14 daily dosing packs containing 12 PYLERA™ capsules and 2
      omeprazole tablets each along with oral and written instructions. Subjects will be asked to
      repeat the instructions back.

        -  Follow-up evaluation

      A phone call or household visit will take place at day 7. Subjects will be asked "Do you have
      any new symptom since you started taking the study medication?" Closed-ended question will
      also ask for solicited adverse events. Also during this evaluation, the study subjects will
      be asked to provide us with any unused drugs to count the number of tablets and capsules left
      and record in the appropriate forms. Another visit will be scheduled at day 14 following the
      same protocol.

        -  45+day Evaluation 3 At day 45+ during the sixth visit and will serve the purpose of
           asking the same question ("Do you have any new symptom since you started taking the
           study medication?"), collect specimens for a second urea breath test, and complete an
           exit survey to assess subject's satisfaction with the research experience and obtain
           their guess of the arm they were assigned to. The validated dyspepsia questionnaire will
           be administered again to assess changes in symptoms as well.
    
  