
    
      Achieving the correct quantity and quality of sleep is essential for the health and recovery
      processes of the athlete; night rest is often negatively influenced by many variables,
      including: high training loads, long-range trips, evening competitions, and / or high levels
      of anxiety and stress. High training loads can therefore have negative influences both on
      sleep but also on the risk of injury in athletes. Understanding and studying, in different
      sports, how sexual / masturbatory activity can influence sleep has primary importance for
      athletic and medical staff of athletes with the ultimate aim of preserving sports performance
      and reducing the risk of injuries.

      The primary objective of this experimentation is to explore the perceived relationship
      between sexual activity (or masturbation), sleep quality and sleep latency in a population of
      athletes. To achieve this goal, the subjects will compile an interview, concerning:
      demographic data, sports practice, sleep habits, sexual habits, perception of the
      relationship between sexual habits and sleep, perception of the relationship between sexual
      habits and sport. In addition, data will be collected regarding honesty and embarrassment in
      completing the interview.

      Secondary study aims are:

        1. Evaluate the possible differences in the perceived relationship between sexual activity
           and sleep quality / latency in relation to the gender of the athletes.

        2. Evaluate the possible differences in the perceived relationship between sexual activity
           and sleep quality / latency in different sports disciplines.

        3. Evaluate the differences in the perceived relationship between sexual activity and sleep
           quality / latency in professional and non-professional athletes.

        4. Evaluate the differences in habits concerning night rest between individual and team
           sports athletes.

        5. Evaluate the honesty and embarrassment rate when completing the interview.
    
  