
    
      About Plasma It's confirmed that there are 3 physical forms of material existence in human
      living environment. They are solids, liquids and gass. And any physical form can exist in
      different states due to the influence of environmental factors. Plasma is the fourth form of
      material existence. It's composed of ionized conductive gases, including six typical
      particles, which are electron, positive ion, negative ion, atom or molecule at excited state,
      atom or molecule at ground state, and photon. Plasma is composed of those positive and
      negative charged particles and neutral particles, and is a kind of quasi-neutrality gas with
      collective behavior. It's called plasma when the total negative electric charge equals to the
      total positive electric charge. 99% visible materials in universe may exist in plasma state,
      including fixed stars. Plasma can be natural or man-made. For example, the lighting during
      rainstorms is plasma phenomena, because the high voltage difference between cloud layer and
      ground makes the air ionized. And neon light and fluorescent lamp are from man-made plasma.
      The gases in light tube are ionized into plasma state.

      About Plasma Low temperature plasma (LTP) Surgery System Low temperature plasma (LTP) Surgery
      System(made in Chengdu Mechan Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd), which avoids causing burn
      injuries to patients, has been introducing into minimally invasive surgery. The mechanism by
      which this equipment stops bleeding is to directly occupy the injury with the formed blood
      clots, and different from the mechanism of the common electrical hemostatic devices that
      cauterize the tissues around the bleeding to stem the blood flow. At the same the Plasma Low
      temperature plasma (LTP) Surgery System has a some biological effects, such as ablation of
      the organization, this ablation function is generally not penetrating, and only has effect on
      the contact surface,which can safely handle with the tissue wound and prevent the planting
      and recurrence.
    
  