
    
      Marfan Syndrome (MFS) is a rare autosomal-dominant connective tissue disorder with
      pleiotropic manifestations primarily affecting the skeletal, ocular, and cardiovascular
      systems. Despite MFS affecting multiple organ systems, cardiovascular manifestations are the
      most serious and life threatening. Approximately 80% of adult MFS patients will have a
      dilated aortic root by age 40 years with aortic aneurysm and dissection the leading causes of
      morbidity and mortality, requiring lifelong cardiac surveillance. Since diagnosis is made on
      average at 19 years old and life expectancy has increased considerably from 32 years in the
      1970s, to 41 years in the 1990s and is now comparable to the general population (with the
      introduction of prophylactic aortic surgery), MFS patients have to live knowing that at least
      one major heart surgery is required in the patients' lifetime. Further, from the researchers'
      clinical experience, not all individuals with MFS perceived their cardiovascular conditions
      as treatable. Hence, the impact of knowing that they have aortovascular manifestations may be
      more striking than in other age and sex-matched cardiac surgical population. To date, there
      is still no available study assessing the impact of this diagnosis on the health-related
      quality of life (HRQoL) and psychosocial aspect of MFS patients.

      The overarching aim of the study is to explore the psychosocial and HRQoL effects of the
      diagnosis for aorto-vascular manifestations of MFS in three large UK cardiac centres. This
      will be achieved using a mixed-method approach consisting of two studies. Study 1 (S1) is a
      quantitative observational exploratory study while Study 2 (S2) is a qualitative exploratory
      study using semi-structured interviews to identify factors important to patients that are not
      captured in the questionnaires used in S1. Potential participants will be recruited from the
      aortopathy clinic. HRQoL and psychosocial factors will be determined and quantified using
      validated questionnaires which will be delivered either in paper or electronic format,
      depending on participants' preference.

      The outcome of the study will contribute to the UK and international evidence-base on the
      HRQoL and psychosocial impact of the diagnosis of aortovascular manifestations on MFS
      patients. The result will also be useful to better understand the condition and potentially
      guide the researchers in devising a patient care pathway that includes this aspect of care as
      well as develop a holistic and comprehensive service for this patient group.
    
  