
    
      Duodenal intraepithelial lymphocytosis (lymphocytic enteritis, LE) is defined by normal
      villous architecture and intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) >25/100 enterocytes. It is a
      frequent finding present in 2% to 5,4% of duodenal biopsies.

      LE is secondary to coeliac disease (CoD) in only a minority of patients, since it may be a
      response to other inflammatory processes in the gut. Other possible aetiologies of LE include
      infections (Helicobacter Pylori), drugs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory or acetylsalicylic
      acid) and autoimmune disease. Observational studies have established CoD to account for 10%
      to 43% of cases with LD and positive HLA-DQ2/8 after undertaking an exhaustive diagnostic
      work-up. These 'minor' forms of CoD may have similar clinical manifestations to those with
      villous atrophy.

      However, these patients with 'minor' CoD have often negative celiac serology, and then do not
      fulfil the present criteria to diagnose CoD. In fact, using the present diagnostic criteria
      they should be included in the definition of non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS). For
      diagnosing NCGS it is necessary to rule out CoD by means of negative serology -endomysial and
      tissue transglutaminase IgA antibodies- and a duodenal biopsy with absence of villous atrophy
      on a gluten-containing diet. As such it is accepted that NCGS patients might have LE. A
      recent systematic review on NCGS revealed that 44% of patients presented HLA-DQ2/8
      haplotypes, suggesting that a subgroup of patients with NCGS may actually belong in the
      spectrum of CoD, which some authors have so-called 'coeliac lite' disease.

      The gold-standard assay for confirming NCGS requires dietary elimination, followed by
      double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled food challenge. This procedure is difficult to
      adopt routinely in clinical practice. To date two double-blind placebo-controlled dietary
      interventions in patients with presumptive NCGS have been published. The first gluten vs
      placebo rechallenge trial showed that patients who received gluten had significantly more
      abdominal symptoms than those on placebo (68% vs 40%). The second study that investigated the
      specific effects of gluten after dietary reduction of fermentable, poorly absorbed,
      short-chain carbohydrates (FODMAPs) in subjects believed to have NCGS, showed no symptomatic
      worsening after gluten challenge as compared to placebo. Thus, there was no evidence of
      specific or dose dependent effect of gluten on NCGS patients placed on a diet low in FODMAPs.
      It is worth mentioning that patients included in these trials were HLA-DQ2/8 negative, and if
      positive they had a normal duodenal biopsy (Marsh 0) while on a gluten containing diet.
      Besides, a GFD has been shown to be more effective in IBS-D patients with negative CoD
      serology but HLA-DQ2/8+ than in those with a negative genetic study.

      The recent ESPGHAN guidelines for CoD diagnosis suggest that in cases with low-grade
      enteropathy (including LE) both a high γδ IEL count and the presence of Ig A anti-tissue
      transglutaminase (anti-TG2) deposits in the mucosa increase the likelihood of CoD. In
      contrast to CoD, there is stated that in NCGS there is not an increase of T-cell receptor γδ
      IELs. However, these parameters have only been scarcely used to rule out CoD in patients with
      NCGS in literature.

      The aim of study was demonstrate the existence of gluten sensitivity in patients with
      HLA-DQ2/8+, LE and negative celiac serology, who had presented a clinical and histological
      response to a gluten-free diet (GFD), using a gluten vs placebo-controlled challenge. In
      addition, to assess the presence of tissue markers of CoD before and after gluten challenge,
      thus confirming the existence of a 'coeliac-lite' disease.
    
  