
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Researchers want to see if the combination of azacitidine, carboplatin, and valproic may work
      better together to control advanced cancer.

        -  Azacitidine is designed to activate ("turn on") certain genes in cancer cells whose job
           is to fight tumors, which may also make azacitidine work better with other anti-tumor
           drugs.

        -  Carboplatin is designed to block the growth of cancer cells by stopping cell division,
           which may cause the cells to die.

        -  Valproic acid is an anti-seizure medication that may also have cancer-fighting
           abilities. This drug may be able to activate tumor-fighting genes, causing cancer cells
           to die.

      Phase 1 (Dose Escalation) and Phase 2 (Treatment):

      Participants will be enrolled on Phase 1 of the study in groups of 3. Each group will receive
      a different combination of the study drugs. If the first group of 3 tolerates the study drug
      combination well, the next group of 3 will be enrolled, and their dose(s) of carboplatin
      and/or valproic acid will be higher than the last group. Each new group will get a higher
      dose of carboplatin and/or valproic acid. If 1 of the 3 participants has a serious side
      effect at a certain dose level, 3 more participants may be added at that dose level to check
      the safety of the combination. If no more participants at that dose level have serious side
      effects, the next dose level will be tested. However, if a second participant has a serious
      side effect, then the dose level before that one will be considered the "maximum tolerated
      dose" (MTD). Once the MTD is found, participants will be enrolled on Phase 2 of the study.

      Participants enrolled on Phase 2 were to be given the MTD level of the study drug
      combination; however, study did not progress to Phase 2.

      Participants on both phases were to have the same treatment schedule and study tests
      performed. The only difference between Phase 1 and Phase 2 was to be the dose level of the
      study drug combination being given.

      Study Treatment:

      If eligible, participants received the study treatment on a 28-day treatment cycle.

      On Day 1 of each cycle, they receive an injection of azacitidine just under the skin or by
      vein over 30 minutes once a day for 5 days in a row.

      On Day 3 and Day 10 of each cycle, they receive carboplatin by vein over 60 minutes.

      On Days 5-11 of each cycle, they take valproic acid by mouth once a day with or without food.

      On Day 12 of each cycle, they may receive an injection of NeulastaTM (pegfilgrastim) just
      under the skin, depending on whether the study doctor thinks it is needed to help boost your
      white blood cell count.

      On Days 13-28 of each cycle, they have a "rest period" from the study drugs before beginning
      a new 28-day cycle of treatment.

      Study Visits:

      At certain time points, they have the following tests/procedure performed during study
      visits:

      On Day 5 and Day 11 of Cycles 1-3, about 1 tablespoon of blood drawn before treatment for
      molecular marker studies. These tests will be performed to look for a link between genetic
      characteristics and response to the study drug treatment.

      Within the last 72 hours (3 days) of each cycle, blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) and urine
      collected for routine tests. After the start of each cycle, blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon)
      once weekly for routine tests.

      Within 7 days before starting each new cycle, evaluation to see if you may be experiencing
      any side effects.

      After the end of every 2 cycles (about every 8 weeks), an x-ray and either a CT scan or an
      MRI scan to re-evaluate the cancer.

      Length of Study:

      Participants will continue to receive treatment on this study, as long as the disease does
      not get worse and you do not experience any intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Once treatment has ended for any reason, participants will come back for an end-of-treatment
      visit to have the following tests/procedures performed:

        -  You will have a complete physical exam.

        -  You will have urine collected and blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests.

        -  You may have a CT scan or an MRI scan to remeasure and re-evaluate the cancer.

      Up to 65 patients were eligible to take part in this study. All were to be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson. Study halted after Phase 1 without progressing to second phase.
    
  