
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a highly prevalent condition affecting an
      estimated 1.2 million people in the UK and is the second most common lung disease after
      asthma. COPD not only affect the lungs, but is a systemic disease with muscle dysfunction
      being a significant feature. Exercise, as part of a programme of pulmonary rehabilitation
      (PR), has been shown to improve exercise capacity and quality of life of patients with COPD.
      However, despite the effectiveness of PR at a population level, there remains room for
      improvement. The individual treatment response is heterogeneous with some patients failing to
      achieve clinically significant improvements, whilst others struggle to adhere to the exercise
      component or drop out altogether. Currently, whilst exercise intensities (the "dose") are
      individualised during PR, the character and content of PR is generally provided in a "one
      size fits all" manner. There is therefore scope to modify the content of PR to meet
      individual needs and underlying physiology thereby enhancing adherence and benefits.

      Precision medicine, tailoring therapy to specific "treatable traits" of an individual's
      condition, holds the potential to maximise treatment effect whilst minimising adverse
      effects. The investigators propose the same principles of precision medicine can be used to
      improve the delivery of PR by identifying an individual's exercise response at enrolment to
      PR and using this information to personalise exercise training. There are a growing number of
      diverse, novel training modalities that have been shown to be feasible and potentially
      efficacious in COPD, offering opportunities for delivering a personalised training programme.
      A key step in the development of this personalised/precision approach in exercise medicine is
      the understanding and measurement of the individual exercise pathophysiology that predicts
      preferential benefits to a particular exercise training modality. However, the relationship
      between baseline exercise pathophysiology (and indeed other disease and demographic
      variables) and such a response is currently unknown.

      Eccentric exercise, contraction of a muscle as it lengthens, and one-legged cycling are two
      options for diversifying PR. For a given muscle workload, eccentric exercise results in lower
      energy demand and oxygen consumption and therefore puts less strain on the cardiopulmonary
      system. Consequently, this type of exercise may be ideally suited for patients with lung
      disease, particularly for those who stop exercise due to ventilatory limitations. It may be
      more tolerable for patients as it causes less breathlessness, whilst allowing greater muscle
      specific work. Eccentric cycling involves use of a bike with an attached motor which drives
      the pedals in reverse. The subject must resist the rotation of the pedals to maintain a
      constant pedal speed, thereby performing eccentric work with their legs. Using eccentric
      exercise as a training modality had historically been avoided due to the fear of causing
      muscle damage. High intensity eccentric resistance exercise leads to delayed onset muscle
      soreness (DOMS) and has been used for many years as a model of inducing muscle damage.
      However over the last 30 years there have been an increasing number of studies showing
      comprehensively that if load is gradually increased, muscle damage and soreness is minimal
      and acceptable. In patient populations, because loads achieved are particularly low, the
      occurrence of significant muscle damage is even more infrequent and previous work, has
      demonstrated that eccentric cycling is well tolerated in patients with COPD.

      Whole body exercise, such as walking or cycling, requires recruitment of a large muscle mass
      generating a high oxygen demand. However, there is a disparity between whole body maximal
      oxygen uptake and muscle maximum aerobic capacity, even in a healthy population, and
      consequently significant variation in the muscle training stimuli achieved. This is
      emphasised in patients with COPD with a ventilatory limit to exercise. By exercising a
      smaller muscle mass, this ventilatory limitation can be bypassed and the individual muscle
      can be worked at significantly higher intensity. One method to reduce the exercising muscle
      mass is one-legged cycling. Two randomised controlled trials have demonstrated a greater
      improvement in V̇O2peak following one-legged cycling compared with two legged cycling in
      patients with COPD. One-legged cycling has been demonstrated to be a feasible addition to a
      PR programme and well received by patients and physiotherapists.

      This study aims to determine how disease, demographic and exercise physiological variables
      recorded at baseline relate to subsequent perception and progression of novel training
      modalities compared to conventional training. The investigators will perform a comprehensive
      assessment of physiological response to exercise at baseline in terms of exercise capacity,
      exercise limitation, muscle volume and strength, physical activity, frailty and muscle
      composition. Participants will then be randomly allocated to one of 4 training modalities;
      eccentric cycling, one-legged cycling, concentric (traditional 2-legged cycling), or lower
      limb resistance training.

      This is a pilot/feasibility study with the broad aim of identifying potential subphenotypes
      of patients with COPD that might respond preferentially to particular modalities of training.
      This knowledge is crucial to the development of definitive clinical trials of such exercise
      medicine interventions that could be delivered in routine clinical practice. The specific
      aims are:

        1. To characterise in detail the underlying pulmonary and systemic pathophysiological
           characteristics of patients with COPD who are disabled by exercise limitation.

        2. To measure progression of training loads during each training intervention relative to
           baseline values.

        3. To determine how baseline characteristics and pathophysiology relate to training
           progression and exercise experience.
    
  