
    
      Patients were matched with for age, sex and IQ (as determined by National Adult Reading Test
      scores) controlled volunteers.

      Participants were assessed for the following domains: verbal ability, verbal and visual
      learning, short-term memory, working memory, executive function, attention and processing
      speed. The domains were assessed with the following validated cognitive tests: The Hopkins
      Verbal Learning Test, Trail making parts A and B, phonemic, semantic and switching verbal
      fluency as well as the Cogstate computerised battery: Identification speed, Detection speed,
      One Card Learning accuracy, One Back test accuracy, Two Back test accuracy, International
      Shopping List total correct answers and Groton Maze Learning total errors. Evidence of
      neuroinflammation was assessed using an fMRI protocol (Resting state MRI, T1w-MPR, T2 Space,
      Diffusion Tensor Imaging with 30 directions, right frontal white matter and posterior
      cingulate gyrus Single Voxel Spectroscopy, and patient group Susceptibility Weighted Imaging.

      Quality of life was measured using the EuroQoL 5 Dimensions and visual analogue scale.
      Independent Activities of Daily Living was also assessed. Mental Health (as a confounder) was
      measured using the Patient Health Questionnaire 9, the Beck Depression Index II, the Beck
      Anxiety Inventory and the Trauma Screening Questionnaire.

      Statistical methods include significant differences between the patient and control group
      using the Student t test (parametric data), the Mann Witney U test (non parametric data) or
      the Fisher's Exact test (qualitative scoring systems). MELODIC in FSL software was used to
      decompose the rs-fMRI data into brain networks using independent component analysis (ICA) and
      connectivity in these networks patients and controls was compared using dual regression.
      FreeSurfer was used to extract brain regions from T1 images and compare the normalised volume
      of the hippocampus, amygdala and precuneus for patients and controls. DTI data were analysed
      using tract based spatial statistics (TBSS) in FSL and using FreeSurfer regions for the
      hippocampus, amygdala and precuneus. Cho/Cr, Cho/NAA and Ins/Cr ratios were extracted from
      MRS data using Tarquin. SWI images were reviewed for the presence of microbleeds by two
      Radiologists.
    
  