
    
      Project Goals

      Year One

        -  Develop and Pilot Test Survey. The Pediatrician Survey will be designed to assess both
           practice patterns and attitudes/beliefs pertaining to childhood and adolescent obesity.
           From a review of the literature and the recently published guidelines, along with
           interviews with practicing pediatricians, we will generate items that assess relevant
           diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to childhood obesity, including patient and
           physician demographic data. We will also thoroughly review the literature to identify
           attitudes and beliefs that may impact pediatricians approaches to obesity management.
           The survey will be pilot tested with a small sample of practicing pediatricians, and
           appropriate modifications in the survey will be made.

        -  Select Sample. We will use the American Academy of Pediatrics Fellowship Directory to
           identify a national pool of practicing pediatricians. To allow us to assess any regional
           differences in practice patterns, we will stratify the pool of practicing pediatricians
           by geographic region and randomly select 150 pediatricians from within each of four
           geographic regions. This will allow us to survey a total of 600 practicing
           pediatricians.

        -  Mail Surveys. Using addresses provided by the Directory, we will send surveys via mail
           to selected pediatricians. All mailings will be coded and entered into a computerized
           master list that will facilitate tracking of surveys received and follow-up. Surveys
           sent and received will be tracked. Based on prior research experience, we expect an
           initial response rate of approximately 50%. One month after the initial mailing, we will
           conduct a second mailing to non--responders, sending a reminder postcard requesting the
           completion and return of the survey. Two months after the initial mailing, a second
           letter and survey will be sent to those who still have not responded. With this method,
           we expect a final response rate of 60%

      Year Two

      • Data Entry and Analysis. Data from returned surveys, including respondent demographic
      characteristics, practice structure and setting, practice patterns, and attitudes/beliefs
      will be entered into a database for subsequent analysis. Data will be double-entered and
      checked for accuracy. Data analysis will consist of establishing psychometric properties of
      attitude and belief measures, examining frequencies of responses to, individual items,
      looking for trends across geographic regions, and assessing common approaches to the
      diagnosis and management of childhood obesity. Moreover, we will analyze the data to
      determine the relationship of attitudes/beliefs and practice patterns. We anticipate that we
      will identify a number of important variations in the diagnosis and management of childhood
      obesity. We also expect to identify a number of personal and systems-related barriers to
      treatment of childhood obesity. For example, we expect that pediatricians with more recent
      training will have more optimistic attitudes toward successful management of childhood
      obesity. We also expect to find variations in reimbursement and clinic resources, and that
      these will impact pediatricians' approaches.
    
  