
    
      Study Design:

      This is a randomised crossover trial. Patients will perform two identical exercise tests and
      the intervention (VitaBreath) will be compared to control condition (pursed-lip breathing) in
      the same patients. The order of testing will be determined by simple randomisation
      (sealedenvelope.com).

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of the VitaBreath device on
      inspiratory and expiratory thoracoabdominal wall volumes during exercise in patients with
      COPD. Use of the VitaBreath device will be compared to normal breathing (pursed lip breathing
      technique). Patients will primarily be recruited from those who participated in our previous
      study (REC reference: 17/NE/0085 - IRAS project ID: 221120) at North Tyneside General
      Hospital and will undergo two exercise tests on a cycle ergometer on the same day using both
      the VitaBreath device and the pursed-lip breathing technique during recovery from exercise.

      Study interventions:

      The study will include two visits. During the first visit patients will undergo a clinical
      assessment, including history, physical examination, ECG and full lung function assessment
      including spirometry, to ensure that patients are stable. During the second visit patients
      will perform two intermittent exercise tests lasting 20 minutes each and consisting of 2-min
      work bouts at 80% of peak work rate (WR peak) as determined in the previous study (REC
      reference: 17/NE/0085 - IRAS project ID: 221120) with 2-min recovery periods in between work
      bouts, using either the VitaBreath device or the pursed lip breathing technique during
      recovery periods. Patients will be given written information explaining the procedure and
      will provide written informed consent.

      Assessment Procedures

      Visit 1

      Baseline assessment

      During the first visit patients will undergo the following baseline assessment: a) medical
      history and physical examination, b) spirometry and c) resting ECG to assess the resting
      heart function.

      Visit 2

      Preparation of the patients

      Upon arrival to the laboratory, and prior to any intervention, adhesive skin markers for
      Opto-Electronic Plethysmography (OEP) recordings (to assess thoracoabdominal wall dynamic
      hyperinflation), and set of adhesive optodes for portable cardio-impedance recordings (to
      assess cardiac output), muscle surface electromyography (to assess muscle recruitment
      patterns) and near inferred spectroscopy (to assess respiratory muscle oxygen requirement)
      will be attached on the skin. All procedures will be explained in detail prior each trial.

      Operational chest wall volumes

      At baseline, patients will be instructed after 3-4 regular tidal breaths to make two maximal
      inspiratory capacity (IC) efforts from End Expiratory Chest Wall (EECW) Volume to Total Chest
      Wall Capacity (TLCCW) in order to assess chest wall volume at TLC (TLCCW) and Inspiratory
      Reserve Chest wall Volume (IRVcw) at rest. During exercise and recovery, chest wall
      kinematics will be measured by OEP as follows: the movement of 89 retro-reflective markers
      placed front and back over the chest wall from clavicles to pubis will be recorded. Each
      marker will be tracked by eight video cameras (Smart System BTS, Milan, Italy), four in front
      of the subject and four behind. Subjects will be grasp handles positioned at the mid sternum
      level which will lift the arms away from the rib cage so that lateral markers can be
      visualised. Dedicated software reconstructs the three-dimensional coordinates of the markers
      in real time by stereophotogrametry and calculates total and compartmental chest wall volume
      and volume variations using Gauss's theorem. The chest wall is modelled as being composed of
      two compartments-the rib cage and the abdomen. Vcw is the sum of the rib cage volume (Vrc)
      and abdominal volume (Vab).

      Non-Invasive assessment of respiratory muscle oxygenation

      In addition to operational chest wall volumes investigators are going to assess intercostal
      and abdominal local muscle oxygenation using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS). Two NIRS
      optodes, which will be connected to a NIRO 200 spectrophotometer (Hamamatsu Photonics,
      Hamamatsu, Japan), will be placed on the skin over the left seventh intercostal space at the
      midaxillary line and over the upper rectus abdominis respectively, and will be secured using
      adhesive tape. The left intercostal space will be used to avoid potential blood flow
      contributions from the liver on the right side of the body.

      Respiratory muscle electromyography

      Electromyography (EMG) will be used in order assess respiratory muscle activation. Skin will
      be cleaned and surface electrodes (Delsys Trigno, Delsys, Boston, MA, USA) will be placed as
      follows: on the surface over the right seventh intercostal space (EMGic), 2 cm lateral to the
      umbilicus, over the muscle mass of rectus abdominis (EMGra), over the sternocleidomastoid
      muscle (EMGster), and on the scalene muscle (EMGsca). EMG data will be recorded at 2000Hz and
      will be filtered at 25-500 Hz during each trial (Spike 2, Cambridge Electronic Design,
      Cambridge, UK).

      Exercise protocol

      Patients will undergo two intermittent exercise protocols on a cycle ergometer. The exercise
      protocol will consist of repeated 2-min exercise bouts, separated by 2-min recovery periods
      in between work bouts in order to allow application of the VitaBreath device. During the 1st
      min of each recovery period patients will breathe either via the VitaBreath device or
      adopting the pursed lip breathing technique. During the 2nd min of each recovery period
      patients will breathe normally. Patients will also score the intensity of their perceived
      dyspnoea using the Borg 1-10 scale. Cardiac output and stroke volume will be measured
      non-invasively using a cardio-impedance method (physio-flow) throughout the exercise and
      recovery periods. Respiratory muscle activation (EMG) and local respiratory muscle oxygen
      tissue oxygenation (NIRS) will be continuously recorded non-invasively using optodes placed
      on the skin throughout the exercise and recovery periods. In addition, arterial oxygen
      saturation will be recorded throughout the exercise and recovery periods using a pulse
      oximeter.

      Sample size estimation

      Estimation of sample size within each breathing modality is based on the results of a study
      comparing use of the VitaBreath device to pursed lip breathing (PLB). Using the mean
      difference in the recovery of inspiratory capacity compared to the end of exercise (130 ml)
      between the VitaBreath device and PLB, the SD (110 ml), an alpha significance level of 0.05
      (2-sided) and 80% power, a minimum total sample size of 11 patients is calculated to be
      sufficient to detect significant differences in the magnitude of change in thoracoabdominal
      wall dynamic hyperinflation between the VitaBreath device and PLB trials. 12 patients will be
      recruited in order to perform the trials in a balanced ordering sequence.
    
  