
    
      Rationale: Hazardous drinking is an established drinking pattern that carries a risk of
      harming the drinker's physical and psychological health, and/or having a harmful social
      effect on the drinker, their families and the community. Interventions to support people who
      are drinking at hazardous levels are proven to be beneficial and cost-effective at both
      individual and population levels. However, very few people report having received help to
      reduce their alcohol consumption, despite support being available. Those who do seek help
      predominantly talk to their GP first, who then refers them for specialist support.
      Consequently, there remains a significant gap between the population 'in need' of treatment
      and those actually engaged in treatment. Mobile-phone based alcohol interventions have the
      potential to function as a stand-alone intervention to help people address their alcohol
      problem, and/or act as a conduit to more intensive treatment. 'Step Away' is a
      smartphone-delivered health intervention designed in the USA to help individuals moderate or
      abstain completely from drinking alcohol. It is the only alcohol-related mobile app whose
      development was informed by an empirically-supported intervention grounded in a psychological
      theory. While the app has shown promise in a North American sample, a well-powered clinical
      trial of the intervention has yet to be undertaken. In its current form the app is not
      suitable for adoption in New Zealand as it uses North American drinking norms and safe
      drinking guidelines, numerous "Americanisms" and the imperial measurement system, and it
      focuses on US care services. However, a New Zealand version of 'Step Away' could easily be
      developed, with input from New Zealand stakeholders and end-users.

      Aims: To 1) adapt the "Step Away' app for New Zealand, then 2) undertake a feasibility study
      to determine whether six months access to the app can reduce the frequency of alcohol abuse
      and increase engagement with substance abuse-related health services in adult, hazardous
      drinkers in Auckland.

      Design: Double-blind, randomised-controlled trial.

      Recruitment: Community advertising, including social media.

      Sample size: As a feasibility study, no sample size calculation was undertaken. However, 200
      people (100 in each arm) will provide sufficient data to ascertain the direction and likely
      effect size for the various alcohol-related outcomes, the likely recruitment rate, and
      estimates around participant retention.
    
  