
    
      Background:

      In the highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) era, the incidence of many cancers
      remains higher in the HIV-positive than in the general population. This is not only true for
      AIDS-defining malignancies, such as Kaposi's sarcoma or lymphoma, but also for other cancers,
      which comprise 58% of all neoplasms in a recently described US cohort [1]. This trend has
      generated renewed interest in understanding the molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis in the
      immune suppressed patient. Potential explanations include prolonged survival of patients with
      HIV on HAART, high incidence of co-infection with oncogenic viruses, and exposure to risks
      such as smoking and alcohol [2].

      Squamous cell carcinoma of the anus (SCCA) requires integration of human papillomavirus (HPV)
      DNA into anal canal cell chromosomes. HIV-positive men are at increased risk for developing
      anal cancer. A Swiss study linking the Swiss HIV cohort study and Swiss cantonal cancer
      registries has shown greatly elevated SIRs for anal cancer (SIR = 33.4, 95% CI = 10.5-78.6)
      [3]. Clearly, HPV-HIV coinfection plays a major role in SCCA development, but whether this
      contribution is associated with distinct molecular pathway of carcinogenesis, remains
      hypothetical [4].

      Anal cancer occurs earlier in HIV-positive individuals (mean age 37 years) compared with
      HIV-negative men (58 years) and HIV-negative women (65 years). This difference of two decades
      in age of onset supports the hypothesis that the biology of SCCA differs between HIV-positive
      and HIV-negative patients [5]. The effect of HIV infection on the natural history of anal HPV
      infection is poorly understood, but most experts agree on two points: 1) 95% of HIV-positive
      homosexual men are co-infected with HPV; and 2) HIV infection favors persistence of HPV
      infection within the ano-genital tract (uterine cervix, vagina, and anal canal).

      Two major and mutually exclusive types of genomic instability are involved in cancer
      progression. The first, known as chromosomal instability (CIN), results from a series of
      genetic changes, including activation of oncogenes and inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes
      such as p53 and APC. The second, known as microsatellite instability (MSI), results from
      somatic (acquired) inactivation of DNA mismatch repair genes (MMR), such as MLH1 (by
      hypermethylation of its promoter), typically leading to mutation of genes with coding
      microsatellites, such as BAT 25, BAT26 and CAT25, transforming growth factor receptor II
      (TGF-RII) and BAX [6].

      MSI reflects genomewide instability (resulting from a deficient MMR system), and occurs at
      increased frequency in HIV-associated cervical intraepithelial and lung neoplasia. In both
      cases, the frequency of MSI was six fold greater in the HIV-associated tumors, compared with
      tumors of HIV-indeterminate patients [7]. Others authors have also reported a high rate of
      MSI in Kaposi's sarcomas and aggressive lymphomas obtained from HIV-infected patients,
      whereas there is no evidence of similar instability in lesions from HIV-negative patients
      [8]. The recent observation that the MSI phenotype is restricted to HIV-related lymphomas
      suggests that a cardinal feature of cancer, such as genetic instability, can be highly
      influenced by host immunity [9].

      MSI status of SCCA in HIV-positive patients has never been investigated, but we have
      performed a CIN analysis of tumor specimens from 18 HIV- and 10 HIV+ patients diagnosed with
      SCCA in two US institutions [10]. Tumors in HIV-negative patients were more likely to present
      CIN than were tumors in HIV-positive patients (24.1% versus 6.6%, P<0.001). Consistent loss
      of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosomes 17p, 18q, 5q, and 11q was observed in HIV-negative
      patients with SCCA. By contrast, allelic loss at 17p, 5q, and 18q was virtually absent in
      tumors of HIV-positive individuals, indicating that immune suppression promote SCCA
      progression through an alternate pathway to CIN.

      Own Research in the Field:

      The applicant is a colorectal surgeon, directly involved in the treatment of patients with
      anorectal malignancies since 2001. He has collected preliminary data showing specific
      patterns of molecular aberrations in HIV-related SCCA. These findings have been published in
      peer-reviewed journals, with the consequence that the applicant is regularly solicited by
      Editors to write expert opinions and state of the art reviews in the field.

      The Swiss cohort of HIV-positive patients will provide a unique opportunity to conduct this
      research, because of the large number of individuals already enrolled in the existing
      database, and the existing expertise in the field developed by Professor Hirschel and his
      team. A large population of patients is indeed a sine qua none condition to start this
      project due to the relative rarity of these tumors.

      Last but not least, the molecular aspect of this research will be conducted in the laboratory
      of Dr Pierre Hutter, PhD, who is a leader in our country for the detection of hereditary
      non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). Thus, Dr Hutter laboratory will provide an excellent
      environment to perform the molecular analyses described herein.

      Study Hypotheses:

      We hypothesize that, in the HIV population, microsatellite instability, rather than
      chromosomal instability, is the favoured pathway for rapid progression of anal
      intra-epithelial neoplasia towards invasive SCCA. The second hypothesis is that, by
      comparison, MSI is either absent or at least very rare in SCCA of HIV-negative individuals.

      Study Aims and Objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to assess microsatellite instability status in tumor
      specimens of 15 HIV-positive patients from the Swiss Cohort who were diagnosed with SCCA; an
      interim analysis will then be performed to determine the incidence of MSI in SCCA of
      HIV-positive patients. If a majority of tumours exhibit MSI in this population, we will
      proceed with the second part of the study, which objective is to perform the same analyses in
      similar tumors of 15 HIV-negative patients, and thus to compare the molecular profiles of
      SCCA in both populations. By doing so, the potential role of immune suppression in
      carcinogenesis progression might be established.

      Study Design and Plan

      Patients:

      Patients from the Swiss HIV cohort with a biopsy-proven diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma
      of the anus will be identified using the existing database. We choose to analyse at least 15
      samples, depending on availability, between 3 SHCS centers. Tumors from HIV-negative patients
      who underwent surgery for SCCA will be retrieved from the Department of Pathology of
      University Hospital Geneva, pending review of the protocol by the local Ethics Committee.

      Intervention:

      All tumor samples will be reassessed for confirmation of diagnosis by a pathologist. For each
      patient, paraffin blocks with both tumor tissue and normal mucosa will be selected for DNA
      extraction and polymerase chain reaction at microsatellite targets. The tissues were
      routinely collected from the operating room, fixed in buffered formalin, embedded in
      paraffin, and stored for a variable number of months prior to selection for analysis.
      Paraffin-embedded blocks will be cut with a microtome into 20-µm thick sections. Using a
      sterile scalpel blade, areas of normal (non-tumor) and cancer tissue will be microdissected
      under a dissecting microscope utilizing a haematoxylin and eosin-stained section as a guide.
      The specimens will be deparaffinised in toluol, purified with absolute ethanol, and
      centrifuged at 14,000 rpm. Previous experience in Dr Hutter's laboratory has demonstrated
      that it is indeed technically possible to perform this type of molecular analysis in
      paraffin-embedded tumour specimen.

      We will use the reference panel of microsatellite primers recommended for colorectal cancer
      specimens to determine the presence of microsatellite instability in SCCA. These include the
      microsatellite markers BAT25, BAT26, as well as CAT25.

      Study Evaluations:

      Initial evaluation of data will be performed after analysis of the first 15 tumours specimen.
      If MSI is detected in the HIV-positive population, further investigation will be conducted in
      tumors of HIV-negative patients. Data analysis will be subject to progress reports conducted
      with all investigators at regular intervals. We chose to restrict, at least initially, our
      analysis to 15 tumours for three reasons:

        1. This is a relatively rare cancer, and it is unlikely that we will be able to retrieve
           more than 25 SCCA patients from the Swiss HIV cohort.

        2. Our previous study was conducted with 18 tumours specimen in each group, and the
           differences between groups were statistically significant.

        3. This is a pilot exploratory study, and the working hypothesis may prove wrong; it is
           therefore critical to limit the initial costs in accordance with the study budget and
           availability of Dr Hutter's expertise. If our hypothesis is supported by the initial
           results, we may proceed with additional investigations and a more elaborated research
           project with adequate funding resources.¨ For these reasons, we will restrict our
           research to three SHCS centers. Zurich, Geneva and Lausanne were chosen essentially
           based on existing relationship between the visceral surgery units.

      Data Analysis:

      MSI status of tumors will be assessed by Pierre Hutter. The results will then be correlated
      with the epidemiological data from the Swiss cohort, and correlated with the patients'
      clinical characteristics, including viral load, CD4+ count, as well as clinical outcome. The
      results will also be correlated with treatment outcome and cancer survival.

      Time Frame:

      Tumor specimen will be retrieved from the Departments of Pathology in Lausanne, Geneva and
      Zurich in the beginning of 2009. The MSI analysis is a straightforward procedure, which takes
      about 24 hours in the laboratory of Dr Hutter. Thus, the analysis of the 15 specimen in the
      HIV-positive population will be completed by the end of March 2009. Further decision
      regarding subsequent analyses in the HIV-negative population will then be subjected to
      decision, according to the results obtained in these initial tumors.

      Status of Ethical Approval:

      Patients enrolled in the Swiss HIV cohort study initially gave their consent for
      participating in this type of study. Almost all patients at the HIV centres consented to take
      part in genetic research in order to identify specific factors that might result in
      differences in the course of the disease. Obviously, all analyses will be performed on tumor
      specimen, and these will not be traceable to the patients' identities. Thus, all genetic
      testing will be totally anonymous. By contrast, further approval by the local Ethics
      Committee in Geneva will be sought, should the analysis be performed on tumor specimen from
      HIV-negative patients.

      Study budget:

      The initial analysis of 15 HIV-positive patients will be performed free of charge by Pierre
      Hutter. The cost for molecular study is estimated at 250.-CHF per case. Thus, in case the
      analysis of MSI in this group leads to promising results, it is estimated that the cost of
      analysis in 12-15 HIV-negative patients will cost around 3,000.-CHF. Funding for this type of
      research will be available through the Fonds de Service of Department of Surgery at
      University Hospital Geneva.
    
  