
    
      The diagnosis of GCA is clinical and syndrome-based. Only few years ago, temporal artery
      biopsy (TAB) was the standard diagnostic tool to confirm diagnosis, although sensitivity is
      moderate[3,4] and its outcome seldom affects treatment management[5]. Today, the European
      League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) recommends diagnostic imaging in all patients suspected of
      GCA[6]. The imaging of choice is based on the suspected vessel involvement. In patients
      suspected of cranial GCA (c-GCA), vascular ultrasound (US) is the recommended first line
      imaging test, whereas Fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emissions
      tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) is not recommended for the assessment of cranial
      arteries.

      In patients suspected of large vessel involvement (LV-GCA), 18F-FDG PET/CT, US, magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) or CT can be used to confirm disease, but no specific priority of the
      imaging tests is given. US is an attractive first line imaging in LV-GCA suspected patients
      since it is increasingly used in the diagnosis of c-GCA, is readily available and cheap.
      18F-FDG PET/CT is an appealing diagnostic tool in LV-GCA suspected patients, since it also
      evaluates malignancy and infection, differential diagnoses often considered in this disease
      subset. However, 18F-FDG PET/CT is often not readily available, is expensive and exposes
      patients to radiation. Moreover, its sensitivity seems to decrease with glucocorticoid (GC)
      treatment and the window of opportunity in which sensitivity is unaffected is unknown.

      Relapse during glucocorticoid tapering is frequent in GCA. However, the evaluation of
      potential GCA disease activity relies on unspecific symptoms and inflammatory biomarkers.
      There is a significant overlap between symptoms of GCA disease activity and GC adverse effect
      and the same holds for symptoms and biomarkers of disease activity and infection, making the
      evaluation difficult. Accurate tools to support treatment decisions, avoid over-treatment
      without risk of GCA related complications are lacking.

      The aim of this project is to prospectively evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of different
      imaging tools in specific giant cell arteritis disease subsets before and after treatment
      initiation. Diagnostic tools with high sensitivity and specificity are a prerequisite for
      optimal treatment of GCA patients.

      Specifically, the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound (US) as compared to 18F-FDG PET/CT in
      new-onset, treatment naïve large vessel(LV)-GCA patients is investigated. Furthermore,
      long-term follow up including US, 18F-FDG PET/CT and cross sectional imaging is performed to
      explore the potential of imaging as monitoring and prognostic tools.

      In this observational cohort, the diagnostic accuracy of 18F-FDG PET/CT after three and ten
      days of glucocorticoid treatment in the subset of LV-GCA patients and the diagnostic accuracy
      of 18F-FDG PET/CT in cranial artery inflammation in new-onset, treatment naïve c-GCA patients
      as compared to a control group of patients with a previous diagnosis of malignant melanoma
      was also evaluated and is registered elsewhere (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03285945
      and NCT03409913, respectively)
    
  