
    
      Drug addiction is a chronic medical illness and an important public health problem worldwide.
      The population of drug abuse had reached about 200,000 in Taiwan, and the age distribution is
      mainly in young adults. The social, medical and economic problems of drug addiction are
      profound and include lost productivity, disrupted relationships, crime and violence, HIV/AIDS
      and other infectious diseases. Therefore, drug addiction treatment is a hot issue of Ministry
      of Health and Welfare . Methadone substitution therapy has been the treatment of first choice
      for opiate dependence, but patient on Methadone substitution therapy report a wide side
      effects, and relapse rate is up to two third of methadone treatment patients between one to
      two years. Therefore, adjuvant therapeutic interventions for drug addiction patients are
      needed. Contrast to conventional Western medicine, traditional Chinese medicine is the most
      common used therapy of complementary and alternative medicine. However, traditional Chinese
      medicine (TCM) was excluded from the service for drug addiction treatment. Investigators need
      to establish a model for TCM as an alternative therapy included in addiction treatment and
      provide a better care system for drug addiction.

      This research is aim to build a development model. First of all, investigators plan to review
      some convincing articles and then analyze the efficacy of TCM in drug addiction. According to
      review articles and experience of professionals, we establish a model for TCM included in
      addiction treatment. Investigators will cooperate with Western medicine together , through
      common assessment scales to confirm the efficacy of traditional Chinese medicine and compare
      with current routine treatment. According to above experience, investigators provide a
      Standard Operation Procedure for TCM treatment for drug addiction and policy suggestion. For
      drug addiction , this factually achieves communication and integration of Chinese and Western
      medicine, and benefits the public.
    
  