
    
      Fascia is a connective tissue that contains a large amount of water and contains blood
      vessels, nerves that surround the muscles and connect the various structures of the body. In
      the event of an injury, the fascia has to cause some limitations to reduce muscle spasms,
      neuromuscular changes and pain. In order to achieve this, it can adhere to muscles and other
      body structures. In the physically active population, these facial adhesions may cause a
      decrease in performance over time, while the body heals itself after mechanical stresses and
      injuries. It is remarkable that various facial techniques are tried and compared with each
      other in order to increase performance. The most noteworthy of these techniques is foam
      roller (FR) and instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization (IASTM).

      The IASTM technique is a therapeutic approach developed by James Cyriax. There are many
      different instruments used for myofascial release. The most popular one is Graston Technique®
      (GT® ). With specially designed instruments, longitudinal pressure is applied along the
      fibers of the respective muscles. Damaged tissues are detected by varying tissue vibration
      under the instrument. The therapeutic efficacy of the instruments, in particular by
      microtrauma created in the damaged areas, induces local inflammation response, enhances scar
      tissue destruction, enhances adhesion relaxation, enhances collagen synthesis and stimulates
      connective tissue remodeling. In addition to its rehabilitative use, IASTM has been found to
      be effective as a method that stimulates the nerves in muscles and increases muscle strength,
      performance and endurance. In addition, as tissue mobility and range of motion increase,
      performance increases and shortening of the recovery period after physical activity occurs.

      In addition to manual therapy methods for myofascial release techniques, there are also
      applications that patients can perform on their own. FR and Stick Roller are examples. The
      use of pre-competition FR increases joint range of motion, reduces pain and tension,
      increases blood flow and joint flexibility, and reduces injury rate when exercising. It also
      relaxes scar tissue and facial adhesions, regulates muscle tone, provides relaxation in
      excessively active muscles and improves movement quality.

      FR application is carried out with a foam roller which can vary in size, shape and density.
      It has become popular in clinics and athletic training halls because of their ease of use and
      versatility. They are available in different lengths, making them easier to move and easier
      to maneuver in different parts of the body. Best used in the treatment of large muscle
      groups. Each muscle group has a defined position and protocol with different starting and
      ending points. Individuals with poor collagen load ability and individuals new to FR studies
      often have to spend more time on the cylinder to achieve the best results. Foam roller
      sessions can be held once or twice a day and can be used as a warm-up tool before a training
      session or as a regeneration option after training. It increases tissue extensibility by
      opening both IASTM and FR adhesions.

      A preferred and highly studied method for performance improvement, especially before
      competitions, is dynamic stretching. Dynamic stretching (DS) exercises are used for warm-up
      and relaxation before and after sports exercises. It is one of the common applications used
      for preparation before physical exercise. Dynamic stretching exercises are a series of
      exercises to prepare the muscles and joints in the body for the activity to be done, to
      reduce the incidence of possible injuries and to accelerate the regeneration process after
      sports. In addition, there are studies showing that dynamic stretching exercises affect
      performance positively and it has been found to give better results in areas such as jump and
      sprint compared to static stretching exercises.

      The aim of this study is to compare the effects of these three techniques on vertical jump
      performance and their advantages over each other.
    
  