
    
      Procedure Description:

      The investigators commonly use these blocks for patients requiring total shoulder
      replacement: the patient is usually sedated with propofol. The patient is positioned in the
      lateral decubitus, or sitting position for this block. After the skin preparation and
      draping, the fingers of the non-operative hand separate the trapezius and levator scapulae
      muscle and a 25 gauge needle is used to anesthetize the skin and subcutaneous tissue.

      The Trapezius and Levator Scapulae muscles are again separated with the non-operative hand
      and a 17 or 18 gauge insulated tuohy needle is inserted, which is attached to a nerve
      stimulator set at a current output of one to three milliamps, a frequency of two Hertz, and a
      pulse width of 200 to 300 microseconds. The needle is advanced towards the suprasternal notch
      until contact with the bony structures is made.

      After contact with the bone the stylet of the needle is removed, the needle tip is walked off
      the bony structures in a lateral and slightly superior direction remaining on the plane of
      the line drawn from the dorsal spine of C6 to the suprasternal notch. After walking off of
      these bones structures the needle is advanced carefully in an anterior direction. As the
      needle is advanced there will be a motor response from the stimulator current. The muscles
      involved are usually the triceps, biceps, deltoids or major pectoral muscle but any muscle
      group of the upper limb would be acceptable for this block since the needle is now in contact
      with the posterior aspects of the roots of the brachial plexus. The tip of the needle at this
      point is situated between the anterior and middle scalene muscles and is in contact with the
      C6 root of the brachial plexus. At this point either a single-shot injection of Exparel will
      be performed, or a catheter for Ropivacaine will be inserted, as described below.

      For catheter insertion: the nerve stimulator is removed from the needle and attached to the
      proximal end of the stimulating catheter and the tip of the catheter is inserted into the
      needle shaft. The nerve stimulator is usually set at a current output of one milliamp. The
      motor response should be unchanged. The catheter is advanced beyond the needle tip, if the
      motor response disappears, the catheter is careful drawn into the needle shaft and small
      adjustment to the needle, advancing slightly or withdrawing it slightly is done. This
      maneuver is repeated until the muscle twitch is unchanged during catheter advance. This
      indicates the catheter tip is now situated on the nerve root; the catheter is advanced 3 to 5
      centimeter beyond the needle tip but not further than 5 centimeters. The needle is then
      removed without disturbing the catheter and the inner stylet of the catheter is also removed.
      The catheter position can be confirmed by attaching the nerve stimulator to the catheter, the
      motor response should be unchanged. The catheter is then subcutaneously tunneled and
      continuous infusion of Ropivacaine is inserted.

      Intraoperative Management:

      The intraoperative course will follow the standard of care practices. Doses/concentration of
      medications/agents used for the anesthetic management of the subjects enrolled in this trial
      may be adjusted when necessary to provide optimal subject care. Anesthesia will be induced
      with propofol, intravenous opioids, and other medication(s)/agent(s) at a concentration
      range/dose(s) based on the clinical need of the subject. Patient will be given
      succinylcholine to aid in intubation.

      Anesthesia will be maintained in both groups with intravenous opioids, propofol and /or
      medication(s)/agent(s), including inhalation anesthetic agents, at a concentration
      range/dose(s) based on the clinical need of the subject.

      Tracheal extubation will be performed at the end of anesthesia at which point the patient
      will be discharged to the post-anesthesia care unit.

      Postoperative Management:

      Upon arrival in the PACU, the (sub)investigator, using the visual analog scale, will
      clinically assess post-operative pain.

      Assessment of patient pain levels involve a series of VAS testing postoperatively (upon
      arrival and every 30 minutes postoperatively until discharge from the PACU) using a 10 cm
      line. Patients that complain of pain intensity >5 cm/10 cm, will be given a standardized
      rescue intravenous dilaudid regimen, IV dilaudid at 0.4mg up to a max dose of 2mg prn q 2
      hours or until a VAS of <5 is obtained. If a VAS score of <5 cannot be obtained, the PI may
      withdraw the patient from the study and administer another pain medication. Post-operative
      PACU narcotic consumption will be recorded and quantified.

      All patients will be monitored with continuous pulse-oximetry. All post-operative
      complications will be captured.

      Follow-up Period: All patients will have a planned hospital admission from the PACU. Pain
      will be assessed every 2 hours for the first 24 hours followed by every 4 hours until
      hospital discharge using the VAS scale. All post-operative complications will be captured.
      Post-PACU narcotic consumption will be recorded and quantified for the first 72 hours after
      PACU discharge.
    
  