
    
      Recently, the demands for myopia correction and corneal refractive laser surgery are rising
      with the increased prevalence of myopia. Corneal laser refractive surgery includes
      photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK),
      laser-assisted subepithelial keratomileusis ( LASEK), femtosecond assisted laser in situ
      keratomileusis (FS-LASIK), and small incision lenticule extraction(SMILE). At present,
      FS-LASIK and SMILE are the mainstream methods for correcting myopia refractive surgery with
      advantages of safety, reliability, predictability and stability compared with other types of
      refractive surgery. Cataract is the most important cause of blindness in my country and even
      in the world. More than 50% of blind people are caused by cataract. Many patients who have
      undergone corneal laser refractive surgery may develop presbyopia or cataracts with age.
      Phacoemulsification and intraocular lens(IOLs) implantation are the main methods for cataract
      due to lacking effective pharmaceutical treatments. In addition, the patients who use
      traditional monofocal IOLs without the ability of accommodation may fail to get rid of
      glasses. Therefore, a solution that can provide both distance vision and near vision is
      needed to the presbyopia or cataracts patients with previous corneal refractive surgery and
      accustomed to taking glasses off.The application of presbyopic IOL in cataract after corneal
      refractive surgery become extensive with the IOL technology continuously advancing, including
      Extended Depth-of-Focus(EDOF) IOL, multifocal IOL(especially trifocal IOL) and so on, which
      can improve the distance, middle, and near visual acuity conducing to reduce the rate of
      wearing glasses after cataract surgery.

      This project is a single-center, randomized, open, positive product, parallel controlled
      trial to study the clinical outcomes and applied value of presbyopic IOLs, including EDOF and
      trifocal IOLs after corneal laser refractive surgery complicated with cataracts, and seek
      better solutions to enable patients to achieve satisfactory visual quality and refractive
      results after surgery, culminating in completing patients' demand of taking glasses off.
    
  