
    
      Many patients with brain tumors develop thinning of the bones and weak bones, called
      osteoporosis. At baseline (or within 4 weeks of enrollment onto study) and 12 months the
      subject will have a bone densitometry study (DEXA-Scan) which is a test to determine bone
      density (the measure of the strength and thickness of bones) by using x-ray techniques.

      A single arm pilot trial will be performed with newly diagnosed pathologically confirmed
      malignant glioma patients. The patients will receive low molecular weight heparin
      (Tinzaparin), which will begin at least 48 hours after craniotomy or stereotactic biopsy, but
      no later than four weeks after the most recent surgery.

      The patients will receive a single daily subcutaneous injection of Tinzaparin at 4500 IU.

      The primary analysis will be conducted at six months and the safety will be determined by the
      incidence of clinically significant bleeding, ≥ grade III/IV CNS hemorrhage or grade II
      hemorrhage elsewhere. The Tinzaparin will be discontinued for any grade II or higher
      hemorrhage, except CNS hemorrhage and patients with asymptomatic CNS hemorrhage seen on a
      scan (grade III) at study entry will stay on Tinzaparin, except if the CNS hemorrhage expands
      or there is a new hemorrhage, in which case the Tinzaparin will be discontinued. For patients
      without a CNS hemorrhage at entry, a new asymptomatic CNS hemorrhage (grade III), or a CNS
      hemorrhage with symptoms (≥ grade IV) will result in discontinuation of the Tinzaparin. If
      the patient does not have any hemorrhage, the Tinzaparin will be continued for an additional
      six months with the second analysis performed at 12 months. Patients may stay on Innohep as
      long as they are benefiting and there are no adverse reactions necessitation stopping
      therapy. Patients will continue to having the same labs and clinical follow-up.
    
  