
    
      1. Medical background Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death
           in the United States. This disease is associated with a high mortality rate: the 5-year
           survival rate is estimated to be 4%. This is mainly due to the fact that the disease is
           often discovered at an already advanced disease state, which carries a dismal prognosis.

           1.1. Pancreatic Cysts

           Pancreatic cysts are quite rare, but are being increasingly recognized due to the
           expanding use of cross-sectional imaging. They are classified into three main classes:

             -  Pseudocysts

             -  Serous cysts : either serous cystic neoplasms (SCN) or Solid pseudo-papillary
                neoplasm (SPN)

             -  Mucinous cystic neoplasms : either Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasm (IPMN)
                or mucinous cystadenomas/mucinous cystadenocarcinoma(MCN) Mucinous cystic neoplasms
                are considered to be malignant or pre-malignant and are considered for surgical
                resection, whereas pseudocysts and serous cysts are considered benign and with a
                low potential for malignancy. Pseudocysts and serous cysts are usually only
                considered for surgical resection when symptomatic or enlarging.

           1.2. Pancreatic masses Pancreatic solid masses can be either exocrine or endocrine
           tumors, or metastatic.Exocrine tumors are by far the most common type of pancreas
           cancer. Most of them are malignant. About 96% of cancers of the exocrine pancreas are
           adenocarcinomas, which is the most aggressive form of pancreas cancer.Endocrine tumors
           are uncommon. They represent 4% of pancreas tumors. They are known as neuroendocrine
           tumors (NETs), or islet cell tumors. These tumors can be benign or malignant.

           1.3. Lymph nodes Lymph nodes are examined in a patient with a suspicion of, or
           confirmed, cancer, as part of the staging. They may be either normal, inflammatory, or
           malignant.

        2. Clinical background

           2.1. EUSFNA Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) is the diagnostic method of choice when a
           pancreatic lesion is found incidentally on cross-sectional imaging. Endoscopic
           UltraSound-guided Fine Needle Aspiration (EUS FNA) (respectively Endobronchial
           Ultrasound-guided Fine Needle Aspiration (EBUS FNA)) are procedures where a target
           tissue in proximity to the GI tract (respectively the pulmonary tract) is biopsied using
           a fine needle guided in real time by an ultrasound probe fixed at the tip of an
           endoscope.It may therefore be applied to pancreatic lesions, or lymph nodes examination.

           2.2. nCLE The principle of needle-based Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy (nCLE) is to image
           organs within or adjacent to the GI or respiratory tracts with a miniprobe inserted
           through an endoscopic needle. The fundamental technology as well as the principle of
           operation of nCLE are substantially similar to pCLE.

        3. Clinical evidence More than 100 patients have already underwent an nCLE procedure, in
           the past studies. A first feasibility study enabled to define the final type of probe
           which would fit into a EUSFNA needle, and the INSPECT study enabled to define
           interpretation criteria on the micro-structure of pancreatic cysts. Less data is
           available on pancreatic masses and lymph nodes, except for a few images done in the
           first feasibility study.

        4. Objectives

           4.1. Cysts 4.1.1. The primary objective of the study is to assess the diagnostic
           performance of the Cellvizio nCLE system in diagnosing pancreatic cysts, when associated
           with other diagnostic information.

           4.1.2. The secondary objectives are to assess the potential impact of the Cellvizio nCLE
           system on patient management and validate the interpretation classification criteria
           that were created during the previous INSPECT study on cysts.

           4.2. Pancreatic masses and Lymph nodes 4.2.1. The primary objective of the study is to
           define criteria of nCLE sequences in lymph nodes and pancreatic masses.

           4.2.2. The secondary objectives are to evaluate feasibility and safety of the Cellvizio
           nCLE during EUS-FNA procedures, build an atlas of images of nCLE sequences of pancreatic
           masses and lymph nodes, and, finally, retrospectively assess the diagnostic performance
           of nCLE in the diagnosis of pancreatic masses and lymph nodes, when associated with
           other diagnostic information

        5. Design This study will be conducted in three centers in France.
    
  