
    
      This is a prospective, randomized trial comparing two FDA-approved inferior vena cava
      filters, the Denali retrievable IVC filter (Bard Peripheral Vascular Inc., Tempe, AZ) and the
      Option Elite (Argon Medical, Athens, Texas).

      Patients scheduled for IVC filter placement at UCSF Department of Interventional Radiology
      (IR) will be asked by the IR physician performing the procedure at either UCSF Mt. Zion or
      Moffitt hospital if they wish to participate in this prospective, randomized study.
      Recruitment will be conducted by the physicians performing the IR procedures only. No
      additional recruitment calls, emails, posters or web pages are necessary. All procedures and
      the randomization to one of the two experimental groups will be carefully explained before
      obtaining signed written consent.

      Screening:

      Screening will be conducted by the IR physician prior to the placement of the IVC filters.
      Since this is a standard of care study, patients who are recommended for IVC filter placement
      and are scheduled for the procedure are generally eligible.

      The screening procedures are part of routine care before IVC filter placement and would be
      done even if patients did not join the study.

      The study doctor will review the results of most recent routine care imaging scans (CT or
      MRI) of the abdomen and pelvis. This is done to confirm that the diameter of IVC is no wider
      than 2.8cm. Both filters are FDA-approved to be placed in an IVC with maximal diameter of
      2.8cm.

      The study doctor will also review ultrasound of the lower extremity, when available, to
      confirm that a blood clot was in fact present prior to performing the study. This ensures
      that patients who present for IVC filter placement are screened properly.

      The following screening procedures should be done within 12 days before the IVC filter
      placement procedure as part of the standard of care.

        -  A complete physical exam

        -  The study doctor will ask about medical history and how well patient is able to do daily
           activities

        -  Routine care blood tests (about 2 tablespoons) o This is to ensure that the INR and
           platelet count of the patient is within the safe limits to perform an invasive
           procedure.

      After Enrollment:

      If the screening procedures show that the patient is eligible and consents to take part in
      the study, IVC filter placement will occur after randomization.

      After enrollment, the following procedures will be done during the study: Just as with
      screening, all of these procedures are part of regular IVC filter placement care.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will occur on the day of procedure or prior clinic visit with IR physician to
      either the Denali or Option IVC filter. All IR attending physicians on the protocol are
      familiar with placement of either filter type. Prior to opening study to accrual, 75 sealed
      security envelopes with the word Denali printed on a card inside and 75 sealed security
      envelopes with the word Option will be assembled by IR staff not involved in the research.
      The envelopes will be mixed up and placed in a bag. Computerized randomization programs and
      tables were considered but we feel the envelopes will work best as there may be limited time
      after patient is consented and procedure begins. This is especially true as some filters are
      placed emergently. Previous IR studies have used this randomization technique with great
      success.

      Filter Placement:

      Placement of an IVC filter involves the insertion of a plastic tube (catheter) into a vein in
      the neck. Some numbing medicine (Lidocaine) will be injected in the skin over the vein before
      the catheter is inserted. Intravenous medications will be given to induce moderate sedation
      (Fentanyl for analgesic and Versed for moderate sedation). Once the catheter has been placed
      into the vein, it will be advanced into the IVC. Once in correct position, x-ray contrast
      material (x-ray dye-Omnipaque 350) will be injected through the catheter and x-ray pictures
      taken. A series of x-ray pictures will be obtained of the IVC. These pictures are taken as
      part of standard of care to determine the position of the renal veins with respect to the
      IVC. The top of the filter must sit below the renal veins so it does not cause obstruction of
      the renal veins. In addition, pictures of the IVC are taken to serve as another tool in
      measuring the diameter of the IVC to make sure the diameter of the IVC is less than 2.8cm.
      This is particularly important in situations when a CT or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis is
      not available to have reviewed prior to the procedure. Once pictures are obtained and it is
      made certain that the IVC diameter is less than 2.8cm, the filter will be inserted through
      the catheter, and placed below the renal veins. During the placement procedure, positioning
      of the filter will be monitored with x-ray pictures. At the completion of the procedure the
      catheter will be removed and pressure will be applied to the insertion site until the
      bleeding has stopped. All of this is part of routine standard of care for placement of the
      filter. The doctor performing the procedure will be asked to complete a short questionnaire
      after IVC filter placement which will be attached to "Study Documents".

      Follow-Up:

      After the IVC filter placement procedure patient status will be followed by the
      interventional radiology doctors.

      Per standard of care after IVC filter placement, patient will be monitored in the hospital
      for up to 1 hour after the procedure. If patient is in stable condition and sedation has
      resolved, they will return home the same day or returned to their hospital rooms.

      A tentative appointment for follow up and filter retrieval will be ordered by IR physician at
      time of filter placement in APEX. This will ensure that scheduling and study staff will be
      aware that further patient and primary care follow-up is required.

      Patient primary care physician and/or relevant medical staff will be telephoned one month
      after IVC filter placement to determine if patient is medically stable and suitable for IVC
      filter removal.

      If IR and other doctors agree that IVC filter removal is recommended, patient will be
      scheduled to return for follow-up imaging and filter retrieval. If patient is not medically
      stable or still at high risk for blood clots, we will attempt to schedule a follow up one
      month later. Close contact with primary physician and patient will be maintained to ensure
      that filter is removed as soon as possible. APEX scheduling will be used to make sure follow
      up is performed at regular intervals.

      At follow-up appointment these routine tests per standard of care before IVC filter removal
      will be performed:

        -  A physical exam

        -  The study doctor will ask about medical history, how well patient is able to do daily
           activities, and if they are experiencing any possible symptoms related to the IVC filter
           placement such as abdominal or back pain.

        -  A rotation CT focused to the site of the filter will be performed as part of routine
           practice of filter removal. This is done to ensure the filter has not migrated or that
           the filter has not penetrated through the walls of the IVC such that filter retrieval
           would be unsafe.

        -  IR physician will determine if patient status is stable and safe for IVC filter removal.
           If not, physician will discuss with primary care doctor if filter needs to remain
           permanently in patient or if later retrieval should be considered at subsequent follow
           up visits.

        -  IVC filter retrieval will be performed under moderate sedation. This procedure is very
           similar in nature to the filter placement procedure. The IVC filter is removed via a
           similar process to the way in which it was placed. X-ray dye (contrast) will be injected
           around the filter to assure that the filter and the area beneath the filter are free of
           blood clots and that it is safe to proceed with removal. A catheter-based snare will be
           used to engage the hook at the end of the filter and the filter will then be enveloped
           by a removal sheath and removed from the body.
    
  