
    
      The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an
      experimental procedure called Focused Radiation that may result in a faster way to plan and
      deliver radiation for the treatment of pain caused by metastatic bone tumors (cancerous
      tumors that originally came from another organ and have spread to bones).

      Focused radiation (the radiation is focused on the tumor in the bone with reduced radiation
      dose to the normal tissues) is used as standard of care treatment for patients with painful
      metastatic tumors in their spines with just one treatment. In this study, the focused
      radiation will be used to treat tumors in other bones as well. The current standard of care
      radiation treatment planning and delivery can take 2 to 3 weeks from start to finish
      depending on how many treatments are given although the standard of care is to treat patients
      with 1-10 treatments. The University of Virginia has developed an experimental
      workflow/process: a radiation treatment planning and delivery workflow called "STAT RAD"
      (STAT means "right away", and RAD means radiation). This experimental workflow will shorten
      the time it takes to plan and treat painful bone metastases to 1-2 hours.

      When only one treatment is given the standard radiation dose is 8 Gray. This has resulted in
      radiation retreatment rates to the treated bone of 20% in prior studies for persistent or
      recurrent bone pain. In this study patients will be treated with higher doses of targeted
      radiation to determine if higher doses, which have been reported to be safely delivered for
      bone metastases in the spine with very low re-treatment rates, can be safely delivered to
      non-spine bone metastases. After the treatment, patients will be followed for pain relief in
      the treated bone, need for pain medication, quality of life, toxicity, and the need to
      retreat the bone metastasis for persistent or recurrent pain.
    
  