
    
      Infrainguinal vein graft procedures may be performed, generally, on patients with critical
      limb ischemia (CLI) or popliteal artery aneurysm (PAA). Autologous vein graft, when adequate
      and available, is usually the preferred conduit, especially in the below knee vascular
      districts. Vein grafts may complicate with the onset of stenoses (up to 30% of cases). Such
      complications may develop, due to myointimal hyperplasia along the body of the graft or, more
      often, at the proximal or distal anastomoses where sutures are performed. In vascular surgery
      procedures, in case of arterial anastomoses, absorbable suture material is generally not
      preferred, mainly for the fear of breakage of the suture line. Previous experimental studies
      performed in animals and humans and a recent clinical study performed in humans on carotid
      surgery showed that absorbable sutures used in vascular surgery may even reduce the
      development of intimal hyperplasia and may reduce postoperative stenotic complications. The
      aim of this study is to evaluate the early and long-term results of absorbable sutures used
      in peripheral vascular surgery.

      This is an open-label, parallel group study.

      Patients undergoing vein bass grafting for CLI or PAA may be suitable for entry into ASPeVas
      trial. They must satisfy the following inclusion criteria:

      Both sex. Age > 18 years old. Patients undergoing femoropopliteal or femorodistal vein bypass
      grafting; must be able to give informed consent; have no significant co-morbidity that makes
      life expectancy less than six months.

      The randomisation process consists as follows: once a patient have consented entering the
      trial, an envelop is opened and the patient is offered the type of suture (absorbable or non
      absorbable) regardless of the surgical technique which is going to be performed
      (femoropopliteal or femorodistal vein bypass grafting).

      All patients have to be followed-up, the day after the operation (time 0) and then
      subsequently at 1, 3,6,9,12 and 18 months.

      At each appointment, Ankle Brachial Pressure Index (ABPI) is measured and then Duplex
      scanning (DS) is performed. In particular, by means of DS the peak systolic flow velocity
      (PSFV) at multiple sites along the entire graft is measured. A graft at risk of failure was
      defined as having a PSFV < 45 cm/s or a ratio of V2 (peak velocity at the site of the
      stenosis) to V1 (peak systolic velocity at any other point within 2 cm at the normal adjacent
      graft) > 2. Any other irregularities, such as inflow/outflow problems, graft dilatation will
      be also recorded.

      Clinical signs of a failing graft will be collected: disabling claudication, ischemic pain,
      ischemic ulcers.
    
  