
    
      This study aims to demonstrate the feasibility of a new approach to antibiotic stewardship
      based on individually tailored antibiotic prescribing. Nine sexual health clinical services
      from across Australia with high caseloads of gay and bisexual men and Aboriginal and Torres
      Strait Islander clients, will adopt a new management practice for gonorrhoea infection
      involving provision of tailored antibiotic therapy by clinicians at the time of gonorrhoea
      diagnosis and treatment, guided by the results of resistance testing. The services are
      implementing the use of gonorrhoea drug resistance testing as part of routine clinical and
      laboratory practice, where drug resistance test results are provided to clinicians quickly to
      guide choice of antibiotic therapy. This differs from existing practice where the prolonged
      turn-around times for drug resistance testing results mean clinicians must prescribe drug
      therapy without knowing these results. This can lead to increasing levels of drug resistance
      to ceftriaxone.

      The drug resistance test used in the new program detects genetic material (nucleic acids). It
      was developed and validated in Australia and is as accurate as existing culture-based drug
      resistance testing but provides quicker results. Patients treated presumptively at their
      first clinic visit will be treated with standard of care ceftriaxone. However, for cases
      treated at the return visit, clinicians will identify gonorrhoea infection that is
      ciprofloxacin susceptible so that it can be treated with ciprofloxacin therapy, rather than
      ceftriaxone. This will preserve ceftriaxone for situations where it must be used as the only
      effective drug available. Established patient follow-up procedures at clinical services will
      confirm that treatment has been successful.

      Quantitative data from the clinical and laboratory services in the study will be used to
      assess the cure rate in gonorrhoea cases within the new management program versus standard
      care. The proportion of all cases treated with ceftriaxone will be also be assessed which
      will help illustrate the impact of the new management program.
    
  