
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare overall and disease-related survival of patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic
           leukemia treated with high-dose chlorambucil induction therapy with or without low-dose
           chlorambucil maintenance therapy.

        -  Compare the time to salvage treatment in these patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the treatment-related mortality of these patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, time to complete response (before 12 weeks vs after 12 weeks vs partial
      response), and cytopenia at diagnosis (Binet stage A+B vs C).

      All patients receive induction therapy comprising high-dose oral chlorambucil daily.
      Treatment continues until achievement of complete response or a maximum of 24 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who respond to induction therapy are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms for
      maintenance therapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive low-dose oral chlorambucil twice a week. Therapy continues for
           up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. If disease
           progression occurs, then patients may proceed to salvage therapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive no maintenance therapy. If disease progresses, patients receive
           induction therapy again. If disease does not respond to re-induction therapy, then
           patients may proceed to salvage therapy.

        -  Salvage therapy: Patients with progressive disease during maintenance therapy receive
           fludarabine IV daily and cyclophosphamide IV daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every
           4 weeks for 3-6 courses.

      Patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 2 months for 6 months, and then every 3
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 470 patients will be accrued for this study within 4.7
      years.
    
  