
    
      The project's principal aim is to assess the impact of low-dose CT scanning versus chest
      radiography in the diagnosis of pneumonia in elderly patients.

      One of the secondary objectives is to estimate sensitivity and specificity of CT scanning in
      pneumonia diagnosis in the elderly (gold standard: adjudication committee advice).

      This prospective study should be considered a preliminary feasibility study in preparation
      for a future randomized clinical trial comparing patient management, antibiotic prescription
      and clinical outcomes between one group of patients with LRTI randomized to routine thoracic
      CT scan and one group randomized to usual care.

      The second phase of this study will explore the etiologies of pneumonia in the elderly using
      new diagnostic tools. This will lead to identify radiological patterns associated with
      clinical presentation and microbiological results.

      Primary objective: to estimate the impact of CT scanning in the diagnosis of pneumonia in
      elderly patients, in a monocentric study (but within two sites, Service de Médecine Interne
      Générale and Hôpital des Trois-Chêne).

      Secondary objectives: to estimate sensitivity and specificity of CT scanning in pneumonia
      diagnosis (gold standard: adjudication committee advice), and to identify microbiological
      etiologies of pneumonia in the elderly.

      Study-design: prospective interventional study.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be managed according to HUG guidelines. Frontal (and lateral if possible) chest
      radiography (RT) will be interpreted by the physician; he will assess the level of certainty
      for a diagnosis of pneumonia on a Likert scale, as well as its localization. Subsequently, a
      thoracic CT scan will be performed within the first 48-72 hours of admission, with conclusion
      by a radiologist (on a Likert scale). After the CT scan, the physician will get the result
      and assess a new level of certainty of diagnosis (on a Likert scale). If the clinician
      changes his therapy, this will be noted on the case report form (CRF).

      Patients will undergo two nasopharyngeal swabs (on admission and discharge) for storage in a
      biobank, and microbiological (bacteriological and viral) PCR will be performed at a later
      date.

      Patients will be followed until day 90. Information concerning rehospitalization and death
      will be obtained by review of the patient's medical chart and the civil registry.

      At the end of the study, chest radiographs (RT) and CT will be blinded-analyzed by two
      referring radiologists (MS and XM).

      An adjudication committee (one internist, one infectiologist, one pneumologist) will review
      patients' data in order to provide a gold standard diagnosis which will be made according to
      international guidelines (8, 9): clinical symptoms, recent new abnormalities on chest
      radiograph and outcome under antimicrobial therapy.

      After the end of the clinical study, the virology group will analyze the eluates from the
      nasopharyngeal swabs using new PCR tests. After completing routine PCR (Adenovirus,
      Bocavirus, Coronavirus, Enterovirus, Influenza A and B viruses, Parainfluenza virus,
      Parechovirus, Picornavirus, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Mycoplasma
      pneumoniae), two different bacterial PCR kits will be used to test each eluate (admission and
      discharge): the Fast Track Diagnostics (FTD) Bacterial pneumonia CAP (for Community Acquired
      Pneumonia) kit (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis,
      Staphylococcus aureus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Legionella spp) and the
      FTD Bacterial pneumonia HAP (for Hospital Acquired Pneumonia) kit (Klebsiella pneumoniae,
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa).

      The expenses of additional examinations will not be charged to the patient or to his health
      insurance company, but will be paid for by the HUG within the framework fixed price for
      hospitalization.

      Evaluation criteria:

        -  Assessments by the physician, before and after CT scanning, will be compared: number of
           upgraded or downgraded diagnoses; sensitivity and specificity of chest radiography RT
           and CT; correlation between the physician and the radiologist.

        -  Descriptions of the etiologies of pneumonia, with number of viral and bacterial
           pneumonia.

        -  Clinical, radiological, microbiological correlations.

        -  Outcome (re-hospitalization, mortality) at 30 and 90 days.

      Statistical considerations:

      The investigators hypothesize that chest CT will upgrade the certainty of diagnosis in 19% of
      cases (14). To significantly increase the level of diagnosis of pneumonia, 46 patients with
      suspicion of pneumonia are needed (α = 0.05, β 0.1). The investigators estimate the rate of
      pneumonia in this population to be 45% (15); this implies that 100 participants should be
      enrolled in order to significantly increase the accuracy of diagnosis.

      Inclusion in this study could begin in June 2015, for 12 months, with the last follow-up for
      the last patient coming after a total of 15 months (12 months plus 90 days).

      Anticipated results:

      The investigators anticipated that low-dose CT scan will improve the diagnosis of pneumonia
      in the elderly. The study's final objective is to prepare a second randomized study measuring
      the impact of chest CT scans on the management of patients in two cohorts of patients - one
      which only undergoes a chest X-ray, and one which only undergoes a CT scan - for assessing
      diagnosis and treatment.
    
  