
    
      Aim: In this proof-of-concept study, the investigators will seek to establish whether imaging
      changes in Dopaminergic transmission and receptor function has the potential to improve
      localisation and management of pituitary adenomas.

      Methods:

      Patients will be recruited from the general endocrine and pituitary multidisciplinary clinics
      at the University Hospital of Wales. Patients will comprise those with a confirmed pituitary
      adenoma for whom pituitary imaging is indicated as part of standard clinical management.
      Tumour functionality (Cushing's syndrome, Acromegaly, Prolactinoma, TSHoma) and
      hypopituitarism will be established in accordance with established clinical practice.
      Detailed surgical, pathological and post-operative data will be collected in each case, in
      order to facilitate correlation of PET/MRI findings with key clinical outcomes.

      Histopathological examination:

      Surgical specimens will be fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin as
      per standard clinical practice. Histopathological confirmation of the presence and type of
      pituitary adenoma will be established by typical microscopic appearances of an adenoma
      supported by immunohistochemical staining for the relevant hormone (Growth hormone, ACTH
      [Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone], Prolactin, TSH [Thyroid Stimulating Hormone], LH/FSH
      [Luteinising hormone/Follicle Stimulating Hormone]). Tumour will also be stored snap frozen
      for subsequent RNA and protein extraction, in order to quantify dopamine D2 short and long
      isoform receptor expression. This will allow comparison of ex vivo receptor expression levels
      with in vivo 18F-fallypride uptake.

      PET-CT imaging:

      Subjects will undergo 18F-FDOPA and 18F-Fallypride imaging according to established protocols
      in the PET imaging centre (PETIC) at the University Hospital of Wales. Both compounds will be
      synthesised in compliance with good manufacturing practice, and have been produced and
      validated for human use in PETIC since 2015. Subjects will refrain from taking alcohol and
      caffeine for 4 hours before the PET scanning session. PET scans will be acquired using a
      PET-CT (Positron Emission Tomography-Computed Tomography) scanner with Time of Flight and a
      64 slice CT in 3D list mode. Patients will be placed in the scanner in the supine position,
      with the brain centred in the axial field of view. A CT scout view will be acquired to aid in
      positioning of the patient following which the head will be fixed using a piece of surgical
      tape.

      18F-FDOPA protocol: For 18F-FDOPA, participants will be pre-treated with 150 mg (milligrams)
      carbidopa and 400 mg entacapone 1 hour prior to radioisotope administration in order to block
      peripheral metabolism of FDOPA and enhance specific signal detection. A low dose CT scan will
      be acquired for positioning and attenuation correction. A single position Dynamic PET scan
      will be acquired as 26 time-frames over 94.5 minutes (1 × 30 sec, 4 × 1 min, 3 × 2 min, 3 × 3
      min, and 15 × 5 min). Immediately after the scan commences 111 MBq (Megabecquerels) of
      18F-DOPA in normal saline will be administered via a long connecting tube as an intravenous
      bolus at the start of scanning (avoiding brain stimuli). Data will be reconstructed using
      OSEM (ordered-subsets expectation maximisation) following corrections for attenuation,
      normalisation, scatter and patient movement. The cerebellum will be used to represent the
      reference region for the data analysis and enable the generation of binding potential
      parametric images using Logan plots.

      18 F-Fallypride protocol: Dynamic acquisition of the PET scan will be started with a 30
      second bolus administration of 18F Fallypride (2.6 MBq/kg body weight). Patients will undergo
      3 hours of dynamic imaging (3 × 20 s, 3 × 1 min, 3 × 2 min, 3 × 3 min, 21 × 5 min, 2 × 8 min
      and 4 × 10 min; 180 min in total)(with rest periods during the scan to reduce discomfort and
      allow urinary voiding to reduce radiation dose to the bladder wall). Data will be
      reconstructed using OSEM following corrections for attenuation, normalisation, scatter and
      patient movement. The cerebellum will be used to represent the reference region for the data
      analysis and enable the generation of binding potential parametric images using Logan plots.

      Standard and 3D gradient echo MRI:

      MR imaging will be performed on a 1.5T (Tesla) MRI unit. High resolution coronal T2-weighted
      images and coronal and sagittal T1-weighted spin echo (SE) images of the pituitary gland will
      be obtained before contrast injection. After intravenous injection of gadopentetate
      dimeglumine contrast the investigators will repeat the acquisition of the coronal and
      sagittal T1-weighted SE images of the pituitary gland and will also record a high resolution
      T1-weighted spoiled gradient (SPGR) acquisition sequence of the whole head to optimise
      co-registration with the PET/CT data.

      Image processing and analysis:

      Image analysis techniques to include detailed profiling of tracer uptake across the sella
      will be applied. Image processing will be performed using commercially available software
      packages.
    
  