
    
      Background

      Multiple myeloma (MM) is the most common primary bone malignancy, caused by proliferation of
      plasma cells secreting immunoglobulins. Active MM (aMM) is characterized in many patients by
      multiple lytic bone lesions, presenting with pain in the involved bones (e.g. pelvis, spine,
      etc.). In a recent publication, key-opinion leaders of multiple-myeloma state "MM-induced
      bone disease is a hallmark of MM; up to 80% of patients present with osteolytic bone lesions
      at diagnosis and have an increased risk of skeletal-related events (SREs) associated with
      increased morbidity and mortality" (Terpos et al, 2018). Approximately 60% of myeloma
      patients will develop a fracture during the disease course" (Terpos et al, 2018). Current CT
      scans provide qualitative measures of bone involvement detected only after irreversible
      damage has occurred and which cannot predict disease evolution so to optimize treatment and
      enhance life quality and longevity.

      Medical treatment modalities, including multi-agent chemotherapy and bone marrow
      transplantation, may stop progression of MM, and prevent further bone lesions. Myeloma
      response to therapy is usually monitored by measurement of the monocloncal protein which is
      secreted by the malignant plasma cells into the blood and urine. This protein includes an
      intact immunoglobulin - M-SPIKE - which is measured by serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP)
      and, Circulating free light chains - kappa and lambda. Usually one of the chains is
      "involved" in the disease; The level of M-SPIKE and the ratio of the "involved" to
      "uninvolved" chains is used to monitor disease progression. The role of imaging technologies
      in monitoring progression of the disease is less defined. Low-dose total body CT scans are
      recommended as second-line imaging (total body MRI is first-line) during the initial
      diagnostic workup of MM by the most current guidelines of National Institute for Healthcare
      Excellence (NICE, 2016). The guidelines encourage further research of the role of various
      imaging modalities in treatment of MM:

      "Newer imaging techniques are replacing skeletal surveys for assessing myeloma related bone
      disease in people with newly diagnosed myeloma. However, the most effective tech-nique is not
      known. Outcomes of interest are lesion detection, sensitivity and specificity for myeloma
      related bone disease, patient acceptability, incremental upstaging, radiation exposure, risk
      of second primary cancer, the impact of additional information on predicting progression-free
      survival, overall survival and skeletal related events." (NICE, 2016) As previously stated,
      current imaging modalities visualize bone lesions but do not quantify their progression, any
      response to therapy or their impact on bone strength. A novel scientific tool that describes
      bone's response by mathematical equations and is based on CT scans of MM patients, allows to
      construct a 3-D model of patient's femurs and vertebrae including the inhomogeneous material
      properties, virtually loads the bones by physiological loads associated with patient's weight
      and determine the deformations and strains by a computer simulation. This technology, termed
      CTFEA, allows a quantitative evaluation of bone's strength and risk of fracture, was
      double-blinded validated ex-vivo, and clinically validated in a retrospective clinical trial
      on a cohort of 50 patients with metastatic tumors to their femurs (Sternheim et al, 2018).

      Combining the engineering and scientific expertise with the clinical knowledge and database
      of MM patients accumulated during the past ten years, may identify by monitoring femurs' and
      vertebrae' strength the evolution of MM, and trigger the need of prophylactic surgeries. Such
      CTFEA has the potential to revolutionize MM treatment by providing the MDs quantitative
      scientific measures to monitor and change treatment options so to optimize medication
      prescription and enhance life-quality and longevity of MM patients on one hand, and determine
      with high level of accuracy the risk of impending fracture due to metastatic tumors to the
      femurs and vertebrae.

      Preliminary results on a cohort of seven MM patients (Cohen et al, 2017), has recently been
      presented in Dec 2017 at the ASH conference in the USA. These results showed the potential of
      assisting MDs to determine disease evolution and treatment. Since the vertebrae are prone to
      MM involvement, we plan to validate the CTFEA methods for such vertebrae with MM involvement
      by comparing experiments performed on cadaveric human vertebrae with the computational
      simulation. In addition, we propose to in-vivo validate the accuracy and predictability of
      patient specific CTFEA of vertebrae and femurs by a clinical trial on a cohort of MM patients
      treated at Sourasky medical center.

      Rationale CTFEA may add efficacy to CT scans used for follow-up of disease progression. This
      analysis can detect differences of as little as 10% in bone strength. It has the ability to
      detect changes even in normal looking bone on CT and not just in lytic lesions. In addition,
      CTFEA characterises the effect of each myeloma lesion on bone structure and calculates the
      risk of a pathologic fracture.

      Study hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that CTFEA analysis of LDTBCT will detect changes over time in patients with a
      dynamic disease, even when these changes in CT are undetectable to the human eye.

      Study objectives:

      Primary objective:

      To observe CTFEA-determined bone strength changes over time in patients with Active MM.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To measure CTFEA changes over a period of 12 months in lumbar vertebrae and femurs of
           patients with AMM.

        2. To determine correlation between CTFEA and clinical indicators of response to treatment
           (e.g. light chains, clinical staging of bone lesions).

        3. To compare CTFEA changes over time between patients responding to AMM treatment and
           those who do not respond to treatment.

      Methods Study design This is a prospective study with one patient group. All patients will
      undergo three Low-Dose Total Body CT (LDTBCT) scans as part of diagnostic workup for MM,
      which represents our current common practice: at 0, 6 and 12 months into treatment (or 3 CT
      scans at least 6 months apart).

      All three scans will be sent for CTFEA, which is not part of the common practice. The CTFEA
      results will be compared to clinical assessments as per patient files and light chain values
      on blood work. Changes in lesion size will be compared to changes that the lesion inflicts in
      bone structure and changes in the risk of fracture.

      Bone strength in both femurs and lower lumbar vertebra will be analyzed even where there are
      no lytic lesions for changes in bone strength.

      Results will be correlated with Myeloma clinical variables including baseline demographic and
      disease charateristics, therapy details and response to treatment over time.

      Patients will continue followup, for recording of skeletal related events (fratures or new
      lytic lesions)

      Measured parameters

        1. Primary and secondary disease diagnoses and their ICD-9 codes.

        2. Patient ambulatory status at time of MM diagnosis: independent walker; cane ambulator;
           walker ambulator; wheel chair bound.

        3. Time since patient was independent walker, ECOG performance status (Oken et al,
           1982)(Appendix A).

        4. Treatment for osteoporosis and duration.

        5. Date of diagnosis of active MM (and preceding plasma cell dyscrasia if relevant)

        6. Myeloma treatment details (dose & dates) and response to therapy according to IMWG
           criteria (IMWG, 2010)(Appendix B)

        7. CT scans (used for CTFEA) dates.

        8. Last patient follow-up date.

      10) Medical center at which the patient received their oncology treatment before the
      hematology referral.

      11) Laboratory results, specifically: Myeloma paraprotein measures including SPEP,
      quantitative immunoglobulins and free light chain values; kidney function; CBC; LDH; B2MG;
      FISH cytogenetics; BM PC% at diagnosis 12) active myeloma clinical presentation: CRAB
      criteria (hypercalcemia / renal / anemia / bone lesions); and or SLIM-CRAB criteria (FLC
      ratio>100; focal lesions on MRI or PETCT; BM PC>60%); 13) clinical status at time of CT scan
      (newly diagnosed MM (NDMM); relapsed refractory MM [RRMM]) 14) VAS (Visual Analogue Scale)
      for pain and Harris Hip Score
    
  