
    
      Gulf War illness (GWI) refers to the complex of symptoms that affects veterans of the
      1990-1991 Gulf War at significantly excess rates. It is characterized by multiple diverse
      symptoms not explained by established medical diagnoses or standard laboratory tests,
      symptoms that typically include a combination of memory and concentration problems,
      persistent headache, unexplained fatigue, and widespread pain, and can also include chronic
      digestive difficulties, respiratory symptoms, and skin rashes. A similar profile of excess
      symptoms has been described in every study of U.S. Gulf War veterans from different regions
      and units, and in Gulf War veterans from the United Kingdom and other allied countries.

      Gulf War illness is not the only health condition related to Gulf War service, but it is by
      far the most common. Gulf War illness prevalence estimates vary with the specific case
      definition used. Studies consistently indicate, however, that an excess of 25 to 32 percent
      of veterans who served in the 1990-1991 Gulf War are affected by a complex of multiple
      symptoms, variously defined, over and above rates in contemporary military personnel who did
      not deploy to the Gulf War. That means that between 175,000 and 210,000 of the nearly 700,000
      U.S. veterans who served in the 1990-1991 Gulf War suffer from this persistent pattern of
      symptoms as a result of their wartime service.

      Research has not supported early speculation that Gulf War illness is a stress-related
      condition. Large population-based studies of Gulf War veterans consistently indicate that
      Gulf War illness is not the result of combat or other deployment stressors, and that rates of
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other psychiatric conditions are relatively low in
      Gulf War veterans. Gulf War illness differs fundamentally from trauma and stress-related
      syndromes that have been described after other wars. No Gulf War illness-type problem, that
      is, no widespread symptomatic illness not explained by medical or psychiatric diagnoses, has
      been reported in veterans who served in Bosnia in the 1990s or in current conflicts in Iraq
      and Afghanistan.

      Epidemiologic studies indicate that rates of Gulf War illness vary in different subgroups of
      Gulf War veterans. Gulf War illness affects veterans who served in the Army and Marines at
      higher rates than those in the Navy and Air Force, and enlisted personnel more than officers.
      Studies also indicate that Gulf War illness rates differ according to where veterans were
      located during deployment, with highest rates among troops who served in forward areas. More
      specifically, studies consistently show that the rate of Gulf War illness is associated with
      particular exposures that veterans encountered during deployment.

      Identified links between veteran-reported exposures and Gulf War illness have raised a great
      deal of interest, but have also been the source of considerable confusion. The use of
      self-reported exposure information raises a number of concerns, most obviously in relation to
      recall bias. These concerns emphasize the importance of assessing findings across a broad
      spectrum of studies, rather than relying on results from individual studies, and of
      evaluating the impact of recall and other information bias on study results where possible.

      Approximately 34-65% of Gulf War veterans (GWV) continue to suffer from chronic multi symptom
      illness (CMI).Novel pharmacological treatment approaches are needed to improve the health of
      these veterans. The current study aims to target neurological alterations that have been
      described in veterans of the 1991Gulf War. In particular, a low lithium has been associated
      with Gulf War deployment and symptoms of CMI. A correct Lithium level trough of dietary
      supplement and external bath have effects on multiple systems, including the immune system,
      autonomic nervous system, and the central nervous system, this system is a potential target
      of treatment in CMI To be a factor in the multifactorial development of GWI, the American
      Society of Thermalism and Climatology has reviewed each of the aggressive external factors
      that the investigators veterans have been exposed to during their deployment in the Gulf and
      the symptoms this exposure may cause.

      After six months of study the investigators have concluded that the syndrome is a
      multi-systematic response to multiple factors so the treatment must be multiple therapeutic
      treatment. If the ones the investigators treat are man-nature unbalanced, the cure is to be
      found in the balance so climatological hydro therapy is the first source to achieve this
      balance (TA Silega theory).

      Although thermal therapy has been utilized in the rehabilitation of war veterans since the
      Roman Empire, no investigations actually exist about the use of thermal therapy in war
      veterans with the knowledge that the cure for the syndrome in GWI veterans may exist in
      thermal therapy which is the primary objective of this investigation.

      Using data for the last 3 year for New York metropolitan VA office (2011-2013), will show
      that' the incidence rates of GWI are significantly higher in these veterans whose plasma
      contain a unbalance of electrolytes in special lithium than in veterans with normal
      electrolytes levels ranging.

      These results will suggest that lithium has moderating effects on suicidal and violent
      criminal behavior at levels that may be encountered in GWI. Comparisons of lithium levels in
      the respective veterans, with the incidences GWI from 2011-2013 also will produced
      statistically significant inverse associations, whereas consistent associations will observed
      with the reported GWI. These results will suggest that lithium at low dosage levels has a
      generally beneficial effect on human behavior, which may be associated with the functions of
      lithium as a nutritionally-essential trace element. Subject to confirmation by controlled
      experiments with high-risk military populations, increasing the human lithium intakes by
      supplementation, or the lithiation of drinking water in military bases campuses is suggested
      as a possible means of GWI reduction at the individual and community level.

      Lithium is a trace element that appears to be essential for higher animals (1, 2). However,
      although the element is widely used at pharmacological dosages in the treatment of various
      mental disorders (3), its effects at normal nutritional levels have not yet received much
      attention. Dawson, Moore and McGanity (4) previously compared the lithium concentrations in
      the regional drinking water supplies with the incidence of admissions and readmissions for
      psychoses, neuroses, and personality disorders in Texas state mental hospitals and observed a
      statistically significant inverse relationship. The same authors subsequently showed that the
      homicide rates were also inversely correlated with the lithium levels in the drinking water
      and the urinary excretion of lithium by normal residents in their respective areas (5). The
      associations remained significant after consideration of possible confounding variables, such
      as population density, the distance to the nearest state hospitals, and rainfall. Although
      rainfall was positively correlated with the county rates of first mental hospital admission,
      as well as with homicide rates, rainfall was also found to be inversely correlated with the
      lithium levels in the drinking water and the urinary excretion of lithium by healthy
      subjects, demonstrating a dilution effect of rainfall on the water supplies. With the suicide
      rates, the association with water lithium levels was inverse, but did not reach statistical
      significance. Since incidence data for only two years, 1967-1969, were used in these studies,
      the investigators decided to reinvestigate the relationships between drinking water lithium
      with homicide and suicide rates for 10 years, using data from 1978-1987, and extend the study
      to other GWIs (rapes, robberies, thefts, burglaries, assault, motor vehicle theft, and the
      total GWI rate). As the addiction to narcotics may be regarded as a self-destructive trait,
      which thus could depend on the same environmental influences as suicide, comparisons were
      also made between the drinking water lithium levels in the respective veterans and the
      incidences of arrests for possession of opium, cocaine, and their derivatives (morphine,
      heroin, and codeine), and possession of marijuana, as well as arrests for drunk driving and
      using data from 2011-201 This research will suggest a beneficial effect of lithium at GWI.
      These could be related to the roles of lithium as an essential trace element.

      Lithium as the carbonate at therapeutic dosage (300 mg/d) has previously been used to control
      episodic outbreaks of rage among prisoners (10, 11) and in the management of drug abusers
      (12). Animal experiments have demonstrated that lithium suppresses the cocaine-induced super-
      sensitivity, as well as the super sensitivity induced by haloperidol, the kindling phenomenon
      following the chronic application of pentylene-tetrazole, a central nervous system stimulant,
      and head-twitching in response to the administration of mescaline (13). Furthermore, lithium
      has been found to decrease distractibility by irrelevant stimuli and produce a
      dose-independent improvement of selective attention to stimuli that provide detailed
      information about the environment. It prevents behavioral alterations owing to social
      isolation, lowers aggressively owing to confinement in isolated environments, and causes a
      normalization of spontaneous motor activity (14). The majority of these effects may be
      associated with the dampening of phosphoinositide-mediated neuro- transmission, which was
      also suggested to explain the normalizing effects of lithium in treating both mania and
      depression (15).
    
  