
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a condition in which abnormal amounts of fat
      deposit in the liver. This ectopic deposition of triglycerides is metabolically harmful to
      the liver and is strongly associated with dysregulation of lipid metabolism and insulin
      resistance. NAFLD is increasing in prevalence in children and now is estimated to affect ~30%
      of obese children in the U.S. and 6-15% of children across the world. The severity of the
      disease ranges widely, from mild with increased fat (steatosis) alone to more severe
      phenotypes of steatosis, inflammation and hepatocyte ballooning (called steatohepatitis) to
      cirrhosis. While the natural course of pediatric NAFLD is not fully understood, in adults,
      progression to cirrhosis occurs in about 10%. Diabetes is strongly associated with NAFLD and
      in children the incidence of prediabetes and diabetes in children with NAFLD is 3 to 5% per
      year, markedly increases from population estimates of 3.5/cases per 100,000.

      Because of the high prevalence of NAFLD, especially among children with obesity, and the
      increased mortality and morbidity associated with NAFLD, it has become a focus for
      therapeutic development. In children, there have been several phase 2 clinical trials, but to
      date there no approved medications for NAFLD. The current standard of care for pediatric
      NAFLD treatment is healthy diet and exercise. Which "healthy diet" to apply is unknown. Short
      term evidence in adults supports a variety of approaches including Mediterranean diet,
      low-fat diet, and low-carbohydrate diet.

      For children, there has been a focus on diet quality rather than weight loss. In totality,
      research demonstrates that consumption of free sugars leads to increased triglycerides,
      decreased high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc) and increased very low density
      lipoprotein (VLDL) size, as well as endotoxemia, while reduction of free sugars improves
      hepatic fat and inflammation.

      Complete diet provision is established as an effective research tool to test a diet
      modification. However, this approach becomes impractical, unsustainable, and expensive when
      applied across a large multicenter trial. Consequently, less intensive methods would be
      highly beneficial, if they are equally effective in modifying the diet. Thus, this randomized
      equivalence pilot study has been designed to test if facilitated grocery shopping will be
      equivalent to complete diet provision in reducing free sugar consumption to ≤ 3% in children
      with NAFLD.

      This is a 4-week randomized, controlled, outpatient feeding study at Emory University and
      Children's Healthcare of Atlanta. Participants will be non-diabetic children with NAFLD. Two
      groups of 6 participants will be followed for 24 weeks. This will include 4 weeks during
      which the randomized controlled trial will be conducted, followed by a 20 week follow-up. One
      group will receive the guided grocery shopping (GGS) intervention for 4 weeks while the other
      group will be provided with a low free sugars (goal of <3% total daily calories) version of
      their family's habitual diets. Both groups will receive diet/nutrition counseling and support
      once per week during the intervention period.
    
  