
    
      Fibromyalgia is a diffuse musculoskeletal pain syndrome with multiple tender points which are
      widely and symmetrically distributed throughout the body. The main symptom is widespread
      musculoskeletal pain, lasting longer than three months, which is associated with chronic
      fatigue, cognitive dysfunction, sleep disorder, morning stiffness, anxiety and depression.
      The etiology of fibromyalgia remains unknown.

      In Brazil, fibromyalgia is estimated to affect two-and-half percent of the population . This
      incidence is similar to other countries .Acupuncture, which involves inserting needles at
      specific points on the patient's skin, is one of the oldest forms of therapy and is widely
      practiced in the United States. Each year about one million Americans undergo acupuncture
      treatments, mainly to relieve pain caused by a variety of ailments . A consensus statement
      from the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) concluded that acupuncture may be useful as
      an adjunct treatment or may be an acceptable alternative treatment in a comprehensive
      management program for fibromyalgia patients (NIH Consensus Conference, 1998.In Brazil, there
      is increased interest in acupuncture; in 1995, a federal law established that the procedure
      can only be performed by physicians.

      Systematic reviews looking at the effectiveness of acupuncture for fibromyalgia have found a
      limited amount of high quality scientific studies. These reviews concluded that acupuncture
      was more effective than sham (placebo) acupuncture in improving symptoms of fibromyalgia.
      There is a need for acupuncture trials that include a large sample size of patients with
      similar and well-defined pain conditions. Such trials should utilize standardized and
      well-described acupuncture stimuli. These should be placed effectively in the skin in
      accordance with classical Chinese experience and utilizing unequivocal primary outcome
      measures for the effect.
    
  