
    
      1. Specimens collection:

           We will collect the specimens in two different parts. One part is to collect all the
           paraffinized block of the SLK patients to get fifteen copies of 5-μm section of each
           paraffinized block from the Department of Pathology. All the slides will be
           deparaffinized and rehydration for further immunohistochemistry (IHC) stain . Primary
           antibodies for IHC stain include chemokine receptors (CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4, CCR1.
           CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, CD30L) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1, -2, -3, -9).

           Another part of this study is to collect the conjunctiva of SLK patients and normal
           control patients. This part of the clinical study is sent for IRB approval
           concomitantly. We will collect the conjunctiva of SLK patients when they receive
           conjunctival resection as the treatment in the following one year. And the normal
           control conjunctiva will be obtained while the patients come to our hospital for
           cataract surgery or retinal surgery with redundant conjunctiva noted after peritomy. The
           fresh conjunctiva will be stored in -80℃ before RNA isolation. All the tissue will be
           processed into RNA and reverse transcripted into cDNA. Polymerase chain reaction will be
           done with the primers, including CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4, CCR1, CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, and
           CD30L.

        2. Preparation of RNA and cDNA:

           Total RNA will be extracted from the conjunctiva of SLK and control groups with Trizol
           reagent (Life, Gaithersburg, MD, USA). One microgram of total RNA from each sample will
           be annealed for 5 min at 70℃ with 500 ng oligo(dT) (Fermentas, Hanover, MD, USA) and
           reverse transcribed to cDNA by 200u RevertAid™ M-MuLV Reverse Transcriptase (Fermentas,
           Hanover, MD, USA) per 20 µl reaction for 1 hr at 42℃. The reaction will be stopped by
           heating for 10 min at 70℃.

        3. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR):

           PCR will be performed on the resultant cDNA from each sample with specific primers for
           human chemokines, chemokine receptors and glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase
           (GAPDH). The amplification will be performed with a thermocycler. The 25-μl reaction
           mixture consists of 2 μl cDNA, 1 μl sense and antisense primer, 12.5 μl 2x PCR mix.
           Conditions for amplifying each chemokine and chemokine receptor are as follows:
           denaturation, 1 min at 94℃, and elongation, 3 min at 72℃. The annealing temperature and
           the cycle of annealing for chemokines and chemokine receptors will fit the requested
           temperature and the appropriate number of annealing cycles of each specific primer. At
           the end of amplification, the reaction mixture will be heated for 10 min at 72℃ and then
           cooled to 4℃. A 10-μl sample of each PCR product will be separated by performing gel
           electrophoresis on 2% agarose containing ethidium bromide (Sigma, St Louis, MO, USA).
           The 2% agarose gel will be analyzed under ultraviolet light against the DNA molecular
           length markers. The internal control of each sample is human GAPDH.

        4. Immunohistocytometry (IHC):

      A pre-determined optimal dilution of the primary antibody specifically against mast cell
      tryptase, associated chemokines, chemokine receptors, MMPs, and inflammatory cytokines will
      be used for IHC. All IHC staining will be performed at room temperature. Sections are then
      deparaffinized in xylene and made hydrophilic by immersion in a graded series of ethanol
      dilutions (100, 95, 80, and 60%). All slides are immersed in antigen retrieval solution (Dako
      ,S3307, SA, USA) and autoclaved for 10 min. Sections are quenched with 3% fresh H2O2 for 10
      min to inhibit endogenous tissue peroxidase activity that might interfere with the result of
      staining, and rinsed with 1x PBS for 5 min twice. Sections are further incubated in blocking
      serum solution for 30 min and then incubated at 37℃ for 1 h with primary antibody in a humid
      chamber. After washing with 1x PBS for 5 min twice, the sections are then incubated with
      biotinylated secondary antibody solution for 30 min. The horseradish peroxidase-conjugated
      streptavidin-biotin complex is subsequently spread evenly over the sections and incubated for
      30 min. The sections are washed with 1x PBS for 5 min twice, then incubated with
      diaminobenzidine (DAB) perioxidase substrate solution for 15 min followed by wash with 1x
      PBS. Finally, the section are counterstained with an adequate volume of hematoxylin, and then
      mounted.
    
  