
    
      Diet and nutrition are key determinants of chronic disease. However, additional information
      is needed on which bioactive compounds and in what amounts they should be consumed to obtain
      a given health benefit. One of the biggest recent breakthroughs in science has been
      realisation of the importance of the contents, function and homeostasis of the gut microbiome
      in human health.

      Dietary fibre: The influence of diet on the microbiome is illustrated by vast differences
      across cultures where African communities who have a plant based diet consume 7-fold more
      fibre compared with the West obtaining more of their energy requirements via utilization of
      gut microbiota. Hunter-gatherers have been shown to have 30-40% greater numbers and diversity
      of species than Western populations. Also, a multigenerational murine study showed a Western
      diet was responsible for depletion of microbiota diversity. Diversity is emerging as the
      common marker of good gut health across populations and related to production of beneficial
      short chain fatty acids (SCFAs). The fermentation of dietary fibre changes the profile of
      microbial-derived metabolites within the GI tract, most importantly SCFAs. Low fibre intake
      results in reduced production of SCFAs and also shifts the gastrointestinal (GI) microbiota
      metabolism to the utilization of less favourable nutrients, leading to the production of
      potentially detrimental metabolites derived from the fermentation of amino acids. Prevention
      of the generation of such metabolites through dietary fibre is one of the main mechanisms for
      the prevention of colon cancer. There is considerable observational evidence that fibre
      intake is beneficial for human health from observational epidemiological studies. However,
      findings from intervention studies are less consistent. The variability in human intervention
      studies could also arise from the highly inter-individualized responses of the human GI
      microbiome to dietary fibres providing a rationale for the individualization of dietary fibre
      applications.

      Omega 3 fatty acids: In humans, omega-3 fatty acids are readily incorporated into cell
      membranes resulting in increased cell fluidity, which may improve glucose transport.
      Additionally, omega-3 supplementation enhances resting fat oxidation and glycogen storage,
      potentially contributing to improved insulin sensitivity. Omega-3 supplementation may also
      reduce cardiovascular disease risk by reducing circulating very-low-density lipoproteins
      (LDL), triacylglycerols and free fatty acids (FFA). It also has additional anti-inflammatory
      and antithrombotic properties. Previously published data by the investigators suggest the
      potential use of omega-3 supplementation to improve the microbiome composition. Although
      trials of supplements are inconsistent, current recommended daily intake for omega-3 is 250
      mg (active EPA and DHA) for the general population and higher for patients with
      cardiovascular disease.

      The study will be a proof of concept mechanistic study that will show to what extent omega-3
      fatty acid supplementation adds to the benefits of a probiotic intervention in terms both of
      microbiome diversity and composition and of SCFA production. Moreover, it will show whether
      this results in measurable improvements in other markers of fatty acid metabolism and in the
      balance of various T-cell lineages some of which are pro-inflammatory and others which are
      anti-inflammatory. In this study we will test if 1) intake of fibre induces an increase in
      microbiome diversity, increased SCFA production in the gut and less inflammatory T-cell
      composition 2) omega-3 supplementation provides a comparable benefit in terms of microbiome
      diversity and cardiometabolic improvement to that supplied by fibre.

      The study will be a randomised controlled intervention study in which participants will be
      grouped into two different treatment arms. Randomisation will control for equal distribution
      of key characteristics that may confound between group comparisons and will be assessed by
      analysis of baseline data.

      80 participants over the age of 18 years will be recruited from the TwinsUK database.The
      total length of the dietary intervention will be 6 weeks with an initial visit at baseline,
      and one final visit at 6 weeks.
    
  