
    
      Sepsis is a clinical syndrome that complicates severe infections. It is characterized by the
      cardinal signs of inflammation (e.g. vasodilation, leukocytosis, increased microvascular
      permeability) occurring in tissues that are remote from the site of an infection. Current
      theories about the onset and progression of the sepsis syndrome focus on dysregulation of
      inflammatory responses, including the possibility that a massive and uncontrolled release of
      pro-inflammatory mediators initiates a chain of events that lead to widespread tissue injury.
      The degree of immune dysfunction is thought to correlate with the severity of the sepsis
      syndrome. Sepsis syndrome can range from sepsis, to severe sepsis, septic shock, and multiple
      organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). The mortality associated with each of these is estimated
      to be 16%, 20%, 46%, >80%, respectively. The annual incidence of sepsis syndrome exceeds 1.6
      million cases in the United States alone.

      Recently, cells of the innate and adaptive immune system have been shown to express the
      vitamin D receptor. Vitamin D appears to be necessary for interferon-γ dependent T cell
      responses to infection. In low vitamin D states, dysfunctional macrophage activity becomes
      evident. Vitamin D is also an important link between Toll Like Receptor (TLR) activation and
      antibacterial response. Human macrophages stimulated by TLR induce: 1) vitamin D receptor
      expression; 2) conversion of 25(OH)D to its most biologically active form of
      1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D; and 3) production of cathelicidin (LL-37), an endogenous
      antimicrobial peptide with potent activity against bacteria, viruses, fungi, and
      mycobacteria. LL-37 is highly expressed in both the plasma and at natural barrier sites (e.g.
      skin, gut, lungs) and may represent an important first-line of defense for the innate immune
      system.

      In humans, cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) is either obtained through the diet or synthesized by
      skin upon exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation. Cholecalciferol is converted to 25(OH)D
      in the liver or by cells of the immune system. Serum 25(OH)D can be measured with relative
      ease and is the most abundant vitamin D metabolite. It is therefore, often used as a proxy
      for total body vitamin D status and 25(OH)D levels <30 ng/mL characterize an insufficient
      state. A growing body of evidence suggests that a significant proportion (50-90%) of
      critically ill patients may have insufficient 25(OH)D levels during admission to the
      intensive care unit (ICU). 25(OH)D insufficiency, in turn, appears to be associated with a
      higher risk of mortality in critically ill patients. However, randomized, placebo-controlled
      trials (RCTs) aimed at studying the effect of vitamin D supplementation in critical illness
      are limited and have largely focused on superficial assessments of vitamin D status. While it
      is known that septic patients have nearly universally low 25(OH)D levels and that the vitamin
      D levels are inversely correlated with the severity of sepsis, little is known regarding the
      effects of vitamin supplementation in this patient cohort. Therefore, our goal is to
      determine whether vitamin D supplementation in patients highly suspected of sepsis syndrome
      may be effective in optimizing 25(OH)D levels and in improving host production of the
      antimicrobial polypeptide LL-37.
    
  