
    
      This is an investigational, single arm, physician-sponsored study that will be conducted at
      Rabin Medical Center under the direction of Professor Mordechai Kramer. Patients will receive
      AeriSeal System therapy using a new treatment algorithm to deliver approved foam sealant
      components at doses at or below those previously shown to be safe and effective during prior
      studies. Investigational aspects of this study involve only the method of administration of
      material, not the material itself. The specific modifications to the treatment method
      proposed in this study include: 1) lowering the dose per subsegment of AeriSeal System Foam
      Sealant to 10 mL from the approved 20 mL dose; 2) administering the subsegmental doses at
      more anatomic locations with the goal of improving distribution of material and achieving
      more effective lung volume reduction; 3) eliminating the administration of air through the
      instrument channel of the bronchoscope following Foam Sealant delivery to simply and shorten
      the procedure, improving safety.

      The study is designed to treat 8 patients. The first 4 patients will receive treatment with
      10 mL of AeriSeal System Foam Sealant administered at 6 subsegments, 3 in each upper lobe (a
      dose of 60 mL of AeriSeal Foam Sealant). This group will be followed until all 4 have
      completed 1 month (28 day) follow-up. A safety review of the data will then be conducted
      prior to initiating treatment in the next group of 4 patients. This review will include an
      assessment of adverse events and physiological responses.

      Assuming no emergent safety issues are identified, the next group of 4 patients will receive
      treatment with 10 mL of AeriSeal System Foam Sealant administered at 8 subsegments, 3 in each
      upper lobe, one in the upper-most portion of the right middle lobe, one in the upper-most
      portion of the lingual (a dose of 80 mL of AeriSeal Foam Sealant).

      All patients will be followed for 24 weeks after completion of therapy and receive standard
      medical treatment in addition to treatment with the AeriSeal System.
    
  