
    
      Data suggest that as many as 60% of parents who are aware and concerned about their
      adolescent's substance use are unable to get them into treatment without assistance
      (Szapocznik et al., 1988) and very little research has examined methods to help them.
      Community Reinforcement and Family Training (CRAFT) was developed to help family members
      foster treatment entry of treatment-resistant adults, but it has not been tested in a
      controlled trial with parents of substance-abusing adolescents. This project will modify
      CRAFT (CRAFT-P) and Alanon/Naranon Facilitation (ANF) for use with parents who are concerned
      about an out-of-treatment adolescent.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of the CRAFT-P program in helping
      parents to: 1) facilitate treatment entry of their child, 2) achieve the outcomes they desire
      for their adolescents, 3) improve parenting skills in general and in acquisition of CRAFT
      knowledge in particular, and 4) improve their own mood and functioning. In addition the
      investigators will examine parents whose child entered treatment to estimate effect sizes of
      the new CRAFT methods for facilitating parent-supported treatment retention and aftercare
      engagement in community-based settings. Finally, if the CRAFT program appears efficacious,
      additional translational work will be initiated in collaboration with the Partnership at
      Drugfree.org (formerly the Partnership for a Drug-Free America) to provide parents with
      direct access to components of the CRAFT program.

      A Stage II two-group randomized controlled clinical trial will compare CRAFT-P vs ANF. The
      investigators will collect data from approximately 308 participants (154 parents and 154
      adolescents) and each participant will be involved in the study for a maximum of 12 months.
      The total enrollment number is not exact because it is possible that some adolescents will
      decline to participate.

      Parents will be screened to determine their eligibility. If eligible and interested in
      participating in the study, the parent will then provide informed consent and give permission
      for their adolescent to participate in the study. Parents will be randomized to one of the
      two interventions, CRAFT-P or ANF. Each session will be audio-recorded and stored so that the
      investigators can complete on-going monitoring to minimize condition bleeding and protect
      against trainer drift. In addition to completing screening and baseline assessments, parents
      and adolescents will complete full assessment batteries at 3-, 6-, & 12-months post-baseline.
      The adolescents' research participation involves completing the assessment battery only and
      these data will be compared to parent reports to examine consistency.
    
  