
    
      Aims and objectives:

      The goal of this study is to evaluate left atrial structural and functional abnormalities in
      patients with stroke of likely cardio-embolic origin compared with healthy age and sex
      matches controls and patients with atherosclerotic stroke using cardiac MRI.

      Background:

      Despite standard work up for the etiology of ischemic stroke, about 30% of the cases remain
      unexplained. It is increasingly accepted that these unexplained cases arise from disease
      outside of the brain. Paroxysmal AF (Atrial fibrillation) may often be suspected as the
      source but fewer than one third of patients with stroke of undetermined source manifest AF in
      any form even after 3 years of continuous heart rhythm monitoring. Emerging evidence suggest
      that atrial functional and structural abnormalities may convey a comparable risk of stroke in
      which AF is only one of several features. These abnormalities have been termed "atrial
      cardiomyopathy" and may be an efficient and practical approach to identify patients at high
      risk of AF and ischemic stroke.

      Methods and materials:

      Cross sectional and prospective cohort study with 3 different groups: 50 patients with stroke
      of undetected mechanism, 50 patients with atherosclerotic stroke (large or small vessel
      disease) admitted to the University Hospital of Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg and 50 sex and
      age matched controls with no history of stroke or AF from the Copenhagen City Heart Study
      (ØBUS) will be included during a 2 year-period. The study will measure atrial structural
      abnormalities using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and atrial functional
      abnormalities by cardiac MRI and echocardiography. A 1 year follow up will examine the
      incidence of silent brain infarction with MRI and incidence of stroke, atrial fibrillation,
      acute myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death. Secondary endpoints are to examine the
      association of functional and structural changes found by MRI with echocardiography, rhythm
      abnormalities and biomarkers with the purpose of finding clinical easily applicable methods
      to diagnose atrial cardiomyopathy.

      Expected outcome and perspectives:

      The investigators hypothesize that patients with stroke of likely cardio-embolic origin have
      significantly more atrial fibrotic degeneration and reduced atrial emptying function than
      patients with atherosclerotic stroke and the control subjects. The investigators expect a
      higher incidence of silent brain infarction in the group with stroke of likely cardio-embolic
      origin. With atrial cardiomyopathy investigated thoroughly in patients with stroke of likely
      cardio-embolic origin the future work-up and treatment strategies could be more efficient and
      may thus improve the prognosis in terms of mortality and disability for a considerable number
      of patients.
    
  