
    
      The most important cause of maternal morbidity in the Netherlands is Haemorrhagia post partum
      (HPP), with an incidence of 5% containing 10.000 women in the Netherlands a year.
      Introduction of an evidence-based guideline about HPP by the Dutch society of Obstetrics and
      Gynaecology (NVOG) and the course Management of Obstetrics Emergencies and Trauma (MOET
      course) did not lead to a reduction in HPP. This implies the possibility of an incomplete
      implementation of both the NVOG guideline and MOET-instructions.

      To evaluate the implementation of the guideline and MOET instruction in the current care,
      measurement of the actual care will be performed in a representative sample of 20 hospitals.
      Before actual care can be measured, quality indicators have to be developed regarding the
      process, structure and outcome based on the key recommendations from the NVOG guideline on
      HPP and the MOET instructions. The indicator development will be performed according to the
      RAND-modified Delphi method .The key recommendations from the NVOG guideline on HPP and the
      MOET instructions will be extracted and will be tested in two rounds among an independent
      panel of 12-15. The selected key recommendations will be operationalized in measurable
      elements. In an observational multi-centre study, actual care will be measured by video
      monitoring the third stage of delivery and a medical record search among 320 high risk
      patients for HPP in 20 hospitals. Additional information for indicator adherence will be
      searched in the medical records of the videotaped patients. In this manner, deviations from
      the indicators can be outlined. This study will provide us with reliable information about
      current practice in the Netherlands.

      A qualitative study will be performed with the aim to discover factors in detail that are
      "pro" or "contra" adhering to the developed HPP-indicators by focus group interviews among
      groups of different involved professionals and experienced patients. Subsequently, to assess
      the 'prevalence' of the factors mentioned in the focus group interviews, a survey with
      questionnaires will be performed among all Dutch gynaecologists and midwives. The data will
      be analyzed to assess the most frequently mentioned barriers and facilitators.

      Based on the results of step 1 and 2, a tailored implementation strategy will be developed to
      increase the adherence to the recommendations. The different implementation elements will be
      tailored to the barriers and facilitators found and will probably combine interventions
      directed at professional and organizational level. This strategy will be implemented and
      evaluated in a feasibility study. The study will be performed in 3 hospitals where the effect
      of the implementation strategy, the adherence to the developed indicators will be measured. A
      process evaluation will be performed to study the experiences of the clinicians and patients
      with this strategy. A cost analysis of the tested implementation strategy will take place.
    
  