
    
      This investigation will be a randomized, observer-masked, controlled, split-body,
      human-subjects clinical trial. Of note, the investigators will be using standard-of-care
      local anesthetics under their FDA approved purpose and do not plan to research a possible
      change of indication or use of these drugs as part of this research project.

      Volunteers will be solicited using the CTRI Research Match and an existing database of
      volunteers (IRB approved). If a volunteer meets inclusion/exclusion criteria (see Eligibility
      Criteria) and desires study participation, written, informed consent will be obtained using a
      UCSD IRB-approved/stamped ICF. A urine pregnancy test will be administered to all women of
      childbearing age following written informed consent but before any study interventions. This
      urine test will be administered by CTRI nursing staff using standard, FDA-approved urine
      pregnancy testing devices.

      Perineural catheter insertion: Following written, informed consent, subjects will be admitted
      to the UCSD CTRI Center for Clinical Research Services (CCR) and have
      demographic/morphometric data recorded (e.g., age, weight, height). An intravenous line will
      be placed in an upper extremity, followed by external monitors (pulse oximeter, blood
      pressure, and EKG), and oxygen by nasal cannula. Sedation will be provided with intravenous
      fentanyl (50 μg) and/or midazolam (1 mg). Bilateral TAP perineural catheters (FlexBlock,
      Teleflex Medical, Reading, PA, USA) will be inserted using ultrasound guidance using a
      technique previously described. To check the perineural catheter placement accuracy, 5 mL of
      normal saline will be administered via the catheters under ultrasound guidance with the
      definition of a successful catheter insertion an increase in fluid volume within the TAP (the
      plane between the transversus abdominis muscle and internal oblique muscle). Inaccurately
      inserted catheters will be replaced.

      Treatment Group Assignment: Subjects will act as their own controls: the right side will be
      randomized to one of two treatment groups: ropivacaine 0.2% administration as either a basal
      infusion (8 mL/h) or bolus doses (24 mL administered every 3 hours). The left side will
      receive the other possible treatment. Randomization will be based on computer-generated
      codes. Randomization will be in blocks of four. An infusion pump with study infusate will be
      attached to each of the perineural catheters and initiated at Hour 0. Which side of the
      participant's body will receive the basal rate and which side will receive bolus volume will
      depend upon the treatment group assignment but the total dose of local anesthetic is the same
      for each side.

      The tubing from the pumps to the subjects will be gently wound at least 5 rotations and
      covered with opaque tape, masking which perineural catheter is receiving which treatment
      (ropivacaine is clear, so the flow through the clear tubing from the tape to the perineural
      catheters will not be visually distinguishable).

      Local Anesthetic Administration: The infusion pump administering the basal infusion will be
      initiated at Hour 0. The infusion pump administering bolus doses will administer a 24 mL
      bolus dose every 3 hours beginning at Hour 0. Perineural catheters will be removed after 6
      hours (a total of 2 bolus doses).

      Food and Drink: Both food and accompanying beverages/water will be provided by the hospital
      and served by the nursing staff immediately following catheter insertion. Meals will be
      provided without charge to the study subjects. There is no restriction on oral intake
      following catheter insertion. Subjects will remain within the CTRI-CCR until catheter
      withdrawal.

      Outcome measurements: At all time points, the right side will be measured first, followed by
      the left side (subjects in the supine position).

      Measurements will be performed at baseline (prior to local anesthetic administration), after
      6 hours of administration, and at each hour in between for a total of 7 time points:

        -  Hour 0 (baseline) just prior to local anesthetic administration

        -  Hours 1 and 2

        -  Hour 3, just prior to the scheduled bolus dose at Hour 3

        -  Hours 4 and 5

        -  Hour 6

      The sensory deficit will be measured using two methods:

        -  von Frey filaments (mechanical detection threshold)

        -  Cold roller (cold deficit)

      The sensory deficit will be measured along two separate anatomical lines at each time point:

        -  The mid-axillary "vertical" line (measuring cephalad-caudad effects)

        -  A transverse "horizontal" line passing through the anterior superior iliac spine
           (measuring anterior-posterior effects)

      Statistical analysis: The investigators' calculations are focused on the primary hypothesis
      that when using transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block perineural catheters, providing local
      anesthetic in repeated bolus doses increases the cephalad-caudad local anesthetic effects
      compared with a basal-only infusion of the same volume and dose of local anesthetic. To
      measure cephalad-caudad local anesthetic effects, we will measure the cephalad-caudad sensory
      deficit to cold temperature in centimeters along the mid-axillary line. The primary end point
      will be this measurement after 6 hours of local anesthetic administration (6 hours of a
      continuous basal infusion or 2 bolus doses at 3-hour increments, the last being 3 hours prior
      to the measurement of the primary endpoint). Each subject will act as their own control with
      each side receiving a different treatment. Normality of distribution will be determined using
      the Shapiro-Wilk normality test (Prism 6, GraphPad, San Diego, California). For normally
      distributed data, comparisons for parametric and nonparametric data will be tested using the
      t-test or Mann-Whitney test and presented as mean (SD) or median [interquartile],
      respectively. Nominal data will be analyzed using the Pearson Chi square test. P<0.05 will be
      considered significant.

      Sample size estimation: With 21 evaluable subjects we will have 80% power at the 0.05
      significance level to detect the superiority of the administration of local anesthetic as
      repeated bolus doses as compared with a continuous basal infusion at Hour 6 (primary
      outcome). Using an expected standard deviation of 7 cm for the primary endpoint, and given a
      2-sided Type I error protection of 0.05 and power=0.80, approximately 21 subjects in each
      treatment arm will be required to detect a difference between treatment group means of 6 cm.
      Since this is a split-body study design and each subject will have one of each treatments on
      opposite sides of the body, 21 subjects total will produce 21 subjects in each treatment arm.
      The investigators chose 6 cm as a detectable treatment difference because a 3 cm distance is
      approximately equivalent to the width of one dermatome, and the vast majority of
      anesthesiologists would consider a 2-dermatome difference clinically significant. To allow
      for a larger-than-anticipated standard deviations, smaller-than-anticipated difference
      between treatment means, drop out subjects, or failed catheters, the investigators will
      enroll a total of 24 subjects.
    
  