
    
      Millions HIV-infected individuals are now receiving life-saving antiretroviral therapy (ART).
      However, mortality remains high, particularly in resource-limited countries. Chronic
      HIV-infected individuals demonstrate evidence of persistent immune activation despite ART,
      which is an independent predictor of mortality in this setting. Given the current absence of
      an effective HIV vaccine, finding a cure for HIV will have a large impact on the long-term
      health of treated HIV-infected individuals. The key challenge of HIV eradication strategies
      is the persistence of a small pool of resting memory CD4+ T cells that harbor latent
      replication-competent HIV, untouched by current ART. One potential strategy to eliminate this
      reservoir in a "shock and kill" approach in which latency reactivating agents (LRAs) are used
      to "shock" the virus out of these cells in order for the host immune response, ART, and/or
      additional immunomodulatory agents to then kill the virus-expressing cells. The goal of the
      current study is to evaluate the safety and in vivo biological response to an herbal
      supplement used in traditional Chinese medicine ("kansui)" that has potent in vitro latency
      reactivating capabilities. Kansui is an inexpensive, readily available herbal supplement
      prescribed for thousands of years in traditional Chinese medicine and contains active
      compounds such as ingenols that have been shown to reverse latency in an animal model. A
      semi-synthetic form of ingenol has been shown to potently reactivate latent simian
      immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in rhesus macaques and is currently undergoing early drug
      development. Though kansui has been studied extensively in traditional Chinese medicine, this
      herbal supplement has never been evaluated for biologic activity in HIV disease using Western
      scientific research methods. This pilot clinical trial will generate preliminary results
      regarding the safety and in vivo biologic activity of kansui. Promising results from this
      study may allow future larger studies which can evaluate the efficacy of this
      non-pharmacologic agent in the treatment of HIV disease.
    
  