
    
      A debate is ongoing as to the potential longer-term benefits of off-pump versus on-pump
      treatments. A recent meta-analysis summarized 12 randomized trials with follow-up extending
      beyond 1-year; with a significant increase documented in the late off-pump repeat
      revascularization and mortality rates. As a very large single center study with longer-term
      follow-up, a Beijing hospital study reported that their early minor advantages identified for
      off-pump surgery (n = 3,266) were offset at 4.5 years by an increased risk for cardiac death,
      acute MI and repeat revascularization as compared to an on-pump (n = 3,399) approach. The
      OCTOPUS study (a multi-center randomized trial based in the Netherlands) concluded that there
      was no difference in off-pump versus on-pump procedures for 5-year cardiac outcomes. However,
      OCTOPUS critics raised questions as to whether this study of only 281 low-risk patients was
      adequately powered to detect 5-year clinically relevant differences.

      The ROOBY trial represents the only US-based, multi-center trial that will be adequately
      powered to detect clinically relevant, statistically significant differences in these
      long-term MACE (i.e., all cause mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and/or repeat
      revascularization) outcomes. Recognized as a landmark study, ROOBY has resulted in important
      contributions including 10 manuscripts, 2 letters to the editor, and an invited editorial. As
      of October 11, 2012, over 182 manuscripts (not including any self-citations) had referenced
      the ROOBY trial's original 2009 publication. Most recently, the ROOBY trial was identified in
      the 2012 Almanac of adult cardiac surgery, where the national society journals present
      selected research that has driven recent clinical care advances. Additionally, ROOBY was
      judged independently by the March 2012 Cochrane systematic review as one of only three,
      multi-center trials that had been conducted to-date with a low risk of bias.

      The original ROOBY trial's enrollment was initiated in February 2002 and ended in June 2007.
      Given the passage of time, it is now possible to obtain at least 5 years of follow-up to
      identify these critically important longer-term MACE endpoints for all ROOBY patients. For
      the earliest ROOBY patients enrolled, their MACE outcomes for up to (and potentially beyond)
      10 years post-CABG may be assessed. These MACE endpoints will be ascertained using a
      combination of VA and non-VA database extracts as well as by chart reviews. In summary, the
      CSP 517-FS proposed study represents the first, large scale, US-based, multi-center,
      randomized, controlled off-pump versus on-pump trial that will have adequate power to assess
      major adverse cardiovascular events beyond 5 years - comparing the long-term effectiveness of
      these procedures to guide future adult cardiac surgical clinical decision-making processes.

      The Department of Veterans Affairs "Randomized On/off Bypass" (ROOBY) Trial (CSP#517;
      NCT00032630) was funded in 2001.
    
  