
    
      Participants will be randomly allocated in to one of the above treatment groups. This means
      that neither the participants, nor the researchers, will be able to choose which group a
      participant will be allocated to.

      In both techniques, in order to learn about the bacteria involved in non-vital teeth, the
      investigators will take samples of the bacteria within the root canal.

      The outcomes of the study will provide us with further information about root growth, the
      bacteria involved in infection of non-vital teeth and the success of the different treatment
      methods that are available. This information will enable us to increase our understanding of
      the treatment of non-vital teeth with an open end and help us to explain our treatments to
      future patients.

      All children presenting to Liverpool University Dental Hospital aged between 7 and 25 years
      of age and who are medically well and cooperative to receive prolonged treatment in the
      dental chair are eligible to take part in the study if they have a damaged upper front adult
      tooth in which the nerve has died and the root is open ended. Unfortunately, if there is
      dental decay in the tooth or a fracture of the root then these teeth are not suitable for
      this study. In some cases following damage to a tooth, the root of the tooth starts to
      dissolve and unfortunately these teeth are also not suitable for this study.

      Suitable patients attend with their parent or carer for a consultation to the Paediatric
      Dentistry Clinic at Liverpool University Dental Hospital. Following this visit, if a suitable
      patient wishes to join our study the investigators will arrange two further visits during
      which the dental treatment will take place. Following completion of treatment, patients will
      be asked to return for four check ups over the next year so that the investigators can check
      that they are happy and that treatment has been successful.

      There are no risks or disadvantages to taking part in this study. However, if the tooth does
      not respond to treatment, or if symptoms of infection arise, then alternative treatment
      methods may be initiated as necessary.

      The study is being funded by the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals NHS
      Trust and by the University of Liverpool.
    
  