
    
      Home ventilation techniques consist mainly of two techniques, Continuous Positive Airway
      Pressure or CPAP (the level of pressure delivered being constant) and Non Invasive
      Ventilation or NIV (pressure level varies from an expiratory pressure to an inspiratory
      pressure). Whether for CPAP or NIV, pressures are delivered to the patient via an interface.
      Many manufacturers produce interfaces and these interfaces are the subject of regular
      technological innovations with the introduction on the market of new product ranges.

      Because of the lack of dedicated and actualized studies, there is poor evidence based of
      difference between old and new interfaces, there is also poor evidence based of differences
      between manufacturer products.

      The efficacy of CPAP and NIV is conditioned in part by the observance of the patients to the
      device. Because the comfort and degree of satisfaction of the patients to its interface is a
      key factor of the observance, side-effects and satisfaction of patients need to be
      continuously evaluated with available interfaces for CPAP and NIV treated patients.

      The purpose of the research is the evaluation of interface side-effects and the degree of
      satisfaction of home care patients treated for at least three months with CPAP or NIV. A
      visual analog scale is used to assess the patient perception of its interface. A measure of
      the quality of life and a home care technician evaluation are performed simultaneously. Using
      the device manufacturer software, a measure of the observance, level of pressure and leak is
      realised.

      A first intermediate analysis will be made after approximately 1000 inclusions (the
      Sleepileaks (determinants of residual excessive sleapiness), Threshleaks (high leak levels
      and machine adherence as defined by the American Thoracic Society) and Complileaks studies
      (all leaks and machine adherence as continuous variables)). A second validating analysis will
      be made at the end of inclusions.
    
  