
    
      Diabetes is a strong risk factor for atherosclerosis and is often characterized by
      dyslipidemia with hypertriglyceridemia,low high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and modestly
      elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Both HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) and
      fibrates improve lipoprotein metabolism and decrease coronary disease risk. Statins and
      fibrates affect different aspects of lipoprotein metabolism and each improve lipid metabolism
      complimentarily. Statins lower total cholesterol and LDL while fibrates decrease triglyceride
      concentrations and elevateHDL cholesterol. Since individual lipid parameters have been shown
      to be independent cardiovascular risk factors, it is especially important to target all lipid
      parameters to levels outlined in treatment guidelines.

      The National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel ill (NCEP ill) guidelines
      have set target therapeutic levels for coronary heart disease (CHD) and CHD risk equivalents
      (including diabetes).Many patients, however, are not able to achieve optimal levels with a
      single lipid-controlling agent.

      This is particularly evident among diabetics, who often have multiple dyslipidemias and are
      less likely to achieve effective lipid control.

      Several small clinical trials have demonstrated that fibrate and statin dual therapy combine
      the specific effects of the two drugs by significantlyreducing total and LDL cholesterol
      while increasing HDL cholesterol, though problems are associated. Previous studies, conducted
      mainly with a gemfibrozil/cerivastatin combination, showed an increased incidence of side
      effects (myopathy, hepatotoxicity) and high cost. This problem was again addressed in a small
      study of74 patients randomized to combined or alternate-day simvastatin and fenofibrate
      therapy. Surprisingly, in this study, no cases of myopathy were reported, even among patients
      receiving combined simvastatin and fenofibrate therapy.

      The Lipids in Diabetes Study (LDSH Study) examined the fenofibrate and cerivastatin
      combination in a large-scale trial of 4,000 patients. This study was stopped early because
      study treatment included cerivastatin, which was withdrawn from the United States market in
      2001. Consequently, the results' utility will be limited in the United States.

      Additional studies evaluating lipid therapies capable of meeting more aggressive treatment
      guidelines outlined in NCEP ill, especially among diabetic patients, are required. We propose
      a twelve-month study of simvastatin, micronized fenofibrate, and combination therapy among
      patients with controlled Type 2 diabetes mellitus. The primary objectives ofthis study will
      be to assess the safety and efficacy of combined micronized fenofibrate and simvastatin
      therapy versus micronized fenofibrate or simvastatin monotherapy. Secondary objectives will
      include evaluation of combined micronized fenofibrate and simvastatin therapy versus
      micronized fenofibrate or simvastatin monotherapy on novel lipid parameters and serological
      markers associated with significantly increased cardiovascular risk. The benefits of the
      study will be numerous. First, we will be able to detennine the efficacy of each treatment
      arm in achieving the more aggressive lipid level targets outlined in NCEP ill. Second, this
      trial, unlike previous studies, will assess the safety and efficacy of each treatment arm
      specifically among diabetic patients. Third, the length of therapy will allow adequate, yet
      efficient, evaluation of the tertiary endpoints, which include novel risk factors not
      previously assessed with combination therapy.
    
  