
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether increasing the intensity of a nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen
           comprising fludarabine and total body irradiation allows achievement of a donor T-cell
           chimerism level of > 40% on day 28 post-transplantation in 90% or more of patients with
           chronic myelogenous leukemia undergoing allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation and immunosuppression comprising cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil.

        -  Determine the feasibility of reducing the day 84 graft rejection rate/graft failure to <
           10% in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the feasibility of maintaining the incidence of grade 4 acute
           graft-versus-host disease at < 10% in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the feasibility of maintaining the day 200 nonrelapse mortality rate at < 15%
           in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rate of complete cytogenetic remission in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the probability of actuarial disease-free survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of mycophenolate mofetil and fludarabine in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of fludarabine and total-body
      irradiation (TBI).

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -4 to -2
           OR days -6 to -2. Patients undergo TBI on day 0.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): After the completion of
           TBI, patients undergo allogeneic PBSCT on day 0.

        -  Immunosuppression: Patients receive oral cyclosporine twice daily on days -3 to 100
           followed by a taper to day 177 in the absence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
           Beginning within 4-6 hours after the completion of PBSCT, patients receive oral
           mycophenolate mofetil 2-3 times daily on days 0-40 followed by a taper to day 96 in the
           absence of GVHD.

      Cohorts of 5-25 patients receive cumulative doses of fludarabine and escalating doses of TBI
      until 2 of 5, 3 of 10-15, 4 of 20, or 5 of 25 patients experience a day 28 post-transplant
      T-cell chimerism level ≤ 40% and/or a day 84 post-transplant graft rejection rate of > 10%.

      After completion of study transplantation, patients are followed 3 times weekly for 3 months,
      at 6, 12, and 18 months, annually for 5 years, and then periodically thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 5-75 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  