
    
      All women with mainly uterine prolapse stage II or greater as defined by the POP-Q staging
      system receiving TVM or LSC mesh suspension surgeries at a tertiary referral center in Taiwan
      were included. The investigators excluded women with a hypertrophic uterus, huge fibroids,
      history of cervical dysplasia or endometrial pathology, history of postmenopausal bleeding in
      the past 12 months, and those unwilling to preserve their uterus. Concomitant mid-urethral
      sling operations were performed in women with current urodynamic stress incontinence unless
      the participants did not prefer a concomitant surgery. Cervical amputation was performed if
      the corpus/cervix ratio was less than 1 on the ultrasound. Concomitant anterior and posterior
      colporrhaphy were performed as needs.

      The clinical evaluations consisted of a detailed history before and 6 months after surgery,
      including urinary analysis, pelvic examination using POP-Q system, urodynamic studies (UDS),
      transabdominal ultrasound, and personal interview to identify urinary and sexual symptoms
      with the Overactive Bladder Symptom Score (OABSS), the short forms of Urogenital Distress
      Inventory (UDI-6), the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ-7), the Female Sexual Function
      Index (FSFI) questionnaire, and the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Distress Inventory (POPDI-6).
      Urinary symptoms with the standardized questionnaire taking into account the 2002 ICS
      definitions. The participants were asked to fill out the visual analog scale (VAS) scores
      during the postoperative day 1 round. Urodynamic studies, including non-instrumented
      uroflowmetry, filling and voiding cystometry, and urethral pressure profilometry, were
      performed according to the recommendations by the International Continence Society with a
      6-channel urodynamic monitor (MMS; UD2000, Enschede, Netherlands). Any uninhibited detrusor
      contraction during filling cystometry was deemed positive for detrusor overactivity (DO).

      As a follow-up, postoperative outpatient visits were at 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 months and then
      semiannually beyond one year. Pelvic examination was performed routinely in every visit to
      clinics. Recurrence was defined as the most dependent portion of POP stage II or greater. The
      Clavien-Dindo grading was used for the classification of the intraoperative and postoperative
      complications of Long mesh surgery.
    
  