
    
      WORK DESIGN STAGES:

        1. The CTX index case will be identified and the CTX genetics will be reapproved. The
           following steps will be provided for all cases.

             -  Re-validation of CTX genetics: Cases of CTX indexes that are unrelated and clearly
                identified the CTX homozygous inheritance identified in the CYP27A1 gene by
                kinship.

             -  Documenting the nuclear and extended family structure and extracting family trees
                (interview with index cases and parents of index cases)

             -  Documentation of all potential symptoms compatible with CTX disease, including data
                based on the CTX suspicion index (Mignarri Index) in the nuclear and extended
                family

             -  Documentation of patients who have died due to unexpected death or unwillingness to
                participate in the study.

             -  Specific members of nuclear and extended family relatives will be contacted to
                propose genetic counseling. Approvals for genetic testing will be asked and
                necessary information forms will be provided. A total of 5 ml of blood will be
                collected from each patient for DNA analysis. Blood samples will be analyzed at the
                Damagen Genetic Diagnosis Center (Ankara), after which no samples will be stored
                and all samples will be destroyed.

             -  Collecting blood samples from index cases and, where possible, all nuclear family
                members (such as parents and siblings)

        2. The target cohort will be defined in each family according to the interview results. If
           the study physician predicts that there are fewer than 50 patients in a large family for
           the study and follow-up period, this family will be excluded from the study. The initial
           objective will be to involve grandparents, all their children, married wives and
           grandchildren. This choice can be adapted by the physician depending on the special
           situation in the family according to the results of individuals who have undergone
           genetic mutation tests in the nuclear family, if any, and the definition of nuclear and
           extended relatives may change in consanguineous families. All extended family members of
           each identified CTX case will be invited to perform the following steps:

             -  Genetic counseling (ideally per family)

             -  Approvals for genetic testing will be asked and necessary information forms will be
                provided. A total of 5 ml of blood will be collected from each patient for DNA
                analysis. Blood samples will be analyzed at the Damagen Genetic Diagnosis Center
                (Ankara) and no samples will be stored after the analysis and all samples will be
                destroyed. Documentation of key data for each case

             -  Confirming that the family tree is correctly identified.

             -  Documenting patients who have died due to unexpected death or unwillingness to
                participate in the study.

             -  Perform limited neurological examination for key signs and symptoms and document it
                according to the CTX suspicion index (Mignarri Index).

        3. Testing all samples by DNA sequencing for the identified mutation analysis. According to
           the results, large family cohort will be extracted. In some families, this number can
           reach up to 600-800 cases.

        4. Re-inviting all study cases with disease genotypes for extended neurological examination
           and medical / genetic counseling.

        5. To offer genetic counseling to all study patients with carrier genotypes so that they
           can make informed decisions about marriage and the next generation (the study
           coordinator will propose the medical follow-up of new cases diagnosed genetically as
           CTX).
    
  