
    
      Title of Study Prevalence of Sub-Clinical Atrial Fibrillation Using an Implantable Cardiac
      Monitor in Patients with Cardiovascular Risk Factors (ASSERT-II) Short Title ASSERT-II Study
      Sponsor Population Health Research Institute (Grant in Aid from St. Jude Medical, Inc.)
      Principal Investigators Dr. J. Healey, Dr. S. Connolly, Dr. M. Alings Central Coordinating
      Centre Population Health Research Institute Recruitment and Participating Clinical Sites 250
      patients from approximately 30 Sites Phase/Regulatory Status Phase IV - Cohort Study
      Hypothesis Among elderly patients with cardiovascular risk factors and a left atrial diameter
      ≥ 4.4 cm, but without prior clinical AF, an implanted continuous ECG monitor (St. Jude
      Medical Confirm® Implantable Cardiac Monitor) will detect subclinical AF (≥ 5 minutes in
      duration) in 12% or more of patients during an average follow-up of 12 months.

      Study Objectives

      Primary Objectives:

      1. To determine the rate of detection of sub-clinical atrial AF (≥ 5 minutes) within an
      average of 12 months following implant of the St. Jude Medical Confirm® Implantable Cardiac
      Monitor in patients with known cardiovascular risk factors and left atrial enlargement, but
      without prior AF.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine if the incidence of sub-clinical AF is higher among patients whose left
           atrial volume is above the median value observed in this study.

        2. To determine the relationship between left atrial volume (continuous variable) and the
           risk of sub-clinical AF.

        3. To evaluate other potential predictors of sub-acute AF in this population including:
           baseline troponin-T, baseline NT-pro-BNP as well as clinical and other echocardiographic
           parameters.

        4. To develop a preliminary economic analysis to evaluate the potential cost-effectiveness
           of screening this patient population with an Implantable Cardiac Monitor as a means of
           preventing stroke.

      Study Design Cohort study to determine the prevalence of sub-clinical AF in an elderly
      population with common cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension and diabetes.
      Patients with echocardiographic evidence of atrial enlargement will be enrolled and have the
      St. Jude Medical Confirm® Implantable Cardiac Monitor (Confirm® ICM) subcutaneously
      implanted. To reduce costs, in most cases the implant will be done in conjunction with other
      planned surgery or heart catheterization.

      PHRI: CONFIDENTIAL Final Version 2.0:2012-06-18 Page 4 of 24 Participants/Study Duration
      Total of 250 participants will be enrolled over 16 months. The last patient enrolled will
      have 9 months of follow-up, for a total study duration of approximately 25 months. Clinic
      visits will occur at enrolment and months 3, 6 and 9. A final visit will take place at 18
      months of follow-up, or after the last patient enrolled has been followed for 9 months
      (whichever comes first).

      Study Population Patients with known cardiovascular risk factors and left atrial enlargement,
      with no prior documented AF.

      Intervention St. Jude Medical Confirm® Implantable Cardiac Monitor (Confirm® ICM) Enrollment
      and Follow-up Eligible and consenting patients will be enrolled and have the Confirm® ICM
      implanted. The implant may take place in conjunction with pre-planned non-cardiac surgery,
      heart catheterization, or as a stand-alone procedure. Follow-up visits will occur at month 3,
      6 and 9. A final visit will take place at 18 months of follow-up, or after the last patient
      enrolled has been followed for 9 months (whichever comes first).

      Assessment of Outcome Events An independent central adjudication committee comprised of
      arrhythmia experts will evaluate device-detected AF episodes.

      Statistical Methodology Determine the incidence of sub-clinical atrial AF (≥ 5 minutes) using
      the Confirm® ICM.

      Date of Protocol June 18, 2012
    
  