
    
      The benefits of habitual physical activity (PA, activities of at least moderate intensity
      defined as ≥ 3 metabolic equivalents (METs)) are well-recognized. Emerging information from
      large data sets strongly suggest high levels of sedentary behavior, defined as activities
      <1.5 METs (equivalent to the amount of energy expended during seated activities such as
      computer work) increases the risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and death, independent
      of the amount and intensity PA. The increased risk of sedentary behavior appears to be
      mediated at least in part by reduced insulin sensitivity, impaired lipid metabolism,
      increased vascular inflammation, and increased thrombotic tendencies.

      The internal accelerometer embedded in Medtronic pacemakers registers, stores, and reports
      total number of "active time" based on a threshold activity intensity level of approximately
      70 steps/min (estimated to be > 1.5 METs). This implanted accelerometer, combined with the
      regular follow-up required for appropriate care make individuals who have undergone Medtronic
      pacemaker implantation an ideal population in which to evaluate the impact of altering
      sedentary behavior on mortality and cardiovascular events.

      The hypotheses are as follows:

        1. a 12 week intervention to increase moderate intensity physical activity delivered at the
           point of care in patients with pacemakers will result in parallel increases in active
           time as measured by the pacemaker and step count as measured by pedometer.

        2. the increase in activity measured by both the metrics in hypothesis 1 will be greater
           than with usual care.

      Potential subjects who are interested in the study will have a screening visit to determine
      whether they meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Those who qualify and agree to
      participate will be randomized into either the Physical Activity Counseling arm (intervention
      arm) or the Patient Usual Care arm (control arm).

      Subjects in the interventional arm will be given a pedometer and physical activity counseling
      on a regular basis for 3 months. Physical activity data from their external pedometer will be
      collected every 2 weeks via phone calls. Accelerometry data from the implanted pacemaker will
      be collected from the subject's medical record as pacemaker interrogations are performed
      every 3 months as part of routine clinical care. After the initial 3 month interventional
      phase is complete, these subjects will be followed for another 3 months with collection of
      pedometer as well as accelerometer data as described above.

      Subjects in the control arm will be given pedometers for the week prior to pacemaker
      interrogation. These subjects will be called to report the number of steps they walked each
      day prior to the interrogation. Their accelerometry data will be captured through routine
      clinical pacemaker interrogations.

      The primary outcome is the physical activity level in each group as measured by the
      accelerometer at time 0, 3 months and 6 months. The secondary outcome is the step count in
      each group as measured by the pedometer at the same time points.
    
  