
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether percent change in maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) on
      FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on mediastinal lymph nodes can predict mediastinal
      downstaging in patients with stage IIIA-N2 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the predictive accuracy for mediastinal downstaging of two other
      FDG-PET/CT-based markers measured on mediastinal lymph nodes: SUVmax at T1 and change of
      SUVmax from T0 to T1.

      II. To evaluate the predictive accuracy for mediastinal downstaging of the FDG-PET/CT-based
      markers measured on the primary tumor, include percent change of peak standardized uptake
      value (SUVpeak) (based on PET Response Criteria in Solid Tumors [PERCIST] criteria), total
      lesion glycolysis (TLG) and metabolic tumor volume (MTV) from T0 to T1.

      III. To evaluate whether percent change in SUVmax on FDG-PET/CT from T0 to T1 measured on
      mediastinal lymph nodes can predict overall survival (OS).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F-18 PET/CT at baseline and after course 1 of chemotherapy.
      Patients undergo 1 of 3 chemotherapy regimens at the discretion of the investigator.

      CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN 1: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes on days 1, and 8. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN 2: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 60 minutes and cisplatin IV over
      60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN 3: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and cisplatin
      IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  