
    
      Unrelieved cancer pain at the end of life is a major health problem and is inconsistent with
      patient-centered goals for their last days. Building on a successful approach researched in
      outpatient oncology settings, the investigators propose a study testing PAINRelieveIt, a
      system-level intervention of computerized tools with patient-reported pain outcomes (in
      English, Spanish, Chinese languages), decision support for clinicians (English) and
      multimedia education tailored to each cancer patient and lay caregiver.

      Using a 1-week pre-test/post-test randomized design in patients receiving home level hospice
      care provided by two Chicago-area hospices, we will compare effects of usual hospice care
      with PAINReportIt Summary and usual hospice care with PAINRelieveIt on pain outcomes. The
      tablet-based PAINRelieveIt includes valid and reliable pain tools (PAINReportIt), a summary
      of the patient's pain data with decision support for hospice nurses to obtain recommendations
      for algorithm-based analgesic therapies (PAINConsultN), and multimedia education tailored to
      the patient's and lay caregiver's pain management misconceptions (PainUCope).
      Patient's/caregiver's answers are automatically stored in an electronic database, from which
      the system generates a PAINReportIt Summary (usual hospice care control group); PAINConsultN
      and PainUCope (experimental group). All patients will receive usual hospice care. All
      patients/caregivers will complete PAINReportIt at pretest and 1-week later (posttest);
      patients also complete parts of PAINReportIt daily. Via daily e-mail updates, the
      control-group hospice nurses will receive a PAINReportIt Summary and experimental-group
      hospice nurses will receive a PAINConsultN. Additionally, experimental group
      patients/caregivers will view multimedia educational materials via PAINUCope to help patients
      report pain and adhere to prescribed analgesics.

      Specific aims are to compare usual hospice care and PAINRelieveIt groups for effects on:

        1. Patient outcomes (analgesic adherence; worst pain intensity, satisfaction, and
           misconceptions) and lay caregiver outcome (pain misconceptions) in a diverse sample of
           250 cancer patient-caregiver dyads receiving hospice care.

        2. Nurse outcomes (obtained appropriate analgesics for patient) in a sample of hospice
           nurses.

      The investigators hypothesize that at posttest, controlling for pretest data and compared to
      the usual care group, the PAINRelieveIt group will: a) report decreased scores for worst pain
      intensity and pain misconceptions; b) have increased analgesic adherence (primary outcome);
      and c) have a larger proportion who report satisfaction with pain intensity and whose nurses
      obtained appropriate analgesics for the patients' pain.

      Findings will guide future system-level research to implement PAINRelieveIt in a multi-site,
      longitudinal trial that will test the effect of disseminating this technology on clinical
      decisions for managing pain and patient/caregiver pain outcomes in a national sample of
      hospices. This approach offers improved pain control for dying patients and other
      populations.
    
  