
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      One specific type of sprain is high ankle sprain with ligament damage to the distal
      tibiofibular syndesmosis. A syndesmotic lesion is the leading cause of persistent disability
      or chronic pain and frequently requires longer recovery times and receives significantly more
      treatments compared with low lateral ankle sprains.

      The degree of instability in syndesmotic disruption guides the decision to operate or treat
      conservatively. Clinical examinations, routine radiographs, stress radiographs, computed
      tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are the available diagnostic tools to
      decide the correct treatment. The clinical diagnosis has limited evidence. The best current
      practice considers that few clinical examination tests have some validity in identifying
      syndesmotic disruption. The mortise or anteroposterior radiographic view may promptly
      diagnose frank syndesmotic instability (SI), identifying the widening of the articular space
      on the injured side relative to the contralateral uninjured side. However, SI may be
      underdiagnosed when routine radiography shows a healthy articular relationship. Routine
      radiographs cannot reliably predict syndesmotic injuries. Stress radiographs are inaccurate
      for evaluating such injuries in a cadaveric model. CTNP is more sensitive than radiography
      for detecting syndesmotic widening. MRI can be used to visualize and diagnose damaged
      ligaments with high accuracy.

      Notwithstanding, the traditional measurement of the anterior tibiofibular distance (ATFD),
      obtained by CTNP, has an unsatisfactory area under the receiver operator curve (ROC)
      performance of 0,58 in diagnosing SI. Despite all these available methods, SI is still
      challenging to diagnose correctly, and syndesmotic ligament disruption and real SI should be
      differentiated. CTSM is an alternative approach that could improve the diagnosis of SI. To
      the investigator's knowledge, the application of CTSM has not been previously described.

      METHODS:

      This study follows the guidelines of the Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy
      Studies (STARD).

      Study design:

      Diagnostic accuracy-test study.

      Study setting:

      The Department of Radiology, in partnership with the Department of Orthopedics, conducted
      this study at a tertiary hospital with the approval of the Internal Review Board and the
      Ethics Committee.

      Participant selection and recruitment:

      A consecutive sample of individuals with suspected syndesmotic disruption attended at the
      Foot and Ankle Outpatient Clinic will be referred to the Radiology Department to perform
      CTNP, CTSM, and MRI. A research assistant (RA) will screen all the participants for
      eligibility, will interview them about their willingness to participate, will explain the
      purposes of the research and will invite those who meet the inclusion criteria to
      participate. The RA will also describe all study details, will answer all questions about
      objectives, risks, benefits, confidentiality, and will read out loud the informed consent
      form. Individuals who agree to participate will date and sign the informed consent form. The
      RA will attach a copy of informed consent to the medical record and will hand a second copy
      to the participants. Participants will provide demographic data and will complete pre-exams
      forms before performing image exams. If the participant is unable to sign the informed
      consent form, the RA will provide a verbal explanation of the study. After verbal consent of
      the participant, a witness will sign the informed consent form. RA will record reasons for
      exclusion or refusal to participate.

      CT exam technical parameters:

      Aquilion ONE V6 scanner (Toshiba Medical Systems, Tochigi, Japan) with 320 channels will
      perform all exams using the following technical parameters: a volumetric acquisition, 120
      kilovolt, 150 milliampere, 0.5 s rotation time, 0.5 mm slice thickness, 0.25 mm
      interpolation, 320-detector rows, field of view (FOV) medium or large, and fine filter for
      bone. The lowest possible irradiation dose will produce images of diagnostic quality. The
      feet of the participant will be scanned simultaneously in the same FOV with feet supported on
      the acrylic board (Medintec, Mogi das Cruzes, Brazil).

      MRI exam technical parameters:

      A phased array dedicated coil on 1.5-T magnet HDX (GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, USA) will
      perform all the examinations using the following sequences: sagittal T1-weighted [time
      repetition (TR)/ echo time (TE), 542/9; number of excitations (NEX), 1; matrix, 320 x 256;
      thickness, 4 mm; FOV, 10 cm]; sagittal T2-weighted fat-suppressed (3000/39, 2, 384 x 224, 4,
      10); axial T2-weighted fat-suppressed (3483/48, 2, 384 x 224, 4, 10); coronal T2-weighted
      fat-suppressed (3000/39, 2, 384 x 224, 3, 10) and coronal oblique proton density-weighted
      (2840/35, 2, 384 x 224, 3, 10).

      Existing index test (CTNP):

      In the neutral phase, the feet will be parallel to each other and perpendicular to the long
      axis of the legs. The knees will be in an extended position.

      New index test (CTSM extended-knees):

      In the first stress phase, the feet will set in external rotation, and voice command will
      instruct the patient to maintain maximum dorsiflexion to the limit of tolerable pain during
      image acquisition. The knees will be in an extended position.

      New index test (CTSM flexed-knees):

      In the second stress phase, the feet will set in external rotation, and voice command will
      instruct the patient to maintain maximum dorsiflexion to the limit of tolerable pain during
      image acquisition. A support pad will keep the knees flexed 30 degrees.

      Feasibility assessment:

      Investigators will asses feasibility registering all difficulties in performing the
      maneuvers, including pain exacerbation, motion artifacts, repetition of images, the total
      duration of the exam, and withdrawal.

      CTNP, CTSM extended-knees, and CTSM flexed-knees reading parameters:

      Investigators prespecified test positivity cut-off performing measurements of the anterior
      tibiofibular distance (ATFD) and the posterior tibiofibular distance (PTFD), at 1 cm proximal
      to the tibial plafond, as described by Elgafy et al. A third measurement will register the
      smallest distance between the fibula and the tibia, in the plane of the tibiotalar joint,
      where the CT scan section began to show the whole shape of tibial plafond as described by Ahn
      et al. All measurements will be obtained in a standardized way in the two ankles of the same
      individual in the neutral phase and the stress phases. Differences equal to or greater than 1
      mm in measures, between the two ankles of the same individual, either in the neutral phase or
      with stress, will define test positivity cut-off. Although there are no previous studies on
      stress CT, researchers empirically adopted the 1 mm cut-off point, based on a biomechanical
      study that found considerable changes in the contact area of the tibiotalar joint with
      lateral talus dislocation of 1 mm or higher.

      Reference test (MRI):

      The standard protocol will acquire all the ankle MRI suspected for syndesmotic tear as
      following: patients will be scanned with their knees in extension and ankle in a neutral
      position. Investigators will not scan the unaffected contralateral ankle. The arthroscopic
      examination is considered the best reference standard for syndesmotic injuries allowing
      diagnosis and treatment correctly; however, applying this method to the syndesmotic uninjured
      group would have been difficult to justify ethically. Even a minimally invasive procedure, as
      the arthroscopic examination, may have complications and is not risk-free. Two studies
      comparing the accuracy of MRI with arthroscopy concluded that MRI is a highly sensitive and
      specific tool for the evaluation of syndesmotic injury.

      MRI reading parameters:

      The investigators prespecified results categories classifying syndesmotic ligaments (anterior
      inferior tibiofibular, posterior inferior tibiofibular, and interosseous), the lateral
      collateral ligaments (anterior talofibular, calcaneofibular, and posterior talofibular) and
      deltoid ligament (superficial and deep layer) as normal, sprain, partial lesion or complete
      lesion.

      Foot and ankle ability measure:

      Change in disability will be quantified using the validated version of the Foot and Ankle
      Ability Measure (FAAM) questionnaire that will be administered at 6 and 12 months after CT.
      FAAM is a reliable, responsive, and valid tool to evaluate physical activity for a variety of
      disorders of the leg, foot, and ankle disorders. A systematic review of the literature
      identified FAAM as one of the most appropriate patient-assessed tools to quantify functional
      disabilities in ankle instability.

      Blinding and observation bias:

      Five groups of individuals will be involved in this study: patients, orthopedics physicians,
      radiologists physicians, data collectors (research assistant), CTSM and MRI technician
      performer, and data analysts (statistician). Blindness will be adopted among them to avoid
      observation bias. Orthopedists will perform the physical examination blinded to the results
      of CTSM and MRI. The radiologists will read CTSM blinded to patient identification, physical
      exam, and laterality of the ankle with the suspected syndesmotic lesion. The radiologists
      will read MRI blinded to patient identification, physical exam, and CTSM result. The research
      assistant will collect the questionnaires blinded to the CTSM, MRI, or physical exam results.
      The technician will perform CTSM blinded to the MRI or physical exam results. Another
      technician will perform MRI blinded to the CTSM or physical exam results. Researchers will
      blind the data analysts by labeling the variables with deidentifying terms (such as A and B).
      Researchers will not communicate participants their group assignment.

      Statistical analysis:

      Absolute and relative frequencies will describe categorical variables. Median, mean, standard
      deviation, quartile, minimum and maximum values will describe numerical variables depending
      on data distribution.

      Likelihoods (LR) will compare the diagnostic accuracy of the three strategies in terms of
      relative positive (RLR+) and relative negative (RLR-). The first strategy will test the
      diagnostic accuracy of the existing index CTNP alone. The second strategy will test the
      add-on index CTSM extended-knees, and the third will test the add-on index CTSM flexed-knees.
      "Either positive" rule will be adopted whereby the add-on test is positive if either
      component test is positive.

      Sample size calculation

      The most significant sample needed to meet the primary or secondary objective will define the
      study sample size.

      A previous study found the area under de curve (AUC) performance of 0.56 relative to the CT
      in a neutral position. Assuming as a null hypothesis that the existing CT test has AUC of
      0.56, this study proposes as an alternative hypothesis, a new CTSM test with superior
      accuracy estimated as AUC of 0.80. The full sample size estimated is 39, expecting a 1:2
      ratio between groups (13 and 26 cases per group, respectively).

      A previous study found that the effect size of the score change paired data in FAAM sports
      dimension was 15, the standard deviation of the change in one group was 28 and in the other
      group was 23. Using a two-sample paired t-test to compare the changes in FAAM score, the full
      sample size estimation is 111, expecting a 1:2 ration between groups (37 and 74 cases per
      group, respectively). Accounting for a possible loss of 20% during follow-up, investigators
      intend to include a total of 133 participants in the study. The same methodology applied for
      the activity of daily life (ADL) domain in the FAAM score found a full sample size of 60
      participants.

      The sample of 111 for sport domain contemplates the ADL domain and the AUC sample calculation
      of 60 and 39, respectively.
    
  