
    
      This is an open-label, non-randomized, single center, pilot and feasibility, single arm
      cohort study involving a single infusion of autologous bone marrow derived CD34+ HSC cells
      transduced with the lentiviral vector containing a short-hairpin RNA targeting BCL11a.
      Accrual will be a maximum of 7 evaluable patients with SCD. The study will have three strata:

        1. Stratum 1: ages ≥18-40

        2. Stratum 2: ages ≥12-<18

        3. Stratum 3: ages ≥3-<12

      To determine the feasibility and safety of administering a lentiviral gene transfer vector
      encoding a small hairpin (sh) RNA targeting the γ-globin gene repressor, BCL11A, in patients
      with severe SCD.

      Patients will undergo standard work-up for autologous bone marrow transplantation according
      to institutional guidelines and then undergo two bone marrow harvests at a minimum of 4 weeks
      apart that will be used for a back-up marrow (minimum of 2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg) and for a
      harvest of autologous bone marrow for gene transfer.

      Patients will receive blood transfusions for a period of 3 months prior to the planned date
      of product infusion, with a goal of achieving a HbS level ≤ 30% by the time of gene transfer.
      If the subject is already on a chronic transfusion regimen as part of baseline disease
      management, the regimen may be continued. The timing of transfusions will be coordinated to
      occur within 7 days prior to any procedures requiring anesthesia such as bone marrow harvest.

      Hematopoietic cells will be collected from the patient in advance of the treatment, to serve
      as a salvage procedure ("back-up graft"), should there be no hematopoietic recovery observed
      following the injection of genetically-manipulated cells, or should manipulated cells fail to
      meet release criteria. Bone marrow (up to 20 mL/kg) will be harvested from the patient under
      general anesthesia from the posterior iliac crests on both sides by multiple punctures at a
      minimum of 4 weeks prior to gene therapy. A portion of the bone marrow containing at least 2
      x 106 CD34+ cells/kg will be frozen and stored unmanipulated according to standard clinical
      procedures for autologous bone marrow collection to constitute the back-up graft. If the
      number of CD34+ cells that exceeds 2 x 106 cells/kg is greater than or equal to 1 x 106
      cells/kg, these excess cells would be processed for transduction, transduced, and then
      frozen. Transduction will be carried out on the selected CD34+ cells and transduced cells
      will be cryopreserved. If cells from the first harvest were transduced and frozen, these
      gene-modified cells will be thawed and prepared for infusion in parallel with the product
      from the subsequent harvest(s). In this case two separate products would be infused. All cell
      manipulation procedures and release testing will be performed in the transduction facility in
      accordance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) following process specific standard
      operating procedures. Final Drug Product will be accompanied by a Certificate of Analysis,
      documenting that all release testing is complete and within specification. Subjects will
      receive myeloablative conditioning with Busulfan administered on days -5 to -2, prior to
      infusion of transduced cells. Cells will be infused intravenously over 30-45 minutes after
      standard prehydration and premedication according to Boston Children's Hospital Hematopoietic
      Stem Cell Transplantation Unit standard guidelines. This standard requires that the patient
      be on continuous cardiac, respiratory and oxygen saturation monitor throughout the infusion
      and for 30 minutes afterwards. Vital signs will be measured and recorded pre-transfusion, 15
      minutes into transfusion, every hour for duration of infusion, and end of transfusion. The RN
      will stay with the patient for the first 5 minutes of the transfusion. If two transduction
      products are administered, the second transduced product will be administered without delay
      after the first.
    
  