
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the tolerability of two different experimental immunotherapy regimens in the
      adjuvant setting in patients with Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability profile of each of the treatment using Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

      II. To assess the efficacy of each of the treatment arms according to recurrence-free
      survival (RFS) at one and half years, defined as the time between the date of randomization
      and the date of first progression (local, regional or distant metastasis) or death (whatever
      the cause), whichever occurs first.

      III. To assess the efficacy of each of the treatment arms according to overall survival (OS)
      at three years, defined from the time of randomization and the date of death, compared to
      historical registry control.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore potential biomarkers, next generation T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing will be
      performed to identify and longitudinally track individual T cell clones thus granting a
      comprehensive insight into immunological changes that occur within the tumor and peripheral
      blood throughout the course of the disease.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes at week 0. Treatments
      repeat every 4 weeks for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Beginning week 2, patients also receive radiation therapy on Monday-Friday or 5
      days per week for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes at
      week 0. Treatments repeat every 2 weeks for nivolumab and 6 weeks for ipilimumab for up to 1
      year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  