
    
      Spinal anaesthesia has been a widely used mode of anaesthesia for lower abdominal and
      extremity surgeries. It blunts the "stress response" to surgery, decreases intraoperative
      blood loss, lowers the incidence of postoperative thromboembolic events, and decreases the
      morbidity in high-risk surgical patients. It serves as a useful method to extend analgesia
      into the postoperative period, where its use has been shown to provide better analgesia than
      parenteral opioids. In order to improve further and understand safety issues as well as the
      clinical use of spinal anesthesia, new local anesthetics and analgesic additives are being
      investigated for different application. With patient safety and comfort being the ultimate
      goal of any health practice, one must keep in mind about the side effects and related
      concerns of spinal anesthesia while achieving the desired level of anaesthesia and analgesia.
      Adequate anesthesia and analgesia during and post-surgery along with early ambulation and
      discharge seems to be the perfect recipe for the conduction of spinal anaesthesia in the
      current practice. Ropivacaine is one local anesthetic that could have the potential in this
      area. Ropivacaine is an amide local anesthetic with properties similar to bupivacaine
      producing similar sensory block at equipotent doses, but with a shorter duration of motor
      block. Thus, ropivacaine has a greater degree of motor sensory differentiation, which could
      be useful when motor blockade is undesirable. Ropivacaine blocks nerve fibers involved in
      pain transmission (A∂and C fibers) to a greater degree than those controlling motor function
      (Aβ fibers).Blockade of Aα and Aβ is slow and hence produces lesser motor blockade than
      bupivacaine. Though 40-50% less potent than bupivacaine, ropivacaine in an equipotent ratio
      of 1.5:1 produces results in a similar clinical profile with good preservation of motor
      function. Hence, its shorter duration, faster recovery of motor function, lower toxicity
      profile, and minimal hemodynamic alterations have been identified as a potential benefit for
      surgery of intermediate duration as well as for ambulatory surgery.

      Though the use of bupivacaine is widespread, ropivacaine in the recent times has been used as
      a spinal anaesthetic agent and evaluated in many procedures because of its equivalent spinal
      anaesthetic effect and its lower risk of neurotoxicity and cardiotoxicity, compared with
      bupivacaine. In addition, there have been reports of fatal cardiovascular toxicity following
      use of bupivacaine in regional anesthesia.

      Subarachnoid opioids with local anesthetics have become a well-accepted practice in spinal
      anesthesia for surgical procedures. Several combinations of local anesthetics such as
      lidocaine, bupivacaine, or ropivacaine, and opioids such as fentanyl have been reported for a
      variety of surgical procedures. The addition of small-dose fentanyl (10-25 μg) intrathecally
      to local anesthetics during spinal anesthesia has been shown to enhance duration of sensory
      analgesia.The addition of adjuvants to ropivacaine has shown to improve the quality of
      intra-operative and postoperative analgesia without compromising its benefits such as early
      mobilization and early voiding. Parlow et al. established the fact that hypobaricity
      influenced the extent of subarachnoid block and explained high cephalic levels of sensory
      block when fentanyl was added to isobaric local anesthetic solution.
    
  