
    
      Hepatic intra-arterial therapy (TACE) with irinotecan has been used in several prospective
      studies demonstrating an acceptable toxicity profile. Two randomized phase II studies have
      evaluated the efficacy of TACE with irinotecan compared to conventional chemotherapy in
      metastatic colon cancer. A second-line treatment study demonstrated an increase in PFS in the
      TACE versus FOLFIRI treatment arm.

      A prospective open, randomized, multicenter phase II study is proposed that will include
      patients with liver metastases of colorectal origin with poor prognostic criteria.

      LIFEPEARLS® is a CE marked medical device consisting of microspheres for use in
      chemoembolization. The device uses 100 +/- 50 micron microspheres of hydrogel into which
      chemotherapeutic agents are loaded and delivered into the hepatic artery to treat liver
      tumors. This device allows the continuous release of irinotecan in liver tumors causing a
      specific necrosis. The penetration of irinotecan into the tumor tissue is deeper thanks to
      the microspheres, avoiding proximal occlusion of the vessels supplying the tumor.

      Systemic treatment will be administered according to the usual guidelines:

      -FOLFOX6m for 6 months + monoclonal Ab (cycles are repeated every 15 days) Premedication:
      Dexamethasone 20 mg IV + ondansetron 8mg IV

      The dose of FOLFOX will be:

      Leucovorin: 400 mg / m2 IV over 15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Fluorouracil (5-FU): 400mg
      / m2 IV bolus (15 min) followed by continuous IV infusion for 46 h of 2,400 mg / m2 on day 1
      of each cycle.

      Oxaliplatin 85 mg / m2 IV over 120 minutes on cycle day 1. In case of RAS wt colorectal
      cancer administer anti-EGFR together with FOLFOX6m, and in case of mutated RAS colorectal
      cancer administer Bevacizumab together with FOLFOX6m.

      In the combination arm of systemic chemotherapy with IRINOPEARL, in the 2nd and 4th cycles,
      chemotherapy will be replaced by treatment with hepatic chemoembolization with IRINOPEARL.

      The disease will be evaluated by CT or MRI at baseline and every 12 weeks until progression
      according to RECIST 1.1 criteria.
    
  