
    
      This is a Prospective, randomized (like a "flip of a coin") single center study evaluating
      the ControlRad system device when installed - retrofitted on existing C-arms for fluoroscopy
      (x-ray) will reduce radiation exposure without compromising image quality in the region of
      interest and overall workflow during cardiac catheterization and electrophysiology (EP)
      implant procedures. Enrollment will be limited to 80 cardiac catheterization, and 60
      pacemaker and/or ICD procedures. All patients presenting to Beaumont Hospital Royal Oak who
      are scheduled for cardiac catheterization with coronary angiography and electrophysiology
      implant in Cath Lab 5 where device is installed will be considered for inclusion in the
      study. Physicians and staff (20 fellows; 30 attending physicians; and 40 Cath-lab
      staff,including Nurse/Anesthesia team) will be invited to participate in the study. For each
      procedure, 3 staff members will be study subjects: a) the primary operator, b) the secondary
      operator, c) the nurse/tech and or Anesthetist who circulates in the room. Different
      operators and staff may participate in each case depending on cath-lab scheduling. The
      Primary operator is the physician who usually stands nearest to the C-arm. In most cases in
      Beaumont this is a Cardiology Fellow in cardiac catheterization cases and Attending Physician
      for the EP cases. The Secondary operator is the physician who typically stands to the right
      of the primary operator and in most cases is the attending cardiologist or scrub assistant
      (nurse/technician). The Nurse or Anesthesia team typically circulates in the room and is
      responsible for monitoring the patient, administering medications and obtaining equipment for
      the procedure.

      Two methods will be used to measure radiation dose during the catheterization procedure. The
      Real-time Dosimeter Badge (RaySafe) and the Landauer Luxel Aluminium Oxide Dosimeter Badges.
      Cardiac Catheterization and electrophysiology implant procedures will be performed according
      to standard guidelines.

      Participants will be randomized 1:1 to either cardiac catheterization without ControlRad or
      cardiac catheterization with the ControlRad system. The same 1:1 randomization process will
      be applied to the EP patient population. Participants will be blinded to the randomization.

      Once procedure is done,participation also ended and the badges will be removed by the
      Radiation Safety Officer or research coordinator.
    
  