
    
      Adequate conditions for endotracheal intubation require appropriate positioning of head and
      neck. The sniffing position had been described as the most appropriate head position for
      endotracheal intubation. Sniffing position is achieved through two main components: flexion
      of the neck by 35° (achieved by head elevation) and extension of the head by 15° 2 to have
      the sternum at the same level of external auditory meatus 34. Sniffing position has the
      advantage of alignment of the three axes: oral, pharyngeal, and laryngeal axes for reaching
      the optimal laryngeal visualization.

      In obese patients, it is recommended to put the patient in the ramped position (back-up
      position with the tragus of the ear is at the level of the suprasternal notch) in addition to
      the sniffing head-and-neck position. Some commercially available pillows were introduced to
      facilitate laryngoscopy in obese patients such as: Troop elevation pillow and Rapid airway
      management positioner.

      In addition to difficult laryngeal visualization, another problem commonly confronts
      anesthetists during intubation of obese females; that is impedance of laryngoscopy by large
      breasts. This problem commonly hinders the intubation process and might lead to serious
      hypoxia. Most of the positions described in literature were concerned with facilitating
      laryngeal visualization. No position to the best of our knowledge was applied to aid the
      introduction of the laryngoscope in the presence of large breasts.

      The investigators hypothesized that using a special pillow to achieve a modified ramped
      position (by slight extension of the neck) at the beginning of the laryngoscopy would bring
      the breasts away from the laryngoscope. After successful introduction of the laryngoscope in
      the oral cavity, the head will be elevated using a head rest to achieve ordinary ramped
      position if laryngeal visualization was not adequate.

      The aim of this work is to investigate the feasibility of using the aforementioned modified
      ramped position for intubation of obese females in comparison to the traditional ramped
      position.
    
  