
    
      One-lung ventilation (OLV) is a major consideration in thoracic anesthesia. Lung isolation,
      through the use of double-lumen tube (DLT) or bronchial blocker (BB), offers to the surgeon
      the intra-thoracic access he needs for the surgery. With the use of a DLT, the non-ventilated
      lung is isolated by disconnecting its specific lumen from the ventilator and keeping it
      opened to ambient air. With a BB, the BB cuff is inflated in the bronchus after a brief apnea
      period. Thereafter, only the dependent lung is ventilated.

      Until recently, studies evaluating the quality of lung collapse with the use of DLT versus BB
      showed contradicting results and were not conclusive. However, in 2016, Bussières' research
      group obtained a faster lung collapse with the use of a BB with its internal channel occluded
      and a second period of apnea at pleural opening.

      A review of the literature could not explain in details these results. In the 2000s, lung
      collapse during OLV was described as undergoing two distinct phases; the first phase occuring
      at the opening of the pleural cavity and corresponding to a quick but partial collapse
      secondary to the elastic recoil of the lung. The second phase, a slower one, being the
      reabsorption, by the vascular capillary bed, of the gas contained into the alveoli; the speed
      of this second phase being directly proportional to the solubility coefficient of the gas.

      Since no previous studies had explanation for Bussières' unexpected results, they conducted a
      physiologic study to extensively determine the physiology of the non-ventilated lung (NVL)
      during OLV with the use of DLT and BB. Their results demonstrated that during lung isolation,
      while the chest is closed, there is a buildup of negative pressure in the NVL until pleural
      opening, when the lumen of the DLT or the internal channel of the BB are occluded. This
      phenomenon was observed for both lung isolation devices (BB and DLT). They also observed an
      absorption of ambient air through the lumen of the DLT and the internal channel of the BB
      when the lumen of both device was open to ambient air. These results probably explain why
      Bussières obtained a faster lung collapse with BB in their study. By occluding the internal
      channel of the BB they prevented the aspiration of ambient air in the NVL. This condition may
      have accelerated the absorption atelectasis of the NVL that occurs during the second phase of
      lung collapse by obtaining an initial lower lung volume containing a higher alveolar partial
      pressure of oxygen (PAO2) in the BB group.

      Since these recent findings demonstrate that both lung isolation devices cause negative
      pressure and an aspiration of ambient air, it is possible that the occlusion of the specific
      lumen of the NVL of a DLT could reproduce the physiology of the lung isolation obtained with
      a BB with its internal channel occluded.

      The hypothesis is that by withholding gas exchange between the NVL and ambient air from the
      beginning of OLV to the pleural opening, the resorption atelectasis will be facilitated.
      Consequently, lung collapse of the NVL will occur faster when clamping its specific lumen on
      the DLT instead of letting it communicate with ambient air like anesthesiologists usually do.
    
  