
    
      This is an open-label, randomized, parallel-group pilot clinical trial in which Denosumab
      users will be assigned in a 1:1:1 allocation to one the following groups:

        -  Switch from Denosumab 60 mg administered subcutaneously (SC) to weekly oral alendronate
           (70 mg; started 6 months after last denosumab dose) OR

        -  Switch from Denosumab 60 mg administered subcutaneously (SC) to one "early" zoledronic
           acid infusion (5 mg; 6 months after last denosumab dose) OR

        -  Switch from Denosumab 60 mg administered subcutaneously (SC) to one "late" zoledronic
           acid infusion (5 mg; 9 months after last denosumab dose)

      Participants will be advised to maintain adequate calcium and vitamin D intake per United
      States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)
      guidelines. All individuals will need ≥ 12 months of previous denosumab treatment (minimum of
      2 doses) prior to switching to assigned randomization arm. The minimum number of doses (n =
      2) is based on published data that the rebound in BMD might be less pronounced in patients
      receiving very limited denosumab. According to a systematic review of patients with multiple
      vertebral fractures following denosumab cessation, those with ≤2 years of denosumab treatment
      had fewer fractures compared with those with >2 years. Therefore, the maximum number of prior
      doses (n = 4) is based on higher incidence of rebound loss of bone mineral density (BMD),
      more rapid turnover, and potentially greater vertebral fractures after discontinuation of
      denosumab in patients who received more extensive treatment. Investigators will limit the
      trial to a more restricted use of denosumab duration (2-4 doses) to maintain greater
      homogeneity, given the somewhat smaller planned sample size. Users of denosumab will be
      sorted into two groups:

        -  Prevalent users: Defined as individuals with a minimum of one previous dose of
           denosumab, and up to 4 previous doses of denosumab (maximum). Prevalent users with one
           previous dose will receive a second dose of denosumab before proceeding to assigned
           randomization arm. Therefore, randomization will occur 2 weeks after screening visit if
           they had already 2-4 denosumab doses.

        -  New denosumab users: Defined as individuals who have not previously received denosumab.
           New users will receive two doses of denosumab before proceeding to assigned
           randomization arm.
    
  