
    
      The DERMABOND PRINEO (Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, Somerville, New Jersey) system is a
      unique two-part skin closure system that consists of: a 2-octyl cyanoacrylate topical skin
      adhesive for proven strength and microbial protection in vitro, and a flexible, self-adhesive
      polyester mesh for excellent approximation and healing. It is aimed to add strength and
      protection when closing medium to long incisions. In addition, it is designed to replace the
      use of subcuticular sutures or staples, with greater holding strength, with the potential to
      reduce skin closure time.

      Various studies have evaluated the outcomes of different closure devices, however, there are
      no reports assessing the length of closure times using DERMABOND PRINEO (Ethicon, Johnson and
      Johnson, Somerville, New Jersey) Knotless Tissue Control Devices during superficial closure
      in orthopaedic surgery. Huemer et al. (1) performed an observational study of 180 patients
      who had 224 excisional body-contouring surgeries utilizing Dermabond Prineo for superficial
      closure. Authors concluded that this closure type enables the surgeon to perform a quick and
      smooth skin closure. However, 4 patients (1.8%) developed local allergic reactions, which
      necessitated early removal and topical corticosteroid treatment. Parvizi et al.(2) performed
      an open, prospective, randomized clinical study of superficial wound closure on 60 patients
      undergoing abdominoplasty with either Dermabond Prineo or conventional superficial closure.
      They found significantly lower price ($134.79 cheaper) and significantly better Hollander
      Cosmesis Scale scores in Dermabond Prineo cohort. In addition, there was a significantly
      better cosmetic outcome at 6 and 12 months after surgery. The use of Dermabond Prineo may be
      able to decrease operative time and costs in other surgical fields, such as orthopedics.
      Careful patient allergy history is necessary to avoid adhesive allergic reactions.
    
  