
    
      Postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) is the most common and specific complication of
      pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) with reported rates of over 20% even at high-volume centers.
      POPF may cause life-threatening secondary complications such as postpancreatectomy hemorrhage
      (PPH), intraabdominal abscess, and sepsis, leading to increased costs, prolonged hospital
      stay as well as to delayed chemotherapy in oncologic patients.

      A myriad of innovations in surgical technique has been introduced over the last several
      decades in order to reduce the rate and severity of POPF. One of these includes the
      double-loop (DL) reconstruction with isolated Roux-en-Y loops for the pancreatic and biliary
      anastomoses. It was first described in 1976 by Machado and has afterwards been applied by
      many surgeons in different variations. The method is based on the empirical hypothesis that
      diverting bile away from pancreatic juice may prevent their mutual activation and thus
      decrease their aggressiveness and detrimental effect on the pancreaticojejunostomy (PJ).
      Theoretically, reduction in the rate and severity of POPF should be expected. Some randomized
      controlled trials (RCT) reported decreased severity of POPF and lower rates of associated
      morbidity, whereas others failed to confirm these positive results. A substantially prolonged
      duration of surgery was observed in most of the studies.

      In order to reduce the rate and severity of POPF without prolonging duration of surgery, we
      introduced in 2015 a new method of reconstruction during PD using a single long intestinal
      loop with a side-to-side anastomosis between the afferent and efferent limbs of the
      hepaticojejunostomy (HJ) similar to a Braun anastomosis in a Billroth II resection. It aimed
      at increasing the distance between the pancreatic and biliary anastomotic sites and
      facilitating isolated flow of bile and pancreatic secretions in a simple, fast and
      straightforward manner without the need for a time-consuming and sometimes technically
      challenging DL reconstruction.

      This study aims to reveal how the new modified single-loop (mSL) method of reconstruction
      compares to the conventional single loop (SL) and DL methods in terms of severity and rate of
      POPF as well as associated major complications after PD in high-risk patients with a soft
      pancreatic remnant and a small pancreatic duct.
    
  