
    
      Male undergoing elective AMC were recruited from the surgical outpatient department of
      Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital, Uganda. Patient age, marital status, smoking history and
      motive to seek AMC were recorded for each participant.

      The investigators performed block randomization by study day. Consenting participants
      selected an opaque envelope from a box for randomization to SR or FG groups. All AMC
      procedures were performed by a locally-trained surgeon who had performed over 100 prior FG
      procedures but who had no prior experience of the SR procedure.

      A study surgeon performed all procedures in the hospital operating theatres. In both study
      groups, participants were cleaned with povidone iodine solution and draped in a sterile
      fashion. Local anesthesia was administered to the dorsal penile nerve and penile ring blocks
      using 3mg/kg of 1% lidocaine. The surgeon measured participants in the SR group to determine
      ring size. Patients for whom a suitable ring size was not available crossed over to the FG
      group, but remained in the SR group for intention to treat (ITT) analyses. An assistant
      measured operative time using a stopwatch. For the SR group, timing began as the ring began
      to be fitted, and ceased when the foreskin had been excised. For the FG group, timing began
      at the first incision and ceased when the final suture was completed. Patients were
      discharged on the day of procedure, provided with sterile gauze dressings, and informed to
      change them twice daily until the first follow-up appointment.

      All pre- and post-operative assessments were performed by the lead investigator at one hour
      after the procedure, and on the 3rd, 7th, 14th and 21st post-operative days.

      The investigators measured incidence rates of all outcomes and estimated relative risk for
      the SR versus FG groups by fitting Poisson regression models with robust errors. The
      investigators compared time to healing with Kaplan-Meier survival curves and measured for a
      difference between groups using the likelihood ratio test. All analyses were initially
      performed using ITT analysis, and were repeated with an as-treated analysis by reallocating
      the 7 participants who crossed into the FG group.
    
  