
    
      In the skin, T lymphocytes are critical modulators and effectors of acquired defense
      responses such as delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH). T lymphocytes and other leukocytes are
      recruited to the challenged site via the interaction of selectins, integrins, immunoglobulin
      gene superfamily molecules with their ligands, and cytokines including the large and growing
      chemokine group. Endogenous proinflammatory agents such as Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-alpha
      and Interleukin-1 (IL-1) modulate lymphocyte recruitment via up-regulation of endothelial
      adhesion molecules and chemokines. In vitro evidence suggests that endothelial cell-derived
      chemokines may play a crucial role in inducing firm arrest of leukocytes on endothelial cells
      prior to transmigration. However, the investigation of the expression patterns and regulation
      of chemokines in human skin has been limited. Our goal is to qualitatively and quantitatively
      investigate changes in chemokine expression patterns in human skin using a DTH response to
      mumps antigen as a model T cell mediated immunological response. We will study the effects of
      intradermal injection of mumps antigen on cutaneous chemokine expression in healthy human
      volunteers over a five-day period. Skin biopsies of treated and mock-treated areas will be
      obtained and processed for state-of-the-art, real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis of mRNA
      for chemokines and related molecules of interest. Routine and immunohistological analysis of
      chemokine receptor, chemokines, cytokines and other cell markers on fixed and frozen tissue
      will also be performed in an attempt to correlate chemokine expression patterns with the
      influx of leukocyte subsets into skin. Our hypothesis is that the chemokines will be
      up-regulated, but that the kinetics and expression patterns of individual chemokines may not
      be identical, thus possibly accounting for the differential recruitment of T lymphocytes and
      other leukocytes during the course of the DTH response. Chemokine expression as determined by
      quantitative RT-PCR will be compared with results obtained semi-quantitatively by
      immunohistochemical staining. This study may increase the understanding of the pathogenic
      mechanisms of inflammatory diseases that are characterized by the recruitment of T
      lymphocytes, thus possibly identifying targets for the treatment of cutaneous inflammatory
      diseases such as psoriasis.
    
  