
    
      In this trial, a bilingual self-help web-app, MyJourney, developed to support individuals
      with an unfulfilled wish for children, will be evaluated for feasibility. This trial forms
      part of the exploratory trial phase of development of complex interventions, based on
      guidance from the Medical Research Council.

      Although research has demonstrated that those faced with an unfulfilled wish for children
      (i.e., the inability to have all the children desired) can experience intense grief and worse
      mental health for a prolonged period, at present there is limited evidence for a theory led
      intervention that would provide support for this group and to date there is no widely used
      evidence-based interventions for individuals facing an unfulfilled wish for children. An
      in-depth systematic review of how people adjust to an unfulfilled wish for children informed
      the Three Task Model (3TM). This proposes three psychological mechanisms that facilitate
      adjustment to an unfulfilled wish for children: acceptance, meaning making and pursuit of new
      life goals, leading to better mental-health and well-being.

      Therefore, a bilingual online self-help web app - MyJourney - was developed. The 3TM informed
      the hypothesised mechanisms of the change targeted by the intervention. Contextual Cognitive
      Behavioural Therapy (CCBT) was chosen as the therapeutic framework for each of the steps
      within the intervention, focussing on a person's relationships with their thoughts, emotions
      and behaviours. The intervention consists of 10 ordered Steps. Each Step is a structured
      therapeutic activity designed to activate a specific technique which is linked to the
      theorized mechanism of change. Each Step has up to three optional therapeutic resources
      designed to encourage participants to engage with and practice the therapeutic skill they are
      developing. Users are invited to engage with one Step per week over 10 weeks, however they
      are able to engage at their own pace.

      The specific aim of this trial is to evaluate feasibility, defined here as determining
      whether the intervention itself and the study procedures are appropriate for further
      evaluation, and how users react to the intervention, which will inform the implementation of
      a future full scale RCT to evaluate MyJourney's efficacy. Several feasibility outcomes will
      be focussed on, including acceptability, demand, implementation, practicality, adaption, and
      limited efficacy testing. In addition, the targeted mechanisms of change will also be
      evaluated.

      This RCT will be a two arm, parallel-group, non-blind feasibility trial with 1:1 allocation
      to the intervention group (immediate access to MyJourney) or waitlist control group (receives
      access to MyJourney after 10 weeks). There will be three assessment moments: one at baseline
      (pre-exposure to intervention); 10 weeks after baseline (post exposure to intervention); and
      6 months after baseline (intervention group only).

      Participants will be recruited via appropriate websites, social media, blogs, via direct
      contact with appropriate support groups and Prolific. A minimum of 50 participants will be
      required, and accounting for participation and attrition rates, a minimum of 152 individuals
      need to be recruited.

      Participants will be directed to https://myjourney.pt from the trial advertisements and upon
      clicking 'Get Started' will be informed of the trial goals, structure and participant roles.
      Individuals who decided to take part in the trial will be provided with an information sheet
      and they will then give their informed consent. One they have indicated their eligibility and
      completed the baseline assessment (socio-demographic details, psychological mediators and
      outcomes), they will be randomly assigned to the intervention group or the waitlist control
      group. The participants assigned to the waitlist control will be informed that they are on a
      waiting-list and that they will receive access to the MyJourney in 10 weeks. The participants
      in the intervention group will be provided with a link to register to MyJourney.

      Ten weeks after completion of the baseline assessment, participants in the intervention and
      waitlist control groups will be invited to complete a follow up assessment. The ten-week
      follow-up assessment will ask participants to report on psychological mediators and outcomes
      and the intervention group will complete a section on acceptability of MyJourney. At the end
      of completing this assessment, participants in the waitlist control group will be provided
      with a debrief form and given access to MyJourney. Six months after baseline, participants in
      the intervention group (only) will be invited to complete another follow up assessment
      covering only psychological outcomes, at the end of which they will be provided with a
      debrief form. Some participants will also take part in an interview as part of the study's
      process evaluation.
    
  