
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the toxicity, safety and tolerability of hepatic arterial infusion (HAI)
      floxuridine therapy.

      II. Evaluate the efficacy of systemic induction of oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium (folinic
      acid), irinotecan hydrochloride, and fluorouracil (modified [m] FOLFIRINOX), followed by HAI
      of floxuridine-dexamethasone (DEX) administered concurrently with systemic irinotecan
      hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium (folinic acid), and fluorouracil (mFOLFIRI).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate tumor response to treatment and participant survival. II. Assess rate of
      post-operative complications. III. Evaluate serious post-operative complications following
      surgical placement of the HAI pump.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the radiographic response using diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) as part of an
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination.

      II. Determine whether, compared to historical controls, induction mFOLFIRINOX combined with
      integrated HAI of floxuridine-DEX and systemic mFOLFIRI treatment will improve patient
      quality of life (QoL) including fatigue and depression.

      III. Investigate molecular signature associated with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC).

      IV. Generate a differential expression pattern of ribonucleic acid (RNA)s (microRNA [miR] and
      messenger RNA [mRNA]) in patients with ICC derived from tumor samples compared to adjacent
      normal liver samples as well as lymphatic tissue, blood and bile).

      V. Characterize the changes in the population of circulating hybrid cells (CHCs) pre-,
      during, and post-treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase II, single arm, study that consists of a two-part treatment plan
      (Treatment Periods 1 and 2) of systemic induction of mFOLFIRINOX, followed by HAI
      floxuridine-DEX administered concurrently with systemic mFOLFIRI. The first 6 patients
      enrolled will be part of a safety run-in, after which enrollment could be expanded to
      additional 24.

      After laparoscopic staging, eligible patients will receive a systemic regimen of mFOLFIRINOX
      with 25% dose reduction of oxaliplatin, irinotecan, and fluorouracil administered every
      2-weeks for 4 cycles (8 weeks) (Treatment Period 1). After completing mFOLFIRINOX induction,
      participants' disease will be re-evaluated by MRI/CT imaging. Only those that achieve disease
      control based on RECIST criteria (v1.1) will be eligible for HAI therapy via a laparotomy and
      placement of a HAI pump. (Treatment Period 2).

      After completing 2 cycles of HAI treatment with concurrent FOLFIRI, participants will undergo
      repeat MRI/CT imaging to assess disease response. An image-guided liver biopsy will be
      performed after completion of the 8 weeks of treatment of HAI floxuridine/dexamethasone
      combined with systemic mFOLFIRI of Treatment Period 2. Optional extrahepatic biopsies may be
      collected from participants demonstrating disease progression. Participants with controlled
      disease (as defined by RECIST criteria) may receive additional cycles of HAI-delivered
      floxuridine and dexamethasone, along with systemic administration of mFOLFIRI.
    
  