
    
      The diversity of human research programs at the NIH provides a unique opportunity to study
      different patient populations with monogenetic and undiagnosed diseases. Patient populations
      with mutations in almost every major signaling pathway relevant to our research are actively
      investigated at the NIH Clinical Center. The purpose of this protocol is to establish a
      repository of biospecimens from affected and unaffected cohorts (as reference biospecimens)
      to identify underlying disease mechanism(s). The collections will consist of biospecimens
      obtained from participants consented under this protocol and will also provide for the
      continued storage and analysis of biospecimens previously obtained from NIH IRB- approved
      protocols or from NIH protocols nearing completion. The biospecimens collected under this
      protocol will include blood (plasma, serum, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs),
      saliva, buccal mucosa, urine, and skin biopsies. Additional biospecimens collected under
      other protocols may also be transferred to this protocol, including, tissue and fluid
      aspirates (cerebrospinal fluid, ascites, etc.), bone marrow, urine, saliva, skin biopsies,
      surgical tissue waste, malignant and non-malignant tissue samples, and/or other direct
      derivatives from human tissues (DNA, RNA, and induced pluripotent stems cells). Post-delivery
      umbilical cord core blood and cord tissue waste will be collected at the time of delivery
      under this protocol and/or shared if obtained under other protocols. Biospecimens may also be
      obtained as shared samples of clinically indicated procedures done inside or outside NIH,
      provided the subject consents to this protocol.

      The primary objective of this protocol is to create a robust resource to support basic and
      translational research by providing a mechanism for collecting, tracking, storing,
      dispensing, analyzing, and disposing of laboratory research samples from affected and
      unaffected cohorts. This biorepository will advance high-quality research in the areas of
      genetics and personalized medicine

      As this is not a treatment protocol, there is no primary endpoint. Research studies will
      include, but not be limited to, genomic studies, primary cell isolation and cell culture
      studies for molecular and biochemical analysis, immunohistological analysis, generation of
      patient-specific in vitro disease models (IPSCs), etc. As science is a continuously evolving
      field, technological advances in research methods will be incorporated into research studies
      accordingly.
    
  