
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a disease of alarmingly increasing prevalence,
      linked to metabolic, cardiovascular and malignant morbidity and without any officially
      approved treatment. It is increasingly recognized that the gut microbiome is implicated in
      the pathogenesis and progression of numerous chronic diseases, including NAFLD. Through the
      so-called gut-liver axis, the liver is exposed to gut-bacterial-derived products, including
      toxins (lipopolysaccharides), enzymes (methylamines), alcohol, and short-chain fatty acids
      (mainly acetate, propionate, and butyrate), that may lead to accumulation of triglycerides,
      inflammatory responses, oxidative stress and accompanying damage to the hepatocytes. The
      investigators hypothesize that altered gut microbiota underlie (hepatic) insulin resistance
      and liver fat accumulation in NAFLD patients. Fecal microbiota transplantation, through
      amelioration of gut-microbiota released products like lipopolysaccharides, short-chain fatty
      acids, alcohol and enzymes, and changes in bile acids, may positively affect NAFLD.

      During the study 20 patients will be randomized for infusion of allogenic (lean donor) or
      autologous (own) feces by gastroscopy at time points 0, 3 and 6 weeks on a 1:1 basis. Prior
      to randomization, and at 12 weeks, all patients will undergo LiverMultiscan to non-invasively
      quantify liver fat accumulation and other features of NAFLD. In addition, various metabolic
      parameters (lipids, HOMA-IR), objective and subjective stress indicators, gut-microbiota and
      bile composition, and liver enzymes will be measured.

      The primary objective is to study the effect on consecutive FMT on liver fat accumulation
      measured by Magnetic Resonance Images (MRI) LiverMultiscan at 12 weeks. Secondary objectives
      are alterations in anthropometrical data (weight, waist, blood pressure), changes in fecal
      microbiota, liver enzymes, bile composition and metabolic parameters including glucose,
      lipids, pancreatic beta-cell function and insulin resistance measured as HOMA-IR and
      objective and subjective stress indicators.
    
  