
    
      Binge eating disorder is one of the most common eating disorders, with more than 4 million
      Americans affected. Following a binge eating episode, in which a person eats an excessive
      amount of food in a short period of time, the person often experiences feelings of guilt,
      depression, embarrassment, and disgust. Beyond the emotional distress caused by binge eating,
      people who binge eat are at a higher risk for more serious health problems associated with
      weight gain. These health problems may include high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease,
      high cholesterol, and certain types of cancer. Thus, seeking effective treatment for binge
      eating disorder is vital to an affected person's overall physical and mental well-being.
      Managed weight loss programs, combined with certain forms of psychotherapy, have shown
      success in providing the direction and proper motivation to eat healthily and to prevent
      future binge eating episodes. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of adding guided
      self-help group therapy to the alli weight loss program in achieving weight loss and reducing
      binge eating in overweight binge eaters.

      Participation in this single-blind study will last 36 weeks. Initial assessments will be
      divided over two 1- to 2-hour sessions. These assessments will include a history of any
      medical illness, height and weight measurements, and an eating disorder evaluation.
      Participants will also answer several questionnaires about self-esteem, feelings of
      depression, and emotion and eating. Participants will then be randomly assigned to one of two
      treatment groups: the alli program with the use of the weight loss drug orlistat or the alli
      program with the use of orlistat plus guided self-help group psychotherapy. All participants
      will take the over-the-counter weight loss medication orlistat three times a day for 12 weeks
      in conjunction with the alli program, a comprehensive weight loss program with online access.
      Participants assigned to the psychotherapy group will also attend 12 weekly guided self-help
      group psychotherapy sessions. These sessions will include behavioral support for adapting to
      the lifestyle changes promoted by the alli weight loss program.

      All participants will undergo 12 weeks of active participation, 18 weeks of maintenance, and
      18 weeks of follow-up. At various intervals during the first 6 months of the study,
      participants will answer a short group of questions concerning current binge eating habits;
      adherence to prescribed food, activity, and medication plan; and emotional state. The initial
      assessments will be repeated at Weeks 12, 30, and 42.
    
  