
    
      The World Health Organization estimates that globally over 9 million infants die annually
      before birth or in the first few weeks of life, and that the majority of these deaths occur
      in the neonatal period. The bulk of these deaths result from pregnancy or delivery associated
      complications, premature births, intrauterine growth retardation and infectious diseases.

      There are over seven million perinatal deaths annually globally mostly in developing
      countries. Almost 4 million newborns suffer moderate to severe birth asphyxia, with at least
      800,000 dying and probably a higher number developing sequel such as epilepsy, mental
      retardation, cerebral palsy and learning disabilities. A recent community based study in
      Zimbabwe, which audited perinatal mortality showed the commonest single cause was perinatal
      asphyxia and an avoidable factor was detected in 76% of cases. In another population based
      study in Bangladesh, which showed a perinatal mortality rate of 75 per 1000 births (37
      stillbirths, 38 first week deaths), the major causes of early neonatal death were attributed
      to a small size at birth (54%), birth asphyxia (26%), and tetanus (8%). In Bangalore, South
      India a prospective hospital based study of 4572 births showed a perinatal mortality of
      43/1000. Using the Wiggles worth's classification , 24% were considered due to birth
      asphyxia, even after exclusion of the premature group. Similarly a recent evaluation of a
      large hospital-based birth cohort for perinatal deaths in Karachi according to the Wiggles
      worth's criteria, indicated that almost 30% of all deaths were related to acute asphyxia.

      Hypotheses

        1. A concerted and coordinated community-based program of training first level primary care
           workers i.e. TBAs, LHWs, lady health visitors and rural health center physicians in the
           prevention, early recognition and management of common perinatal / neonatal problems
           will result in a significant reduction in perinatal and neonatal mortality in the
           Northern areas of Pakistan.

        2. A coordinated program of community education and awareness in the importance of
           perinatal care, prevention and recognition of neonatal problems will lead to improved
           neonatal health, better recognition of neonatal problems and care-seeking behavior.

        3. The strengthening of secondary care perinatal and newborn care and reproductive health
           services will lead to improved referral patterns for perinatal / neonatal problems with
           better outcome.

        4. Increasing the community awareness of neonatal problems and training of first level
           primary care workers will result in better domiciliary management of neonatal problems.

      Phase 1: Formative Research The objectives of this first phase of the study are as follows

        1. Determination of preconditions for studying care seeking practices (referral system,
           availability of BHU staff, doctors, LHVs)

        2. Focusing questions for formative research on care-seeking and causes of perinatal /
           neonatal morbidity / mortality by a modified perinatal / neonatal verbal autopsy)

        3. Rapid anthropological assessment of care-seeking behavior

        4. Illness Episode and Channel Survey

        5. Analysis of results of formative research

        6. Identification of desired behaviors and changes

        7. Selection of behaviors for intervention and their potential acceptability

        8. Acceptability of planned intervention(s) for families, communities and care providers
           and possible additional structural changes

      This initial phase of formative research, will be conducted in the
      Hunza-Karimabad/Nagar/Gojal tehsils of the Gilgit District of the Northern areas. A combined
      methodology of KAP survey and verbal/social autopsy will be employed. These will include an
      in-depth evaluation of knowledge, attitude and practices of families and primary care givers
      (TBAs, LHWs, LHVs and BHU/RHC staff) with regards to

        -  Common causes of maternal morbidity in pregnancy

        -  Maternal nutrition and dietary patterns in pregnancy

        -  Determinants of care seeking behavior during pregnancy and labor

             -  Domiciliary versus hospital births

             -  Selection of care givers by families

             -  Reasons for referral by primary care givers

        -  Perception and recognition of danger signs during child birth by families and care
           givers

        -  Immediate and early newborn care practices (colostrum and prelacteal feeding,
           breastfeeding, cord care, temperature regulation, swaddling, skin care etc).

        -  Concepts of early neonatal morbidity and health seeking behavior;

             -  Risk factors for birth asphyxia and meconium aspiration

             -  Low birth weight and temperature regulation

             -  Neonatal infection (local and generalized)

             -  Seizures or spasms

             -  Respiratory problems

             -  Jaundice

             -  Feeding difficulty

      Phase 2: Implementation phase

      The overall objectives of this phase of the intervention are introduction and implementation
      of simple education and training materials for families and caregivers for community-based
      perinatal and newborn care by means of a phased introduction of the program in the area. In
      addition primary care givers in the target villages of the study area would receive training
      in stabilization and early referral of sick newborns for secondary care.

      The intervention package, consisting of awareness creation about positive maternal and
      newborn health care practices at household level such as importance of; seeking antenatal
      care, adequate nutrition during pregnancy and lactation, skilled birth attendance, early
      initiation of breastfeeding, delayed bathing recognition of danger signs that warrant for
      early referrals, will be developed in collaboration with the Aga Khan Health Services,
      Pakistan. The practices will promote though community mobilization and education strategy
      that included formation of Community Health Committee (CHC) and group education sessions
      using flip charts and videos.

      The LHWs and CHWs in the intervention areas will provide with enhanced trainings on causes of
      perinatal and newborn mortality and risky maternal and newborn care practices and expecting
      to transmit the knowledge to the families to avoid such practices. They will receive training
      in delivering the intervention package through standardized workshops including hands on
      practice on use of specific Information Education and Communication (IEC) materials developed
      for this purpose. The recently modified and simplified integrated management of neonatal and
      childhood illnesses (IMNCI) based system formed the basis of screening, recognition of danger
      signs and referral. The CHWs will deliver interventions in LHW uncovered areas within the
      intervention areas.

      Control areas will continue to receive the routine services of governmental and
      non-governmental organizations in the area. But the public health care facilities of both
      intervention and control areas will receive similar competency based trainings in
      stabilization and early referral of sick newborns for secondary care.

      The intervention Package The LHWs and CHWs will receive trainings on IMNCI-based training
      package. They will also receive orientation about the purpose of the project and how can they
      facilitate group education session by using flip charts and videos. The community-based
      health education sessions will be introduced targeting local communities to sensitize them
      regarding maternal, perinatal and newborn health issues.

      In addition to this, Two days training workshops will be organized to train TBAs in
      intervention areas on "Clean Delivery Practices" at nearest health facilities. The UNICEF
      manual of (DAI) training will be adopted for this training.

      The intervention package will be delivered through monthly household visits, one-to-one
      counseling sessions with pregnant women and video sessions in communities. Additionally, LHWs
      and CHWs in the intervention areas will record information about home visits, newborn
      illnesses, referrals, live births and deaths on special format designed for this project.

      For community mobilization and education, two types of tools will be used one group session
      by use of flip charts and group session by use of video. Participants will be invited from
      all Muhallas (Sub-geographical distribution of the village population) to attend the session,
      facilitated by LHW/CHW to organize the session. Separate sessions will be organized for males
      and females. One session per area will be organized on quarterly basis in local school or LHW
      health house or CHW household within intervention areas. Target groups will be women of
      reproductive age, adolescent girls, fathers, mothers and fathers in law and mothers in law.
    
  