
    
      Background:

      Dementia becomes a major issue of worldwide concern. According to the World Alzheimer Report,
      the number of patients with dementia (PWD) worldwide was estimated at 46.8 million and it
      will be triply projected to 131.5 million in 2050. Similarly, dementia is also a prominent
      problem in Hong Kong. One in every three local seniors who are over 895 years of age suffered
      from dementia. The prevalence of PWD in Hong Kong will have a triple increase from 100,000
      cases in 2009 to 300,000 cases in 2039.As the disease progresses, PWD will gradually lose
      their self-care ability and their cognitive function. In addition, behavioral symptoms such
      as agitation, delusion, and anxiety will appear on the sufferers. The caring burden and the
      uncertainty about the disease progress result in high levels of caring stress and negative
      emotion on family caregivers.

      Nowadays, different psychosocial interventions have been designed for the PWD and their
      family caregivers to promote their psychological well-being. The dyadic intervention is
      deemed as one of the effective approach due to its mutual influence between the PWD and their
      family caregivers. A systematic review with 40 clinical trials found that dyadic approach can
      be integrated into different interventions such as psycho-education, and caring skills
      training . Although cognitive stimulation and multisensory stimulation therapy are regarded
      as an effective intervention for the cognition and the behavioral symptoms of the PWD, it is
      not commonly found as an element in the previous dyadic interventions. Involving family
      caregivers in a cognitive training can have some potential benefits for both caregivers and
      the PWD (e.g. cognitive function of the PWD and the quality of life) . The involvement of the
      family caregivers in the cognitive and multisensory stimulation therapy could promote the
      interactions between the PWD and caregivers which may produce additional benefits for both
      caregivers and the PWD, compared with the traditional cognitive stimulation therapy.

      Objective:

      The study aims to explore the feasibility and effects of the home based dyadic Multisensory
      and cognitive stimulation (MCS) intervention for the PWD and their family caregivers. From
      this, the following research objectives were derived:

        1. To explore the recruitment rate the and adherence rate of home based dyadic MCS program

        2. To explore the feasibility in delivering the home based MCS program by the family
           caregivers

        3. To explore the preliminary effects of dyadic MCS program for family caregivers of PWD in
           positive aspects of caregiving, stress, depression, quality of life, and burden; and the
           cognitive function and behavioral symptoms of the PWD immediate post-intervention (T1)
           and, 3-month follow-up (T2), compared with the control group.

      Methods:

      A two- arm non-randomized controlled trial will be adopted to achieve the research
      objectives. After considering the number of group size and previous studies about the sample
      size, a total of 60 subjects (30 pairs of dyads-PWD and caregivers) will be recruited from
      four elderly community centers in Hong Kong (15 pairs for each group) with convenience
      sampling.

      Participants from the Intervention group will attend the home-based dyadic MCS group, while
      the control group will receive the usual care. The outcomes measurements of caregivers
      (positive caregiving experience, perceived stress, caregiver burden, and quality of life) and
      PWD (cognitive function and behavioral symptoms) will be assessed by a blinded assessor at
      baseline (T0), immediately post intervention (T1) , and 3 month-follow up (T2). To understand
      the therapeutic components and identify the strengths, limitations and difficulties of the
      home based dyadic MCS program, process evaluation will be conducted through focus group
      interviews with 15 MCS participants after the intervention. In order to obtain a broad
      spectrum of views about the intervention, participants will be purposely selected for
      interview based on their level of stress reduction after the intervention.

      IBM SPSS 23.0 will be used for the data analyses. Mixed multi-variate modeling or MANOVA test
      will be performed to investigate the between-group effect, the within-group effect (Times:
      T0, T1, and T2) and the interaction effect (Group x Time) on all of the outcomes variables.
      The last observation carried forward method will be adopted to replace the missing data if
      the missing value is in a small amount (<20%) and randomly distributed (Gray, Grove, & Burns,
      2013; Hamer & Simpson, 2009). For the qualitative data, content analysis approach will be
      used to analyze all the transcribed interview verbatim.

      Significance and Value:

      The clinical project addresses the limitations of the previous psychosocial interventions and
      provides the PWD and their caregivers with an opportunity to improve the cognitive function
      of the PWD and promote the positive caregiving experience in the family caregivers which can
      reduce the caregivers' level of stress and improve the quality of life of the both family
      caregivers and the PWD. The findings from this projects can also inform the future direction
      in supporting the PWD and their family members and strengthen the nursing role in the
      community care.
    
  