
    
      α-Gal A catalyzes the lysosomal hydrolysis of globotriaosylceramide (Gb-3) to
      lactosylceramide and digalactosylceramide (Gal-Gal-Cer) to galactosylceramide (Gal-Cer). The
      deficiency of this enzyme leads to an accumulation of Gb-3, its metabolite,
      globotriaosylsphingosine (Lyso-Gb-3), and Gal-Gal-Cer in lysosomes. The deposition of Gb-3
      and Lyso-Gb-3 within the myocardium is affected the cardiac function with resultant
      progressive cardiovascular pathology. Gb-3 accumulation was demonstrated in the cardiac
      valves, cardiomyocytes, nerves, and coronary arteries. At the cellular level, Gb-3 and
      Lyso-Gb-3 accumulation trigger a cascade of events leading to inflammation and end-stage
      fibrosis. In the cardiac tissue, Lyso-Gb-3 deposition is associated with increased release of
      inflammatory molecules and transforming growth factors. Endomyocardial biopsies show
      infiltration of lymphocytes and macrophages, indicating that inflammation plays a significant
      role in cardiac damage. Overall, accumulated data suggest that chronic inflammation leads to
      multisystemic FD pathology. Thus, therapeutic interventions, including enzyme replacement
      therapy (ERT), must be started early, before the process becomes irreversible.

      The separation of reversible stages of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy from irreversible stages
      (1 and 2) the major challenge is the identification of an ideal "tipping point" . In patients
      with HCM, the elevation of the inflammatory markers NF-kB, TNF, Il-6, Il-2, TNFR1, MCP1
      strongly correlates with cardiovascular pathology; however, TNF, TNFR2, and Il-6 are
      specifically elevated in patients with cardiac hypertrophy.

      Generally, cardiac hypertrophy corresponds to the expansion of the coronary vasculature to
      maintain a sufficient supply of oxygen and nutrients. Thus, activation of coronary
      angiogenesis and fibrosis plays a vital role in cardiac vascularization and pathological
      hypertrophy, and tissue remodeling may cause the secretion of growth factors, VEGF, IGF-1,
      TGFβ, and FGF2.

      NF-κB activation plays a subsequent role in the inflammatory response to cardiac dysfunction
      and advanced heart failure. NF-κB and TNF signaling pathways protect the heart by ischemic
      preconditioning; however, this protective effect depends on the concentration of TNF-α.
      Therefore, the appropriate concentration of TNF-α is a critical factor in the determination
      of the grade of cardio-pathology. Plasma circulated marker, prostaglandin D2 synthase
      (PTGDS), promotes cardiomyocyte survival. Integrated data from different FD studies indicates
      that PDGDS may be a mediator of the inflammatory process in FD. The secretion of these
      factors into the bloodstream activates the innate immune response. Thus, the interaction
      between the inflammatory pathways and cardiac vascularization is a bi-directional process.
      The co-coordination of these two processes and the role of ERT in influencing immune aspects
      of cardiac vascularization has never been explored in FD.

      The purpose of this study is to identify the blood-based biomarkers for early detection of
      cardiac involvement and identification of different stages of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
      (thickening of the heart walls) in patients with Fabry disease. The markers used to assess
      Fabry disease activity such as Gb3 and Lyso Gb3 will be measured. The investigators will
      explore different inflammatory pathways, and secreted tissue growth factors. The
      investigators will analyze the role of therapy, especially its timing and the activation of
      the immune system that relates to cardiac involvement.

      The study is designed to identify the role of inflammatory signaling markers and secreted
      growth factors in the onset and progression of cardiac pathology in FD.

      Primary objective: Identify blood-based biomarkers for early detection of cardiac involvement
      and identification of different stages of HCM pathology in patients with FD.
    
  