
    
      The trial is a controlled, randomized clinical trial in which 340 in- and outpatients in the
      Department of Oncology, at Rigshospitalet (Copenhagen University Hospital), are randomly
      assigned to either an accelerated transition process from oncological treatment to continuing
      specialised palliative care (SPC) at home plus standard care or standard care alone.

      Patients are randomized immediately after their consent and will be discharged within a
      maximum of 5 working days from randomization. If these timelines are exceeded due to
      practical issues, the patient can participate in the trial if he/she completes a new
      base-line questionnaire (Quality of life questionnaire - Core (EORTC-QLQ-C30), Edmonton
      Symptom Assessment System (revised version) (ESAS-r), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
      (HADS), Symptoms priority list, Symptom Checklist-92 (SCL-92), Medical Outcomes Study Social
      Support Survey (mMOS-SS), Dyadic Coping Inventory (DCI)and Relationship ladder, and still
      meets the inclusion criteria.

      Data collection from patients and informal caregivers:

      Patients are identified, informed about the study and consenting patients and their informal
      caregivers complete questionnaires (baseline), after which patients are randomized to either
      the intervention or the control group. The intervention group will be assigned a specialised
      palliative care team (SPT) no later than 5 days after randomization. The control group will
      continue their current treatment. Two weeks after baseline, patients and caregivers complete
      questionnaires for the 2-week follow-up. Likewise, the follow-up at 4 and 8-weeks consists of
      questionnaires completed by patients and caregivers. Six months after baseline, the patient's
      vital status is retrieved. If the patient is still alive questionnaires are sent to the
      patient and caregiver.

      In case of admissions of the patients in both groups, data regarding causes of admission are
      retrieved from medical records.

      Throughout the psychological intervention, the psychologists will register the thematic
      content of the sessions.

      Data collection from informal caregivers includes the Medical Outcomes Study SF-36, Symptom
      Checklist-92 (SCL-92), modified Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey (mMOS-SSS),
      Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI), Dyadic Coping Inventory (DCI), Relationship Ladder, and
      Experiences in Close Relationships-Short Form (ECR-S). Data collection from caregivers will
      continue after the patient's death in the form of questionnaires, which are to be completed
      after 14 days, 2, 7, 13 and 19 months into the bereavement process (Medical Outcomes Study
      SF-36, Symptom Checklist-92 (SCL-92),Pittsburgh Sleep Quality index (PSQI), modified Medical
      Outcomes Study Social Support Survey (mMOS-SSS), Inventory of Daily Widowed Life (IDWL),
      Experiences in Close Relationships-Short Form and Prolonged Grief(PG-13)). Further, data on
      caregivers' use of healthcare services will be retrieved from the National Health Care
      Register, National Patient Registry, the Psychiatric Central Register and Medicinal Product
      Statistics Register. After the last session, short semi-structured interviews will be
      conducted among a selected group of caregivers to identify the elements of the intervention
      that were experienced as helpful, and to investigate the caregivers' experience of having
      cared for their relatives at home and their bereavement process.

      Blood samples from a subgroup of caregivers:

      To analyze Telomere length, 10-milliliter (ml) blood samples from caregivers will be
      collected in a heparinized glass before and after the intervention. The white blood cells
      (leukocytes) are isolated and frozen to - 80 degrees Celsius. Blood samples are taken before
      randomization and after termination of the intervention. When the investigation is complete
      and all blood samples have been obtained and frozen, we will follow a standard protocol for
      isolation of telomere DNA. This protocol describes how DNA is analyzed for TL in the
      leukocytes by using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and how the total average
      TL is calculated from both the amount of telomeric product, and each copy gene.

      The intervention:

        1. Before the patient agrees to participate, an information meeting will be held. If the
           patient gives consent to participate, the CRFs will be completed, the blood sample taken
           from the caregiver and the patient will be randomized.

        2. At day one or two after randomization the research nurse, the patient and informal
           caregiver discuss the patient's wishes for specialised palliative care in their own home
           and how these can be reconciled with the caregiver's wishes. The patient and caregiver's
           perceptions of challenges and concerns related to home care are explored and addressed.

        3. Immediately after the planning meeting the conditions in the home are optimized, if
           needed.

        4. Four to five days after randomization a home conference is held with the patient and
           caregiver, representatives of the SPT, nurse, and as far as possible with the patient's
           GP and the project psychologist. The SPT in collaboration with the GP and district
           nursing is now responsible for the distribution of tasks related to treatment and care.

        5. Patient and caregiver (the primary informal caregiver, appointed by the patient), will
           be offered a psychological intervention as part of the multi-disciplinary intervention.
           The psychological intervention will be guided by an intervention manual developed
           specifically for the study. After the patient's death, bereaved caregivers will be
           offered one or two additional session, concluding the intervention.

      Elements of the psychological intervention:

      The psychological intervention will provide a continuum of sessions both before and after the
      patient's death, so caregivers continue to be supported after the death of their loved ones.
      The session content will depend on the specific situation and needs of each patient-caregiver
      dyad. The sessions may thus address several themes that can support the patient in being at
      home, for example, communication between the patient and the caregiver, reconciliation of
      different expectations and wishes for being cared for at home, psycho-education about stress
      and coping and focus on caregivers' self-care. The psychologist may also serve as a navigator
      in the event of unresolved issues and problems (i.e. help patients and caregivers to identify
      the most important issues for them and the right people to contact).

      The duration of the study:

      The study is completed when 340 patients have been randomized into the study and after the
      last patient has been followed six months after baseline. Patients in the intervention group
      can then choose to continue with the SPT after the study completion.

      Duration of the study of caregivers ranges from randomization to the end of follow-up 19
      months after the death of the patient.

      In the control group, the patients continue to be attached to the health care system in line
      with current practice. This means that the patient typically remains in hospital or
      ambulatory clinic and may have contact with one or more hospitals, GP and possibly homecare
      later in the process. Caregivers in the control group may receive psychological counseling
      through referral from a GP.
    
  