
    
      The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists currently publish guidelines for the
      management of ovarian cysts in both pre and post-menopausal women. The guidelines for
      pre-menopausal women do not specifically include pregnant women, and it is known from
      previous research that the characteristics of ovarian cysts can differ in pregnancy, and
      therefore appear different on ultrasound scan. Also, where intervention is needed, it is
      usually surgical which can have high risk implications in pregnancy.

      The study will be conducted in the Early Pregnancy and Acute Gynaecology Unit at St. Thomas'
      Hospital. Any woman who presents with symptoms in early pregnancy (less than 18 weeks) is
      offered a transvaginal ultrasound scan. If, on this scan, they are found to have an ovarian
      cyst, they will be considered for the study. Once the ovarian cyst has initially been
      diagnosed, a confirmatory scan will be carried out by one of the investigators (ie. a
      clinical fellow, consultant gynaecologist or senior sonographer).

      If the cyst is benign in nature and not the cause of acute symptoms, three more transvaginal
      scans will be carried out by one of the investigators at approximately 12 weeks and 20 weeks
      (in line with the nuchal translucency scan and anomaly scan), then at 6 weeks post partum. It
      is intended that all these patients will be managed without surgical intervention.

      If there are concerns that the cyst is malignant, the participant would be investigated via
      the already established pathways. If the participant is at any point in acute pain and the
      cyst is thought to be the cause of this eg. ovarian torsion or cyst rupture, then a clinical
      decision would be made regarding surgical intervention.

      The total study period will be up to 16 months. This includes a 6 month recruitment period,
      then following up each participant until 6 weeks post delivery.
    
  