
    
      In this study, the investigators are addressing a significant and expanding "care-gap"
      question for patients with diabetes who are at risk for diabetic retinopathy (DR). DR is a
      major cause of impaired health-related quality of life in Ontarians through visual loss
      including blindness. Because the prevalence of DM in Ontario is increasing, the number of
      Ontarians over age 40 years with sight-threatening DR has been projected to increase by ~ 60%
      by 2031. DR is also a major source of health care costs: in 2007 the estimated health care
      system expenditure for vision loss from DR in Canada was $205 million.

      There are proven effective strategies to prevent and treat DR. These strategies strongly
      depend upon regular screening in asymptomatic patients. Thus, the 2013 CDA practice
      guidelines recommended annual eye screening by experienced eye care professionals either
      in-person or through interpretation of dilated pupil retinal photographs and yet, despite the
      benefit of screening, adherence to the CDA guidelines is poor. At least part of this is due
      to patient-centered barriers including the need for mydriasis, time off of work, wait times,
      and transportation issues. Recent studies indicate that non-mydriatic UWF retinal imaging
      minimizes these barriers and also accurately detects clinically important DR as compared to
      reference standard tests (dilated pupil eye exam by an eye care professional or 7-field
      stereoscopic colour fundus photography).

      In this study, the investigators' primary goal is to confirm or refute the hypothesis that
      screening by non-mydriatic UWF imaging at the time diabetes patients are seen for their
      routinely scheduled diabetes clinic visit (On-site Screening) improves the rate of detection
      of clinically important DR as compared to Usual Screening by the CDA guidelines. While the
      investigators are not testing the effect of screening by non-mydriatic UWF on visual
      outcomes, confirmation of the investigators' hypothesis has the potential to improve current
      screening strategies for DR in Ontario and, with that, an expectation that this will reduce
      vision-threatening diabetic eye disease.
    
  