
    
      Aim of study To compare the efficacy of intradermal hepatitis B vaccination with adjuvant
      topical imiquimod with conventional intramuscular hepatitis B vaccination in IBD patients.

      Methodology Patient recruitment IBD patients newly referred to or currently followed up at
      Department of Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital will be screened for CHB status
      (HBsAg/Anti-HBs/Anti-HBc). Patients without CHB infection and evidence of prior HBV
      vaccination i.e. HBsAg -ve /Anti-HBc-ve/ Anti-HBs -ve will be recruited into the study.
      Eligible patients will be randomized to receive either intradermal vaccination with Engerix B
      with topical imiquimod or intramuscular vaccination with Engerix-B with topical aqueous cream
      as the control arm.

      Randomization Eligible patients will be randomized in 1:1 ratio to receive intradermal
      hepatitis B vaccination (Engerix B) with topical imiquimod cream (as the study arm) or
      intramuscular hepatitis B vaccination (Engerix-B) with topical aqueous cream (as the control
      arm). Computer generated random number is used for randomization. Randomization sequences
      will be kept in opaque envelope and kept by a research staff not directly involved in this
      study. Once the patient has consented to the study, that research staff will open the
      envelope and notified the study nurse only of the vaccine allocation. In case of medical
      emergency or severe adverse reaction to the study medication, unblinding can be performed
      after notification of the principal investigator who will break the randomization code by
      revealing the randomization sequence assigned to the concerned study subject.

      Vaccine administration Vaccination schedule is identical between the two arms with 3 doses
      given at 0, 1, 6 month. Participants in the study arm will receive 20 mcg intradermal
      Engerix-B at two separate sites (10 mcg/0.5 ml) with topical imiquimod ointment pre-treatment
      5 minutes before injection. Participants in the control arm will receive 20 mcg intramuscular
      Engerix-B at two separate sites (10 mcg/ 0.5 ml) with topical placebo aqueous cream
      pretreatment 5 minutes before injection. The topical treatment will be given in a 4x4cm2
      marked at the deltoid on each arm. Vaccination will be administered at clinic by dedicated
      study nurse, who is not involved in subsequent management of the participants. Both the
      investigators and the participants will be blinded to the result of randomization as only the
      study nurse know the route of administration.

      Follow up Follow up visits will be arranged at 1,6,12 month after first dose of vaccine.
      Blood will be taken during each follow up visits for anti-HBs titres.
    
  