
    
      Combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) has dramatically improved survival in individuals
      with human immunodeficiency virus type1 (HIV-1) infection. Despite recent development of more
      potent regimens with fewer toxicities and lower pill burden, there remains a subpopulation of
      subjects who fail to achieve and maintain viral suppression while on treatment. Factors known
      to contribute to virologic failure include suboptimal adherence, drug resistance, suboptimal
      regimen potency, sequential introduction of single drugs to a failing regimen, and reduced
      ART exposure due to impaired drug absorption or pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions.

      This is a natural history protocol with intensive observation intended to characterize and
      manage HIV-infected subjects who have documented virologic failure on their current regimen
      and who have experienced virologic failure in meeting one of the following criteria:

        -  Documented virologic failure on at least 1 prior ART regimen and at least 2 consecutive
           HIV RNA plasma measurements of >1,000 copies/mL, including the last documented value,
           while on the current prescribed ART regimen for at least 6 months; or

        -  Documented extensive resistance to at least 3 ARV drug classes, and has persistent
           plasma viremia (HIV RNA > 1,000 copies/mL for > 6 months) despite multiple regimen
           changes, regardless of how long the subject has been prescribed his or her current
           regimen.

      We anticipate that, for a large proportion of the subjects enrolled in this protocol,
      nonadherence, with or without drug resistance, is the most common reason for the virologic
      failure. Another objective for the study is to assess the impact of a 7-day, inpatient,
      selfguided directly observed therapy (DOT) on HIV RNA kinetics, when subjects will receive
      their pre-enrollment ART regimens. During the DOT period, subjects will request their
      antiretroviral drugs at a pre-arranged time reflecting their home medication schedule.
      Failure to do so will be recorded and the medications will then be provided by the nursing
      staff. Adherence and psychosocial assessments will also be performed. Plasma concentrations
      from at least one of the antiretroviral drugs in the regimen will be measured on the first
      and last day of DOT to determine if suboptimal drug plasma concentration was a contributing
      factor to virologic failure.

      Within approximately 2 weeks, but no later than 4 weeks, after DOT (post-DOT phase), the
      research team will review the results from the HIV-1 viral load kinetics, current and
      cumulative genotypic and/or phenotypic resistance tests, ART history and responses, and other
      identified factors that could have contributed to the treatment failure (such as concomitant
      medications, history of antiretroviral AEs, and psychosocial barriers). The team will then
      design a new, individualized treatment plan for each subject. Subjects will either continue
      on their pre-enrollment ART regimen, or they will receive a new, individually tailored
      regimen. Only FDA-approved therapeutic agents will be offered on this protocol. Subjects may
      be co-enrolled in an experimental protocol for optimal management of HIV disease, if one is
      available and eligibility criteria are met. New regimens will be monitored during a second
      7-day, inpatient, self-guided DOT. Subjects will be followed after the DOT at week 2
      (plus/minus 3 working days), 4 (plus/minus 3 working days), 8 (plus/minus 7 days), and 12
      (plus/minus 7 days), and then every 3 months (plus/minus 2 weeks) for up to 2 years, with the
      option of extending participation longer if necessary. The same treatment plan may be
      repeated if a subject fails to respond to a new regimen.

      In a select group of subjects who fail to achieve viral suppression, advanced HIV-1 variant
      analysis may be used to attempt to identify the presence of minority drug resistant variants.
      This analysis will be used as supplemental information to construct new regimens for this
      group of subjects. Samples of plasma, serum, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be
      stored for further evaluation of virologic evolution and other factors that may be
      contributing to treatment failure in this population.
    
  