
    
      Introduction

      Accurate skeletal maturity assessment is important for prediction of curve progression and
      clinical management of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) including bracing decision and
      counseling for prognosis. Determination of the timing of peak growth height velocity and
      growth remaining are paramount important.1,2 Commonly used clinical or radiological methods
      are still inadequate or too complex for rapid clinical use in the outpatient setting.3-5
      Risser sign had disadvantages of low visibility in PA spinal radiograph, wide variability
      with maturity level and imprecise representation of PHV timing.6 Greulich and Pyle atlas (GP
      atlas) and Tanner-Whitehouse-III (TWIII) method are more reliable and comprehensive
      classifications to predict maturity, but they are cumbersome and time consuming to be used
      clinically.7 Both methods require the usage of an atlas, a learning curve required for exact
      matching of atlas plate or assignment of scores to bones.8

      Some latest skeletal maturity bone models were evolved trying to solve these problems but
      were still imperfect.9 Recently, Sanders made modifications to TWIII method to form Skeletal
      Maturity Scoring System (SMSS) which focused on epiphysis of small hand bones from all 5
      digits. SMSS was proved to have excellent correlation with the curve acceleration phase.10
      Digital skeletal age scores between 400 and 425 are associated with the beginning of the
      curve acceleration phase in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.11 Excellent intra-observer
      reliability and substantial inter-observer reliability among senior surgeons were
      demonstrated in SMSS.12

      A new skeletal age classification has yet to be developed, although SMSS has considered a
      promising method. A recent study to test SMSS's reliability in less experienced staffs
      demonstrated average inter-observer reliability (K=0.53).8 It showed that a learning curve
      was present and several recommendations were added in each classification stage to avoid
      controversy and confusion during usage.13 Therefore, using SMSS requires an organized
      teaching system with detailed descriptions, self-assessment examinations, viewing
      presentations and the newly added recommended modification guidelines to improve the
      reliability. Another scoring system "Distal Radius and Ulna (DRU)" score simplified the
      measurement to just using radial and ulnar epiphyses but results observed that DRU score had
      the least correlation of "Radio Ulna and Short bones" (RUS) growth centers with scoliosis
      behavior.9,10 In addition, the variable appearance of ulnar epiphysis were difficult to be
      seen clearly.

      In this study, the investigators introduce Thumb Ossification Classification Index (TOCI).
      TOCI employed the measurements of epiphysis of distal phalange, proximal phalange, and
      adductor sesamoid, and results were analyzed together to form a composite stage (composite
      score) to predict maturity in patient at their peripubertal period. Ultimately the
      application of TOCI should not be limited to IS patients only. After the establishment of
      TOCI classification system, the staging system would be applied to radiographs from patients
      without spinal deformity or suffering from diseases not related to spine.

      The objectives of this study were as follows:

        1. Measure different bony features at hand bones and classify the bony features to TOCI
           stages

        2. Evaluate the TOCI system by comparing the measured TOCI stages with digital skeletal age
           (DSA) and radio ulna and short bones (RUS) scores

        3. Evaluate the intra-rater and inter-rater reliability of TOCI system
    
  