
    
      JUSTIFICATION Between 10-20% of the more than 6000 cases of cervical spinal cord injury seen
      annually in the North America have the clinical pattern of traumatic central cord syndrome
      (TCCS) . These patients are usually older, most likely have sustained a fall, and have
      incomplete spinal cord injury characterized by dysesthetic and weak upper extremities. CT
      scan of the cervical spine in patients with TCCS often shows disc/osteophytes complex
      superimposed on degenerative or congenital spinal stenosis and MRI reveals signal changes at
      one or multiple skeletal segments. A minority of these patients suffer from
      fracture/subluxations, however, these patients are younger and have been involved in a more
      dynamic trauma. Since 1951, when Schneider et al reported this syndrome, controversy and
      confusion has dominated its surgical management. The current "Guidelines for the Management
      of Acute Cervical Spine and Spinal Cord Injuries" recommendations are only at the level of
      options, since prospective outcome data are unavailable .

      During the past four decades, there has been significant progress in our understanding of the
      pathophysiological mechanisms governing traumatic spinal cord injury including central cord
      syndrome. Translation of kinetic energy, primarily through hyperextension and less often
      fracture dislocations of cervical spine, usually involved with cervical spondylosis or
      congenital spinal stenosis, results in anatomical compression of the spinal cord followed by
      secondary insults which are time dependent and likely ischemic in nature. Microangiographic
      studies of spinal cord in patients with cervical spondylosis have indicated deformation,
      stretching and flattening of the spinal cord tracts as well as sulcal microvasculature, which
      may be further jeopardized by traumatic hyperextension, resulting in axonal interruption,
      swelling and vascular damage, predisposing to sustained spinal cord ischemia responsible for
      clinical manifestations of central cord syndrome.

      HYPOTHESIS: in acute traumatic central cord syndrome, surgical decompression of the spinal
      cord within 1-5 days will result in more rapid motor and functional recovery and results in a
      better quality of life than decompression ~6 weeks following injury. To test this hypothesis,
      we will pursue the following specific aims: SPECIFIC AIM I: To compare American Spinal Injury
      Association (ASIA) Motor Scores after three and 12 months post injury in patients with
      central cord syndrome operated on within 1-5 days of injury to a similar group of patients
      operated on ~6 weeks (range 5-7 weeks) following trauma. SPECIFIC AIM II: To compare
      functional outcome, health related quality of life and posttraumatic syrinx size three and 12
      months after injury in patients with traumatic central cord syndrome operated on within 1-5
      days to a similar group of patients operated on ~6 weeks (5-7 weeks) following injury.

      DESIGN/PROCEDURE Our investigation will be single center prospective randomized pilot study.
      Thirty conscious adult (>17 years old) patients with clinically (conventional ASIA exam) and
      radiologically (conventional MRI and CT of neck) proven cervical traumatic central cord
      syndrome will be screened for this study. These patients are admitted to the University of
      Maryland Medical System within 48 hours of their injury and are randomized (computer) into
      two surgical groups. Study subjects are fully resuscitated, stable and eligible to sign
      consent to go through the research process. None of these patients have radiologically overt
      unstable cervical spine injuries or any injury requiring urgent surgical decompression and
      stabilization. A computer designed random number generator will divide these patients into
      two standard of care surgical groups: Early Surgical Decompression Group ((ESDG [odd #]))
      will have surgery 1-5 days after trauma and the late surgical decompression group ((LSDG
      [even #])) will be operated after a period of ~ 6 weeks (range 5-7 weeks). Unless medically
      indicated to stay in an acute care facility, the LSD Group patients are discharged to a rehab
      facility or home to be brought back for surgery. While in hard collar the latter group will
      be studied with a CT of the neck at 3 weeks (designed as a research tool) in order to assure
      no missed ligamentous injury resulting in glacial instability. If hidden instability is
      discovered, depending on its severity, decompression and internal fixation may be performed
      earlier than the proposed 6 weeks. Both groups will have detailed conventional medical,
      neurological and radiological examination during their hospital stay and while in a rehab
      center, at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months postinjury. All the studies will be clinically
      conventional except MRI at 12 months post injury which is research related to measure the
      size of spinal cord syrinx. While ready to be discharged from a rehab center and at 3 and 12
      months post injury all these patients will have detailed research related functional studies
      as depicted in study schedule in form of known outcome measures (Functional Independence
      Measure, Spinal Cord Independence Measure, and Walking Index for Spinal Cord Injury). In this
      study there won't be a placebo or control group.

      Procedure

        1. PREHOSPITAL ,Trauma Resuscitation Unit (TRU) & Emergency Department (ED) RESUSCITATION:
           In a two-year period, all patients admitted to the STC TRU and UMMS EDs, within 48 hours
           of their spinal cord injury, will be screened for evidence of acute traumatic central
           cord syndrome (TCCS).

        2. SCREENING: Patients with incomplete spinal cord injury and MRI evidence of spinal cord
           compression and swelling are visited for a complete conventional American Spinal Injury
           Association Neurological and Functional Classification of motor, and sensory deficits.
           Those with ASIA Impairment Grades B, C and D/E and with the clinical picture of central
           cord syndrome will be chosen for possible enrollment. Inclusion/Exclusion Check List is
           by now complete.

        3. RANDOMIZATION: We (PI or his designee) will use one of the computer programs to generate
           random numbers in order to divide 30 patients into two groups of surgical candidates
           (Nregnow/digital river Chicago IL 60695-0001). Odd numbers are used for early (1-5 days)
           decompression and even numbers for late ((after 6 weeks[5-7 weeks])) decompression. The
           software is set in such a manner so that only a single number is generated for a single
           patient with a specific alphanumerical user code (CCSS3001-CCSS3030). Generation of a
           random number is accomplished by the PI or his designee. Randomization is part of
           research process.

        4. TIMING OF DECOMPRESSION: Based on the feasibility studies of Tator et al in STASCIS
           1(please see the res of protocol), we decided to set the timing of decompression at five
           days (1-5 days) and six weeks (5-7weeks) in order to be able to capture most of the
           eligible patients. Enrollment will be within 48 hours of the injury. If due to any
           reason(s) (e.g. complications) a patient who is randomized for early surgery does not
           get operated, still he is followed as "an intent to treat patient" and his/her outcome
           will be analyzed. The same is true for a patient who is to have late surgery but due to
           a specific reason his surgery is cancelled.

        5. OPERATIVE INTERVENTION: Eligible patients with traumatic central cord syndrome, canal
           compromise and spinal cord compression will be consented, and randomized into two
           groups. Thirty patients (15 patients in each group) will undergo standard surgical
           decompression of spinal cord either within the first five days or at 6 weeks following
           spinal cord injury. Each of the 15 patients enrolled for late decompression will be kept
           in hard collar while in a rehab facility and will undergo research related CT studies at
           3 weeks post admission. If interim imaging studies indicate glacial translation, earlier
           decompression and internal fixation may be considered. The choice of surgical technique
           for decompression is standard of treatment at the Shock Trauma Center. Standard surgical
           decompression of the spinal cord will be by a select group of Department of Neurosurgery
           staff with full familiarity with cervical spine surgical interventions.

        6. FOLLOW-UP OF PATIENTS: Before, immediately after and at 72 hours following surgery, at
           discharge from acute care or rehab center, 6 weeks, 3, 6, and12 months post injury
           patients will have complete conventional ASIA motor and sensory classification
           examination. Patients enrolled in the early surgical group will stay in the critical
           care or intermediate care unit, or the general floor until discharge to a rehabilitation
           center. These patients will have conventional postoperative CT while inpatient, at 3 and
           12 months post injury. A research related CT (at 3 weeks) is performed in late surgery
           group in order to evaluate the stability of the sagittal plane of the cervical spine.
           Conventional MRI is performed before and immediately following surgery in every patient
           of the study and at 12 months (research related MRI) to evaluate the size of the spinal
           cord syrinx. SF-36, Functional Independence Scale (FIM), Walking Index for SCI (WISCI),
           Spinal Cord Independence Measure (SCIM), will be checked as an outcome measure research
           instrument at discharge from rehab facility, at 3 months, and at 12 months following
           injury in all patients. Patients randomized to have decompression at 6 weeks will have
           external fixation with a hard collar and will be transferred to a rehabilitation center
           or home for six weeks and then brought back for surgical decompression. Follow-up of
           these patients will be identical to the early operative group.

        7. OUTCOME INSTRUMENTS American Spinal Injury Association Motor Score Classification: ASIA
           Motor Score. American Spinal Injury Sensory Score Classification: ASIA Sensory Score.
           ASIA impairment Score (A, B, C, D, E) Functional Independence Measure (FIM) Spinal Cord
           Independence Measure (SCIM). Walking Index of Spinal Cord Injury (WISCI). Health Related
           Quality of Life measure SF-36. CT evaluation of cervical spinal cord injury according to
           Allen-Ferguson Mechanistic Classification. CT quantification of canal compromise
           according to the formula of Fehlings et al. MRI evidence of spinal cord compression
           damage and syrinx size at specified intervals.
    
  