
    
      The presence of damage to the central and / or peripheral nervous system resulting from
      pathologies of a different nature (such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, dementia,
      cranial trauma, stroke, epilepsy or other neurological syndromes) is commonly a cause of
      physical and mental disability. The presence of memory or language cognitive deficits is
      often evident at a first clinical examination. However, difficulties in cognitive areas such
      as decision-making, social and emotional cognition or particular forms of learning may be
      less evident, while exerting a strong impact on the quality of life of patients.

      The main purpose of this proposal is to investigate cognitive abilities in patients with
      neurological damage, through a series of specific tasks. To this end, a series of tests and
      questionnaires will be used, described in detail below, to evaluate various cognitive
      functions, including decision-making, problem-solving, learning, memory, executive, social
      and emotional cognition.

      In addition, the contribution of specific brain areas to the cognitive tasks will be assessed
      by direct modulation of brain activity. This modulation will be achieved by using
      non-invasive brain stimulation techniques such as Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) and
      Direct Transcranial Electric Stimulation (tDCS).

      TMS, in particular, is a non-invasive neuronal stimulation of surface areas of the brain that
      since its inception has been frequently used in neurology as a diagnostic and research tool.
      TMS uses magnetic fields to induce electrical currents that facilitate or inhibit cortical
      activity. TDCS consists in the application of weak electrical currents to generate an
      electric field that can modulate neural activity in an excitatory or inhibitory manner. TMS
      and tDCS can be used in the experimental field to modulate cortical activity and modify
      performance during cognitive tasks.

      An important mechanism responsible for clinical, cognitive and functional recovery after
      neurological damage of different types is synaptic plasticity. Nervous tissue has the ability
      to permanently enhance or de-energize inter-neuronal transmission at synaptic level. By
      increasing the efficiency of synaptic transmission, through a phenomenon known as long-term
      potentiation (LTP), it is possible to compensate the loss of synaptic pulses on survived
      neurons due to brain damage and restore their function. LTP is also capable of guiding the
      formation of new brain circuits (structural plasticity), with compensatory and adaptive
      function . Indeed, neurotransmitters, in addition to their bioelectric conduction activity,
      also act on neurotrophic factors.

      Aim The aim of this study is to evaluate cognitive abilities in healthy subjects and in
      patients with neurological injury of various kinds (such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's
      disease, dementia, cranial trauma, stroke, epilepsy or other neurological syndromes) as well
      as to deepen the contribution of specific brain areas in carrying out these cognitive tasks.
      This will be made possible thanks to the specific skills of a multidisciplinary team of
      neurologists and physiatrists, health professionals such as physiotherapists, occupational
      therapists, psychologists, speech therapists, and the support of a biomedical engineer. These
      professional figures are already available at the UUOOCC of Neurology Neurosurgery and
      Neurosurgery directed by the proposer.
    
  