
    
      The Adductor Canal Block (ACB) is frequently used after TKA, but it is limited to provide
      anesthesia from the anteromedial part of the knee region. The proximal Femoral Triangle Block
      (FTB) is also used for TKA, and also limited to provide anesthesia from the anterior medial
      part of the knee joint. The FTB anesthetize the saphenus nerve, the nerve to vastus medialis,
      and may anesthetize the medial femoral cutaneous nerve which innervates the distal medial
      thigh as well as the anteromedial knee region. We included the Intermediate Femoral Cutaneous
      Nerve block (IFCNB) in the FTB, as the nerves can be targeted in the subcutis on the anterior
      thigh and easily be anesthetized during the same procedure as FTB. IFCNB anesthetize the
      distal anterior thigh, which may include the proximal part of the surgical incision for TKA.
      In the following text the proximal FTB including IFCNB will be refered as "FTB" and the dose
      of 15 ml will refer to 10 ml for the proximal FTB and 5 ml used for the IFCNB.

      A new nerve block technique, called Popliteal Plexus Block (PPB), is specifically designed to
      anaesthetize nerves involved in innervation of the back of the knee joint. The analgesic
      effect of PPB has not yet been evaluated in randomized, controlled, blinded trials. In order
      to optimize pain treatment for primary TKA by improving the pain-relieving effect of
      peripheral nerve blocks, we aim to evaluate the analgesic effects of three different nerve
      block regimens (FTB + PPB versus FTB versus ACB) after primary unilateral TKA. Our outcomes
      include postoperative pain scores, opioid consumption, muscle strength and mobilization.

      Our hypothesis is that the combination of FTB + PPB provides superior postoperative pain
      treatment after TKA in comparison to both FTB or ACB. The combination of FTB + PPB will
      reduce opioid consumption (primary outcome) and postoperative pain scores without reducing
      muscle strength or impairing mobilization.
    
  