
    
      The investigators anticipate enrolling a total of 40children between 3 and 18 years of age.
      Specifically, two groups of children will be recruited; children with unilateral congenital
      upper-limb reductions (n=20) and age and sex-matched control group of typically developing
      children (n=20). Considering the effect size from preliminary data and to account for a 10%
      drop-out rate, a total sample of 40 subjects will provide 80% power to detect a true
      standardized effect size.

      All subjects including controls will attend four data collection sessions that will include:
      one fitting session, second to obtain a baseline, the third visit will be one month after
      baseline, and the final visit will be four months after baseline. Participants will attend an
      initial measurement session to take a 3D scan of the affected and nonaffected upper limbs as
      well as several anthropometric measurements. During this session, three pictures of the upper
      limbs will be taken which will also be used to verify the fit the prostheses in a process
      previously validated by our research team. The subjects will then perform an anatomical MRI
      scan. The MRI scan is not a clinical scan intended for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.
      The research participants will then be asked to come for two testing visits. During the first
      testing visit (visit 1), participants will be fitted with the prosthesis and required
      adjustments to improve comfort and avoid pressure point will be performed. After fitting the
      prosthesis, participants will be given 15 minutes to explore the prosthesis and adjust the
      tensioner dial to regulate the opening of the fingers to perform the Box and Block Test.
      After the training and accommodation period, participants will be asked to perform 3 trials
      of flexion and extension of each wrist with and without the prosthesis and 3 different trials
      of the Box and Blocks Test for each hand while monitoring neural activity of the primary
      motor cortex using a fNIRS device. After a brief period of rest and encouragement, the
      subject will be asked to perform eight trials of discrete (four trials) and continuous (four
      trials) tasks using a robotic manipulandum (InMotion Arm Robot, Interactive Motion
      Technologies, Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA). These tasks have been previously used for the
      assessment of changes in upper-limb performance and the effect of different treatments in the
      recovering of motor function of children with acquired or congenital hemiparesis, ataxia, and
      hemiparesis. This data collection performed at baseline will be performed again one and four
      months after baseline. Eight weeks after the baseline measurements, participants will be
      asked to visit our laboratory for a second time and perform the same assessments. Between the
      testing visits, participants will be encouraged to use the prosthesis for a minimum of 2
      hours a day.
    
  