
    
      Study type: Double Blind Placebo Controlled

      Method of Randomization: Computer Generated Table

      No. of patients to be recruited: 40

      Accept Healthy Volunteers: No

      Drugs to be administered: Atorvastatin to 20 patients and placebo to 20 patients

      Mode of drug administration: Oral

      Duration of Study: 3 weeks

      Patients who attend the Surgical O.P.D and the Obstetrics and Gynaecology O.P.D and are
      diagnosed with any condition that requires elective abdominal surgery under spinal
      anaesthesia will be chosen for screening. Patients undergoing day care surgery with spinal
      anaesthesia and an abdominal incision will also be included for screening.

      Two weeks before the decided date of surgery the patients will be called for screening. The
      patients will first be screened for obesity, risk factors for CVS diseases and blood will be
      withdrawn for estimation of serum lipid levels. Further risk assessment of these patients
      will be done according to the NCEP ATP III Guidelines (2004 Revision of NCEP Adult Treatment
      Panel III Guidelines). If the patient is under the moderate risk category and fits in the
      inclusion criteria he/she will be called the next week for starting atorvastatin/placebo.

      Patients who are defined as dyslipidemic in the moderate risk category according to NCEP ATP
      III Guidelines i.e patients who would benefit from statin therapy will be given atorvastatin
      10 mg or placebo started one week before their expected date of surgery. They will be
      explained the possible A.D.R of statin therapy. Informed consent form will be filled.

      On the day of the surgery the patient will be explained the Visual Analouge Scale and the
      Wong Pain Scale. After the operation the patients will be started on S.O.S analgesic therapy.
      The protocol used will be the same as followed in the surgical wards. In case of severe pain
      opioids will be used. For other types of pain which can be tolerated by the patients
      Diclofenac Sodium will be used.

      The patient will be monitored after the surgery for the total dose of analgesics required for
      the relief of pain. Further the time of first dose of analgesic required after operation will
      be noted. The patient will be monitored for pain at the incision site 2, 4, 6, 12, 24 hours
      after the operation using the visual analogue scale and the Wong Pain Scale. Later using the
      abovementioned scales the patient's pain will be monitored twice daily until the patient is
      discharged. The McGill Pain Questionnaire will be given to the patient on the first day and
      every day thereafter till the patient is discharged. After discharge the patient will
      followed up on the day of their suture removal and pain scores will be evaluated. The patient
      will be asked to come weekly till the end of the study period.

      Blood will be withdrawn for the estimation of serum lipid levels, total leukocyte counts, C -
      reactive protein and TNF-α levels at baseline(i.e day of starting therapy), on the day of the
      surgery before the surgery and at the fourth postoperative day. All blood samples will be
      taken between 10A.M-12P.M Wound healing will be monitored on a daily basis until discharge
      and weekly thereafter. The attending surgeon will monitor the wound for discharge, swelling,
      etc. Additional signs of inflammation and infection like swelling, fever, erythema will also
      be monitored for.

      The patients will be instructed to take atorvastatin or placebo once a day for three weeks
      (One week preoperative and two weeks postoperative). At the end of this period the patient
      will be asked to continue statins from outside. In the event that the patient is unable to
      afford the medication he will be weaned off the statin in a gradual manner.
    
  