
    
      According to the latest studies, the evolution of the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection shows
      two clinically different phases: The first phase of viral and clinical infection of viriasis
      (fever, myalgia, etc.) affects all patients and it is resolved in asymptomatic patients or
      with clinically moderate-mild affectations. However, towards the end of the first week of
      illness, a not inconsiderable number of patients progress towards a second phase of rapid and
      abrupt deterioration of their respiratory and cardiac function.

      More and more data indicate an important role of overactivated macrophages, interleukin 6
      (IL6) and an excessive inflammatory response in the genesis of this second phase of
      aggravation. Linking with this hypothesis, the adipose tissue densely infiltrated by
      macrophages is the source of one third of the body's IL6, its production being even greater
      in the fat of central disposition of male distribution. All of this could explain the worse
      prognosis observed in men, obese and with type 2 diabetes (DM2).

      Regarding the possible effect of pioglitazone on the expression of ACE2, there is little
      literature, and less evidence, about the response of this receptor to treatment with
      pioglitazone, and what is more important, its effect on COVID-19 infection.

      Two studies have analyzed the expression of this receptor after administration of
      pioglitazone in different murine models of liver and kidney disease. The conclusions of these
      studies were that the administration of pioglitazone in rats with hepatic steatosis increased
      the expression of ACE2. It is known that the increased expression of ACE2 facilitates the
      entry of SARS-CoV-2 into the cell, in animal models it has been seen that ACE2 protects
      against the development of respiratory distress syndrome and that severe cases of COVID-19
      and SARS 2003 have been linked to the possible inhibition of ACE2 by the virus and the
      increase in angiotensin II.

      In conclusion, it is a safe and proven drug in patients with DM2, cheap, with years of
      clinical experience. The use of pioglitazone added to the conventional treatment of patients
      at high risk, such as patients with COVID-19 and DM2, could be accompanied by a better
      evolution of the patients, avoiding or mitigating the inflammatory process that already
      occurs before its onset. seems to trigger the second accelerated phase of the disease.
    
  