
    
      Specific objectives:

        1. Determine the Indirect and out of pocket costs of care of children with IBD, incurred by
           caregivers, funders, and the health system. Costs include:

             1. Indirect costs - all costs related to the patient having the disease but not
                related to direct health care costs. These include those paid by the patient,
                family, insurance system, and public funding. These include but are not limited to
                the costs of lost productivity hours due to missed work, missed school and
                volunteering activities, employment or disability insurance costs.

             2. Out of pocket (OOP) costs - those paid by the patient or family of the patient in
                cash or credit for healthcare related expenses that are not covered by the public
                health or insurance systems. These include but are not limited to medication
                dispensing fees, parking costs for medical appointments, travel expenses for
                medical appointments, special diet, alternative health treatments, and any other
                incurred disease-related costs such as educational books and donations.

        2. Determine the sociodemographic and disease characteristics associated with higher costs

      Background:

      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of disorders characterized by chronic
      inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract with remissions and relapses. The two most common
      subtypes are Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). The incidence of IBD appears
      to have risen over the last twenty years especially in the pediatric population.1-4 IBD is
      often diagnosed in the second or third decades of life, and therefore can impact both
      patients' social functioning and wellbeing, but also the family unit.. In addition, the fact
      that patients are most frequently diagnosed while in school or soon after, can result in
      significant cost to both the health system and to the economy. In 2012, the burden-of-illness
      report from the Crohn's and Colitis Canada estimated that the direct medical costs of IBD in
      Canada were over one billion dollars, primarily funded through the Canadian public healthcare
      system.1 While many international studies examined IBD-related costs in adults, information
      on direct and indirect health care costs resulting from a childhood diagnosis of IBD is not
      readily available.

      Review of the Canadian Literature in Adult IBD: Members of our group investigated the direct
      hospital costs from the payer perspective for a cohort of 187 CD and 115 UC adult patients at
      a tertiary care hospital in Manitoba, in 1994-1995. The mean cost of hospital admission per
      medical case was C$2571 (95% CI, C$1801-C$3340) for CD and C$2186 (95% CI, C$1449-C$2922) for
      UC. The mean cost per hospitalized surgical case was higher, with C$3427 (95% CI,
      C$2728-C$4126) for CD and C$4635 (95% CI, C$3549-C$5726) for UC. Using the median values per
      hospitalized patient, the medical cost was C$1664 for CD and C$1262 for UC; the surgical cost
      was C$2546 for CD and C$3341 for UC. Surgery accounted for 50% of all hospital admissions,
      58% of all hospital days, and 61% of all costs.5 The same investigators used administrative
      data to estimate health care utilization in adults with IBD in Manitoba. They concluded that
      the first 2 years from disease diagnosis were the most costly in terms of health care
      utilization.6 Longobardi et al examined indirect costs in the form of work loss related to
      IBD. Approximately 29% of adults with IBD reported labor force non-participation. The
      investigators estimated IBD-related indirect costs attributable to nonparticipation in 1998
      to be over C$104 million.7 In another study from Manitoba, an acceptable concordance between
      patient-reported and administrative data-driven health care utilization.8 A high rate of
      concordance was also reported in a recent study from the Netherlands.9 This specific question
      of self-reported versus health records-reported health care utilization has never been
      examined in pediatric IBD.

      A population-based surveillance cohort from Alberta examined predictors of costs for adults
      with UC who were hospitalized for a flare or colectomy between 2001 and 2009. Median
      hospitalization cost for UC flare, emergent colectomy and elective colectomy were: C$5,499,
      C$23,698 and C$14,316, respectively. Adjusted hospitalization costs increased approximately
      6% annually. Use of infliximab was an independent predictor of increased costs.10 Economic
      data for a small adult sample hospitalized for Crohn's disease in Alberta, assessed costs two
      years before and after infliximab therapy. Total health care resource use and direct health
      care costs were compared for patients with or without fistulae. In the year following
      initiation of infliximab therapy, there were significant decreases in health care use,
      reflected in total hospital days, inpatient and outpatient colonoscopies and major
      surgeries.11 Review of Pediatric IBD Research: Using a collection of American HMO
      administrative data, Kappelman et al described the healthcare utilization and direct costs
      associated with IBD in insured American children and adults with IBD. Overall, healthcare
      utilization was higher in children with IBD compared to adults and in patients with CD
      compared to those with UC. Mean annual direct health costs for CD and UC were US$8,265 and
      US$5,066 respectively. In children, direct costs were approximately double that of .12 In a
      cross-sectional study Sin et al estimated the out of pocket (OOP) costs in parents of 150
      children with IBD in California through surveys. Over 28% of those parents estimated their
      annual OOP costs to be more than US$1,000. Uncontrolled, severe, and frequently relapsing IBD
      correlated with higher OOP costs.13 In another retrospective cross-sectional analysis from
      Canterbury, New Zealand, the annual total costs per patient for pediatric CD were NZ$14,375
      with direct and indirect costs comprising NZ$12,583 and NZ$1,792, respectively. Based on
      these data, the investigators estimated the annual total direct and indirect costs of CD
      across New Zealand to be approximately NZ$25.9 million.14 In a single center study, Wu et al,
      examined non-drug costs associated with outpatient infliximab infusions in children with IBD.
      The total annual drug cost was approximately $393,000 in 2011. For direct costs related to
      infliximab infusions, more than 77% of the total health care costs were related to personnel
      (e.g., nursing), facility operations, and laboratory costs. Only 23% of the total costs were
      related to the actual infliximab drug costs.15

      Rationale:

      In its 2012 report on the burden of IBD in Canada, Crohn's and Canada estimated that direct
      medical costs for IBD were C$1.2 billion, and that indirect costs were C$1.6 billion.
      Accordingly, the total annual costs for IBD in Canada were approximately C$2.8 billion. It is
      well-recognized that IBD causes significant financial burden on the economy, which is likely
      rising due to increased prevalence of the disease and the increasing use of high-cost
      biologic medications. Disease-related costs in Canadian children with IBD have never been
      studied. Therefore, we will conduct a national Canadian study examining IBD-related health
      costs, a crucial step to plan for proper allocation of resources and for future health
      services for Canadian children with IBD.

      The cohort of recently developed CIHR/CHILD Foundation Canadian Children IBD Network
      (CIDsCaNN) includes about 1000 IBD patients. This network comprises 12 pediatric IBD centres
      across Canada tasked with the creation of an inception cohort of all children diagnosed with
      IBD. Biological and clinical information, including medication utilization, disease phenotype
      and disease severity is collected, with longitudinal follow-up.

      Methods:

      Source Population: Incident cases of pediatric IBD (<17y) in (CIDsCaNN) centres enrolled over
      a 12 month period or after (estimated enrollment 250-300 over a period of 12 months).
      Patients will be expected to be followed for a minimum of 2 years Study Design: A prospective
      cohort study will be conducted to determine disease-related costs using a series of
      cross-sectional surveys (Appendix). Surveys will be conducted at 6-18 months following the
      diagnosis then every 6 months for 2 years through the CIDsCaNN web portal, querying families
      on activity in the 4 weeks prior to the survey: school (patient) and work (parents) days
      missed, out-of-pocket expenses, distance travelled to care appointments, medications expenses
      incurred, and disability benefits collected. If participants are unable to complete the
      survey online, research assistant will give them the survey in a paper format to be
      completed.

      Duration of costs covered: The survey will collect direct (6 months period), indirect and OOP
      costs in the 4 weeks preceding the survey (4 surveys over the study period) Indirect and OOP
      costs will be calculated in Canadian dollars, and adjusted for inflation using an appropriate
      inflationary measure (such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI)). Indirect costs will be
      calculated using the Human Capital Approach (gross income not earned due to disease).20 All
      costs will be adjusted for inflation using an inflationary measure such as CPI for health and
      personal care, by province (March 2016) 21.

      Predictors of increased costs will be determined, with variables assessed to include: gender,
      age, pediatric IBD centre, family income, parents level of education, region of residence,
      disease duration, disease phenotype using Paris modification of Montreal classification,
      clinical activity at diagnosis and one year after diagnosis as measured by pediatric Crohn's
      activity index for CD (PCDAI) and pediatric UC activity index for UC (PUCAI), and adherence
      to IBD medications.

      Statistical Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be reported as means with standard
      deviations (SD), medians with interquartile range (IQR), or proportions where appropriate.
      Two-part models will be estimated, in which the likelihood of incurring any expenditures and
      the natural logarithm of conditional expenditures will be estimated separately by logistic
      and ordinary least-squares models.
    
  