
    
      Most current cancer treatment strategies involve the use of chemotherapeutic or biological
      drugs that exhibit variable efficacy and considerable toxicity. The limitations are often the
      result of the adverse side effects of the therapeutic drug on normal tissues. One approach to
      control these effects is to target the therapy to the tumor site. Of the identified tumor
      antigens, the human p53 tumor suppressor protein is overexpressed in a wide range of human
      malignancies. p53 is an intracellular tumor suppressor protein that acts to arrest the
      proliferation of cells. When mutated, it loses its ability to suppress abnormal proliferation
      and exhibits a longer half-life than the wild-type protein, allowing for its accumulation in
      tumors. In addition, p53 overexpression correlates with tumor transformation and aggression
      and is associated with lower overall survival rates and resistance to chemotherapeutic
      intervention in cancer patients. Therefore, p53 appears to be a marker for a considerable
      number of human malignancies and represents a good target for immunotherapeutics. However,
      p53 cannot be used as a target for antibodies because it is not displayed independently on
      the cell surface. Instead, the p53 protein is processed intracellularly into peptide
      fragments that are then displayed on the cell surface in the context of major
      histocompatibility complex (MHC). These peptide/MHC complexes are recognized by T-cells via
      their T-cell receptors (TCRs). Recently it has been confirmed that the peptide fragment is
      significantly elevated in a wide range of human tumor tissues, particularly in melanoma,
      renal, lung, breast, colorectal, bladder, ovary, stomach, esophagus, lymphoma, liver,
      leukemia, and head & neck cancer. Targeted approaches to concentrate therapeutic cytokines at
      the tumor sites that express p53 could provide considerable advantages over current
      treatment.

      Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a well-characterized growth factor for immune effector cells which
      play critical roles in tumor control and rejection. A recombinant human IL-2 has been
      approved for treating metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. However, the major
      drawback of IL-2 therapy is its severe systemic toxicity. As a result, use of high dose IL-2
      is limited to specialized programs with experienced personnel and it is generally offered to
      patients who are responsive and have excellent organ function. Thus, there is a critical need
      for innovative strategies that enhance the effects of IL-2 or reduce its toxicity without
      compromising clinical benefits.

      The study drug, ALT-801, is a biologic compound composed of interleukin-2 (IL-2) genetically
      fused to a humanized soluble T-cell receptor directed against the p53-derived antigen. This
      study is to evaluate whether directing IL-2 activity using ALT-801 to the patient's tumor
      sites that overexpress p53 results in clinical benefits.

      The study drug will be administered by bolus intravenous infusion in an in-patient hospital
      setting under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of anti-cancer
      agents including high dose IL-2. An intensive care facility and specialists skilled in
      cardiopulmonary or intensive care medicine must be available. There are two treatment cycles.
      For each treatment cycle, patients will be admitted to the hospital, remain in the hospital
      during the study drug infusion period, and be discharged from the hospital the day after the
      last infusion at the Principal Investigator's discretion. There is a 10-day resting period
      between the treatment cycles. Tumor assessments will be done at weeks 7 and 11 after starting
      the study drug.
    
  