
    
      Eligible women for our study would be identified antepartum from our three obstetrical groups
      delivering at Cooper University Hospital: Cooper Faculty Group, Women's Care Center, and
      CamCare. Potentially eligible women would be referred to the study coordinator or principal
      investigator to discuss the nature of the study. Those women who agreed to the trial would be
      further screened with a baseline structured psychiatric evaluation in the third trimester of
      the pregnancy to rule-out current depressive illness. If there was no evidence of depression
      at the antepartum evaluation, patients delivering a liveborn singleton fetus at 34 0/7 weeks
      or greater would be re-evaluated prior to discharge and, if scoring </= 12 on the Edinburgh
      Postpartum Depression scale, would then be enrolled in the trial.

      Patients would be assigned to either sertraline 50 mg daily or identical appearing placebo
      for 12 weeks. Group allocation would be determined by restricted-randomization technique with
      variable block length, with the sequence generated by someone not associated with participant
      assignment. Assignment would be kept in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes
      (SNOSE) in the pharmacy, which would dispense the medication (or placebo). Patients would be
      given a 30 day supply on the day of discharge, with refills provided by the study coordinator
      (through the pharmacy)for 12 weeks and a four-day supply of 25 mg Sertraline or placebo at
      the end of 12 weeks as a taper. Patients would also undergo follow-up blinded structured
      psychiatric evaluations at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks to assess for adverse reaction to
      the assigned treatment agent, and for administration of questionnaires/evaluation to assess
      for development of depression. Any patient with recognized clinical depression would
      immediately be removed from further active participation in the study and referred to our
      Cooper Psychiatry department or outside psychiatrist for ongoing evaluation and treatment.
      Medication received (Sertraline or Placebo) would necessarily be revealed to Psych only for
      purposes of guiding appropriate further treatment.

      All women randomized would be analyzed according to group assignment (intent-to-treat).
      Demographic information, including patient age, race/ethnicity, gravidity, parity,
      gestational age at delivery, infant birth weight, as well as infant weights from standard
      Pediatric visits (obtained verbally from the mother)would be recorded and compared using the
      Student t-test for normally distributed continuous data, Mann-Whitney U for non-normative
      continuous data, and the Chi Square test or Fisher Exact test for categorical data.

      A sample size calculation was performed. Based on an anticipated rate of postpartum
      depression (PPD) of 30% in the placebo group, we would need 62 subjects in each group to
      detect a reduction in PPD to 10% in the sertraline group, with a power of .8 and a Type I
      error of .05. Based on the 2200 deliveries occurring annually at Cooper University Hospital,
      we anticipate that it would take 2-3 years to recruit 124 subjects into this study.
    
  