
    
      Glucocorticoids are the cornerstone of treatment of sarcoidosis and are used as the
      first-line agents in patients requiring immunosuppressive therapy.4 The optimal dose and
      duration of glucocorticoids is an unresolved issue. For pulmonary sarcoidosis, the initial
      dose recommended by the joint statement of the ATS/ERS/WASOG is 20-40 mg per day.5 The
      duration of treatment recommended is at least one year. However, mild disease of recent onset
      may respond to a shorter duration of treatment. Further, as most of the toxic effects of
      glucocorticoids are cumulative, the dose and duration of steroids need to be kept to a
      minimum to balance the benefit and risks of treatment.

      Two large studies performed about two decades ago used an initial dose of 30 mg and 20 mg
      respectively for treating acute sarcoidosis. While the British Thoracic Society employed
      steroid treatment (initial dose 30 mg/day) for one year, in the Finnish study, oral
      glucocorticoids (initial dose 20 mg/day) were administered for three months and were followed
      by inhaled budesonide.3,6 In a recent Delphi study of experts, 37% and 20% of the experts
      used an initial prednisone equivalent dose of 40 mg per day and 20 mg per day regardless of
      weight, respectively.7 About 23% used doses of 20 mg, 30 mg, or 40 mg per day depending on
      weight. However, consensus was reached that a dose higher than 40 mg per day is not required.
      Apart from the initial response to glucocorticoids in symptoms and lung function, the rate of
      relapse after cessation of treatment is an important outcome in the management of
      sarcoidosis.

      The exact dose and duration of treatment for sarcoidosis are unknown.4 We hypothesize that a
      higher dose of 40 mg per day as compared to a 20 mg/day dose of prednisone will be more
      effective in preventing post-treatment relapse by effective initial suppression of the
      granulomatous inflammation and reduction of the disease load. In this study, we compare the
      efficacy and safety of medium dose (40 mg/day prednisone) and low dose (20 mg/day prednisone)
      glucocorticoids in the treatment of acute sarcoidosis.
    
  