
    
      The UMPIRE trial has been modelled on similar trials running concurrently in Australia and
      New Zealand. The design is straight forward in making comparisons between cardiovascular
      preventative therapy delivered as a polypill (the Red Heart Pill) on the one hand, and as
      separate component multiple tablets (usual care) on the other hand. In both groups (the
      polypill group and the usual care group,) the GP or managing physician will be able to adjust
      or add additional medications as appropriate to meet the targets for control of blood
      pressure, cholesterol and other risk factors as directed by local or national guidelines. The
      Primary endpoint - adherence to prescribed cardiovascular preventative medication at the end
      of the trial follow-up - will be evaluated by self reported use of anti-platelet, statin and
      blood pressure lowering therapy. This evaluation will be supported by the recording of blood
      pressure and cholesterol levels, and measuring the differences between the two groups at the
      end of the trial. Treatment allocation is open label - both investigator and subject will
      know which arm of the study they are on. Patients will be identified and recruited from GP
      surgeries or hospital clinics, and also via local advertisement. Recruitment into the study
      is planned to start in Summer 2010 with a 12 month recruitment phase. Recruited subjects will
      spend between 12 - 30 months (average 18 months) being followed up. The target study
      population is 1000 patients in European at sites in London, Dublin and Utrecht; and 1000
      subjects in India at approximately 30 sites. Subjects will be randomly allocated to receive
      either the "polypill" or "usual care". If allocated to the polypill group, the study
      investigator will decide on the version of polypill to be prescribed, and adjust any current
      medications as necessary. If the subject is in the "usual care" group, they will be seen as
      needed by their usual doctor between study visits, and continue on their current medicines.
      Participants will have at least 5 study visits, but no more than 8 study visits, and these
      visits include registration, randomisation and follow-up visits at 1 month, 6 months, and 12
      months, and depending on when the subject is recruited to the study, study visits at 18 and
      24 months/end of trial visit. A substudy, PESCA (Protocol ID CR01656, NCT01326676), will be
      performed in the European participants to assess whether the polypill reduces progression of
      atherosclerosis. This will be assessed by measuring carotid intima-medial thickness and
      central systolic blood pressure using the PulseCor device. A second substudy, INPUT, is a
      process evaluation involving qualitative interviews of a sample of health practitioners and
      trial participants at the end of the trial (summer 2012) in London and India.
    
  