
    
      Breast cancer confers significant morbidity and mortality on women in the U.S. and ovarian
      cancer is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy. Genetic determinants, such as germline
      mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, confer the greatest impact on breast and ovarian
      cancer risk. Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) is an inherited condition
      that is most commonly associated with mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. An estimated
      2-7% of breast cancers and 10-15% of ovarian cancers result from inherited mutations in BRCA1
      and BRCA2. Mutation carriers have lifetime risks of breast and ovarian cancer of 40-60% and
      20-40%, respectively.

      The prevalence of three founder mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes is up to 2.5% among
      Ashkenazi Jews and genetic testing for this 'founder' panel is relatively inexpensive. About
      1 in 40 individuals of Ashkenazi (central and eastern European) Jewish descent carry a
      founder mutation in the BRCA1 (5382insC or 185delAG) or BRCA2 (6174delT) genes. Based upon
      U.S. PreventiveServices Task Force guidelines, Ashkenazi Jewish women with any first- or
      second-degree relatives with breast or ovarian cancer should be referred for BRCA genetic
      counseling.

      The perceived benefits and risks of genetic testing may vary by demographic, cultural, and
      religious backgrounds. Orthodox Jews often consult with Rabbinic and communal authorities in
      medical decision-making, which is consistent with their religious values. The Jewish
      community is already familiar with genetic testing due to successful testing programs for
      genetic disorders, such as Tay-Sachs, an autosomal recessive disease. However, there are
      unique challenges to testing for BRCA genes, which are inherited in an autosomal dominant
      fashion and predispose to adult-onset diseases, such as breast and ovarian cancer.

      This study will test the efficacy of a patient-centered, web-based decision aid called
      RealRisks in a pilot study of 50 Orthodox Jewish women, using a pre-/post-test design.
      Genetic testing intention will be assessed at baseline, within 1 month after exposure to
      RealRisks, and at 6 months. This pilot study will allow the investigator to determine an
      effect size that can be used to design a well-powered randomized controlled trial in the
      future.

      The ultimate goal is to understand social, cultural, and religious factors influencing BRCA
      genetic testing in the Orthodox Jewish community.
    
  