
    
      Breast cancer management integrating surgery, systemic therapy and radiation therapy tends to
      systemic treatment as the first therapeutic option, continuing afterwards by surgery and
      radiation therapy with the scope of decreasing the locoregional treatment. This strategy
      implies doubts about what should be the locoregional treatment, because many patients have
      remissions and a significant number of them a complete response. The responses are associated
      with better clinical outcome although there are doubts about they are a surrogate marker of
      survival.

      According to a previous publication, in which the predictors of locoregional recurrence
      National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project 18 (NSABP18) and National Surgical
      Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project 27 (NSABP27) studies are evaluated, both studies designed
      for viewing the value of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, good results of locoregional control are
      described, although in many cases radiotherapy was omitted or lymph node were not irradiated.

      Therefore the need to nodal irradiation begins to be questioned, especially when they are
      negative after primary systemic treatment, regardless of their previous state. However the
      clinical guidelines recommend radiotherapy planning according to the previous stage. The
      problem is the local treatment indication is established based on the indications of
      irradiation without primary systemic therapy, as showed in retrospective studies, without the
      existence of randomized studies designed to analyze the role of radiotherapy in these
      circumstances. In the last American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) preliminary results
      of a meta-analysis including three large studies of primary systemic treatment were
      presented.

      Results show that irradiation improves local control in N1 patients achieving a complete
      remission, radiotherapy being an independent prognostic factor, in terms of locoregional
      control; however, they conclude that the optimal selection of patients remains unclear. The
      controversy remains, because there is no evidence to treat nodes after primary systemic
      therapy, whether there is a complete remission as if it does not, nor is it known that
      subgroup of patients may benefit more from local treatments. Long-term studies are needed to
      analyze this issue, leaving the decision being especially complicated in cases of clinically
      positive nodes experiencing a complete remission. The problem remains that often is not known
      exactly has been irradiated since, in many studies, irradiation is indicated at the
      discretion of the researcher.

      Given these doubts, European Society conducted a survey to find out what was the attitude
      about these patients, and the findings shows that 75% of the centers irradiate in the N1
      case. The American Society obtained similar results and in Spain 64% of respondents irradiate
      the lymph nodes. These three publications conclude that studies are needed to determine the
      importance of irradiation after primary systemic treatment and while waiting for these
      results, a consensus muts be reached as stated in ASCO 2015 summary.

      The "One Step Nucleic Amplification" (OSNA) is a technique developed by Sysmex Corporation
      that allows a complete analysis of sentinel nodes and provides a quantification of the tumor
      marker CK19 mRNA in the sentinel node. The result is expressed by the Tumour Load as number
      of copies per microliter. This technique has shown its diagnostic ability both without
      primary systemic treatment and after primary systemic treatment, being more reproducible than
      conventional processes.

      In spite of this, fits to mention that the studies of validation used to obtain the CE mark
      only included patients without previous systemic treatment to the surgery.

      In summary, nodal irradiation after systemic treatment in patients with breast cancer it is
      under discussion, particularly in the case of patients with initial clinical involvement
      experiencing complete remission. For this reason, some groups decide irradiation of all nodal
      regions and others choose no irradiation of the lymph nodes at all. To clarify this
      discussion the present study is proposed.
    
  