
    
      Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common impairing disease among children
      and adolescents. Methylphenidate, a stimulant, is effective in treating these patients. OROS
      methylphenidate (CONCERTA) provides ADHD patients a more convenient and safer treatment
      approach than immediate-release methylphenidate (IR-MPH). However, there is little
      information of long-term effect and adherence to CONCERTA. At the NTUH Taiwan, a randomized
      clinical trial of OROS MPH was performed 3 years ago and 64 subjects were included and
      treated with either IR MPH or OROS MPH followed by OROS MPH. Therefore, we purpose this study
      to follow up these patients, exploring the adherence rate to CONCERTA, symptoms evolution,
      and outcomes among these patients.

      Overview of Study Design: There will be two stages of this study. All study procedures will
      be performed after obtaining informed consent.

      Stage I: Medical charts of these subjects will be reviewed to obtain information about
      CONCERTA adherence (also including dosage, treatment duration, clinic visits, missing visits
      etc.), psychiatric co-morbidities, and other treatment approaches subjects received after the
      previous study. Subjects will be visited (Visit 1) and the information of baseline
      characteristics and reasons for discontinuing CONCERTA (if applicable) will be recorded. The
      assessments will included parent or teacher ratings on the Conner's Teacher and Parent Rating
      scales (CPRS-R:S, CTRS-R:S), the SNAP-IV rating scale, the SKAMP rating scale, investigator
      ratings on the Kiddie-SADS-E, Clinical Global Impression and the Social Adjustment Inventory
      for Children and Adolescents (SAICA); and neuropsychological assessments (Conner's Continuous
      Performance Test, CPT, and Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Batteries, CANTA B)
      will be performed to these subjects.

      Stage II: All subjects enrolled into stage one will be followed for the next 6 months.
      Medication for ADHD treatment may be used to these subjects based on investigators' clinical
      judgments. Subjects will visit clinics in week-24 (Visit 2). The same assessments at Visit 1
      will be performed at Visit 2. In addition, the adherence to treatment, adverse events,
      overall satisfaction to treatment, and academic performances during these 6 months will be
      recorded.
    
  