
    
      Patients will be consented in the adult cystic fibrosis clinic at Drexel University,
      Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, St.
      Christopher's Hospital for Children, Duke University Medical Center, Augusta University and
      the University of Pittsburgh. For Philadelphia sites (CHOP, Drexel, UPenn, St. Chris), Chelsi
      Nurse will consent patients to treatment. If at remote sites (Duke Univ Med Center, Augusta
      Univ, U Pittsburgh) by our local site appointed representatives will consent patients to the
      study. All CF patients will be approached to assess interest.

      If patients are willing to be in the study, they will be given a packet of screening
      questionnaires (addendum #1). These questionnaires will ask patients: 1) how often
      participants experience different thoughts and feelings, including some related to having
      cystic fibrosis; 2) how often participants take their cystic fibrosis medications; 3) their
      coping style, including how long participants persist in thinking about something that has
      happened to them; The subject will complete each questionnaire again after 6 appointments
      (i.e., about 6 weeks later), and again about 3-months after their sixth appointment.

      Finally, the investigators hope to learn whether these therapies affect how often subjects
      take their cystic fibrosis medications, and how this affects their health and wellbeing.

      To study this, the investigators will review the number of appointments that are missed six
      months before enrolling in the program, and six months after completing therapy.The
      investigators will also review their pulmonary function tests, whether subjects go to the
      hospital or see their doctor for any extra visits, and the presence of any ongoing symptoms
      of depression or anxiety. All data will be taken from Allscripts, the Drexel outpatient
      medical chart. Data will be taken only from the departments of the pi and co-pi's. At UPenn,
      the social worker at the site will input data into Drexel Redcap through a link sent to them.

      Participants will complete 6 sessions of our ACT with CF manualized intervention.
      Participants will be asked to complete a series of brief questionnaires at the time of
      consent. If desired, they can take these homes to complete and mail back.

      These questionnaires will ask participants about: 1) how often they experience different
      thoughts and feelings, including some related to having cystic fibrosis; 2) how often they
      take their cystic fibrosis medications; 3) their coping style, including how long they
      persist in thinking about something that has happened to them.

      Participants will complete each questionnaire again after 6 appointments (i.e., about 6 weeks
      later), and again about 3-months after their sixth appointment.

      These questionnaires take about 45 minutes to complete. Participants will also be asked to
      complete 6 'Zoom' therapy sessions (using a webcam in their own home or on their own
      tablet/smartphone and HIPAA-compliant Zoom webcam service) of either "Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy", in which participants will learn new ways to manage uncomfortable
      experiences and feelings (e.g., depression, anxiety) and to engage in positive behaviors, or
      to "Supportive Psychotherapy", in which participants will talk about their experiences to
      date. The type of therapy that participants get will be chosen by chance, like flipping a
      coin. Neither subject nor the study doctor will choose what treatment the participant will
      get. Participants will have an equal chance of being given each therapy. Audio and video
      recordings will be taken during each 'Zoom' therapy session. Recordings will be kept on
      password encrypted USB drives and stored in a locked office only accessible to the principal
      investigator and adherence coder. Finally, the investigators hope to learn whether these
      therapies affect how often participants take their cystic fibrosis medications, and how this
      affects their health and wellbeing. To study this, the investigators will review information
      from medical charts such as the number of appointments that kept, the number of appointments
      missed, pulmonary function tests, number of hospital or doctor visits, and the presence of
      any symptoms of depression or anxiety.

      Measures administered are as follows:

      Page 1-2: Demographics Page 3-6: CFMHWQ: CF Mental Health and Wellness Self-Report Measure.
      Page 7-8: BDI-II: Beck Depression Inventory-II. Page 9: BAI: The Beck Anxiety Index. Pearson.
      Page 10-13: CFQ-R: Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised. Page 14: Medical Coping Modes
      Questionnaire. Page 15: CFS: Coping Flexibility Scale. Page 16: My CF Treatments: Treatment
      Adherence Questionnaire-CF. Page 17-18: ACT Demographics Page 19: CFQ13: Cognitive Fusion
      Questionnaire. Page 20: Short Grit Scale Page 21: AAQ-II: Acceptance and Action
      Questionnaire. Page 22-23: Styles of Coping Word-Pairs.
    
  