
    
      Problem and Justification:

      Endometriosis is defined as the presence of endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity,
      which induces a chronic inflammatory response.

      It is a common problem that affects about 6-10% of women of reproductive age, 50-60% of women
      and adolescents with pelvic pain and nearly 50% of women with infertility. it is
      characterized by abdominal pain, back pain, pain during sex, dysfunctional uterine bleeding
      and infertility. Being a common condition among women of childbearing age, which often goes
      undiagnosed for many years. This delay in diagnosis is due to the variability of symptoms and
      the lack of tools for accurate diagnosis available for primary care, which is a major burden
      on the quality of life of patients symptomatic.

      The diagnosis of endometriosis should start with clinical history and physical examination
      and transvaginal ultrasound has proven useful in the diagnosis of ovarian endometriomas and
      its differential diagnosis with other ovarian masses.

      Histologically the lesions identified in endometriosis resemble endometrial tissue in places
      outside the endometrium, which proliferates in response to hormonal changes that occur with
      menstruation, causing increased pain and bleeding.

      Pharmacological agents are preferred as first-line treatment for managing the symptoms. Among
      these, oral contraceptives are used to treat symptoms of menorrhagia and dysmenorrhoea
      associated with endometriosis, affecting the endometrial lining by decreasing the
      proliferation of endometrial tissue during the menstrual cycle, to shorten the number of days
      in which endometrial tissue appears, reducing the amount and consistency of bleeding.

      Another drug that is used to manage this condition is the Dienogest, which has proven
      superior to treatment with placebo and the effect is comparable to that of other drugs used
      in the management of endometriosis, as progestins or GnRH analogues.

      All drug treatments for endometriosis are effective in reducing the size and number of
      lesions, and are not intended to cure the disease or eliminate the injury of the peritoneal
      cavity. Another management option is surgery, which should be reserved for specific cases or
      those patients who do not respond to drug treatment.

      Endometriosis is a disease that imposes a severe financial burden on society, and a physical
      and emotional toll on people who have it. Therefore it is important to understand, and
      education by medical staff against this disease. According to the statistics service
      approximately 200 women a year are treated in reproductive age of which on average 50 are
      endometriomas and since there is no clear scientific evidence on the impact of combined oral
      contraceptives compared with using Dienogest, the objective of this study is to determine the
      impact of Dienogest to 2 mg / day compared with combined oral contraceptives (levonorgestrel
      + ethinyl estradiol) in reducing the size of the endometriomas diagnosed by transvaginal
      ultrasound in women with diameters smaller than 4 centimeters thereof, in the Hospital
      Universitario Fundación Santa Fe de Bogota.

      Goals:

      General: Determine the impact of Dienogest to 2 mg / day compared with combined oral
      contraceptives (levonorgestrel + ethinyl estradiol 0.10 mg - 0.02 mg / day) in the treatment
      of endometriomas diagnosed by transvaginal ultrasound in women with smaller diameters 4
      centimeters thereof, at University Hospital Fundación Santa Fe de Bogota.

      Specific:

        -  Determine Decreasing the size of endometriomas Dienogest using as medical treatment for
           endometriosis.

        -  Determine Decreased endometriomas size using a combined oral contraceptive as medical
           treatment for endometriosis.

        -  Determine Through ultrasound scanning diagnostic tool as the impact of the reduction in
           size of endometriomas.

        -  Compare The effect of the Dienogest vs the combined oral contraceptive in time.
           Methodology Type of study Experimental study single-blind randomized clinical trial by
           the observer. Universe Endometriomas of patients with diameters smaller than 4
           centimeters diagnosed by transvaginal ultrasound in patients presenting to the Santa Fe
           de Bogota Foundation between 2015 and 2016.

      Sample size

      To analyze cases of endometriomas in which medical management vs Dienogest be used with oral
      contraceptives, the sample size is calculated using the estimated sample size with a
      comparison of proportions between 2 samples with the following information:

      N: 200 Proportion: 1.6%, and the estimated prevalence of endometriosis is 8% and 20% of those
      with endometriomas.

      Confidence level: 95% Z2: 1.96 Alpha error 5% No: 22 Estimated loss: 10%

      Sample required:

      N1: 25 N2: 25
    
  