
    
      Feeding preterm infants continues to challenge health care providers because of difficulty to
      provide adequate volume of milk that maintains optimum nutrition without increasing the risk
      of feeding intolerance. Preterm, VLBW, infants are at increased risk of feeding intolerance
      as they have shorter GIT with lower digestive, absorptive, and motility capabilities than
      those of full-term infants. Intolerance to enteral feeding has been associated with abdominal
      distention, initiation of inflammatory cascade, edema of the bowel, and subsequent
      development of necrotizing enterocolitis.

      Oral feeding is the best physiologic method for enteral nutrition of preterm infants.
      However, because of immaturity of suckling reflex and poor coordination between suckling and
      swallowing, gavage feeding (oro-gastric or naso-gastric tube feeding) has been used an
      alternative method of enteral nutrition in preterm infants.

      During breastfeeding, mother's milk comes in contact with mouth and oro-pharyngeal pouch
      which, theoretically, stimulates both oro-pharyngeal receptors that improves the motility,
      secretory, and absorptive ability of the GIT. Furthermore, anti-inflammatory and
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, which are present abundantly in mother's colostrum and milk, may
      exert an immuno-protective effect when they come in contact with oro-pharyngeal as well as
      GIT mucosa.

      Preterm, VLBW, infant in the NICU receives enteral feedings by a naso-gastric or oro-gastric
      gavage tube. Thus, mother's milk does not typically come into contact with oro-pharyngeal
      pouch which delays the maturation of oral suckling and swallowing skills in preterm infants.

      Oral stimulation has been shown to improve oral feeding performance, attain early oral
      feeding, improve weight gain and shorten the length of hospital stay. Investigators aimed to
      study the effect of Oro-pharyngeal administration of mother's milk before regular gavage
      feeding on gastrointestinal movement in preterm infants.
    
  