
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The primary objective of this study is to compare the pathologic complete response rate
      (pCR) within the breast of a sequential regimen of concurrent weekly paclitaxel and
      trastuzumab, followed by continued weekly trastuzumab administered concurrently with FEC-75
      (Arm 2), to the pCR rate of a sequential regimen of FEC-75 alone followed by concurrent
      weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab (Arm 1).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the cardiotoxicity of a sequential regimen of concurrent weekly paclitaxel and
      trastuzumab, followed by continued weekly trastuzumab administered concurrently with FEC-75,
      followed postoperatively by q 3 week trastuzumab for a total duration of trastuzumab therapy
      through 52 weeks from the first dose (Arm 2), and compare the cardiotoxicity to that of a
      sequential regimen of FEC-75 alone followed by concurrent weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab,
      followed by q 3 week trastuzumab for a total duration of trastuzumab therapy through 52 weeks
      from the first dose (Arm 1).

      II. To compare the combined pCR rate in the breast and ipsilateral axilla obtained with the
      two regimens evaluated in this study.

      III. To compare the clinical response rates (cRR) of the two regimens evaluated in this
      study.

      IV. To compare the non-cardiac toxicity of the two regimens evaluated in this study.

      V. To compare breast conservation rates achieved with the two regimens evaluated in this
      study.

      VI. To evaluate disease-free survival and overall survival at 5 years post-randomization.

      VII. To correlate pCR rate with potential molecular markers of response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified by clinical tumor size (breast tumor size < 2 cm and nodal
      metastases < 2 cm vs breast tumor size < 2 cm and nodal metastases ≥ 2 cm vs breast tumor
      size 2-4 cm [any nodal status] vs breast tumor size ≥ 4 cm [any nodal status]), age (< 50 vs
      ≥ 50) and hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER]- and progesterone receptor
      [PgR]-negative vs ER- and/or PgR-positive). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive FEC comprising fluoroucacil intravenously (IV), epirubicin
      hydrochloride IV, and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4
      courses. Beginning 21 days after completion of FEC, patients receive paclitaxel IV once
      weekly and trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV once weekly for 12 weeks. Within 6 weeks after
      completion of paclitaxel and trastuzumab, patients undergo surgery. Beginning 3-4 weeks after
      surgery, patients receive trastuzumab IV once every 3 weeks for up to 52 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV once weekly and trastuzumab IV once weekly for 12
      weeks. Beginning 7 days after completion of paclitaxel and trastuzumab, patients receive FEC
      comprising fluoroucacil IV, epirubicin IV, and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Patients also receive trastuzumab IV once weekly for an
      additional 12 weeks. Within 6 weeks after completion of FEC and trastuzumab, patients undergo
      surgery. Beginning 3-4 weeks after surgery, patients receive trastuzumab as in arm I.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  