
    
      After 18 cycles, patients not having received daratumumab before (arm 1 and 2a), will receive
      consolidation with 4 cycles of Lenalidomida-dexamethasone at low dose-DARATUMUMAB.

      At this point (after 22 months on treatment for the VMP-Rd and KRd arm and after 18 months of
      the Carfilzomib-lenalidomida-dexametasona-DARATUMUMAB arm) patients will be stratified
      according MRD status by flow and in both MRD- and MRD+ groups, patients will be randomized
      with a 1:1 allocation ratio to:

        1. no further treatment or

        2. continuous treatment with DARATUMUMAB-R (daratumumab plus lenalidomide up to 2 years and
           then lenalidomide continuous until progression).

      Patients on no maintenance that show biological relapse will be rechallenged with
      DARATUMUMAB-R.

      The translational part will be very robust with dysplasia monitoring (especially relevant for
      the Bortezomib-melfalán-prednisona + Lenalidomida-dexamethasone at low dose arm), clonal
      evolution/resistance follow up and immune reconstitution longitudinal follow up alongside
      with MRD status (at diagnosis, 9 months, 18 months, 22 months and treatment discontinuation).

      The trial is designed as a two-stage study (induction, followed by consolidation and
      maintenance). The first stage is confirmatory and addresses the primary efficacy objective.
      The second stage is exploratory and addresses the secondary efficacy and safety objectives.

      In the first stage, investigators will compare an optimized standard induction Bortezomib,
      talidomida and prednisone followed by Rd (18 cycles) versus KRd, that will be tested in this
      trial with or without daratumumab x 18 cycles. The main objective in this stage will be to
      compare the immunophenotypic complete response rate assessed by next generation flow at the
      end of induction.

      The second stage is exploratory and includes the consolidation and maintenance phases. In
      this second stage, the main objectives are:

        1. To compare the above mentioned induction strategies in terms of PFS at the end of the
           different treatment phases (induction, consolidation and maintenance).

        2. To investigate the capacity of consolidation with daratumumab-lenalidomide to reduce MRD
           levels in patients treated in the control arm as well as those that received KRd without
           daratumumab. In addition we will explore if this short consolidation can abrogate the
           potential benefit of a prolonged induction with KRd+daratumumab

        3. To explore the value of maintenance therapy according to MRD status (positive or
           negative) to prolong PFS (after a second randomization to receive or not maintenance
           therapy with lenalidomide and daratumumab) In order to prevent a potential treatment
           deficiency for patients randomized to "no-maintenance" in both MRD+ and MRD- subgroups,
           they will be offered to be re-challenged with lenalidomide-daratumumab as soon as they
           have a biological progression and have been censored for PFS. Moreover, if 30% of the
           patients randomized to "no-maintenance" relapse or progress during the first year, the
           protocol will be amended so that all patients receive maintenance therapy.

      Investigators consider that the here proposed multidrug sequential "intensive" approach
      designed to obtain the best possible and most durable response, assessed through the kinetics
      of MRD clearance, may have an impact in establishing future clinical practice in fit elderly
      patients. Moreover, in addition to the MRD analysis (based on next generation flow (NGF), NGS
      and CT-PET) comprehensive biological investigations, including immunoprofile, clonal
      selection, analysis of dysplastic features and circulating tumor cells, are planned in order
      to better understand the relationship between patients outcome and myeloma biology.

      The overall treatment plan has been designed for NDMM patients not candidates to SCT
      strategies but fit enough to tolerate a relatively intensive therapeutic strategy. According
      to the International Myeloma Working Group guidelines as well as the results obtained in our
      GEM2010 trial for elderly patients, we have decided to restrict this trial to fit elderly
      patients aged between 65 and 80 years because in our experience patients older than 80 years
      usually intensive treatments are poorly tolerated [1].

      Investigators will evaluate the frailty using a comprehensive health status assessment scale
      (Geriatric Assessment in Hematology, GAH scale, annex 11), already validated in patients with
      hematological diseases and preliminary results in multiple myeloma patients
    
  