
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the sensitivity and specificity of relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV)
      measured by steady state magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with ferumoxytol in predicting true
      versus (vs) pseudoprogression after stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) and intravenous (IV)
      pembrolizumab in subjects with brain metastases from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab when given with SRS in subjects with
      brain metastasis.

      II. Evaluate progression free survival, overall survival, best response in brain disease,
      best response in systemic disease, and duration of best responses of brain and systematic
      diseases.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the immune response as determined by the volume, pattern and intensity of delayed
      (24 hour [hr]) ferumoxytol uptake between subjects who develop true vs pseudoprogression.

      II. Investigate the serum immunological parameters and correlate clinical as well as
      radiological response with systemic immune response to pembrolizumab as measured by
      immunological panel.

      III. Compare the changes percentage expression in PDL-1 in the biopsy tissue before and after
      therapy at the time of progression.

      IV. In subjects with measurable systemic lesions, investigate the feasibility of measuring
      vascular volume fraction (VVF), vessel size index (VSI) and vessel density index (VDI) as
      surrogate for response (true vs. pseudoprogression, as measured with Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1 criteria).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat
      every 3 weeks for up to 2 years (or up to 32 cycles) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ferumoxytol IV and undergo MRI at baseline, 12
      weeks after radiation, at suspected radiographic progression, and 6 weeks after suspected
      radiographic progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 12 weeks for
      up to 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  