
    
      The current study is a part of the TackSHS project and will be conducted in three selected
      European countries, coordinated by Prof Luke Clancy, Director General of TobaccoFree Research
      Institute (Dublin, Ireland).

      Background: Respiratory disease causes an important worldwide health burden. It was estimated
      that in 2020, of 68 million deaths worldwide, 11.9 million will be caused by lung diseases,
      4.7 by COPD, 2.5 by pneumonia, 2.4 by TB and 2.3 million by lung cancer. Over the past two
      decades, scientific evidence has accumulated linking secondhand tobacco smoke (SHS) exposure
      to adverse health outcomes, including respiratory outcomes in children and adults, acute
      cardiovascular effects, and lung cancer. However, there is scarce knowledge about health
      effects of SHS on respiratory disease patients. TackSHS is a new research project funded by
      the European Commission (EC) within the Horizon 2020 programme (Grant Agreement: 681040).
      Within the TackSHS Project, WorkPackage 5 is aimed to broaden knowledge and improve
      understanding of (immediate) effects of SHS to respiratory health.

      The study objectives are to:

        -  measure respiratory health effects when exposed to SHS in: patients with asthma and COPD

        -  investigate exposure levels to Second Hand Smoke (SHS) in smoking areas provided by
           bars, casinos, bingo halls, etc.

      Study Design Population: The study population will consist of 30 Asthmatic and 30 COPD
      subjects to be recruited through the European Lung Foundation (ELF) in three EU countries (20
      subjects in each country), leading to a total sample of 60 participants.

      Study location: Czech Republic, Ireland, Spain

      Study description

      To achieve the above mentioned objectives the described below study was designed.

      Each patient will visit the centre on 2 occasions. During the first visit the study will be
      explained to the participants, both in written (information sheet) and oral forms, the
      recruitment questionnaire will be filled to ascertain personal smoking status, other sources
      of exposure, average weekly exposure in hospitality premises, and experience of respiratory
      symptoms; in addition, CO reading and spirometry will be performed by experienced nurse.
      During this session, patients will be also trained of fitting and use of necessary devices:
      Respeck / AirSpeck. Diary cards will be demonstrated and explained to the patients. This
      first visit will be scheduled during the day prior to exposure.

      After the first visit, all participants will be asked to fill in daily diary cards recording
      morning and evening peak flow results, medication consumed, any occurring symptoms (cough,
      wheeze), doctor or hospital visits, exposure to SHS and number of cigarettes smoked (if any).
      The participants will be also asked to note when the exposure to outside SHS occurred as well
      as peak flow results pre and post exposure.

      All the patients will be trained in the use of monitoring equipment, which will measure their
      exposure to pollutants including SHS as well as measuring the effects on their health. Air
      pollution will be measured through the use of a cutting-edge, small portable instrument that
      can continuously and rapidly record changes in the air. Respiratory function will be measured
      by Spirometry and exhaled breath gases (e.g. Carbon Monoxide). A small sensor attached to
      each participant's chest (RESpeck) will measure and record respiratory rate and or wheeze.
      This will not cause any undue discomfort or inconvenience to participants.

      Intervention (Exposure) At least one outing to an outdoor smoking area should happen. The
      duration of time to be spent in the outdoor smoking area is to be a minimum of 15 minutes
      with a preferable time of 30-60 minutes. Diary card entries are to be done on day of exposure
      and will include description of premises visited number of smokers and or E-cigarette users
      present during exposure time as well as any use of medication required during the 24hour
      period.

      At the second (post exposure) visit all data recorded by devices will be downloaded and
      checked and any diary card anomalies will be addressed and clarified with the patient. In
      addition, CO reading and spirometry will be repeated.

      National Partners will be trained in the use of devices measuring exposure using AirSpeck and
      respiratory rate using RESpeck. Data will be transmitted to a secure server for analysis Data
      collection, analysis and report writing: this will be carried out by TFRI in collaboration
      with Project Partners and in consultation with Prof Rod Jones and Prof DK Arvind.

      Primary endpoints:

        -  To monitor personal exposure to SHS in areas exempted from legislation in pubs, bars and
           casinos etc. using novel monitoring technologies

        -  To simultaneously monitor the respiratory effects as indicated by changes in respiratory
           rate and flow and activity levels

        -  To monitor peak flow rates recorded by patients using diary cards and peak flow meters.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Medication usage

        -  Primary care and/or hospital visits

        -  CO monitoring pre and post study

        -  Spirometry results pre and post exposure

      Ethical approval was sought from DIT Ethics Committee prior to beginning of the project. All
      documentation relating to the project was provided for ethical review. There are no perceived
      Ethical issues as patients will be fully informed and there will be no intervention other
      than monitoring. It was considered that requesting subjects to go into outside smoking areas
      might be a problem so only subjects who are already frequent visitors of such areas will be
      recruited.

      Once eligibility has been determined patients will be given an appointment in a research
      center where they will receive an information leaflet. Once this has been read and any
      concerns of the participant addressed and explained, they will then be asked to provide
      written consent prior to their study enrolment. Consent will be obtained from all
      participants. Consent is on-going and participants can revoke consent at any stage of the
      project.

      The safety of all research participants will be considered at all times, they will be seen in
      an insured medical practice. All personnel dealing with patients will be fully trained and
      insured.

      All data will be stored on a secure server and will be de-identified. Data will be entered
      giving each participant a unique identifier code; neither their name, address, nor date of
      birth will be recorded in order to protect the confidentiality of the participant. Analysis
      will be carried out on a blinded dataset using SPSS.

      All digitally recorded data will be downloaded from the device to a secure server. A Post Doc
      and or a Research assistant working with TFRI with advice from partners will further examine
      study data. Any anomalies found will be addressed and resolved from source data.
    
  