
    
      Craniosynostosis is the condition in which there is premature fusion of one or more of these
      sutures between the bones of the skull. Craniosynostosis limits the ability of the cranial
      vault to expand to accommodate the rapidly growing brain in infancy and early childhood.
      Deformation of skull shape results as cranial vault expansion occurs in areas of the skull
      that have not abnormally fused. Left uncorrected, craniosynostosis may adversely impact
      neurologic and psychosocial development. In some cases, increased intracranial pressure may
      also result.

      Craniofacial (CF) reconstruction procedures to treat craniosynostosis are undertaken in young
      children to improve appearance, prevent functional disturbances, and enhance psychosocial
      development. Optimal surgical results are achieved when these procedures are performed in
      infancy. These procedures are extensive, often requiring wide scalp dissections and multiple
      osteotomies and have been associated with significant morbidity. Reported complications
      include massive blood loss, intraoperative cardiac arrest, transfusion reactions, venous air
      embolism, hypotension, coagulopathy, bradycardia, postoperative seizures, surgical site
      infections, facial swelling, and unplanned postoperative mechanical ventilation (7-13). Many
      of the most severe and commonly seen problems are associated with the rate and extent of
      blood loss.

      Intraoperatively, the presence of hyperfibrinolysis has been demonstrated in children
      undergoing CF reconstruction procedures (8,14), although the extent of its contribution to
      bleeding is unclear.

      Epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA), another inhibitor of fibrinolysis, is an attractive
      alternative. EACA is a synthetic lysine analog that blocks the lysine binding sites on
      plasminogen, resulting in antifibrinolytic activity through inhibition of plasmin formation.

      We have chosen to study EACA in this population.
    
  