
    
      A telephone screening interview will be used to assess each participant's OA status and
      assessment of the reported duration of knee OA, current and past treatments, comorbid
      conditions, current medication use, dietary conditions and other exclusion criteria.
      Eligible, participants will be invited to the testing facilities in Campbell Hall for
      informed consent and baseline measures. Following this visit, participants will record daily
      food consumption for one week as well as daily pain ratings. After one week, participants
      will visit the Clinical Research Unit for fasted blood draw and additional testing.
      Immediately following this session, participants will be asked to select one week of meals
      and snacks from a menu of commercially-available meals. Study personnel will record the
      choices and order the meals to be delivered to the participants to initiate the intervention.
      During the 12-week intervention, participants will be contacted by study personnel weekly to
      place food orders and be instructed to record any beverages consumed during the week. Every
      three weeks, participants will return for testing. At the end of 12 weeks, blood will be
      taken prior to testing/debriefing.

      Participants. The investigators will recruit 20 adult women (65-75) with knee OA with equal
      representation across racial groups (10 AA, 10 NHW). Peak prevalence rates for OA are at the
      65-75 years of age, so the investigators feel confident that there will be no trouble
      recruiting this population. Participants will be recruited using existing databases,
      community flyers and community outreach. The feasibility trial used prescribed diets and had
      an attrition rate of 0% in the LCD group. Here, provision of all of the food for the
      intervention is expected to have lower rates of attrition.

      Inclusion criteria will include:

        1. diagnosis of knee OA;

        2. pain in at least 4/7 days/week for the past 3 months;

        3. age between 65-75;

        4. average daily consumption of >100 g carbohydrates;

        5. understanding of verbal and written English;

        6. self-identification as either AA or NHW;

        7. BMI between 25 and 40 kg/m2.

      Exclusion criteria will be the following:

        1. diabetes;

        2. unwillingness to follow prescribed diets;

        3. recent weight change (>4 kg in past month);

        4. currently on a diet;

        5. history of eating disorders or other psychiatric disorders;

        6. digestive diseases;

        7. difficulty chewing or swallowing;

        8. reliance on others for meal preparation;

        9. cardiovascular or pulmonary disease;

       10. daily opioid pain medications;

       11. use of medications known to alter metabolism or digestion (e.g., proton-pump
           inhibitors);

       12. use of anti-hypertensive medications that affect glucose tolerance;

       13. use of tobacco;

       14. participation in extreme exercise,

       15. knee replacement.

      Diet Intervention. All foods will be provided under the direction of study personnel and will
      be delivered weekly to participants' home address. Weekly contact will maintain retention in
      the intervention and improve adherence. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans suggests 225-325
      g of carbohydrates/day. Therefore, those participants consuming less than 100 g/day would be
      considered as consuming a reduced-carbohydrate diet and will be excluded. Participants are
      directed to reduce their total (not net) carbohydrate intake to ≤ 40 g/day. Meals will be
      offered such that no combination of chosen meals will exceed our limit. Fats will not be
      restricted, nor will protein (meats, eggs). Fruits will be restricted and vegetables
      permitted in limited quantities (2 cups/day of leafy greens, 1 cup/day non-starchy
      vegetables, etc.). Participants will be instructed as to the types and quantities of
      beverages that are permitted to accompany the LCD. Daily or almost-daily consumption of
      sugar-sweetened beverages was associated with lowered optimism in chronic pain sufferers and
      greater risk for depression in healthy women. Artificial carbohydrate-free sweeteners (stevia
      or sucralose) will be permitted, but powdered sweeteners (aspartame, saccharin, stevia,
      sucralose) can only be used in limited quantities as they contain maltodextrin (1 g of
      rapidly digesting carbohydrate). LCDs are known to be safe and first-line treatments for
      diabetes. LCDs are also known to reduce inflammatory biomarkers to a greater extent than
      low-fat diets. In fact, a LCD resulted in improved insulin sensitivity as well as reduced
      triglycerides even when weight loss was accounted for.

      Anthropocentric Measures. Body weight, height, waist circumference, blood pressure, and heart
      rate will be assessed.

      Pain-Specific Questionnaires. Pain and disability will be measured using the Brief pain
      Inventory (BPI) short form and the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis
      Index (WOMAC). The BPI is used to assess the severity of pain and the degree to which that
      pain interferes with daily activities. This inventory also allows for reports on medications
      used to treat pain. The WOMAC is commonly used in studies of arthritis and has been validated
      in numerous clinical trials. Specifically, the WOMAC allows for assessment of pain and
      interference, but also is specific to aspects of stiffness in the joints not accessed by
      other surveys. The investigators have previously utilized these measures for chronic pain
      sufferers. These assessments will be given at baseline and every 3 weeks.

      Evoked Pain Testing. Functional tests will be carried out by study personnel. Participants
      will rate the intensity and unpleasantness of the pain in their affected knee (0-100 scale)
      prior to and immediately following the tests. The numerical rating scale will be anchored at
      0 (no pain) and 100 (worst pain imaginable). Questionnaires will be given between each task
      to allow for a rest period. Task order will be randomized.

      Temporal summation will be assessed on the patellar of the affected knee using a nylon
      monofilament (Touch test Sensory Evaluator 6.65) calibrated to bend at 300 g of pressure.
      Participants will provide a pain rating following a single contact of the monofilament, after
      which they will provide another pain rating following a series of 10 contacts (at a rate of
      one contact per second). The change in pain ratings for single versus multiple contacts
      reflects temporal summation.

      Repeated chair stands is a portion of the Short Performance Physical Battery. Participants
      are asked to stand from a sitting position five times in a row as fast as possible with arms
      crossed. The time to completion and number of successful stands is scored as the degree of
      ability.

      Timed Up-and-Go is a common task for evaluating pain interference of everyday activities.
      From a seated position, participants will be asked to get up, walk 10 feet, turn and return
      to the chair. Time to complete the task will be recorded.

      Timed walk will be the final task included. As in the Short Performance Physical Battery, a
      distance of 15 feet will be marked out on the floor. Participants will complete the distance
      walking at normal gait speed twice and the time to complete each walk will be recorded.

      Quality of Life and Emotional State. Quality of Life will be measured using the short form 36
      (SF-36) every 3 weeks. The SF- 36 measures general health status and quality of life across
      eight domains that are relevant for assessment of a diet intervention. The domains include
      physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health, bodily pain, general health
      perceptions, vitality, social functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems, and
      mental health. The SF-36 has demonstrated reliability and validity in older adult populations
      and in diet intervention studies. Depression and mood will be assessed using the Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), which assesses the DSM-IV criteria for depression and can
      measure depression severity and response to intervention. Participants with PHQ-9 scores >15
      will be referred to University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) Psychiatry Services for
      evaluation, as will participants identifying suicidal ideation of any duration on question 9.

      Oxidative Stress. At baseline and at the end of the intervention, 10 ml of blood will be
      taken by a trained research nurse. Sera will be isolated, aliquoted, and frozen at -80°C.
      Serum samples will be analyzed for TBARS (oxidative stress) by ELISA using
      commercially-available kits.

      Statistical Analysis. Data analysis will begin with an Intention-To-Treat (ITT) analysis to
      account for participant attrition through inclusion of all randomized participants, as
      recommended by the Food and Drug Administration. This analysis will be followed by an
      analysis of per-protocol completers (adherence) and will begin with calculation of measures
      of central tendency (mean, median) and dispersion (variance, interquartile range) for all
      study variables.

      Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to determine the efficacy of the
      diet across time for evoked and self-reported pain measures and oxidative stress.To assess
      efficacy of the intervention across races, this will be a cross-sectional analysis using
      change from baseline to 12-weeks. Generalized linear models will be used to assess the main
      effects of race on changes in daily pain and evoked pain, as well as depression and quality
      of life and oxidative stress. Pearson correlations will be calculated to assess the
      relationship between daily pain and oxidative stress within each group at baseline and after
      12 weeks. For each outcome measure of interest, normality assumptions will be assessed,
      distributions (e.g. normal, binary, Poisson) explored, and transformations employed when
      appropriate. Based on our preliminary results showing significant changes in the LCD group
      with 8 participants, the investigators feel that n=10/group is appropriate. Additionally,
      with 90% power and alpha set to 0.05, a total sample of 20 will allow detection of an effect
      size as low as 0.4 for our primary comparisons. With 80% power, the investigators will be
      able to detect effect sizes as low as 0.34.

      Clinically-Meaningful Differences. Group mean differences are not always reflective of
      clinically-meaningful differences at the individual level. Therefore a post-hoc analysis will
      be carried out using published clinically- meaningful differences in: (1) WOMAC pain, (2)
      WOMAC disability, and baseline pain intensity score. Briefly, a reduction of ≥1.5 (pain) or
      ≤6.0 (disability) is considered clinically-meaningful, as is a reduction of ≥1.7 on an
      11-point rating scale. Conversely, an increase of ≥2.2 (pain) or ≥6.0 (disability) is
      considered worsening, as is an increase of ≥2.2 on an 11-point scale. Generalized linear
      mixed models will be used to estimate the odds of reporting improvement or worsening between
      AA and NHW participants.
    
  