
    
      Our hypothesis is that blood oxygen tension will not decrease and may even increase when a
      patient with respiratory failure stands up. Supine positioning often causes partial lung
      collapse, which results in a decreased amount of lung being available for gas exchange. In
      patients with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), tilting the patient up in bed has
      been shown to increase oxygen tension and improve lung compliance. Positional changes are
      sometimes used as a "rescue" intervention in patients with severe hypoxemia from ARDS. The
      investigators hope to conclude that severe hypoxemia should not be viewed as a
      contraindication to physical therapy, but rather physical therapy may be a potential
      intervention for patients with marginal gas exchange.

      After sedative interruption, physical therapists and nursing staff will assist mechanically
      ventilated patients in moving to the side of the bed. They will assess the extremity strength
      using the MRC scale. If lower extremity strength is at least 4/5, the patient will be
      assisted to assume the upright position. The investigators will monitor the patient
      continuously and the session will be stopped at any point for

      A. Mean arterial pressure <65 B. Heart rate <40, >130 beats/min C. Respiratory rate <5, >40
      breaths/ min D. Pulse oximetry <88% E. Marked ventilator dyssynchrony F. Patient distress G.
      New arrhythmia H. Concern for myocardial ischemia I. Concern for airway device integrity J.
      Endotracheal tube removal

      At this point, the patient's vital signs, pulse oximetry, and measures of lung compliance
      will be obtained. If an arterial line is in place and there have been ventilator adjustments
      since the morning arterial blood gas, the investigators will draw an arterial blood gas.

      The physical therapists and nursing staff will then help the patient stand up. After one
      minute, the investigators will record another set of vital signs, pulse oximetry, and
      measures of lung compliance from the mechanical ventilator. If an arterial line is in place,
      the investigators will draw another arterial blood gas.

      The patient will then be assisted back into bed. One hour later, the investigators will
      record the patient's vital signs, pulse oximetry, and measures of lung compliance from the
      mechanical ventilator.
    
  