
    
      The relationship between psychological factors, behaviors, and cognitive processes and the
      sensation of pain is well documented. Stress, distress, anxiety, depression, catastrophizing,
      fear-avoidance behaviors, and poor coping strategies appear to have a significant positive
      relationship with both acute and chronic pain. Evidence suggests that these psychological
      factors can cause alterations along the spinal and supraspinal pain pathways which influence
      the perception of pain. Previous studies suggest that patients' beliefs and expectations may
      be associated with clinical outcomes, including self-reported pain. Previous studies in
      trauma patients have demonstrated patients' beliefs and expectations regarding their recovery
      following surgery are associated with functional limitations, lower rates of return to work,
      and reduced quality of life one year after injury. Furthermore, up to two thirds of patients
      with operative managed extremity fractures demonstrate unhelpful illness beliefs that
      increase risks of negative outcomes, including persistent pain. Psychological interventions,
      such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), that are designed to modify unhelpful beliefs
      and behaviours have the potential to reduce persistent post-surgical pain and its associated
      effects among trauma patients.

      Our primary objective is to determine if CBT, versus usual care, reduces the prevalence of
      moderate to severe PPSP over 12 months post-fracture in participants with an open fracture of
      the appendicular skeleton, or closed fracture of the lower extremity or pelvis. Our secondary
      objectives are to determine if CBT, versus usual care: 1) increases physical functioning, 2)
      improves mental functioning, 3) accelerates return to function, 4) reduces pain severity, and
      5) reduces pain interference over 12 months post-fracture, and 6) reduces the proportion of
      participants prescribed opioid class medications (and average dose) at 6 and 12 months
      post-fracture in patients with an open fracture of the appendicular skeleton or closed
      fracture of the lower extremity or pelvis. This trial is a multi-centre RCT of 1,000
      participants with an open fracture of the appendicular skeleton or closed fracture of the
      lower extremity or pelvis treated with internal fixation.
    
  