
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is the most common infection to be contracted before birth (a
      congenital infection); overall, about 20% of babies infected in this way have permanent
      health problems, such as hearing loss, learning delay or physical impairments. CMV is not a
      well-known infection, despite the health problems it can cause. It is actually more common
      than Down's syndrome or spina bifida. Simple hygiene measures may reduce the risk of catching
      CMV infection whilst pregnant and therefore also the risk of congenital infection in the
      infant. In the UK, pregnant women are not routinely counselled about these hygiene measures.

      Before a large-scale study can be performed in the UK to determine the effectiveness of an
      educational intervention in reducing CMV infection in pregnancy, educational materials need
      to be developed and tested to ensure the feasibility of such a large study.

      In this feasibility study, the investigators will work with pregnant women and families
      affected by CMV to design and produce a short film appropriate for use in the NHS to educate
      women about these simple hygiene measures (phase 1 of the study). Working in partnership with
      members of the public will help us ensure the content is relevant, clear and sensitive.The
      film will subsequently be tested in a study where women are assigned by chance to the
      educational intervention or to continue with treatment as usual with information about
      vaccines already recommended within the NHS. This ensures both groups will get some benefit
      from the study.

      This study will enable the investigators to work out the number of pregnant women who are at
      risk of contracting CMV, how many of these women would agree to take part and to calculate
      the number of people needed in a future main trial in order to come to a reliable answer.
      This feasibility study is therefore essential to the design of a large-scale future trial.
    
  