
    
      Patients who are eligible to take part in this study have already responded well to treatment
      with imatinib mesylate. Your disease is in what is called a complete cytogenetic remission
      (i.e., The Philadelphia chromosome is no longer detectable.). However, there is still a small
      amount of disease that can be detected using the most sensitive techniques available. CML-VAX
      B2 and CML-VAX B3 are experimental vaccines made from the proteins that cause leukemia cells
      in CML to behave abnormally. Imatinib mesylate is the standard therapy for CML and blocks the
      function of this protein.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. You will have a complete physical exam and medical history. Blood (about 2
      tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests. You will also have a bone marrow aspiration
      and a chromosome analysis of the number of chromosomes in the bone marrow. To collect a bone
      marrow aspiration, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a small
      amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle. Women who are able to
      have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      You will also have some additional blood work (about 1 tablespoon) to test the levels of
      leukemia in your blood. If you agree to participate in this study, this test will be repeated
      2 more times, about 2 weeks apart, before you can start vaccination. This is done to get a
      good measure of the amount of disease you may have.

      There are 2 different vaccines that can be used in this study, CML-VAX B2 and CML-VAX B3. If
      you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will only receive one of them.
      Which one you receive depends on the type of protein your leukemia makes, as these vaccines
      are specific to each of the 2 most common proteins that may be produced by CML cells.

      All participants in this study will receive 1 of the 2 vaccines as well as imatinib mesylate.
      Imatinib mesylate will continue to be given to you at the dose that you are taking now. The
      vaccines will be mixed with a substance called montanide. This is a standard procedure with
      vaccines and is done to try to make it more likely that you will have a good immune response
      to the vaccines in general.

      When the appropriate vaccine is selected for your use, you will receive an injection of the
      vaccine once every 2 weeks for the first 8 weeks, once 3 weeks later, and then once every
      month for a total of 15 vaccines in 12 months. You will receive the vaccine at M. D.
      Anderson. The vaccine will be injected in the arms or the thighs. Two days before each
      vaccination and again the day of each vaccination, you will receive an injection of a growth
      hormone called GM-CSF (Leukine). The purpose of this injection is to boost your immune
      system, in response to the vaccine, to specifically kill your leukemia. This injection is
      given through a small needle and injected under your skin in your arms or your thighs. You
      can be taught how to do this for yourself, but you may choose to have it given to you by a
      member of the study staff.

      Every time that you come in for an injection of the vaccine, you will also have a physical
      exam and have routine blood work done (about 2 tablespoons). Every 3 months while receiving
      the vaccine you will also have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) to test the level of leukemia
      and to see if you are responding to the vaccine.

      You will be taken off study if intolerable side effects occur or your disease comes out of
      remission. About 2 weeks after the last injection of vaccine, you will have blood drawn
      (about 1 tablespoon) to test the level of leukemia and to see if you are responding.

      This is an investigational study. CML-VAX B2 and CML-VAX B3 are not FDA approved. The vaccine
      and montanide will be free. Because you are receiving imatinib mesylate as part of your
      standard of care, you and/or your insurance company or third-party payer will be responsible
      for the costs of it. If GM-CSF is not covered by your insurance or other third-party payer,
      it will be provided free of charge. A maximum of 60 patients will take part in this study. A
      maximum of 20 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Optional Procedures: If you agree, additional blood tests (about 3 tablespoons each) will be
      done at about 30 days before the first vaccine, after 6 months and 9 months from the start of
      vaccination, and (about 10 tablespoons each) on the day of the first vaccine and after 3
      months and 2 weeks after the last vaccine to measure the response of your immune system to
      the vaccine.

      If you agree, a skin test will be done where a small amount of the proteins will be injected
      under your skin for another measure of response of your immune system. If a small nodule
      develops in the area where you receive this injection, it may represent an immune response.
      This will be measured by your doctor or your nurse.

      You do not have to agree to take part in the optional procedures in order to receive
      treatment on this study.
    
  