
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of web-based pre-test genetic education (i.e. before receipt of
      tumor profile results) to increase knowledge (genetic knowledge and knowledge of test
      benefits and limitations). (Step 1)

      II. To evaluate the efficacy of web-based pre-test genetic education (i.e. before receipt of
      tumor profile results) to decrease distress (anxiety, depression and cancer specific worry)
      compared to usual care services in patients undergoing tumor profiling for advanced cancer.
      (Step 1)

      III. To evaluate the uptake of remote genetic counseling (Step 2)

      IV. To evaluate the uptake of germline testing among advanced cancer patients with a
      potential clinically significant incidental germline mutation identified through tumor
      profiling in the Molecular Analysis for Therapy Choice (MATCH) trial. (Step 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate potential moderators suggested by the self-regulation theory of health
      behavior (SRTHB) (e.g. test result, sociodemographic factors, health literacy, baseline
      knowledge or distress) to changes in knowledge of genetic disease and test benefits and
      limitations. (Step 1)

      II. To evaluate potential moderators suggested by the SRTHB (e.g test result,
      sociodemographic factors, health literacy, baseline knowledge or distress) to changes in
      distress in patients undergoing tumor profiling for advanced cancer. (Step 1)

      III. To evaluate factors associated with uptake of genetic counseling and germline testing.
      (Step 2)

      IV. To evaluate cognitive, affective and behavioral (communication to relatives) responses to
      confirmatory germline testing in advanced cancer patients with potential clinically
      significant incidental germline mutation identified in tumor profiling. (Step 2)

      OUTLINE:

      STEP I (PRIMARY INTERVENTION STUDY): Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive web-based genetic education consisting of general information about
      testing tumors for genetic mutations.

      ARM B: Patients receive standard genetic education consisting of conversations with the
      treating physicians, interaction with and information from the clinical staff, and
      information from usual resources about testing for genetic mutations.

      STEP II (SECONDARY GENETIC COUNSELING SUBSTUDY):

      Patients who meet the criteria for the remote counseling substudy will receive genetic
      counseling over the telephone and undergo germline testing.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  