
    
      Peanut allergy occurs in about 1% of the population. Allergic reactions to peanuts and tree
      nuts account for the majority of fatal and near fatal food allergic reactions. Currently the
      only available treatment is complete avoidance of peanut. Despite avoidance, the majority of
      peanut allergic people will accidentally ingest peanut. Accurate diagnosis is critical, yet
      often problematic. Current diagnostic methods such as skin and blood tests cannot predict
      definitively who is allergic and can result in patients being falsely labeled. One such group
      is children who have never been exposed to peanut as a means of preventing allergy, yet have
      positive skin tests. The only means of definitively diagnosing this group is with an oral
      peanut challenge, a potentially risky procedure. Previous studies have demonstrated
      differences in certain genes and growth factors between peanut allergic and non-allergic
      individuals. The proposed study has 2 phases. The first phase, almost completed, examines
      expression of genes and growth factors in defined groups of peanut allergic and non-allergic
      individuals which should help distinguish between these groups. Peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells from each patient will be cultured and analyzed for a variety of growth factors and
      other immune molecules, including mRNA, thought to be important in allergy.

      The second phase of this study will involve feeding peanut to individuals with positive skin
      tests, who have never been peanut exposed. Their blood will be examined before and after the
      challenge using information from Part 1, and results will be correlated with their ability to
      tolerate peanut on feeding. This study should enable us to better predict who is truly peanut
      allergic.

      There are four groups of patients in this study. Group 1 consists of individuals who are
      allergic to peanut. This group of individuals will have a positive skin test to peanut and a
      previous allergi reaction to peanut. Group 2 consists of indivduals who have a positive skin
      test to peanut but who are able to ingest peanuts without problems. Group 3 consists of
      individuals who have a positive skin test to peanut but who have no known ingestion of peanut
      and who have avoided peanut lifelong for whatever reason (e.g. a strong family history of
      peanut allergy). Lastly, group 4 consists of control subjects who are negative to the peanut
      skin test and are able to tolerate peanut without problems.
    
  