
    
      BACKGROUND

      The prevalence of diabetic foot ulcers is expected to increase considerably due to a
      continuously increasing prevalence of diabetes. The healing process of diabetic foot ulcers
      is complicated by a complex pathophysiology of the distal lower extremities and a constant
      exposure to bacteria and pressure. Improving healing of diabetic foot ulcers will have
      several benefits including higher quality of life, reduced morbidity, reduced mortality and
      lower socioeconomic costs. Nonetheless, there are few randomized controlled clinical trials
      on surgical and non-surgical treatment chronic foot ulcers and many studies on the topic have
      a low level of evidence.

      TRIAL AIMS

      The investigators aim to assess the feasibility of conducting a definitive randomized
      controlled trial by exploring recruitment, patient acceptability, protocol adherence and
      adverse effects.

      The success criteria of the trial is as follows:

        -  Weekly recruitment rates at two patients or more.

        -  Time from first outpatient visit to recruitment at 21 days or less.

        -  Retention rate at 90-day follow-up at 50% or more

        -  No appearance of unacceptable adverse effects In addition, the trial aims to assess
           logistic concerns regarding the trial and to improve the method of inforatio
           application.

      Based on findings from the feasibility trial, the investigators may amend the design of the
      definitive trial.

      RECRUITMENT

      Patients are eligibility-screened and identified by the primary investigator and wound care
      staff when patients visit wound outpatient clinics at the recruiting facilities.

      INCLUSION AND FOLLOW-UP

      Eligible patients are included if they give their oral and written consent to participate.
      The baseline trial visit take place on the day that patients give their consent to
      participate.

      The trial comprises a 90-day clinical follow-up. Follow-up visits will be at 10, 21, 42 and
      90 days after baseline (give or take 3 days). Wounds are assessed at each trial visit. The
      inforatio technique is applied at baseline and again at the 21-follow-up day if the wound
      still has a diameter larger than four mms. Participants unable to attend at the precise dates
      for midtrial follow-up will be eligible for follow-up three days before or after the intended
      date. The participants who cannot attend during this window will skip the follow-up day in
      concern. If the participants miss the second intervention at the 21-day follow-up, they are
      excluded. For the 90-day follow-up, participants are recalled two times by the primary
      investigator within two weeks before being excluded.

      Participants exit from the trial if following occurs during follow-up:

        -  they undergo surgeries described in the exclusion criteria

        -  they get acute signs of infection, gangrene or osteomyelitis in their foot in concern

        -  their tendons, joints or bone become exposed in the wound bed

        -  they develop an acute phase of charcot arthropathy in their foot in concern

        -  they get admitted for reasons related to their foot ulcer

        -  they die or emigrate

      The trial is stopped if the intervention shows an unintended effect or potential harm.

      TRIAL STANDARD TREATMENT

      The participants receive a trial standard treatment at every trial visit. The treatment is
      conducted by the primary investigator in cooperation with wound care nurses and podiatrists.
      The standard treatment is defined based on Danish National guidelines, local guidelines of
      the recruiting facilities and guidelines of the National Institute for Health and Care
      Excellence.

      The treatment is based on a flowchart that individualizes treatment based on clinical wound
      characteristics.

      INFORATIO TECHNIQUE

      The technique is described in the Arms and Interventions section.

      TRIAL MEASURES

      Wound assessment: Wounds are assessed at every trial visit. To monitor the ulcer area during
      follow-up, the investigators will analyze digital photos of the ulcer by using Image J which
      is a wound planimetry software. The depth of the ulcers are measured with sterile wound
      probes and reported by intervals of 5 millimeters. Undermining will be assessed with the same
      method as for depth and in intervals of 5 millimeters.

      Microbial samples: At both stages of inforatio application, three punch biopsies are sent for
      cultivation to analyze bacterial species, bacterial load and resistance patterns of the
      bacteria.

      Patient and staff interviews: described in the Outcome Measures section

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      With descriptive statistics participants' demographics, the quantitative success criteria,
      the quantitative outcome measures and time to healing will be reported. Clinical healing is
      defined by intact epithelia.

      The investigators will use statistical software SPSS version 21.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, New
      York).

      SAMPLE SIZE CONSIDERATION

      Because effectiveness is not evaluated, a formal power calculation is not considered
      necessary for the objectives of a feasibility trial.

      To minimize the number of patients that are exposed to a new intervention meanwhile keeping a
      level of precision for the variance estimate, the rule of thumb by Julious et al will be used
      for determination of the trial sample size. Thus, 12 participants will be included in the
      trial. Julious et al argues that a sample size of 12 per group gives a sufficient precision
      of the mean and variance estimates. Other studies report rules of thumbs with larger sample
      size to gain sufficient power for a pilot or feasibility trial.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND RISK ASSESSMENT OF SIDE EFFECTS

      The procedure of the intervention is small with an expectedly small risk of harm outcomes.
      The punch biopsies from the inforatio technique is relatively shallow therefore it is not
      expected that it will penetrate important anatomical structures or expose bone.

      The primary investigator's clinical assessment, patient preference and patient tolerance is
      taken into consideration before inforatio technique is applied. Minimal discomfort is
      expected for the participants when they receive the inforatio technique treatment. Previous
      applications by the investigators showed that patients reported no or little pain during
      application.

      The inforatio technique treatment has previously shown potential to improve healing thus
      participants may gain an improvement in healing of their foot ulcers.

      If this trial shows that a definitive randomised clinical trial will be feasible, the
      investigators will examine the effect of inforatio technique through a larger randomised
      clinical trial. If the inforatio technique shows significant positive effect on time to
      healing it would become of great importance for future diabetic foot ulcer patients. The
      inforatio technique would become an addition to available therapeutic options. The technique
      is simple and only requires a punch biopsy tool. Nurses and general practitioners can be
      potential applicants that apply the treatment at clinics close to patient habitats making
      visits for wound treatment more convenient for the patients. If there is a significant
      positive effect on healing, it is expected that it will result in reduction of hospital
      admissions and less surgical interventions including amputations.

      This project may contribute to more focus on treatment of patients with diabetic foot ulcers
      - a field of research that still needs studies to enable evidence-based treatment.

      Inspectors from The National Committee of Health Research Ethics will have the authorization
      to quality control the trial.

      COMPETING INTERESTS

      The trial investigators declare that they have no competing interests.
    
  