
    
      This single centre study will be conducted at the Royal Derby Hospital, a 1139-bed tertiary
      care centre. Data will be collected from February 2013 to December 2013 on all adult patients
      over the age of 18 years. An electronic recognition system for AKI has been in use since 2010
      that allows prospective data collection for all cases of AKI. The electronic recognition
      system was modified in December 2012, to incorporate the Kidney Diseases Improving Global
      Outcomes (KDIGO) definitions for AKI. In an effort to improve the clinical outcomes, intranet
      guidelines were introduced along with the electronic recognition and alerting system. In
      December 2012, a one-page paper version of the AKI CB was devised, which was subsequently
      incorporated into the hospital electronic patient record on 1st February 2013. During this
      period, education on the AKI CB was given to all staff in acute areas of the hospital and a
      poster explaining the AKI CB was displayed in all clinical areas. The hospital already has
      electronic ordering of investigations and prescribing of medications in place. The CB
      consists of simple standardized investigations and interventions, reminding clinicians of the
      importance of thorough Assessment, Urinalysis, establishing a Diagnosis, planning
      Investigations and Treatment and at the same time issuing guidance about Seeking advice from
      nephrologist while caring for patients with AKI (AUDITS). All the steps in the CB are
      objective and the clinicians are requested to click yes or no for each step of the CB. On 1st
      August 2013, the AKI CB was coupled with an interruptive electronic alert, which was
      triggered by the first attempt to order blood tests or medications on patients who had been
      identified as having AKI. The interruptive alert would warn the clinician about AKI and
      request them to complete the AKI CB. Once the AKI CB was completed, the clinician was able to
      request blood tests or medication. The clinician would be able to override the alert only
      after stating the reason. The location of patients was categorized into the following
      divisions - Medical Assessment Unit, Medical wards, Surgical & Orthopedic wards, Haematology
      and Oncology wards, Intensive Care and Surgical Step Down (high dependency unit) and Other
      wards.

      A weekly report is automatically generated which captures patient location in the hospital,
      age, date of admission, date of discharge, finished consultant episode and survival status at
      the reporting date.

      For this study, the investigators will analyze all AKI episodes, which had the AKI CB
      completed early (defined as within 24 hours of availability of the blood results) with those
      who either had AKI CB completed late (defined as after 24 hours of availability of the blood
      results) or not completed at all. The AKI episodes who either had AKI CB completed late or
      not completed will be considered as not having AKI CB completed for this analysis. Community
      acquired AKI will be defined as AKI within 24 hours of admission. Survival status of all
      patients will be obtained in February 2015.
    
  