
    
      Hypothesis:

      Especially for gerontoprosthetics, the Locator® abutment system offers the possibility of a
      minimally invasive retention of prosthetic total restorations of edentulous mandibles. The
      reduced number of 2 interforaminal implants is intended to ensure implantological anchoring
      with minimal surgical, technical, financial and time expenditure.

      Research Question:

      How safe is this minimally invasive and cost-effective implant and anchoring system in terms
      of long-term outcome? Are the two implant-prosthetic procedures (immediate versus late
      restoration) different in terms of implant survival time?

      Materials and methods

      Enrollment:

        -  20 patients without relevant pre-existing conditions, from the age of 60 years

        -  edentulous mandible, alveolar ridge atrophy

      Statistical Analysis:

      When planning the study, it is estimated that bone resorption in the peri-implant area of the
      immediate-care implants is greater than in the late-treated implants. 10 patients per group
      are required with a t-test (α = 0.05) and a power of 80% if the null hypothesis is formulated
      as follows: -difference of means is 0 and the alternative - expected difference of means is
      1mm, common standard deviation is 0.75.

      Collective A (open healing - immediate loading): Insertion of a new, prefabricated total
      mandibular prosthesis on the day of the operation immediately postoperatively after screwing
      in the Locator® abutments.

      Polymerization of the corresponding Locator® matrices in the newly incorporated lower jaw
      denture in the patient's mouth.

      Collective B (closed implant healing - conventional loading): 3 months after implantation
      Exposure of the primary closed implants. Immediately following insertion of the prefabricated
      full-thickness UK prosthesis and retention by the implants using Locator® abutments.

      Test parameters:

        1. Intraoperative torque measurement in Ncm

        2. Radiological measurement of periimplant bone height using orthopantomogram

        3. 4-point measurement of peri-implant probing depth using WHO periodontal probe. The
           measurement is mesial, distal, buccal and lingual of the implant.

        4. Measurement of bleeding on probing (parameters of peri-implant inflammation) using the
           WHO periodontal probe.

        5. Analysis of implant stability using the Periotest® and Osstell® measuring instruments
           according to a standardized scheme: The strength values are performed in a measuring
           range consisting of a straight line through the center of the implant and the resulting
           180 ° circle sector anterior to this line results. After multiple measurements (5-fold)
           the lowest numerical value for the Periotest® and for the RFA (Osstell®) the lowest
           value documented.
    
  