
    
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multi-center study to evaluate the
      long-term safety and clinical efficacy of ManNAc in subjects with GNE myopathy.

      A total of 51 eligible subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either ManNAc at
      4 g three times daily (total of 12 g/day) or placebo. Subjects will have follow-up visits
      every 6 months (±7 days) and take study drug for a minimum of 24 months, until their final
      study visit . The final on-site study visit for a subject is the last expected 6-month
      follow-up visit that occurs prior to the time the last randomized subject is expected to
      reach 24 months (extended follow-up).

      Subjects will undergo screening and baseline evaluations that include clinical laboratory
      tests, Quantitative Muscle Assessment (QMA), the GNE Myopathy Physical Function Scale
      (GNEM-PFS), other patient-reported outcomes (PROs), and rehabilitation medicine functional
      assessments. Follow-up evaluations will occur every six months following baseline, until 24
      months after randomization of the last subject. Phone follow-up will occur every month
      without a clinic visit for the duration of the trial, and the last visit for each subject
      will be followed by phone follow-up 1 month after stopping study drug.

      The primary endpoint is the change in muscle strength of ankle dorsiflexion, knee flexion,
      knee extension, shoulder abduction, elbow flexion and grip reported as proportion of
      predicted strength. Muscle strength will be measured by fixed-frame Quantitative Muscle
      Assessment (QMA; Aeverl Medical).

      The primary analysis is based on comparing the rate of disease progression under placebo to
      that under treatment. The design of the trial is based on a Disease Progression Model of GNE
      myopathy that was generated using QMA muscle strength data collected in subjects with GNE
      myopathy as part of a prospective Natural History Study of the disease.

      It was estimated that 51 subjects with 2:1 randomization (ManNAc: Placebo) will provide a
      power of 89% under a treatment-related slowing in the rate of decline of 50% and a Type I
      error of 1%, accounting for lost-to follow-up and intend to treat analysis.
    
  