
    
      Sarcopenia is the progressive loss of skeletal muscle that comes with aging. The population
      in the World Health Organization (WHO) is ageing rapidly and the proportion of people aged 65
      and older will get forecast to increase 25% in 2050. In aging society, sarcopenia has been
      valued in countries all over the world. The appearance of sarcopenia is associated with
      decreased physical function, falls, fractures, disability, hospitalization, and poor quality
      of life. Constipation is a common healthy problem. Similar mechanism and risk factors between
      sarcopenia and constipation are observed with the association of nutrition, but the
      interrelationships between them is rarely studied.

      Prevention and treatment of sarcopenia is more and more important in the health care.
      Exercise has positive effects in muscle mass and strength but frail elder can't perform
      exactly. In addition, dietary intervention is one of the major key to reduce the rate of
      muscle mass loss and maintain physical performance and function.

      Recent studies have found that daily and/or supplemental protein is effective prevention of
      sarcopenia. Protein is composed of amino acids that can induce a muscle protein anabolic
      response conditioned by the availability of branched-chain amino acids (such as leucine,
      isoleucine, valine). Delayed amino acid absorption and anabolic resistance are frequently
      noted among elderly. Branched chain amino acid (BCAA) or leucine supplementation stimulates
      muscle protein synthesis.

      The recommendation about nutrition for preventing sarcopenia was still inconsistent. The time
      of study for muscle parameter improvement varies from three days to seven days. At present,
      there is no consensus about the optimal type of nutritional supplements and hint of how long
      does nutrition take.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the influence of enriched BCAA on those people
      with pre-sarcopenia or sarcopenia. The hypothesis is that subjects after enriched-BCAA
      supplement improves their physical function, muscle strength, and muscle mass. Subsequently,
      when dis-continued enriched-BCAA muscle-related outcomes would decline.
    
  