
    
      Current antidepressant treatments, which largely target monoamine pathways, are efficacious
      in treating many aspects of major depression, however it is estimated that more than 30% of
      depressed patients fail to respond to standard antidepressant medications. Thus, there is a
      strong clinical need to identify and investigate novel treatment strategies that target
      different pathways involved in the pathophysiology of mood disorders.

      There is now compelling evidence for a link between the enteric microbiota and brain
      function. The proliferation of the Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli strains in the large
      intestine, have anxiolytic and mnemonic effects in both rodents and humans. The intake of
      these bacteria as live cultures (probiotics) alters the expression of genes integral to
      neurodevelopment and complex behaviours in rodents. For instance, the oral administration of
      Bifidobacteria to rats elevated hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which
      may underlie some antidepressant actions . At present, only several probiotics have been
      examined, but it seems likely that of the 40,000 species in the gut, there will be others
      with psychotropic properties. A multispecies probiotic (Bio-Kult) that contains several
      species of Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli is now available and of the 14 types of bacteria
      packaged into a capsule, 50% have been shown to have psychotropic effects in animals. Dietary
      supplementation with Bio-Kult therefore, presents as an optimal strategy to test the
      influence of beneficial gut bacteria on emotional processing and cognition because, the
      numerous types of bacteria ingested may have a synergistic effect on the brain and so convey
      a 'stronger' action compared to single species probiotics.

      The translation from rodent to human investigations of probiotics has been surprisingly
      robust, though many more human studies are necessary. In an important early investigation
      male and female participants consumed either a fermented milk drink containing Lactobacillus
      casei Shirota or a placebo. At the end of the three-week intervention, there were no overall
      changes in self-reported affect. However, when only participants whose baseline mood scores
      fell in the lowest third of the total range were analysed, probiotic supplementation resulted
      in significantly more participants self-rating as happy rather than depressed, relative to
      placebo. These results suggest that the emotional benefits of probiotics may be subject to
      ceiling effects.

      Similar effects have been observed in other investigations of mood. For instance, in a recent
      randomised controlled trial, healthy participants consumed a placebo product or a mixture of
      several probiotics (Bifidobacterium bifidum W23, Bifidobacterium lactis W52, Lactobacillus
      acidophilus W37, Lactobacillus brevis W63, Lactobacillus casei W56, Lactobacillus salivarius
      W24, and Lactococcus lactis W19 and W58) over a period of four weeks. Relative to placebo,
      probiotic-treated participants exhibited substantially reduced reactivity to sad mood
      (assessed by the Leiden Index of Depression Sensitivity Scale), an effect that was
      specifically attributable to fewer instances of rumination and aggressive cognitions.

      In a randomized and double-blind design, healthy volunteers consumed either a mixture of
      probiotics (Lactobacillus helveticus R0052 and Bifidobacterium longum) or a placebo over 30
      days, after which participants completed a range of self-report measures on mood and
      distress. Participants also collected urine over 24 hours before and after the intervention,
      enabling cortisol estimations. Relative to placebo, probiotic-treated participants showed
      significant declines in self-reported negative mood and distress. Parallel to these changes
      was a decrease in urinary free cortisol, which is suggestive of a potential mechanism
      underlying the self-reported affective improvements. Interestingly, a follow-up analysis of
      the individuals with the lowest stress (indexed by cortisol concentrations) showed similar
      affective benefits to those with higher cortisol concentrations, to some extent contravening
      the role of ceiling effects in determining probiotic outcomes.

      The Bio-Kult probiotic supplement has been selected for use in the present study because it
      contains the greatest number of bacterial genera and species currently on the market. In
      preliminary studies in rats, investigators have found that once daily Bio-Kult feeding for 3
      weeks reduces circulating corticosterone, a stress hormone that is the corollary of human
      cortisol. This appears to be consistent with the above human investigation. Thus, taking into
      consideration its mentioned association with stress and mood, this probiotic supplement
      provides an interesting tool to investigate effects on cognition and emotional processing,
      particularly negative affective biases.

      Negative affective biases in emotional processing are highly relevant to clinical mood
      disorders and they are well-recognised in the aetiology and maintenance of depression, such
      that depressed individuals are more likely to interpret, focus on and remember negative
      compared to positive emotional cues in self-relevant neuropsychological tasks. Recent theory
      suggests that over time this positive change in emotional bias contributes to improved mood,
      and therefore the investigators will study the effect of Bio-Kult on emotional processing in
      participants experiencing low mood, compared to a placebo.

      Participants will be pre-screened using a standardized self-report measure on mood (Patient
      Health Questionnaire). After filling in the questionnaire, only those who score between 5 and
      19 will be recruited into the study. Participants who are deemed non-eligible after filling
      in this questionnaire will be notified via email (please see enclosed document 'email to
      non-eligible participants'). The investigators expect to recruit sixty participants aged
      between 18-55 years, who will be randomised to receive 4 weeks of Bio-Kult or a matched
      placebo. This design will be made clear to participants.

      Emotional and non-emotional cognition tests include computer-based tasks and questionnaires.
      Sleep function will be measured by actigraphy. The investigators will also be collecting
      biological data (blood and saliva) to assess cortisol and immune markers. In addition,
      participants will be asked to complete questionnaires that are relevant to mood, and anxiety,
      and to fill in a food diary to test for dietary effects.
    
  