
    
      Residency programs will be randomized to either (1) an intervention arm that eliminates
      several Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) duty hour requirements
      or (2) to a usual care arm where programs will continue adhering to current ACGME
      requirements. Programs in the intervention arm will be granted a waiver from current duty
      hour requirements by the ACGME and allowed to eliminate all resident duty hour rules with the
      following exceptions: Duty hours limited to 80 hours/week averaged over 4 weeks, minimum of
      one free day (no duty)/week averaged over 4 weeks, may not take in-house call more frequently
      than every 3rd night, averaged over 4 weeks, allowed to increase duty requirement flexibility
      for chief residents. The intent of the intervention arm is to allow flexibility in surgical
      resident duty hours and improve continuity of care. Subsequently, the investigators will
      compare multiple postoperative outcomes between the two study arms using data collected
      through the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS
      NSQIP). The results of this study will provide high-quality empirical evidence upon which to
      base resident duty hour requirements in the future.

      Updated April 1, 2014

      Detailed statistical analysis plan available on the FIRST Trial website.
      http://www.thefirsttrial.org/Approval/Approval

      A listing of the 152 ACS-NSQIP hospitals that have elected to participate in the FIRST Trial
      is available on the FIRST Trial website. http://www.thefirsttrial.org/Hospitals/Hospitals

      Updated July 14, 2014

      Post-Randomization documents available for control and intervention arms on FIRST Trial
      website.

      http://www.thefirsttrial.org/PostRandomization/PostRandomization

      Updated August 2014

      'FIRST Trial-Policies & Procedures Survey for Program Directors' survey administered to
      general surgery program directors via Survey Monkey.

      Updated January 2015

      Resident survey regarding duty hour policies and procedures administered at the end of the
      annual ABS In-Training Examination (ABSITE®).

      Updated April 1, 2015

      The Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) was convened March 10, 2015 to review the results of
      planned interim analysis. After review, they voted to allow the FIRST Trial to continue. All
      other aspects of the trial are on track.

      Updated May 24, 2016

      Results from the study were released February 2, 2016 and the study has been extended for an
      additional year, through the 2016-2017 academic year.

      Additional programs were enrolled in the one-year extension study.

      March 10, 2017

      The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) released a final set of
      revisions to the professional standards all accredited US residency and fellowship programs
      follow in preparing today's physicians for a lifetime of practice. The new model also
      directly addresses requests from medical educators and residents by recognizing the risk of
      burnout and depression for physicians. Programs and institutions will be responsible for
      prioritizing physician well-being, ensuring protected time with patients, minimizing
      non-physician obligations, and ensuring that residents have the opportunity to access medical
      and dental care.

      The total number of clinical and educational hours for residents has not changed. Starting
      the 2017-2018 academic year, the standards require that all programs and residents adhere to
      the maximum limits averaged over four weeks:

        -  a maximum of 80 hours per week

        -  one day free from clinical experience or education in seven

        -  in-house call no more frequent than every third night

        -  a maximum of 24 continuous work hours for all residents.

      Updated September 12, 2017

      Resident survey data collected with the 2016 and 2017 ABSITE Survey were collected and
      analyzed. Topics that emerged for further qualitative and quantitative analysis are as
      follows:

        -  Gender differences in resident outcomes

        -  Burnout and psychological wellbeing among residents

        -  Coercion and the decision to stay longer shifts within the flexible arm

        -  Needle stick and motor vehicle accident rates among US General Surgery residents

        -  Residency preparation (readiness) and the effects on burnout and wellbeing
    
  