
    
      Increased pulse pressure and pulse-wave velocity are recognized indices of arterial stiffness
      (Laurent, Boutouyrie, Asmar et al., 2001; Qiu, Winblad, Viitanen et al., 2003). An increased
      pulse pressure (indicative of increased central aortic pressure) is independently associated
      with an increased incidence of postoperative neurological and cardiac complications (Fontes,
      Aronson, Matthew et al., 2008). Pulse pressure has been identified as an independent
      predictor of cerebrovascular events after cardiac surgery (Benjo, Thompson, Fine et al.,
      2007). Moreover, many studies have demonstrated that pulse-wave velocity is an independent
      predictor of morbidity and mortality in a range of study populations (for a review see
      Vlachopoulos, Aznaouridis, Stefanadis, 2010). An increasing body of evidence suggests that
      brachial artery pressure, although representative, is not an accurate reflection of central
      aortic pressure. The Conduit Artery Function Evaluation study, for example, revealed that
      certain drugs preferentially reduce central aortic pressure, whilst having similar effects on
      brachial artery pressure. Moreover, in this study central aortic pulse pressure was
      demonstrated to be an independent predictor of clinical outcomes (Williams, Lacy, Thom et
      al., 2006). Other studies support the finding that markers of CAP are more closely related to
      surrogate measures of cardiovascular risk such as left ventricular mass (Haider, Larson,
      Franklin et al., 2003) and carotid intima-media thickness (Kostis, Davis, Cutler et al.,
      1997).

      One inadvertent effect of stenting is the introduction of a semi rigid conduit into the
      circulation. This could potentially increase pulse wave velocity and adversely affect central
      aortic pressures and haemodynamics. The investigators thus aim to investigate the effect of
      aortic aneurysm of surgery on central aortic pressures and haemodynamics
    
  