
    
      Background:

      Kaposi s sarcoma (KS) is caused by a gammaherpesvirus called Kaposi s sarcoma-associated
      herpesvirus (KSHV), or human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8). However, infection with KSHV is not
      sufficient to cause KS, and HIV infection is an important cofactor. Treatment of HIV with
      potent antiretroviral therapy can reduce the risk of KS, and can also induce regression in
      patients with established HIV-KS. One mechanism by which HIV is believed to contribute to KS
      is through HIV-induced immunodeficiency which leads to a loss of immunologic control of KSHV
      and/or KS itself. However, other mechanisms may also contribute.

      Objectives:

      One primary objective is to assess the effects of the initiation of potent anti-HIV therapy
      on specific factors possibly linked to the control or pathogenesis of KS, namely serum viral
      IL-6 and plasma VEGF levels, in patients with KS or at risk for KS by virtue of being
      infected with KSHV/HHV-8. Another is to assess the effects of anti-HIV therapy on KSHV
      infection. Secondary objectives are to assess the effects of potent antiretroviral therapy on
      established KS and other factors related to KS or KSHV infection.

      Eligibility:

      The principal eligibility factors are age 13 or above, HIV infection, and either KS or
      infection with KSHV. Exclusion factors include KS that requires specific therapy, recent
      corticosteroid therapy, recent cytokine therapy, or opportunistic infections requiring
      therapy.

      Design:

      Patients will be treated with potent antiretroviral therapy. For patients with established
      KS, the effects of the therapy on the KS will be monitored. In addition, a variety of factors
      related to KS, HIV infection, therapy, or KSHV infection will be monitored. These include the
      HIV viral load, KSHV secretion in saliva, the CD4 count, serum VEGF levels, and serum IL-6
      levels.
    
  