
    
      Allocation: Randomized

      This evaluation is conducted in communities surrounding Early Childhood Development (ECD)
      centers in the Karamoja sub-region of Uganda, in Napak, Kotido, and Kaabong districts. The
      catchment area of ECD centers serve as the clusters for randomization and analysis. After
      stratifying ECD centers (by district for Napak and Kotido, and by sub-district for the more
      spatially-diverse Kaabong), clusters were assigned to the treatment groups (FOOD, CASH and
      CTRL) using block randomization, to ensure as equal a distribution of ECD centers across
      treatment arms within each stratum as possible. Block randomization yielded 33 ECD centers in
      the FOOD group, 32 centers in the CASH group, and 33 centers in the CTRL group. Subsequently
      but prior to the start of the interventions, WFP re-assigned one CTRL center to FOOD, due to
      its proximity to a nearby FOOD center, in order to avoid migration of children which posed
      contamination concerns. WFP also re-assigned one CASH center to FOOD, because the cash
      distribution systems required use of mobile phones, and mobile phone signals were not readily
      available in the center's catchment area. The final assignment included 35 ECD centers in the
      FOOD group, 31 centers in the CASH group, and 32 centers in the CTRL group.

      Statistical Analysis:

        -  Sample Selection and Sample Size: Prior to the baseline survey, power calculations were
           conducted using existing data from Uganda on cognitive measures (Mullens scores) and
           food security measures (share of food expenditures out of total expenditures) to
           estimate the necessary sample size for detecting a minimum effect size of 10 percentage
           points with 80 percent power. These calculations indicated a target minimum sample of 30
           ECD centers per treatment arm and 20 households per ECD center. 98 ECD center clusters
           were determined eligible for transfer receipt by WFP. ECD enrollment data collected in
           August-September, 2010, were used to identify households with children ages 3-5 years
           enrolled in these ECD centers. In each of the 98 ECD centers, out of all households with
           children ages 3-5 years enrolled, roughly 25 households were selected at random for
           inclusion in the baseline sample.

        -  Data Collection: The evaluation uses a longitudinal design, with the same households
           interviewed at baseline (September-November, 2010, prior to start of the food or cash
           program) and at endline (March-May, 2012). In the intervening months, treatment
           households receive 15 months of exposure to the intervention. Direct assessments of
           children's cognitive development, anthropometry, and hemoglobin levels are conducted in
           a randomly-selected roughly 80% of sampled households in each cluster, due to field time
           constraints. Cognitive development is assessed using a battery of test items drawn
           primarily from the Mullen Scales of Early Learning, adapted by psychologists for the
           Karamoja context. Anthropometry is measured following standard protocol using height
           boards and weighing scales. Hemoglobin concentration is assessed using capillary blood
           obtained by finger prick and read using a HemoCue® analyzer. Hemoglobin readings are
           adjusted as necessary for the effects of varying altitude in the sample.

        -  Analysis: Differences in baseline characteristics are assessed using pairwise t-tests
           and binomial probability tests. Analyses of impacts focus on outcomes for children age
           3-5 years (36-71 months) at baseline, as well as for children aged 36-53 months at
           baseline who remain in the targeted age range throughout the course of the intervention.
           Intent to treat (ITT) effects are estimated using single-difference and ANCOVA
           specifications on children at baseline and endline. Estimates are calculated using Stata
           12; standard errors account for stratification and clustering in sampling and
           assignment.

      Ethics Review:

        -  Side Effects: Potential risks from participation in this study are low. Many of the
           questions used in the survey have been used before in the Uganda National Household
           Survey. Cognitive tests consist of simple games played between a trained enumerator and
           the child and are unlikely to pose any risk to the children. Anthropometry measurements
           are non-invasive and also pose no risk. Risks associated with hemoglobin data collection
           are minimized through use of well-trained staff, a well-designed data collection
           protocol, and safety lancets. The study poses no social, emotional, or psychological
           risks to subjects.

        -  Health provisions: If any child is found to be severely anemic (Hb<7 g/dL) or wasted
           (weight-for-height less than two standard deviations below the mean), that child and the
           child's parents are notified and the child is referred to the nearest clinic for medical
           treatment.

        -  Informed consent: Details about the study are provided verbally to local leaders at the
           LC1 (roughly the equivalent of a village) level. The same information, including the
           right to opt out at any time, is provided verbally to survey respondents in sampled
           households. Additional informed consent is sought before each direct interaction with
           children, including for cognitive tests, anthropometry, and hemoglobin measurement.

        -  IRB: This study underwent internal review with the International Food Policy Research
           Institute; permission to conduct the data collection was granted by Uganda National
           Council for Science and Technology (SS 2470).

      Funding:

      This evaluation was funded by the World Food Programme, with support from the Spanish
      government and other sources through the Strategic Impact Evaluation Trust Fund at WFP, and
      by the United Nations Children's Fund.
    
  