
    
      Critical illness typically causes elevated blood glucose concentrations, which have been
      associated with increased mortality. Strictly normalizing these blood glucose levels by
      intensive insulin therapy, called tight glycemic control, decreased morbidity and mortality
      in well-controlled single-center clinical studies. However, multi-center pragmatic trials
      failed to reproduce those effects, proving that the implementation of tight glycemic control
      in daily clinical practice is rather difficult.

      A computerized algorithm, amongst others, may help the nurses in the titration of insulin to
      reach normal blood glucose levels and to avoid the particularly worrisome hypoglycemia.

      The LOGIC-1 study is a single blinded randomized controlled trial. On admission patients will
      be randomly assigned to either tight glycemic control (80-110 mg/dL) by the computerized
      LOGIC-Insulin 3.0 algorithm or to tight glycemic control (80-110 mg/dL) by the nurse-directed
      protocol. Written informed consent will be asked from the patient in the case of elective
      surgery requiring post-operative ICU-admission. Proxy informed consent from the closest
      family member will be asked when the patient was admitted to the ICU in emergency. As blood
      glucose control by itself is essential in the management of critical illness, random
      allocation will be done on admission and written informed consent from the closest family
      member can be deferred to a maximum of 24 hours after randomization. The patient or family
      member can at all times withdraw from the trial without impact on his treatment. Allocation
      will be done in blocks (block size is unknown to the care givers responsible for treatment
      allocation), stratified into cardiac surgery and other reasons for ICU admission, by central
      computer randomization.

      The time window for the study will be 14 days starting from admission to the ICU or when one
      of the following stop criteria will be met:

        -  Withdrawal of the informed consent

        -  Patient starts eating or drinking sugar containing liquids

        -  Patient is discharged from the ICU (including ICU deaths)

        -  Removal of arterial line or central venous line

      Under the following conditions the study investigator/treating physician will be contacted
      and, if necessary, patients will be switched from LOGIC-Insulin to nurse-directed blood
      glucose control:

        -  Recurrent severe hypoglycemia (<40 mg/dL)

        -  Refractory hyperglycemia

        -  Any change in condition that compromises the safety of the patient, as judged by the
           investigator or treating physician

      The common strategy for blood glucose control in both groups involves blood glucose
      measurements from arterial blood by a blood gas analyzer and the administration of insulin
      through a central line with a syringe pump.
    
  