
    
      A retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted at the Kayseri Education and Research
      Hospital, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kayseri, Turkey, between January 2016 and
      October 2016.

      Approval of the Institutional Review Board of Kayseri Erciyes University the Faculty of
      Medicine was obtained in advance (2016/525).

      Exclusion criteria were as fallows; diabetes mellitus, metabolic disorder, acute or chronic
      infection disease, hypertension, acute coroner artery disease, connective tissue disorder,
      vasculitis, inflammatory bowel disease, tobacco and alcohol use, renal failure, hepatitis,
      patients using corticosteroid drug and patients underwent blood transfusion within three
      months. The investigators reviewed a database of 386 patients who were referred for abnormal
      uterine bleeding resistant to medical treatment or detected pelvic mass in postmenopausal and
      premenopausal period and underwent hysterectomy in our department. The investigators are
      capable of including 196 patients in the present study because of exclusion criteria.

      There were three groups in our study. First group called adenomyosis was consisted of
      patients who were pathologically diagnosed pure adenomyosis after hysterectomy. Second group
      called leiomyoma was consisted of patients who were pathologically diagnosed pure leiomyoma
      after hysterectomy. Third group called control group was consisted of healthy patients who
      were pathologically diagnosed no neoplasm after hysterectomy.

      In order to evaluate serum levels of hemoglobin, leukocytes, neutrophil, lymphocyte, platelet
      and CA125, the investigators obtained data analysis measured preoperatively from venous blood
      samples of all subjects. The NLR was defined as the absolute neutrophil count divided by the
      absolute lymphocyte count and the PLR was defined as the absolute platelet count divided by
      the absolute lymphocyte count.
    
  