
    
      Stage 1 focus group- Identifying barriers and facilitators for reducing sedentary behaviors
      and increasing physical activity as well as, identifying mediators, needs and preferences for
      reducing sedentary behaviors and increasing physical activity.

      Stage 2- Based on stage 1- Establishing an intervention for reducing sedentary behaviors and
      increasing physical activity among adolescents. The intervention group will receive
      behavior-modification in group. The control group will get physical exercises.Stage 3-
      translating and developing questioners for the study.

        -  Translating the ASK-Performance and the ASK-Capability questionnaires to Hebrew and
           validating the Hebrew translation.

        -  Developing a self-efficacy perception questioner for increasing physical activity and
           reducing and sedentary behavior.

        -  Translating to Hebrew, adjusting and validating an activity diary.

      Stage 4- evaluating the effectiveness of the proposed intervention program on reducing
      sedentary behaviors and increasing physical activity among adolescents and young adults with
      CP. The outcome measures will measure change from base line after intervention and 4-6 months
      after intervention finished.

      All partners of this project will obtain approval for experiments on human subjects from
      their local committees. Each subject (or parents/guardians for the participation of minor
      subjects) will be able to sign an informed voluntary consent form, consistent with the
      Helsinki Declaration, after reading a detailed explanation and having an oral Q/A session
      with the investigator.

      Recruitment: Prospective focused direct mailing or personal contacts will be initiated with
      the parents/guardians of children with CP who are ambulatory, who had been seen by
      physiotherapists in social groups and schools.

      Inclusion exclusion criteria for Focus Groups:

        -  30 adolescents with Cerebral Palsy

        -  aged 14-25yrs

        -  mobility level GMFCS I, II & III and

        -  20 Typically Developed individuals same age group

        -  with verbal ability suitable for discussion

        -  Cognitive level sufficient to comprehend and cooperate with measurements.

        -  Parent or the individual (if above 18) has agreed to participate in the study

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Unstable medical situation

        -  Progressive degenerative condition of the Central Nervous System (CNS) or
           musculoskeletal system.

      Inclusion exclusion criteria for intervention groups:

        -  adolescents and young adults with bilateral spastic CP

        -  at GMFCS level I, II and III

        -  age 14-25 yrs

        -  can speak their native language fluently

        -  are able to follow verbal instructions

        -  are willing to train in a group.

      The exclusion criteria:

      adolescents and young adults who had orthopedic surgery or tone reduction interventions (e.g.
      botulinum toxin injections, history of baclofen pump or selective dorsal rhizotomy) within 6
      months prior to this study

      - have exercise induced asthma or cardiac problems.

      Inclusion criteria for validation ASK & Self Efficiency Questionnaire study:

        -  30 Children and adolescents with CP

        -  age 5-20yrs

        -  GMFCS I;II;III.

        -  Cognitive level sufficient to comprehend and cooperate with measurements.

        -  Parent or the subject (if above 18) has agreed to participate in the study

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Unstable medical situation

        -  Progressive degenerative condition of the CNS or musculoskeletal system

      Outcome measurements:

        1. Habitual Physical Activity (HPA).Physical activity is recorded using an "ActivPAL3™"
           (PAL Technologies, Glasgow, UK) tri-axial accelerometer-based activity monitor.

        2. 6 min walk test (6minWT): This test measures the self-paced distance in meters walked in
           6 minutes on a flat, firm surface.

        3. 10 meter walk test (10MWT): This self-paced test measures gait speed, important for safe
           community mobility (e.g., crossing streets in response to signals).

        4. Timed Up-and-Go (TUG): This test measures mobility for those able to walk on their own
           (assistive device permitted).

        5. Functional Mobility Scale (FMS): The FMS uses three distances (5, 50 and 500m) which
           represent typical distances walked by children at home, at school, and in the wider
           community.

        6. The Activities Scale for Kids (ASK) is a child self-report measure of physical
           disability. It is designed for children five to 15 years of age who are experiencing
           limitations in physical activity due to musculoskeletal disorders.

        7. The Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory™ Computer Adaptive Test (PEDI-CAT)
           measures abilities in the three functional domains of Daily Activities, Mobility and
           Social/Cognitive. The PEDI-CAT's Responsibility domain measures the extent to which the
           caregiver or child takes responsibility for managing complex, multi-step life tasks.

        8. Self efficiency questionnaire: for evaluating perception of self efficiency for engaging
           in physical activity and reducing sedentary behavior.

      Statistics:

      Focus group: Coding text and theorizing: In grounded theory research. Identifying anchors
      that allow the key points of the data to be gathered. Collections of codes of similar content
      that allows the data to be grouped.

      Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to determine the effects and
      compare the two groups methods.

      A correlation test will take place between the ASK Capability and the PEDI-CAT. A correlation
      test will take place between the ASK PERFORMANCE and the results from the accelerometers.

      One-way ANOVA test by separation the sample to severity groups, according to the GMFCS
      levels, using the age as a co-variant.
    
  