
    
      Atherosclerosis, characterized by the accumulation of lipids and inflammatory cells in the
      large arteries, is one of the most common causes of morbidity and mortality in developed and
      developing countries. Atherosclerotic plaque rupture-induced thrombosis or obstruction of
      artery is the most important cause for the sudden and unpredictable onset of acute artery
      stroke. Our understanding of specific characteristics of the vulnerable atherosclerotic
      plaque has been enhanced by retrospective pathological studies, which have identified common
      phenotypic features of the atherosclerotic plaque most prone to rupture and trigger
      thrombotic events. A thin fibrous cap, a large lipid core, high macrophage count, and
      intraplaque hemorrhage have all been identified as markers of the so-called "vulnerable"
      plaque being related to a higher stroke risk.

      Calcification of atherosclerotic lesions was long thought to be an age - related, passive
      process where a combination of high local concentrations of phosphates and
      phosphatidylserines from necrotic cells and an absence of calcification inhibitors results in
      the precipitation of calcium phosphate particles. Recently increasingly data has revealed
      that atherosclerotic calcification is a more active process, involving complex signaling
      pathways and bone-like genetic programs. The distinction of early or active calcification as
      a destabilizing process and late calcification as a more stable state has also been supported
      by histological studies. This has lead to interest in characterizing early stages of
      calcification metabolically by making use of the positron emission tomography (PET)/CT
      imaging of atherosclerosis using 18F-sodium fluoride (18F-NaF), which has recently been
      reported having the potential to distinguish dormant areas with on-going mineralization and
      quiescent atherosclerotic calcium. Nevertheless, PET/CT is an expensive and a radioactive
      examination, which is not appropriate for large-scale screening or serial follow-up studies.

      MRI is ideal for serial studies of lesions of atherosclerosis over time because it is
      noninvasive and is superior to other imaging modalities in distinguishing soft tissue
      contrast. In conventional gradient echo based MRI with TEs in the 1 to 2 ms range, however,
      the very short T2 relaxation time of solid calcifications on the order of some μs causes
      almost complete signal cancellation, which may cause significant overestimation of the
      calcified region and could not provide information about calcium density. Moreover, the low
      or zero signal from calcium with short T2 means that there is little opportunity to
      manipulate conspicuity by using different pulse sequences or contrast agents.

      Recently, ultrashort echo time (UTE) MR, which allows detection of the ultrashort T2
      components, has been used to image plaque calcification in ex vivo carotid and coronary
      arteries. The results demonstrated that UTE images are able to identify plaque calcification
      and enables accurate quantification of calcium volumes. However, gadolinium-based contrast
      agents during in vivo CMR could not be performed in these ex vivo study. Agnese et al.
      believed that calcifications with 18F-NaF PET uptake might be considered to represent dormant
      areas where on-going mineralization, which is a key sign to identify and localise ruptured
      and high risk coronary plaque. We, therefore, hypothesize that enhanced carotid calcification
      presented by UTE MR may be a critical sign for symptomatic patients.

      In this study, we will investigate the feasibility of enhanced UTE MR in human carotid
      arteries in vivo. Furthermore, we analyzed the correlation between UTE MR and
      microcalcification of in the carotid plaques. Based on the diagnostic ability of enhanced UTE
      MR for microcalcification, we will investigate the potential of enhanced calcification to
      distinguish symptomatic from asymptomatic patients with carotid atherosclerosis and research
      the prognostic ability of enhance calcufication in UTE MR.
    
  