
    
      This phase 2, open-label, single-arm, prospective, multicenter study will evaluate the
      safety, tolerability and efficacy of ixazomib-pomalidomide-dexamethasone (IPD) as a second or
      third-line combination treatment for patients with relapsed and/or refractory multiple
      myeloma (RRMM) who progressed after receiving bortezomib, lenalidomide and daratumumab during
      first and second lines. The patient population will consist of adult men and women who have a
      confirmed diagnosis of MM, who have received two prior lines of therapy, and who meet other
      outlined eligibility criteria. Following confirmation of eligibility, enrolled patients will
      be treated with pomalidomide plus dexamethasone as standard of care and will also receive
      ixazomib as a study drug.

      The treatment regimen will involve administration of the following drugs:

      Cycles 1-3: during each 21-day cycle:

        -  ixazomib 3 mg on Days 1, 4, 8 and 11

        -  pomalidomide 4 mg on Days 1 through 14

        -  dexamethasone 20 mg on Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16

      Cycle 4 and consequently: during each 28-day cycle:

        -  ixazomib 4 mg on Days 1, 8 and 15

        -  pomalidomide 4 mg on Days 1 through 21

        -  dexamethasone 20 mg on Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, 22 and 23 Patients may continue to
           receive treatment for 24 months or until disease progression (PD) or unacceptable
           toxicity, the earlier of the three. Dose modifications may be made based on toxicities.
           Patients who complete study therapy will continue to receive treatment per standard of
           care.

      The main efficacy outcome- Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from first
      dose to the date of the first documented tumor progression or death due to any cause. PFS
      will be determined by an investigator, based upon laboratory data, as defined by the IMWG
      criteria.

      Secondary Endpoints:Objective response rate (ORR)is defined as the proportion of patients who
      achieve a best overall response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR),
      very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR), as defined using the IMWG
      criteria.

      Overall Survival (OS) OS is defined as the time between the date of first dose and the date
      of death due to any cause. OS will be censored on the last date a subject was known to be
      alive.

      Time to Response (TTR) Time to Response is defined as the time from the first dose to the
      date of the first sCR, CR, VGPR, or PR. TTR will be evaluated for responders Duration of
      Response (DOR) Duration of Response is defined as the time between the date of first response
      to the date of the first objectively documented tumor progression as assessed by study
      steering committee according to modified IMWG criteria or death due to any cause prior to
      subsequent anti-cancer therapy.

      Optional Exploratory Analysis RNA sequencing (by Massive Parallel (MARS)-seq method) of fresh
      or frozen cluster of differentiation 38+ (CD38+)/CD138+ plasma cells (normal and malignant)
      in the bone marrow of patients
    
  