
    
      Adults with hearing loss are more vulnerable to interference from background noise than
      adults with normal hearing. Despite the fact that the ability to extract speech information
      imbedded in background noise requires decoding differences in level across frequency
      (spectral information), few studies have addressed the extent to which spectral information
      can be provided to listeners with hearing loss. This fundamental gap in our knowledge
      prevents society from effectively addressing the systemic effects of hearing loss on
      communication, income, and ability to socialize with others. This work is a new application
      of established methods of characterizing spectral resolution to that of the most common
      device for rehabilitation of hearing loss, hearing-aid amplification. Because hearing aids do
      not require premarket approval, FDA oversight is not applicable to this clinical trial.

      The experiments will examine the degree to which access to spectral information can be
      restored to adults with hearing loss and the feasibility of utilizing this information to
      decrease interference from background noise. Aim 1 will delineate the impact of hearing-aid
      amplification on spectral decoding. Technology options that must be set by the clinician or
      hearing-aid manufacturer will be examined, including the frequency-specific gain, compressor
      speed, and number of compression channels. The proposed experiments will test the hypothesis
      that restoration of the lost dynamic range of hearing can support the encoding of spectral
      information. It is also hypothesized that the combination of technology options that best
      restore access to spectral information will differ across individuals and that these
      differences across individuals can be partially accounted for by an estimate of outer hair
      cell function. Aim 2 will determine the extent to which restoring access to spectral
      information supports speech recognition in background noise, under the guiding hypothesis
      that improving spectral resolution increases speech understanding. If it can be demonstrated
      that measures of spectral resolution with the provision of amplification are useful at
      delineating those who stand to benefit from different technology options, the knowledge
      gained could then be applied to the clinic to allow for clinicians to more successfully
      choose among different rehabilitation options.
    
  