
    
      In clinical practice, a thin endometrium, unresponsive to conventional therapies, usually
      results in cycle cancellation and embryo cryopreservation. The evaluation of an adequate
      endometrial growth is performed using grey-scale ultrasound. The minimal endometrial
      thickness required for embryo transfer is now considered about 7 mm at the end of natural or
      medically induced follicular phase, despite some investigators reported different cutoff
      values, ranging between 7 and 10 mm. Currently, no evidence-based data show the predictive
      positive value of endometrial thickness on pregnancy rate after Embryo-transfer, but if the
      endometrial lining is below 7mm the chance of pregnancy is statistically significant reduced.

      Thin endometrium is relatively frequent in women with previous trauma of the uterus (cesarean
      sections, repetitive curettage), patients subjected to antitumoral treatments in childhood
      (Radiotherapy, Chemotherapy, Surgery), women affected by Asherman's syndrome, chronic
      infections (endometritis, Pelvic Inflammatory Disease) and inadequate blood flow (stress,
      malposition of uterus, fibrosis), patients with low estradiol values or excessive use of
      Clomiphene Citrate.

      Several alternative treatments have been proposed over the years to improve the endometrial
      thickening, then showed themselves to be not considered the answer in many cases: some of
      them, indeed, require a not damaged endometrium, other act on endometrial blood flow and have
      no direct proliferative effect on the endometrium. The only factor presumed to have a
      proliferative effect on endometrium is the Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) but
      this hypothesis is not supported by in vitro studies.

      Recently, first results from an in vitro study ongoing on the evaluation of Platelet-Rich
      Plasma (PRP) effect on endometrial cell proliferation have been presented (Aghayanova et al.,
      2016). The authors demonstrated that PRP increased proliferation not only on cultured
      fibroblasts, as currently known but also on mesenchymal cells, which are progenitors of
      different types of cells, including endometrial cells. This evidence supports the hypothesis
      that PRP stimulates some of the cellular processes involved in endometrial regeneration, that
      can be relevant to the management of a thin lining.

      Autologous Platelet-Rich Plasma is prepared from fresh whole blood which is collected from a
      peripheral vein and processed to separate platelets from the other blood components. PRP
      contains activating platelets that stimulate the action of cytokines and growth factors. On
      the basis of this evidence, local intrauterine infusion of PRP may improve endometrial growth
      and implantation.

      Patients considered to be candidates for a PRP application must undergo a minor hematological
      evaluation to exclude blood disorders or platelet dysfunction. The study, since it involves
      the use of a blood component, was approved by Ethical Committee and all participant have to
      sign an informed written consent before undergoing the procedure.

      Any concerns of immunogenic reactions or disease transmission, that exist with homologous
      blood products, are eliminated because PRP is produced from autologous blood. Preparation of
      PRP, however, demands many processing steps, thus there is the theoretic possibility of
      contamination. For these reasons, all samples are subjected to quality and sterility controls
      within a closed mechanism. No wound infections after PRP applications have been reported.
      Despite PGF has mitogenic properties, there is no evidence that the growth factors included
      in PRP promote tumor growth or that they are involved in carcinogenesis.
    
  