
    
      Background The 2020 Covid-19 pandemic has required wide-ranging efforts to minimize the
      spread of the virus and to protect those most vulnerable to becoming unwell as a result of
      viral infection. These measures include social distancing, regular hand washing and wearing
      face coverings in public places where an individual is, inevitably, in closer proximity to
      non-household others than when not in a public place.

      The evidence base for using face coverings in the context of the Covid-19 virus has been
      mixed and is applied in different ways in different countries. However, there is scientific
      consensus has been that wearing a face covering is likely to decrease viral transmissibility
      and, relatedly, substantially reduce the death toll and economic impact of the pandemic. The
      scientific evidence suggests that face coverings primarily offer protection to other people
      from the person wearing the face covering (who may, knowingly or not, been infected with the
      virus) rather than offering the person wearing the face covering personal protection
      themselves. In the UK, the most recent government advice (at time of writing, published on
      7th August 2020) supports the use of face coverings.

      Previous studies have suggested that varied demographic and belief-based factors (including
      perceived benefits) may influence variation in individuals' willingness to wear a face
      covering in the context of a viral epidemic/pandemic past and present. The Covid-19 pandemic
      is particular in the sense that the risk of viral infection is understood to be greatest to
      individuals other than the wearer of the face covering and, for this reason, psychological
      theories concerned with risk susceptibility/vulnerability (e.g. Protection Motivation Theory;
      Health Belief Model) may have less predictive utility in the context of the 2020 pandemic.
      However, other social-cognitive psychological theory may offer valuable insights into factors
      linked to face covering adherence. For example, variation in face covering wearing adherence
      would be predicted by traditional behavioural science theory as closely linked to a range of
      key beliefs about the target behaviour. Relevant belief-related factors include attitudes
      towards face covering (i.e. whether an individual holds (un)favourable beliefs about face
      covering are held), subjective norms towards face covering (e.g. whether an individual
      believes that important others such as friends and family hold (un)favourable beliefs about
      face covering), and perceived behavioural control towards face covering (i.e. the extent to
      which an individual believes they possess control over deciding to wear a face covering).
      Whether an individual believes they possess a high level of skill in using face coverings in
      required situations (i.e. public places/spaces) would also be theorized to predict face
      covering behaviour.

      A further consideration linked to individual adherence to face covering requirements is what
      'type' of person that individual is in terms of various relevant personality traits. For
      example, a relatively conscientious person might be expected to be more likely to routinely
      wear a face covering to protect individuals in close proximity from the risk of viral
      infection. Similarly, face covering adherence might be more likely among individuals whose
      personalities are characterised by humanistic, beneficent orientations towards other people.
      By contrast, an individual who self-reports high levels of narcissism, may be less likely to
      wear a face covering given that wearing a face covering might clash with their relatively
      vain/egotistical self-image.

      In summary, this study aims to determine if different types of mental imagery intervention
      impact on face covering intentions and face covering adherence at a follow-up time point. The
      second study aim is to explore, through exploratory analyses, whether individual differences
      in light triad traits, conscientiousness, and narcissism will influence the impact of imagery
      interventions. Thirdly, the moderating role of social-cognitive variables of intervention
      effects will be explored. Fourthly, variation in 'imagery ability' (how capable individuals
      are at visualizing future actions) will be examined as a mediator of potential intervention
      effects.

      Research questions

        1. Do mental imagery exercises increase intentions to use face coverings in public where
           required?

        2. Do mental imagery exercises increase self-reported wearing of face coverings in public
           where required?

        3. Do light triad personality traits moderate the relationship between condition allocation
           (imagery or not) and self-reported face covering wearing intention or action?

        4. Do Theory of Planned Behaviour variables moderate/mediate the relationship between
           condition allocation (imagery or not) and self-reported face covering wearing intention
           or action?

        5. Does imagery ability moderate/mediate the relationship between condition allocation
           (imagery or not) and self-reported face covering wearing intention or action?

      Hypotheses

      It is hypothesised that individuals assigned to any imagery intervention condition will
      report:

        1. Significantly higher intentions to wear face coverings in public places where these are
           required, relative to the control condition at T2 (primary outcome; hypothesis 1).

        2. Significantly higher levels of self-reported face covering relative to the control
           condition at T3 (primary outcome; hypothesis 2).

        3. Significantly more favourable attitudes, subjective norms, barrier self-efficacy and
           perceived behavioural control linked to face covering wearing at T2 and T3 (hypotheses 3
           and 4).

        4. Finally, it is hypothesied that imagery intervention effects on primary outcome
           variables at T2 and T3 will be conditional on being more conscientious, less
           narcissistic, and being characterised by higher levels of 'light triad' personality
           traits (hypothesis 5).
    
  