
    
      Pediatric sedation and analgesia is a major aspect in emergency procedures and treatments:
      anxiety and stress in children need to be purposefully addressed in order to perform
      procedures where a child needs to lie still, and to prevent anxiety in the future. An
      important factor to reduce stress and anxiety is the use of medication without the need of an
      intravenous access. To date, options for such a sedation are very limited. One of the most
      common medications in use is midazolam applied orally or rectally, though there are several
      concerns with this drug.

      Pediatric developmental stage often does not allow to rationally explain procedures (e.g.,
      wound management, emergency radiologic imaging, lumbar punctures, posing a difficult iv
      line), thus provoking further anxiety and non-compliance.

      The medication in question (dexmedetomidine, DEX) has been proven to be a safe and reliable
      sedative in different settings even though its use is off-label in pediatrics. Data on its
      use in the pediatric emergency department (PED) are sparse, but it could be of help in a
      variety of situations especially in this setting.

      The overall objective of this study is to determine whether intranasal (IN) DEX has better
      efficacy profile for PSA in the PED compared to rectal (PR)/ oral (PO) midazolam in children
      aged 6 months to 6 years.

      Validated scores are used to describe efficacy in detail, including Procedural Sedation State
      Scale, Modified Yale Preoperative Anxiety Scale Short Form, University of Michigan Sedation
      State. Surveys to the parents and the health care professionals are used to further describe
      efficacy.

      Procedural Sedation State Scale will be the primary outcome. Based on clinical experience we
      expect around 70% of patients with midazolam sedation to score 2 or 3 using the PSSS (target
      sedation state). Clinically relevant superiority is defined as 15% more patients with target
      sedation state.

      Study design: single-center, prospective, randomised, active control, rater-blinded trial:
      procedures will be videotaped and analysed by research assistants blinded to the study
      medication.

      Number of patients: 210 with assessable primary outcome. Duration of recruitment is expected
      to be 24 months
    
  