
    
      Intravenous sedation during colonoscopy has become the standard practice in United States
      given its higher patient satisfaction and procedural quality. The most common used short
      acting sedative agent is propofol. Although possessing safe and rapidly reversed
      pharmacokinetic properties, propofol intravenous infusion can lead to respiratory depression
      and hypoxemia. In one prospective study, hypoxemia events, defined by oxygen saturation less
      than 90 percent was found in 20 percent of patients receiving colonoscopy using propofol
      sedation. The mechanism of hypoxemia is mainly hypoventilation, airway collapse, and carbon
      dioxide (CO2) retention. When it comes to gastrointestinal procedures, using oxygen devices
      for augmenting ventilation is usually avoided, ex: positive pressure ventilation, since it
      can lead to bowel distention and affect quality of procedures. Therefore most hospitals in
      United States still use nasal cannula of oxygen therapy during gastrointestinal procedures,
      and there is lack of available options of oxygen therapy which can improve hypoventilation
      and prevent hypoxemia.

      High flow nasal cannula (HFNC) is a new generation of oxygen therapy. It provides constant
      high flow oxygen delivery with heated and humidified air. Moreover, it has been studied that
      high velocity of airflow can create the effect of "positive end expiratory pressure" thus
      assist ventilation and work of breathing. Compared to conventional nasal cannula and face
      mask, HFNC has demonstrated superior performance in oxygenation, work of breathing and
      patient comfort in many studies. Since its invention, HFNC has been studied in post-cardiac
      surgery, post-extubation, bronchoscopy and dental procedures and all of them show equal to
      better oxygen performance in comparison of nasal cannula.

      While capnographic monitoring has been studied to prevent hypoxemia during sedation, no
      studies have been done to evaluate the clinical utility of new generation oxygen therapy.
      Obesity is associated with increased frequency of sedation related complications especially
      hypoxemia during propofol mediated sedation for advanced endoscopic procedures. The
      Investigators hypothesized that HFNC may improve oxygen performance compared to conventional
      nasal cannula for obese patients receiving colonoscopy under intravenous sedation.
    
  