
    
      The ureteral stent is one of the most extensively used tools in the field of urology. They
      are used for aiding post-operative healing of the ureter, visualizing the ureteral during
      procedures, and alleviating ureteral obstruction (eg. nephrolithiasis). Double-J stents,
      which are secured by loops in both the renal pelvis and the bladder, have become most
      urologists' go-to choice for ureteral stents since they were introduced in the 1970s.
      Unfortunately, it has been shown that 80-90% of patients with ureteral stents have urinary
      complaints following stent placement.

      Interestingly, a recent study suggested utility of intraureteral stents. These stents have
      one loop in the renal pelvis while their distal end is positioned proximal to the ureteral
      orifice. The above-mentioned study showed that patients with intraureteral stents had less
      discomfort as opposed to the those that had double-J stents.

      Due to the immense number of patients that require ureteral stent placement, this improvement
      in comfort is very promising for the urological field. However, no one has studied if stents
      placed intraureterally migrate from the time they are placed to the time they are removed. If
      stents migrate proximally toward the renal pelvis, it is possible that retrieval could be
      more difficult, and the ureteral patency established by the stent could be compromised.

      The objective of this study is to determine if intraureterally placed stents migrate as
      compared to ureteral stents placed via the conventional method.

      This study will be a prospective, randomized controlled, single-blinded trial. The subjects
      will include up to 140 patients (about 70 subjects per group) from ages 1-100 years old that
      are to undergo stent placement for nephrolithiasis, hydronephrosis, and urological cancer.

      Prior to the procedure, each patient that has agreed to participate in this study will be
      randomly assigned to receive a stent placed intraureterally or a stent placed in the
      conventional manner. After each intraureteral stent is placed via cystoscopy, the distance of
      the distal end of the stent to the ureteral orifice will be measured via fluoroscopy that was
      calibrated prior to the procedure. After each double-J stent is placed via cystoscopy, the
      length of stent that is present in the bladder will also be measured using calibrated
      fluoroscopy . Subjects will not be informed of which group they are assigned to. When the
      patients return for stent removal, the previously mentioned distances will be measured again
      prior to pulling the stent. They will also be asked to complete the ureteral stent symptom
      questionnaire (USSQ) to assess stent-associated discomfort. The primary endpoint of the study
      would be stent migration distance (mm). Secondary endpoints would include patient comfort
      level.

      All medical records will be accessed on secure devices and networks. All subjects will be
      assigned a subject number upon enrolled in the study. When a researcher needs to record data
      from a patient's medical records, they will record this information with the patient's
      corresponding subject number. Only the researchers involved in this study will have access to
      the document that includes patient identifiers and their subject number. At the conclusion of
      this study, the document with patient identifiers and subject numbers will be destroyed.

      Data will be collected from electronic medical records of patients from ULP (University of
      Louisville Physicians) Urology.
    
  