
    
      The present study is designed to assess the clinical and radiographic outcome of root canal
      retreatment performed in single visits in endodontic clinics of Dubai Health Authority (DHA).
      This is a retrospective study where patients' treatment data will be collected and outcome
      criteria will be applied blindly.

      The sample in this retrospective study will be selected from those patients who have
      undergone single visit endodontic retreatment at the DHA Endodontics clinics from January
      2018, through December 2019. The teeth under investigation will be tracked in the database
      starting from completion of retreatment for at least 6 months, and the percentages of teeth
      that were retained or underwent additional procedures such as apical surgery or extraction
      will be recorded.

      The clinical and radiographic assessment at baseline and at recall documented in clinical
      notes, and all data will be collected using a standardized proforma.

      The quality of the existing root canal fillings and the status of the periapical tissues will
      be determined according to the PAI by 2 calibrated independent observers using the periapical
      radiographs.

      A. Periapical index (PAI) The index is a radiographic method of interpretation that consists
      of 5 categories, numbered 1-5.

      B. Quality of root canal filling

      Three criteria were used to assess the quality of the existing root canal fillings as
      follows:

      Length of root canal filling: root filling ending ≤2 mm from the radiographic apex, root
      filling ending >2 mm from the radiographic apex, or root filling at the radiographic apex
      (flush).

      Density of root canal filling: the presence or absence of voids in the root filling or
      between the root filling and root canal walls.

      Taper of the root canal filling: consistent taper from the orifice to the apex or no
      consistent taper from the orifice to the apex

      The preoperative diagnosis is determined based on clinical and radiographic findings using
      the American Association of Endodontists Consensus Conference-recommended diagnostic
      terminology.

      Retreatment Procedures

      Endodontic retreatment of all cases was conducted in a single visit by endodontic specialists
      according to the contemporary standards of endodontic therapy.

      Only those patients with at least 6 months of clinical and radiographic follow-up were
      included. When patients returned for recalls, one or multiple (in mutirooted teeth)
      periapical radiographs were taken.

      Follow up

      Recall appointments included a radiographic and clinical examination of the treated tooth.
      The examination was documented and included any signs or symptoms, the presence of a sinus
      tract, sensitivity to percussion and palpation, swelling, periodontal pockets, or a history
      of pain.

      Periapical radiographs will be evaluated by 2 examiners.

      The treatment outcomes will be classified into 3 categories according to the following
      definitions:

      Healed: Functional, asymptomatic teeth with no or minimal radiographic periradicular pathosis
      (radiolucency) Nonhealed: Nonfunctional, symptomatic teeth with or without radiographic
      periradicular pathosis or asymptomatic teeth with unchanged, new, or enlarged radiographic
      periradicular pathosis (radiolucency) Healing: Teeth that are asymptomatic and functional
      with a decreased size of radiographic periradicular pathosis (radiolucency) .

      Collecting data into a recording sheet:

      The patients' treatment data will be collected continuously for at least 6 months in the
      database, and outcome criteria will applied blindly. The teeth will be tracked in the
      database during the entire period.
    
  