
    
      Multimodal postoperative analgesia after a hysterectomy has been mainly based on a
      combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and opioids. However, adverse effects
      including nausea, vomiting, sedation, and pruritus may limit use of opioids. As the side
      effects are dose related, minimizing opioid exposure may significantly reduce these risks.
      Thus, there has been an interest in evaluating preemptive as well as post-operative
      administration of non-opioids. Additional regimens have been suggested to minimize opioid use
      and its associated adverse effects including injection of local anesthetics, epidural
      analgesia, and anticonvulsants, such as gabapentin or pregabalin.

      Gabapentin, a widely used anticonvulsant used for treatment of neuropathic pain, has recently
      been suggested to improve postoperative analgesia and reduce opioid requirements. Gabapentin
      is thought to modulate calcium channels on the presynaptic nociceptive neurons, which in turn
      modulate or inhibit the release of excitatory neurotransmitters from activated nociceptors.
      In addition to inhibiting pain transmission, gabapentin may exert an analgesic effect by
      activating descending inhibitory noradrenergic pathways.

      Many studies have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of gabapentin for perioperative use in
      a variety of procedures across disciplines including thoracotomy, laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy, tonsillectomy, major orthopedic surgery, cesarean sections, and abdominal
      hysterectomy. Several randomized trials have evaluated the effects of gabapentin administered
      preoperatively only as well as given pre- and postoperatively for hysterectomy. In a
      systematic review of 14 studies conducted between 2004 and 2013, with samples ranging from 40
      to 200, investigators identified 8 trials in which gabapentin was administered only
      preoperatively to reduce pain associated with abdominal hysterectomy surgery. Analysis of
      those data clearly demonstrates that preemptive gabapentin reduced the postoperative visual
      analog scale (VAS) pain score by approximately 50% and postoperative use of morphine by
      approximately 37%. The incidence of pruritus and dry mouth in those receiving preemptive
      gabapentin appeared similar to those receiving placebo, however there was a higher rate of
      reported dizziness (not statistically significant) associated with gabapentin. In contrast,
      multiple postoperative doses of gabapentin in addition to the preoperative dose was found to
      have no significant effect on VAS scores at 24 hours, thus favoring a single preoperative
      dose.

      Although initial results have been encouraging, uptake of gabapentin in routine clinical use
      remains limited due to mixed results and variability between gabapentin protocols, including
      dosing and duration. Christiana Care Health System (CCHS) plans to implement the Enhanced
      Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocol which administers preoperative medications to reduce
      postoperative pain, including acetaminophen, celecoxib, dexamethasone, and gabapentin.
      Therefore the aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of a single dose of preoperative
      gabapentin protocol to reduce acute postoperative pain in women undergoing a minimally
      invasive hysterectomy.
    
  