
    
      Background: Fatigue or tiredness is a major problem in children, adolescents and adults
      receiving intensive chemotherapy for cancer and in those undergoing hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT). While exercise is good for reducing fatigue, these patients are often
      too sick to participate in regular exercise sessions. A unique, potentially effective type of
      exercise is individualized yoga. Yoga is particularly good since it can be tailored to be
      more or less intensive depending on how the child is feeling. The investigators have
      previously performed a feasibility study of yoga in children admitted to the hospital
      receiving very intensive chemotherapy or HSCT and found that our program of yoga is doable.
      The investigators also found children and their parents like the program.

      Preliminary Data: The investigators' team completed a feasibility study of yoga in 11
      children with cancer or HSCT recipients meeting similar eligibility criteria as the proposed
      study. In short, these results demonstrated the feasibility of individualized yoga and
      suggested several design changes to enhance compliance with outcome ascertainment. The
      investigators found that the mean ± standard deviation for the baseline and day 21
      proxy-report PedsQL MFS general fatigue scores were 46.4±26.8 and 55.6±15.5. These scores are
      much lower compared to fatigue scores observed in two studies of healthy children in which
      scores of 88.8±12.3 and 89.3±13.3 were described. This data suggest that fatigue is expected
      to be very severe in our patient population.

      Objectives: Primary: To determine if a 3 week program of individualized yoga for hospitalized
      children receiving intensive chemotherapy is associated with lower general fatigue or
      tiredness compared to the control intervention of iPad games, music, movies or books.
      Secondary: To determine if a 3 week program of yoga is associated with better quality of life
      and less pain medication use when compared to an iPad activity control program.

      Methods: This is a multi-center, randomized trial of individualized yoga for fatigue.
      Participants are children 8-18 years of age receiving intensive chemotherapy for cancer or
      undergoing HSCT who are expected to remain in hospital for 3 weeks. Participants will be
      randomized to individualized yoga or to the iPad activity control program. The intervention
      is an individualized yoga program in which intensity level may change with each session. The
      control program consists of visits in which games, music, movies or books on a study-supplied
      iPad will be offered. Yoga sessions will be offered five times a week over 3 weeks and will
      be led by a trained yoga teacher. In the control arm, the yoga teacher will visit once a day
      and will offer children games, music, movies or books on an iPad. Fatigue and quality of life
      will be measured by the parent at baseline, on day 10 and on day 21. For subjects who remain
      hospitalized on day 21, they will be offered the alternate arm for one week to promote
      retention.

      The investigators intend to record 20% of yoga and iPad sessions using the iPad to ensure
      quality control and monitoring of sessions. Recorded files will be downloaded to a secure
      File Transfer Protocol (FTP) site. Any deviations from the protocol will result in feedback
      to the site within 1 week of the session and ideally, within 2 days. The research team will
      also routinely audit the data submitted to ensure completeness of the data submissions.

      The investigators plan to enroll 210 subjects at 2 centres in Canada and 1 centre in the
      United States over 4 years.

      Significance: Yoga has the potential to significantly reduce fatigue, a prevalent and
      distressing symptom, in children with cancer and HSCT. The investigators have assembled the
      optimal team with the expertise and track record to accomplish this important trial. This
      trial is an incremental and critically important step in a program of research designed to
      improve health for children at highest risk for poor quality of life. Results may have broad
      applicability to other hospitalized pediatric populations and has the potential to change
      in-hospital care for these patients.
    
  