
    
      Most patients hospitalized with acute heart failure (AHF) respond to intravenous (IV) loop
      diuretic therapy, which results in symptom improvement and discharge from the hospital after
      a 3-5 day stay. However, up to 20% of these patients do not respond to IV loop diuretics, and
      are found to be "diuretic resistant". The treatment pathway for this cohort of patients is
      unclear. As a result, they experience significantly longer hospital lengths of stay, consume
      more healthcare resources, and experience an increased proportion of adverse events.
      Clinicians currently do not have a reliable method of predicting who will become diuretic
      resistant. The diagnosis is made after hospitalization, based on poor response to diuretics
      resulting in escalation of therapy. The standard approach to AHF therapy is to treat all
      patients with IV loop diuretics, not knowing who will become diuretic resistant. When
      diuretics are effective in promoting diuresis and natriuresis the urinary sodium rises and
      the urinary potassium falls. Those patients with continued low urinary sodium despite IV
      diuretic administration are at risk for developing diuretic resistance. Defining diuretic
      resistance based on urinary electrolytes before it becomes clinically apparent would
      facilitate an earlier change in therapy, with an aim of preventing a prolonged
      hospitalization.

      Recently, a method to determine diuretic responsiveness based on measurements of urinary
      sodium in the first 6 hours after diuretic administration has been reported. This is a novel
      concept, and suggests the HF provider could identify poor diuretic responsiveness within 1-2
      hours of diuretic administration. This study was conducted in the inpatient setting, where
      subjects were enrolled up to 4 days after admission. Conducting a similar ED-based study at
      the time of initial diuretic administration would be important to determine if early diuretic
      responsiveness can also be predicted using their formula for urinary sodium output. The
      fractional sodium excretion, (FeNa %), represents the amount of sodium excretion (mmol/time)
      as a percentage of filtered load [plasma sodium concentration to glomerular filtration rate].
      FeNa has been used in several studies to assess diuresis in HF patients. Baseline FeNa has
      been shown to be reduced to less than 1% in patients with HF and a baseline FeNa of less than
      0.2% is associated with diuretic resistance. Identifying effective therapies to mitigate
      diuretic resistance will improve symptoms, decrease hospital length of stay, conserve
      healthcare resources and possibly improve morbidity and mortality.

      Sodium reabsorption is finely tuned in the distal portion of the nephron by the
      sodium-chloride cotransporter (NCC) in the distal convoluted tubule and the epithelial sodium
      channel (ENaC) in the collecting duct. Although only 5-10% of filtered urinary sodium
      typically reaches these portions of the nephron, this represents roughly 15-times the average
      daily dietary sodium intake. Nearly 100% of sodium is reabsorbed in the setting of sodium
      depletion, hypovolemia, or certain pathogenic conditions (congestive heart failure,
      decompensated cirrhosis). The aldosterone-sensitive collecting duct is largely responsible
      for this fine regulation by its ability to maximally active ENaC-dependent sodium
      reabsorption. Although ENaC activity and expression can be measured in vitro (patch clamp)
      and animal studies (micropuncture, Western blot), assessment in clinical studies is very
      limited due to the inability to access adequate tissue. Therefore, investigators have used
      the urinary sodium/potassium ratio as an index of ENaC activity. The study team has recently
      developed a mass spectrometric assay for urinary exosomal epithelial sodium channel (γENaC),
      demonstrating a 15-fold increase during low sodium diet or during aldosterone administration.
      This method represents a significant technical advance and provides clinical investigators a
      tool to measure ENaC expression in future clinical studies. The study team anticipates that a
      similar approach will enable clinicians to measure the expression of additional relevant
      transporters and channels.
    
  