
    
      Transverse myelitis (TM) is a rare inflammatory condition of the spinal cord. It is
      characterised by rapid onset of motor, sensory or autonomic dysfunction causing neurological
      deficit. It has a diverse range of causes; most commonly it is associated with multiple
      sclerosis and neuromyelitis optica also known as Devic's disease or Devic's syndrome, is a
      heterogeneous condition consisting of the simultaneous inflammation and demyelination of the
      optic nerve (optic neuritis) and the spinal cord (myelitis). It affects approximately 1900
      adults and children in the UK annually, with 350 cases per year of unknown cause.

      Outcome in TM is variable; e.g. neuromyelitis optica mortality can be 30% . There is a
      relationship between the severity of neurological symptoms at presentation and the eventual
      outcome. When a patient is ASIA (American spinal injuries association) A or tetraplegic at
      presentation, they are less likely to recover than when ASIA B/C or paraplegic. Approximately
      30% of patients will be ASIA A-C after a TM episode.

      There are several pathological mechanisms which could increase the risk of decreased blood
      supply and further neurological deficit in TM. The ISCoPE study has shown that in traumatic
      spinal cord injury when swelling causes mechanical compression of the cord against the dura
      there is increased intra spinal pressure (ISP).

      The Investigators propose to monitor the ISP and spinal cord metabolites in 10 TM patients
      with MRI evidence of a swollen enlarged spinal cord. There has never been a study looking at
      ISP in TM patients before. The optimum blood pressure in patients with TM is not known.

      The investigators aim to observe a previously unrecognised pathological mechanism of injury
      in TM. In the future this could lead on to novel treatments to improve drug delivery and
      neurological outcome in a condition otherwise associated with a poor outcome.
    
  