
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the rate of successfully delivered accelerated partial breast irradiation
           (APBI) using 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy vs multi-catheter interstitial
           brachytherapy in women with stage I or II invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast.

        -  To establish potential patient participation in ongoing phase III clinical trials (e.g.,
           NSABP-B-39, GEC-ESTRO, RAPID, MPORT, and IRMA) that compare APBI to standard
           whole-breast irradiation.

      Secondary

        -  To assess acute radiation-induced toxicity in these patients as assessed by NCI CTCAE
           version 3.0.

        -  To assess long-term radiation-induced toxicity in these patients as assessed by
           RTOG-EORTC scale.

        -  To assess the incidence and type of adverse events in the breast of these patients.

        -  To assess the incidence and type of procedure-related complications in these patients.

        -  To determine local control and pattern of recurrence in these patients.

        -  To determine disease-free survival (distant and recurrence-free survival) of these
           patients.

        -  To determine overall survival of these patients.

        -  To assess cosmesis in these patients as assessed by the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome
           and RTOG scales.

        -  To assess treatment-related symptoms in these patients as assessed by the Breast Cancer
           Treatment Outcome scale.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients with a lumpectomy
      cavity/whole breast ratio 25-30% are assigned to treatment in arm II.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) using
           3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy twice daily over 5-10 days (total of 10
           fractions) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo APBI using multi-catheter interstitial brachytherapy twice
           daily over 5-10 days (total of 10 fractions) in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaires at baseline, on the last day of treatment,
      at 4 and 24 weeks after completion of treatment, and then annually for 3 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.
    
  