
    
      Participants:

      A complete list of potential participants meeting Inclusion criteria (see relevant section in
      the submitted registration) was obtained in collaboration with the Norwegian National
      Registry administered by the Norwegian Tax Administration. The complete list consisted of
      14350 individuals which constituted the study's sampling frame. A simple random probability
      sample of 10 000 individuals was selected from the sampling frame (sampling fraction = 0.7).
      The actual sampling was conducted without any involvement from members of the REFUGE-I
      research team.

      Data collection:

      All sampled participants will be sent a postal package to their registered residential
      address in Norway. The package will contain a prepaid return envelope, the survey
      questionnaire and a cover letter in Arabic describing the purpose of the study, its voluntary
      nature, what potential participants can expect if they do participate, and how issues
      surrounding confidentiality and anonymity will be handled. The cover letter also highlights
      that survey data will be linked to registry data as part of the longitudinal study. Potential
      participants will be enabled to give written informed consent to participation at the bottom
      of the cover letter and instructed to enclose the written consent with the completed survey
      questionnaire in the prepaid return envelope. Data from participants returning the
      questionnaire without also submitting written consent to participation will be deleted in
      accordance with agreements made with the Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research
      Ethics (REC) - Region South East which granted the ethical approval for the study.

      The survey questionnaire is eight pages long and expected to take about an hour to complete.
      All instructions and questions in the questionnaire are in Arabic. Standard and pre-existing
      scales in Arabic were used whenever available and Arabic translations were done by
      professional translators in collaboration with an Arabic speaking reference group for
      scales/items that did not already exist in Arabic. Potential participants will have about 8
      weeks to complete and return the questionnaire with written consent. One postal reminder,
      together with a blank copy of the survey questionnaire and a prepaid return envelope will be
      sent out to participants who have not returned the questionnaire by a preset deadline - about
      two weeks before the anticipated closing date for data collection (approximately January 15,
      2019). This is in accordance with Norwegian rules and regulations governing research with
      voluntary subjects which prohibits more than one reminder being sent out.

      Analysis:

      Three main articles are stipulated to be submitted for publication from the data collected
      through the survey questionnaire of REFUGE-I. Article one will report descriptive statistics
      on the main outcome variables: depression; anxiety; and symptoms of posttraumatic stress
      disorder across key demographic and background variables in the sample, and describe the flow
      of participants and discuss potential selection bias issues. Article two will provide
      descriptive statistics on somatic pain, sleep difficulties and perceived general health, and
      report findings across the same demographic and background variables as article one and
      across the main outcomes of article one (depression, anxiety and symptoms of posttraumatic
      stress disorder). Article three will present statistics on reported quality of life across
      demographic and background variables, and across the outcome variables of article one and
      two.

      Alternatively, one larger article will be submitted for publication incorporating all of the
      themes outlined in the three articles above.

      Specific analysis plans for each article/theme are described below:

      Article I:

      Title: "Prevalence of common mental health disorders in adult Syrian refugees resettled in
      Norway between 2015 and 2017: a cross-sectional survey questionnaire study".

      In order to compare results to a parallel study on newly resettled adult refugees in Sweden
      conducted by one of our collaborating institutions, Article I will use similar outcome and
      predictor variables as this study. The main outcome variables will be:

      Prevalence of symptom-based posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as measured through the
      first 16 items in the section on trauma symptoms (section IV) in the Harvard Trauma
      Questionnaire (HTQ). A mean-item score ≥ 2.06 will define a "checklist-positive" PTSD case.
      To be included in analyses, participants must have answered 14 or more of the 16 items on the
      HTQ scale.

      Prevalence of symptom-based depression and anxiety as measured through the two subscales on
      depression and anxiety in the Hopkins Symptom Checklist (HSCL-25). A mean-item score ≥ 1.80
      and ≥ 1.75 will define a "checklist-positive" depression and anxiety case, respectively. To
      be included in analyses, participants must have answered ≥ 23 items on the 25-item scale.

      The outcome variables above will be summarized for the whole sample population and across the
      following demographic and background variables:

      Gender Age; split into age groups: 18-29; 30-39; 40-49; 50-64; >64. Education; split into the
      categories: 0-9 years; 10-12 years; >12 years Civil status; split into the categories:
      Married; Unmarried; Divorced/separated/widow(er); Other Arrival status; split into the
      categories: Asylum seeker; Quota/resettlement refugee; Family immigration; Other Year of
      arrival/immigration to Norway; split into: 2015; 2016; 2017. Refugee trauma history measured
      through the Refugee Trauma History Checklist (RTHC). The two scales contained in this
      checklist will be combined - that is, the period will be "prior to arriving in Norway".

      Post-migration stress measured through seven main items of the Post-migration stress scale
      thought to tap into the relevant domains of post-migration stress. Answers to each item will
      be dichotomized so that those answering "often" or "very often" are classified as having had
      this reaction often (i.e. positive for that post-migratory stress reaction)

      Prevalence estimates will be presented with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). Odds ratios
      (ORs) with 95% CIs will be used when summarizing the main outcome variables across refugee
      trauma history and post-migration stress. More specifically, the odds of having a
      symptom-level above vs. below the preset cut-off value for the main outcomes will be
      calculated for each binary (Y/N) item on the trauma history and post-migration stress scales
      (eight and seven items for the two scales, respectively). The positive answer ("Yes") will
      define exposed for each item when reporting the ORs.

      In addition, descriptive statistics on the prevalence of refugee-related possible traumatic
      events will be presented. Descriptive statistics (distribution, mean and variance) on the
      seven domains of the complete 24-item post-migration scale will be presented and compared to
      the study in Sweden. The prevalence of comorbidity between checklist-positive anxiety,
      depression and PTSD will also be reported with 95% CIs.

      The number of participants contributing data to a specific statistics will be reported. The
      study will report, compare and discuss statistics on the participants vs. the sample frame on
      all available parameters for both groups in order to evaluate selection bias issues
      (anticipated available parameters include: age, gender, civil/marital status, permanent vs
      temporary residence status, number of registered mobile phone numbers).

      Article II:

      Title: "Subjective health and pain, and sleep difficulties in adult Syrian refugees resettled
      in Norway between 2015 and 2017: a cross-sectional survey questionnaire study".

      Main outcomes:

      Somatic pain (including pain in muscles and joints and general pain), measured as described
      under Outcome Measures. Statistics on pain in muscles and joints will be aggregated (i.e. all
      items will be combined) and reported as the percentage of participants in each of three
      categories: Not troubled with pain in muscles and joints (Not troubled reported for all
      items); Somewhat troubled with pain in muscles and joints (Somewhat troubled reported for at
      least one item); Very troubled with pain in muscles and joints (Very troubled for at least
      one item). Participants must have answered at least four of the five items (if all answers
      are Not troubled), or Somewhat troubled/Very troubled on at least one item to be included in
      analyses. Statistics on general pain will be presented in an identical manner (i.e. the
      percentage in each of three categories, aggregated across all items on general pain) Sleep
      difficulties, measured as described under Outcome Measures. The overall mean-item score will
      be reported, as well as the estimated prevalence of insomnia, defined by the following
      criteria: a score of 3 or above on at least one of the first 4 items + a score of 3 or higher
      on at least one of the last 2 items. Participants must have answered at least five of the six
      items to be included in analyses when analyzing the mean-item score of the scale. When
      analyzing the prevalence of insomnia, participants must have answered at least three of the
      first four items and one of the last two items; or, they must have a score of 3 or above on
      at least one of the first four items and a score of 3 or above on at least one of the last
      two items to be included in analyses.

      Perceived general health, measured as described under Outcome Measures. Statistics on
      perceived general health will be reported as the percentage of participants in each answer
      category (with 95% CIs). Question one on overall health will be dichotomized with Very
      good/Good as one category and the remaining three as one category (Don't know will not be
      included). Question two on functional impairment will use all three answer categories (Don't
      know will not be included).

      The outcome variables above (with 95% CIs) will be presented for the whole sample combined,
      and for the sample split on demographic and background variables 1-6 as outlined under the
      description of article I above. In addition, the outcome variables will be presented across
      the main outcome variables of article I: depression; anxiety; and PTSD (all binary).
      Furthermore, perceived general health will be reported across outcome variable one: pain in
      muscles and joints (3 categories) and general pain (3 categories); and outcome variable two:
      sleep difficulties (binary - insomnia vs. not). The number of participants contributing data
      to a specific statistics/analysis will be reported.

      Article III:

      Title: "Quality of life in adult Syrian refugees resettled in Norway between 2015 and 2017: a
      cross-sectional survey questionnaire study".

      The main outcome variable of Article III will be quality of life (QoL) measured through The
      World Health Organization Quality of Life assessment (WHOQOL-BREF). All four domain-scores in
      the scale (physical health; psychological health; social relationships; and environment) will
      be used as outcome in analyses. In order to compare with relevant prior studies, the domain
      scores will be converted as needed according to the method described by the WHO. That is,
      results on quality of life will be presented in three different ways: as raw scores,
      converted to a 4-20 scale, and converted to a 0-100 scale. In order to be included in
      analysis for a certain domain, participants must have answered a minimum of six, five, two,
      and six items for the domains: physical health, psychological health, social relationships,
      and environment, respectively.

      QoL scores (with standard deviation, SD, and 95% CIs) for the four domains will be presented
      for the whole sample combined, and for the sample split on demographic and background
      variables 1-6 as outlined under the description of article I above. In addition, QoL scores
      (with SD and 95% CIs) will be presented across the main outcome variables of article I:
      depression; anxiety; and PTSD (all binary); as well as the main outcome variables of article
      II: muscle/joint pain and general pain, both variables split into three categories: Not
      troubled (for all 5 items); Somewhat troubled (at least one item); Very troubled (at least
      one item); sleep difficulties (binary - insomnia vs. not); and perceived general health
      (binary for overall health, and three categories for functional impairment).

      Furthermore QoL scores from REFUGE-I will be compared with scores from other refugee
      populations, and with QoL scores in the general population around the world. The number of
      participants contributing data to a specific statistics/analysis will be reported.

      Ethical issues:

      In the event that participation in the study triggers substantial adverse reactions in any of
      the participants, a help-line will be set up by the research team in collaboration with
      clinical personnel with experience on refugee mental health. Participants will be informed
      that they can send a text message to the help-line's phone number, and that the clinical
      personnel will call them back with an Arabic interpreter as soon as possible. Arrangements
      will be made with a professional Norwegian interpreter firm to ensure the availability of an
      interpreter within a reasonable time frame (hours). This service will be available during
      regular work hours. During off-hours and weekends, participants will be instructed to contact
      Norway's National out-of-hours medical service for immediate medical assistance and given the
      necessary information on how to do so.
    
  