
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) of receiving lutetium Lu 177 dotatate to that
      of receiving everolimus in patients with bronchial neuroendocrine tumor (NET).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) of receiving lutetium Lu 177 dotatate versus
      everolimus in patients with bronchial NET.

      II. To compare the overall response rate (ORR) associated with lutetium Lu 177 dotatate
      versus everolimus in patients with bronchial NET.

      III. To evaluate and compare the toxicity profile of lutetium Lu 177 dotatate and everolimus.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study late toxicities of lutetium Lu 177 dotatate therapy including renal dysfunction,
      myelodysplastic syndrome, and acute leukemia.

      II. To study the impact of pretreatment disease burden, somatostatin receptor status on
      lutetium Lu 177 dotatate (DOTATATE) positron emission tomography (PET) (or other somatostatin
      receptor [SSTR]-PET), and measured dosimetry of response.

      III. To evaluate the response rate (RR) and other efficacy parameters in typical and atypical
      carcinoid based on central retrospective pathology review.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive lutetium Lu 177 dotatate intravenously (IV) over 30-40 minutes on day
      1. Treatment repeats every 56 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive everolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      disease progression may be able to cross-over to Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years following study registration.
    
  