
    
      Background & Aim Asthma is the most common chronic disease among children, adolescents and
      adults. When the diagnosis has been confirmed and the necessary level of treatment
      established, a well-treated asthma patient is an individual without asthma symptoms. However,
      asthma is a heterogeneous disease and achieving disease control is far from easy in all
      asthma patients, although the exact proportion of this problem in real life is unknown. In
      Denmark, CPR provides the opportunity to track all patients with regard to diagnosis and
      management, and on a one-by-one basis to merge several informative registers to follow
      prescribed medication, filled prescriptions, education, area of residence, job, sick leave
      and referral to secondary care for both asthma and co-morbidities. Based on analysis of data
      on filled prescriptions from the Danish National Health Service Prescription Database
      (DNHSPD), it has been demonstrated that only one third of patients classified as having
      uncontrolled asthma are seen in secondary care.

      Based on a nationwide asthma database and clinical confirmation, The Investigators aim to:

        -  Describe the patient demographics and disease-burden in patients with possible hidden
           severe asthma in Denmark, using the national databases.

        -  Elucidate the real-world prevalence of hidden severe asthma in Denmark, by systematic
           assessment of patients with possible hidden severe asthma.

        -  Investigate the impact of systematic asthma assessment on quality of life and asthma
           control in patients with possible hidden severe asthma.

      Hypotheses & Expected results

        1. Within the last year, a large proportion of asthma patients (75%) prescribed medium to
           high doses of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) have not had their lung function measured,
           had no new asthma drugs prescribed and have not been referred to secondary care for
           further assessments.

        2. A significant number of asthma patients in primary care are prescribed high doses of ICS
           and filled prescriptions for >200 puffs of rescue medication (short-acting beta
           2-agonists (SABA) or anticholinergics (SAMA)) per year over a period of 2 years,
           exhibiting low disease awareness of the difficult to manage asthma patients by both
           doctors and patients.

        3. In primary care, more than 75% of asthma patients prescribed high dose ICS and a second
           controller have been seen in secondary care within the last year, leaving few (25%) with
           possible hidden severe asthma in primary care.

        4. In primary care, there is a significant mismatch between general practitioner (GP)-based
           diagnosis of severe asthma (based on prescription data) and the true prevalence of
           severe asthma following guideline-based systematic assessment for severe asthma.

        5. A systematic pulmonary assessment in patients with possible severe asthma leaves few
           with a severe asthma diagnosis and increases disease control in patients with
           moderate-to-mild asthma. A significant proportion of patients are able to step-down in
           inhaled steroid treatment as described in GINA guidelines.

      Methods

      The initial studies are designed as retrospective, observational studies with a real-world
      evidence, registrybased design. The study period is 1/6-14 to 31/5-18. Databases used are:

        -  Danish Clinical Registries (DCR) - Asthma

        -  National Patient Registry (NPR) & Statistics Denmark (DST)

        -  The Danish National Health Service Prescription Database (DNHSPD)

      The clinical follow-up (reassessment) study is designed as an interventional, non-randomized,
      non-blinded clinical study with the aim of assessing the effect of systematic asthma
      assessment (as suggested by the Nordic Severe Asthma Network) on patients with possible
      severe asthma not seen by a pulmonologist.

      Effects are measured as

        1. improvements of symptoms and quality of life according to questionnaires and

        2. improvements of clinical variables such as lower peak expiratory flow (PEF) variability.
    
  