
    
      Gene Transfer:

      Gene transfer involves drawing blood from a transplant donor, and then separating out the
      T-cells using a machine. Researchers then perform a gene transfer to change the T-cells' DNA,
      and then inject the changed T-cells into the body of the patient receiving the transplant.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive fludarabine, melphalan, and alemtuzumab to kill cancer cells and help
      prevent your body from rejecting the stem cells. The day you receive the stem cells is called
      Day 0. The days before you receive your stem cells are called minus days. The days after you
      receive the stem cells are called plus days.

      On Day -7, you will be admitted to the hospital and given fluids by vein to hydrate you.

      On Days -6 through -3, you will receive fludarabine by vein over 1 hour each day.

      On Day -2, you will receive melphalan by vein over 30 minutes.

      On Day -1, you will receive alemtuzumab by vein over 2 hours.

      On Day 0, you will receive the stem cell transplant as a cell infusion by vein.

      After the transplant, you will receive tacrolimus and methotrexate. At first, you will
      receive tacrolimus as a continuous (nonstop) infusion until you are able to take it by mouth.
      You will then take tacrolimus by mouth 2 times a day for about 3 weeks and then your doctor
      will tell you how to taper it off (gradually stop taking it). On Days +1, +3, +6, and +11,
      you will receive methotrexate by vein over 30 minutes.

      You will receive filgrastim as an injection under the skin 1 time a day, starting 1 week
      after the transplant, until your blood cell levels return to normal. Filgrastim is designed
      to help with the growth of white blood cells.

      Between Day +56 and +64, if you are in stable medical condition and have not developed GvHD,
      you will receive a donor lymphocyte infusion containing genetically modified T-cells by vein
      over 10-30 minutes. You will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by vein over 15 minutes and
      Tylenol by mouth before the infusion to lower the risk of an allergic reaction.

      If your doctor thinks it is needed due to medical problems, the T-cell infusion may be
      postponed for up to 6 months after the transplant.

      If you develop symptoms of GvHD after the T-cell infusion, you must return to the clinic
      within 72 hours. Most cases of GVHD occur within 60 days of the T-cell infusion. If you have
      GvHD, you will receive AP1903 by vein and possibly steroids by mouth or by vein. If your
      doctor thinks it is needed, you may receive one more dose of AP1903 by vein 24-72 hours after
      the first dose.

      If GvHD returns after the first treatment and your doctor thinks it is needed, you may
      receive AP1903 by vein and steroids by mouth or by vein.

      Blood (about 2 tablespoons each time) will be drawn about 3 hours before you receive AP1903,
      about 2 hours after the AP1903 infusion, and then about 24 hours after the AP1903 infusion to
      check the level of genetically modified T-cells.

      You will then come to the clinic every day for the next 3 days and for an additional 3 days
      after a second dose of AP1903, if given. In addition, you will come to the clinic on about
      Days +7, +14, +28, +42 and +56 after receiving AP1903. If your symptoms do not improve after
      receiving AP1903, you will be given standard drugs for GvHD.

      Study Tests:

      After the stem cell transplant but before the T-cell infusion, you will have the following
      tests and procedures to find out if you will be eligible for the T-cell infusion:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be checked for possible reactions to treatment, including GvHD.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to check your liver and
           kidney function, for chimerism studies (determination of donor or recipient cells), and
           to check for cytomegalovirus (CMV).

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy
           performed to check the status of the disease. To collect a bone marrow
           aspiration/biopsy, an area of the hip is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of
           bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle.

      About twice a week until about 2 months after the T-cell infusion, and then 6 and 12 months
      after the stem cell transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your height, weight and vital
           signs.

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have be checked for possible reactions to your treatment, including GvHD.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to check your liver and
           kidney function, and to check for CMV and other infections. Part of the blood may be
           used for chimerism studies, if your doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is needed, you may have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy
           performed to check the status of the disease and for chimerism studies.

      If your doctor thinks it is needed, some tests and procedures may be repeated more frequently
      or at different time points during the study.

      Immune System and T-cell Level Tests:

      If possible, blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn to check the status of the disease and
      your immune system function:

        -  4 hours after the T-cell infusion,

        -  once a week for 1 month after the T-cell infusion,

        -  and then at 6 weeks and then about 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the T-cell infusion.
           °Part of the blood sample will be used to check for HAMA at 3 months after the T-cell
           infusion.

      Part of the blood drawn will be tested to check the level and function of the infused
      T-cells. At 3 months after the T-cell infusion, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
      check for HAMA.

      Questionnaires:

      You will complete a quality of life questionnaire that will take about 5-10 minutes each
      time:

        -  When you enroll on this study

        -  At the time of the T-cell infusion

        -  If you develop symptoms of GvHD after the T-cell infusion and receive AP1903, you will
           complete the questionnaire before you receive AP1903, and then about 7 and 14 days after
           you receive AP1903.

        -  If you do not develop symptoms of GvHD, you will complete a questionnaire about 1 month
           after the T-cell infusion.

      Length of Treatment:

      You will be off study after your 1-year follow-up visit. You will be taken off study early
      if:

        -  not enough donor cells could be collected

        -  you were not eligible to receive the T-cell infusion

        -  you have graft failure (the donor cells did not "take")

        -  the disease comes back and needs another treatment

        -  you are unable to keep appointments

        -  you did not return to the clinic within 72 hours of having symptoms of GvHD

        -  your study doctor thinks it is in your best interest

      If you are taken off study, you will receive standard of care treatment.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      For safety reasons, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires that patients who
      receive infusions of stem cells treated with a gene transfer procedure must have long-term
      follow-up yearly for at least 15 years after receiving the gene transfer.

      You will have blood tests performed to check to make sure you do not have a type of infection
      called the replication-competent retrovirus (RCR). For this test, blood (up to 4 teaspoons
      each time) will drawn about 1, 3, and 6 months after the T-cell infusion, then once every 6
      months for 5 years, and then once a year after that for 10 years.

      If the RCR test results during the first year after the T-cell infusion show that you do not
      have the RCR infection, the rest of your leftover blood samples (left over from RCR testing
      in Years 2-15) will be stored at Bellicum for safety reasons. This is so researchers can
      study any changes in your blood (related to RCR) that may arise in Years 2-15.

      You will be asked to sign a separate consent form for a long-term follow-up study, Protocol
      2006-0676. If for any reason you are unable to receive the genetically modified cells, you
      will not be enrolled on the long-term follow-up study.

      This is an investigational study. The gene transfer or infusion with genetically-changed
      T-cells and the drug, AP1903, are not FDA approved or commercially available for use in this
      type of disease. They are currently being used for research purposes only. Fludarabine,
      melphalan, and alemtuzumab are commercially available and FDA approved.

      Up to 35 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  