
    
      RATIONALE Given the high prevalence of malnutrition of the GDH participants and its impact on
      poor physical performance, providing a nutritional supplement to increase protein, leucine,
      vitamin D and omega-3 FA intake should complement and optimize the rehabilitation
      interventions in improving muscle mass, strength and physical performance.

      OBJECTIVES

      Implementing the proposed nutritional supplement in the routine care of GDH participants
      will:

        1. test the feasibility, acceptance and adherence to the supplement and its safety

        2. provide pilot data to test the superiority of the supplement versus an isocaloric
           placebo on measures of muscle mass, strength, and physical performance.

      STUDY DESIGN. This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial of two parallel
      arms, conducted on two sites. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to one of two
      groups: experimental (EXP) or control (CTR) in a 1:1 ratio. Randomization will be achieved by
      computer-generated permuted block of four.

      INTERVENTION The EXP arm will ingest a multi-nutrient supplement consisting of whey protein +
      leucine and fish oil + vitamin D and CTR arm will ingest an isocaloric plabebo, during 16
      weeks (about 8 weeks during rehabilitation and 8 more weeks after). Outcome assessment will
      be performed at baseline, week 8 and week 16, except for body composition measured by DXA at
      baseline and week 16.

      OUTCOMES Primary: feasibility Secondary: physical performance, muscle strength, appendicular
      lean mass Other: dietary intake, physical activity, clinical markers

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS This pilot study is designed to generate data on feasibility, acceptance
      and compliance to the supplement and is not powered for identifying statistical differences
      in the secondary outcomes. A sample size of n=40 (20/group) is planned to test feasibility.
      Data will be reported as medians and 95% CI.
    
  