
    
      Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is associated with worse outcomes in patients with
      coronary artery disease (CAD), especially in old-aged population. Extensive CAC also
      increases the risk of procedure associated complications, such as stent migration, coronary
      artery perforation, dissection and thrombosis. The pathogenesis of CAC has not been fully
      explained. Recent evidence suggests that CAC share common pathways with bone formation. So,
      it can be presumed that risk factors contributing to bone formation and resorption activity
      also affect the development of CAC. Sex hormones is known to play an important role in bone
      development and in bone quality maintenance. Available data shows that androgens may affect
      differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis of osteocytes, osteoclasts, and osteoblasts.
      Androgen receptor expression has been detected on different types of cells which contributing
      to the bone formation, such as osteoblastes, osteocytes and condrocytes, and androgen
      deprivation therapy results negative effects on bone mineral density in patients with
      metastatic prostate cancer. Osteoporosis, a systemic disease characterized by bone tissue
      loss, is more prevalent in oler men with low testosterone levels. In CAC, pathophysiological
      researches show that several vascular cell types, such as vascular smooth muscle cells,
      adventitial myofibroblasts and microvascular pericytes, have the potential to produce
      mineralized matrix and differentiate into osteoblasts. So, it can be postulated that
      androgens may play a similar role in the development of CAC.

      Up to date, only limited data is available about the association between testosterone and
      CAC. A single-center study with relatively small sample revealed an inverse association
      between testosterone and CAC in non-obese men. The aim of this study was to investigate the
      association between testosterone and CAC measured as CAC score in old-aged male patients with
      CAD.
    
  