
    
      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has become a critical component to the evaluation of
      ophthalmic disease. Similar to the ultrasound, OCT uses light to reconstruct an image of the
      tissue of interest. In effect, OCT functions almost like a light biopsy, allowing clinicians
      to visualize subtle changes in the tissue, such as macular edema or subretinal fluid. OCT in
      the clinic setting has become the gold standard for monitoring diseases such as macular
      degeneration and diabetic retinopathy;and it has become one of the most frequently ordered
      diagnostic test in ophthalmology.

      Due to the restraints in the size and structure of the imaging equipment, the use of OCT in
      the operating room has been limited. More recently, modifications to OCT table-tops models as
      well as the development of hand-held OCT probes have allowed for the translation of OCT
      technology into the operating room. The high resolution anatomic information that is gained
      from the OCT imaging is a natural complement to the ophthalmic surgeon. Using OCT during
      vitreoretinal surgery has revealed subtle changes in the microarchitecture of the retinal
      diseases such as retinal detachment, macular hole and optic pit, that were not previously
      known. Our research team has been examining intraoperative OCT in the operating room using
      both a handheld and microscope-mounted portable spectral domain OCT probe with excellent
      success and an outstanding safety record.

      In this study an OCT device that has been built into the microscope (rather than mounted on
      the side or held in the surgeon's hand) and will be utilized to take images at various
      milestones during surgery to assess feasibility and potential utility of this technology.
      Since it is built into the microscope, there are potential significant advantages over a
      separate system including increased efficiency, improved working distance, and the ability to
      visualize tissue-instrument interactions.
    
  