
    
      This study is a randomized, open-label pilot study comparing immediate fast-track vs.
      standard care for patients with WHO Stage 1 or 2 disease at HIV diagnosis. Participants will
      be enrolled on the day of HIV diagnosis, and will be followed for 48 weeks. The total sample
      size will be 254 participants; of these, 56 will be patients or providers enrolled in
      one-time focus groups, 20 will be enrolled for testing the manuals and study procedures, and
      178 will be enrolled in the pilot RCT.

      The study site is GHESKIO (Haitian Group for the Study of Kaposi's Sarcoma and Opportunistic
      Infections) in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. The study population includes men and women who are at
      least 18 years of age who are ART-naïve, and who present with WHO Stage 1 or 2 diseases at
      HIV diagnosis.

      Participants in both groups will initiate ART on the day of HIV testing, prior to enrollment
      and randomization. They will then be randomized to immediate versus standard (deferred
      fast-track) care. Those in the immediate group will start fast-track care on the day of HIV
      testing. Those in the standard group will start fast-track care if they are on time for their
      24-week visit, with HIV-1 RNA <200 copies/ml. Participants in both groups will receive
      identical care from weeks 24 to 48.

      Once a patient qualifies for fast-track care, it is provided in the same manner for both
      groups.

        -  Reminder phone call and point-of-service dispensing of ART: The CHW calls patient one
           day in advance, to ensure they can attend visit. If patient responds in the affirmative,
           then their ART and prophylactic medications are packaged in advance.

        -  Minimal waiting time to see clinician, with short, focused visits: Total visit time is
           about 30 minutes.

        -  Less frequent clinic visits: Other than the first 3 months for the immediate group,
           fast-track care includes quarterly nurse visits, with CHW phone calls during months when
           no clinic visit is scheduled;

        -  Nurse-led care: Fast-track visits are all staffed by nurses, except in the case that a
           patient has a new symptom; in that case, the patient receives a fast-track physician
           evaluation, with appropriate fast-track follow-up care. For example, in the rare case
           that a patient develops active TB, they will receive fast-track care with physician and
           nurse visits as appropriate.
    
  