
    
      This is a prospective, single center, double-blinded, multi-arm parallel group study
      conducted at a university affiliated medical center. Study approval was obtained from the
      Saint Barnabas Medical Center institutional review board, and written informed consent was
      obtained from all study participants.

      Patients were randomly assigned to one of three parallel groups in a 1:1:1 ratio, to receive
      either: treatment transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block and placebo local injection,
      placebo TAP block and treatment local injection, or treatment TAP block and treatment local
      injection. This study took place at Saint Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, New Jersey
      from May 2011 to October 2013. Patients were recruited from the offices of ten different
      gynecological surgeons in private practice. Two of the surgeons were gynecological
      oncologists, and the remainder were general obstetricians/gynecologists that perform
      minimally invasive gynecological surgery. The TAP blocks were administered by one of four
      anesthesiologists.

      Patients were consented and enrolled in the study by blinded obstetrical and gynecological
      residents while the patients were in the preoperative area. Each patient was given a
      standardized informed consent packet detailing the study. Once a patient gave informed
      consent and was enrolled in the study, independent pharmacists were notified of their
      enrollment. The pharmacists then assigned participants to one of three possible interventions
      based on a computer-generated randomization list that was created by the principal
      investigator prior to commencement of patient enrollment. The pharmacist assigned patients
      into their appropriate intervention based upon what number participant the patient was in the
      study. The pharmacist then dispensed the study medications into identical 30 mL syringes
      labeled study drug and placed them in brown paper bags. The study medication to be
      administered via TAP block was placed in two 30 mL syringes and placed in a brown paper bag.
      The study medication to be used for local injection was placed in a single 30 mL syringe and
      placed in a separate brown paper bag. These bags were then brought to the operating room
      where they were to be administered. The bag containing the two syringes was given to the
      anesthesiologists performing the TAP block and the bag with the single syringe was handed to
      the scrub tech that then later distributed it to the surgeons. The patients, all healthcare
      providers, and data collectors were blinded as to group allocation. Additionally, both
      ropivacaine and normal saline are clear and indistinguishable from one another.

      The interventions were administered in the operating room once the patients had been placed
      under general anesthesia, prior to skin incisions. The TAP blocks were administered under
      ultrasound guidance.

      Patients were then prepped and draped for surgery. Prior to proceeding to skin incisions the
      surgeons administered 2 mL of local injection subcutaneously at the intended port site
      locations. If additional port sites were deemed necessary during the procedure study drug was
      administered in a similar fashion prior to those skin incisions being made.

      Postoperatively all patients received a standardized analgesia regimen. Specifically, for
      mild pain, oxycodone/acetaminophen 5/325 mg one tablet orally every four hours; for moderate
      pain, oxycodone/acetaminophen 5/325 mg two tablets orally every six hours, and for severe
      pain, hydromorphone 1 mg every 3 hours intravenously.
    
  