
    
      Patients between the ages of 2 to 6 months of age and undergo a sagittal synostosis repair
      will split into two groups to participate in a prospective pilot study. The purpose of this
      study is to examine the extracellular potassium levels in patients who receive irradiated
      blood versus non-irradiated blood. Enrollment will occur over a 24 month period or until 20
      patients are enrolled. The patient names, medical record numbers and any other identifiers
      will be kept strictly confidential.

      Patients will receive irradiated or non-irradiated blood based on their age. Patients under 4
      months of age will receive irradiated blood products, as per hospital protocol, while
      patients over 4 months of age will receive non-irradiated blood products.

      Patients will receive standard surgical practice for their craniosynostosis repair and will
      receive the blood transfusion at the discretion of the anesthesiologist and surgeon. All the
      blood that is transfused will be analyzed prior to transfusion. The patient's extracellular
      potassium levels will be recorded pre-transfusion, at 30 minute intervals during the
      transfusion, and post-transfusion. The collected data will be compared to test for
      correlation between extracellular potassium levels, the type of blood transfused, and the
      amount of calcium that is administered.

      There is minimal risk of harm associated with the study. All surgical procedures run their
      typical risk of infection, bleeding or any other complication that could occur during or
      after the operation. The blood transfusions may also increase patient's risk of graft versus
      host disease, hyperkalemia, or cardiac anomalies. These cases will be documented and
      responded to according to anesthesiologist and surgeon's preference.

      Materials and information necessary to carry out this experiment include: patient age, sex,
      weight, type of blood transfused (ABO and non-irradiated/irradiated), vital signs, operating
      time, amount of blood lost, adverse events, and length of stay.

      Patients who decline participation in the study will have no change in their anesthetic or
      post-operative care.
    
  