
    
      Bovine colostrum is the first milk secreted by cows after calving. Colostrum is high in
      protein and contains a number of bioactive substances including growth and antimicrobial
      factors. Antimicrobial factors in bovine colostrum include immunoglobulin and a variety of
      other less specific antimicrobial proteins and peptides. Immunoglobulin and other
      antimicrobials are important for immune system function. This is important to athletes
      because intense exercise training can compromise the immune system; therefore bovine
      colostrum has potential to improve exercise performance by preventing immune system
      dysfunction that is common during periods of heavy exercise training .

      Preliminary studies of colostrum supplementation show its potential for increasing human
      exercise performance. The mechanism through which colostrum acts to benefit performance
      remains unclear. Similarly, further studies are required to elucidate colostrum-induced
      effects in individuals of different ages and levels/intensity of physical activity.

      The main growth factor in bovine colostrum is insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Bovine
      colostrum supplementation in young individuals increased IGF-1 levels. Insulin-like growth
      factor-1 stimulates growth of muscle tissue and is important in maintaining muscle mass and
      function in adults.

      Bovine colostrum supplementation has been shown to increase lean tissue (muscle mass) in
      younger individuals. Eight to 12 weeks of bovine colostrum supplementation during a
      resistance training program increased lean tissue mass by 1.5 to 2 kg compared to increases
      of 0 to 1.2 kg while on whey protein supplementation. We have also recently shown that bovine
      colostrum supplementation increases muscular strength compared to similar amounts of
      supplementation with whey protein in men and women over 50y.

      Examining the effects of colostrum in rugby players presents a unique scientific opportunity
      because of the nature of their training regime. Rugby players' early season workouts are the
      most stressful training sessions of the season (after the winter break they must condition
      quickly for the start of the season with few if any pre-season games and their workouts
      involve repeated sprint activity in addition to weight training). Rugby players would be most
      susceptible to overtraining and immune system depression during this time of the year. Bovine
      colostrum with its high levels of anti-microbials and other bioactive factors may be
      beneficial to mitigate the deleterious effects of early, high intensity training.

      The objective of the proposed internship study is to determine the effects of 8 weeks of
      bovine colostrum supplementation, compared to soy protein supplementation in rugby players
      during early season training.
    
  