
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare a molecular profiling approach (70-gene signature) vs usual clinical assessment
           in assigning adequate risk categories (and the need to receive adjuvant chemotherapy or
           not) to breast cancer patients with 0-3 positive lymph nodes.

        -  Compare the efficacy and long-term toxicities of docetaxel and capecitabine vs standard
           anthracycline-based chemotherapy regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the best endocrine treatment strategy (i.e., letrozole for 7 years vs
           sequential tamoxifen for 2 years followed by letrozole for 5 years) in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Compare both relative (hazard ratio) and absolute (percentage at 5 years) efficacy of
           these regimens, in terms of disease-free survival (DFS), distant metastasis-free
           survival (DMFS), and overall survival (OS), in these patients.

        -  Determine overall estimates of efficacy (DFS, DMFS, OS) for each treatment strategy
           according to clinical-pathological prognosis and molecular prognosis in these patients.

        -  Estimate the percentage of patients receiving chemotherapy per each prognostic method.

        -  Identify predictive gene expression profiles of clinical response/resistance to
           anthracycline-based and docetaxel-capecitabine chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Compare novel gene expression signatures predicting clinical response in patients
           treated with sequential tamoxifen-letrozole vs letrozole alone.

        -  Compare the OS distributions in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the early and late toxicities of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Evaluate adjuvant endocrine treatment success or failure in the subgroup of
           postmenopausal patients with endocrine-responsive disease.

        -  Compare the safety profile of these two endocrine therapy regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a partially randomized, open-label, prospective, multicenter study.

      Patients with both clinical high-risk (CHR) and genomic high-risk (GHR) disease are assigned
      to receive chemotherapy. Patients with both clinical low-risk (CLR) and genomic low-risk
      (GLR) disease do not receive chemotherapy. Patients with discordant risk between the 2
      decision-making tools (standard clinical-pathological criteria vs 70-gene signature criteria)
      are randomized to receive chemotherapy or not. Patients with HER-2 positive tumors which have
      both methods discordant and were randomized to no chemotherapy, can receive adjuvant
      trastuzumab alone or with adjuvant endocrine therapy (if hormonal receptor positive), if
      decided by the treating physician. Patients with HER-2 positive tumors that are classified
      low-risk by both methods can receive adjuvant trastuzumab alone or with adjuvant endocrine
      therapy (if hormonal receptor positive), if decided by the treating physician and if no
      issues for trastuzumab reimbursement exist in the investigator's country.

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients are stratified according to participating center, risk group
           (GHR/CLR vs GLR/CHR), hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER] positive and/or
           progesterone receptor [PR] positive vs ER and PR negative), age (< 50 years vs at least
           50 years), HER2/neu status (positive vs negative vs unknown), method of axillary
           evaluation (sentinel only vs dissection), and type of surgery (mastectomy vs
           quadrantectomy/tumorectomy). In case PR is unknown, the patient will be stratified to
           the hormone receptor (HR) negative group if ER is negative, and to the HR positive group
           if ER is positive. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I (anthracycline-based): Patients may receive 1 of the following regimens*:

                  -  FEC 100: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, epirubicin hydrochloride IV, and
                     cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses.

                  -  Canadian CEF: Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide on days 1-14 (or IV on
                     days 1 and 8) and epirubicin hydrochloride IV and fluorouracil IV on days 1
                     and 8. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses.

                  -  CAF: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and
                     fluorouracil IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses.

                  -  FAC: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on
                     day 1 and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for
                     6 courses.

                  -  E-CMF: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment
                     repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide
                     IV, methotrexate IV, and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats
                     every 4 weeks for 4 courses.

      NOTE: *Patients who refuse randomization may be treated with another chemotherapy regimen and
      still be included in the study.

        -  Arm II (docetaxel and capecitabine): Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1
           and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6
           courses.

             -  Endocrine therapy* (all postmenopausal and some premenopausal** patients who have
                endocrine-responsive tumors***): Patients are stratified according to participating
                center, risk group (GHR/CHR vs GHR/CLR vs GLR/CHR vs GLR/CLR), adjuvant
                chemotherapy (no vs nonrandomized vs arm I vs arm II), endocrine sensitivity (both
                ER and PR positive vs either ER or PR positive), age (< 50 years vs at least 50
                years), HER2/neu status (positive vs negative vs unknown), method of axillary
                evaluation (sentinel only vs dissection), and type of surgery (mastectomy vs
                quadrantectomy/tumorectomy). In case PR is unknown, the patient will be stratified
                to the HR negative group if ER is negative, and to the HR positive group if ER is
                positive.

      Therapy begins after prior surgery in patients who did not receive chemotherapy and after
      chemotherapy in those who did. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral tamoxifen citrate once daily for 2 years. Patients then
           receive oral letrozole once daily for 5 years.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral letrozole once daily for 7 years. NOTE: *The first dose of
           endocrine therapy should be administered within 4 weeks following the randomization
           (R-E) date. If treatment has not started within 300 days after definitive surgery, the
           patient becomes ineligible for randomized endocrine therapy.

      NOTE: **Premenopausal women (< 50 years) must undergo adequate ovarian suppression
      (gonadotropin releasing hormone, bilateral oophorectomy, or bilateral ovarian radiation).

      NOTE: ***Patients who have endocrine-responsive tumors but refuse randomization should
      receive standard endocrine therapy and may remain on study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually for at least 15 years.

      FINAL ACCRUAL: A total of 6,694 patients have been accrued for this study.
    
  