
    
      This study will provide evidence about App usage in young carers (YCs), there is no evidence
      to date on this to the researcher's knowledge. While there are articles and reports on young
      carers and their experiences there is very little actual empirical research, partly due to
      the hard-to-reach population and their carer responsibilities and associated experiences
      (such as carer burden).

      The study seeks to identify the gap between estimated and actual numbers of young carers, as
      part of Stage 3, which will again add to the evidence base as this has not previously been
      reported. The study will be able to describe the impact of a technology-based intervention to
      increase support for YCs.

      This research will also contribute to understanding how App-based support can help YC,
      specifically exploring how receiving centralised, comprehensive information regarding:
      looking after their own health; having time off from carer duties and resources to support
      them getting this; self-awareness or self-identification of carer responsibilities and the
      impact of being a carer, might help.

      Young Carers have also talked about the need for networks and support; these individuals will
      then be able to access Young Carers in Herts - and find support locally via professionals
      (they can access links to counsellors via the App -in order to receive mental health support)
      as well as other young carers (peer support, identified as very important in other recent
      local work).

      This proposed research, through the qualitative interviews and focus groups, will also allow
      investigators to contribute an in-depth picture of (including a longitudinal description from
      the YCs in-depth interviews over the course of a year) of young carers' needs, and identify
      where needs are not being met and what could be done to improve their experiences. Having
      contextual data from interviews from peers (senior school age children), who may themselves
      end up becoming young carers, will also give us data to contrast.

      This research will also help primary and secondary care providers to understand the needs and
      identification of this group. Although the study is not explicitly looking at this, the
      researchers hope to look at this in future work.
    
  