
    
      This is a randomized double blind placebo-controlled study,with plans to include 5 additional
      U.S. centers in the near future. The primary goal of this study is to determine whether
      celecoxib has efficacy in elimination or reduction of recurrent disease in patients with RRP.
      Our secondary goals are to determine whether continued celecoxib is required to maintain
      response, to correlate response with select patient demographics and with plasma levels of
      celecoxib. The study design encompasses a 30-month period, which can be divided into three
      segments:

      Segment A: This is a 6 month run-in period in which all patients are assessed by direct
      laryngoscopy/bronchoscopy for disease severity, to permit growth rate stabilization and
      confirm accuracy of training of participating physicians. Patients will be treated by
      conventional surgery at three months and six months after enrollment.

      Segment B: Patients begin 12 months of 400mg(adults), 100 mg (pediatric weight between 12 and
      25 kg)or 200 mg (pediatric weight > 25kg) celecoxib daily or placebo treatment in addition to
      surgical removal of all papillomas at each 3 month interval. This segment directly tests the
      hypothesis that celecoxib is an efficacious treatment for moderate to severe RRP and forms
      the basis for the primary statistical analyses.

      Segment C: The primary purpose of this segment is to determine whether gains made during
      celecoxib therapy are maintained after it is discontinued, or whether celecoxib will need to
      be taken indefinitely. This will be determined by a 12 month period on placebo after
      cessation of celecoxib for the early treatment group. This is not a traditional cross-over
      study because we expected a sustained effect therefore no efficacy studies were done in
      segment C. However, the placebo first group was given celecoxib so that they could gain any
      possible benefits equivalent to those that received the celecoxib first.
    
  