
    
      Idiopathic Parkinson's is characterized by loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons
      preferentially affecting the nigrosomes of the pars compacta of the substantia nigra (SNpc).
      At the time of clinical diagnosis, an estimated 50-70% of the neurons of the SNpc are lost.
      Non-invasive imaging of cell loss in the nigrosomes containing the SNpc dopaminergic neurons
      would be clinically desirable for accurate diagnosis in clinically uncertain cases of
      parkinsonism, especially in the early stages of Parkinson's. Investigators recently
      discovered that high resolution susceptibility weighted MRI at 7T and 3T demonstrates iron
      related signal loss of the NS1 in Parkinson's. These studies proved the feasibility and
      potential of in vivo nigrosome MRI as new diagnostic tool for Parkinson's. Further support of
      and confidence in our novel diagnostic concept comes from similar observations by other
      research groups.

      Project goals To establish whether nigrosome MRI is an alternative to DatScanTM in the
      diagnosis of early Parkinson's in patients with diagnostic uncertainty.

      To establish whether nigrosomal iron predicts the severity of Parkinson's. As a secondary aim
      the investigators will study if nigrosomal iron load as determined by susceptometry
      correlates to disease severity (MDS-UPDRS).

      TRIAL / STUDY OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      PURPOSE

        -  To establish whether nigrosome MRI is an alternative to DatScan in the diagnosis of
           early Parkinson's

        -  To establish whether nigrosomal iron predicts the severity of Parkinson's.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE Validation of NS1 MRI as a qualitative diagnostic marker in early
      Parkinson's

      • To investigate whether the presence or absence of the swallow tail on nigrosome MRI at 3T
      is as accurate as DatScan and at least 80% sensitive and 80% specific to predict the final
      clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's vs. other movement disorder in patients with indeterminate
      or atypical parkinsonian features.

      Hypothesis 1: That the swallow tail sign is an accurate marker of early Parkinson's

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES Biomarker discovery based on quantitative nigrosome iron markers in
      Parkinson's • To investigate whether diagnostic performance of nigrosome MRI can be further
      improved through quantitative assessment of nigrosomal iron and combination with neuromelanin
      metrics.

      Hypothesis 2: That nigrosomal iron metrics further improve the detection of early Parkinson's

      • To assess how well disease severity can be predicted by iron content in the nigrosome and
      by a combination of iron content and the size of the neuromelanin-rich nigra volume.

      Hypothesis 3: That nigrosomal iron metrics are closely associated with severity of early
      Parkinson's

      The investigators will be recruiting 145 patients with diagnostic uncertainty of Parkinson's
      Disease. These patients will undergo a MRI and DATscans and will be clinically examined. They
      will then be followed-up (clinical examination) in 12 months, identifying if they can be
      confirmed as having Parkinson's Disease, in order to compare the sensitivity and specificity
      of nigrosome1 detected by MRI with DATScan, potentially allowing a non-invasive and much less
      expensive means of diagnosing Parkinson's Disease.
    
  