
    
      Background: Due to increased longevity and aging of the baby boomer, the number of older
      persons with cognitive disorders such as Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is increasing rapidly. It
      is uncertain whether cognitive and memory training intervention programs can delay the onset
      or reduce the risk for the subsequent development of AD, but several studies have shown that
      cognitive training in people with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) has a moderate effect on
      memory.

      A tablet-based platform known as Kodro was developed in 2011 by a French company to improve
      multiple domains, including memory and quality of life, among older persons with and without
      memory disorders. The goals of the program are to increase physical activity, maintain social
      interaction, improve nutrition and exercise cognitive skills. The program requires internet
      access to enable connection with the program, family and friends, other Kodro users and
      external experts. The version of Kodro in this study, Kodro Solution, was designed for
      seniors with mild cognitive impairment or very mild dementia, who are living at home. Kodro
      Solution is customized to each user's interests and hobbies. For example, a user with an
      interest in cuisine might be presented with a brief video about the top toppings for
      hamburgers; this user would then be asked 5 questions to test his/her memory.

      Purpose: To determine whether Kodro solution is feasible among older people with MCI. The
      secondary aim is to measure the effect of Kodro on cognition, mood, activities of daily
      living and quality of life.

      Procedures Subjects: Potential subjects will be selected from patients diagnosed with MCI at
      the Wien Center who are at least 60 years of age. Subjects will be required to have a
      wireless connection to the internet and a study partner. The subject should be capable of
      learning to use the tablet and Kodro system with minimal assistance from the study partner
      (friend or family member). The role of the study partner is to assist the staff with the
      assessment of the subject and to assist the subject with study visits and the use of Kodro.

      Baseline Visit and Randomization: After a subject has been consented and deemed eligible for
      the study, he/she will be randomized to either a group with Kodro at baseline ("Kodro+") or a
      group with Kodro delayed until 12 weeks post-baseline ("Kodro+D"). Study raters will be blind
      to subject's randomization.

      Intervention: Subjects in the Kodro+ group will be trained on the use of the tablet and Kodro
      at the baseline visit, and will continue using Kodro for 36 weeks. Subjects in the Kodro+D
      group will be trained on the tablet and Kodro at 12 weeks, and will continue to use Kodro for
      24 weeks. Participants will be expected to log in and utilize the program for a minimum of 30
      minutes daily. The participants will perform various activities such as reading newspaper
      articles, books, listening to audio tapes, watching video clips, and playing games.
      Information regarding the participant's usage of the program and how well they perform on the
      activities is stored on Kodro's secure server. The program is customized to the user's level
      and the information obtained will gauge the level of difficulty as well as appropriateness of
      activities that are offered daily to the participant.

      Assessments: The subjects' use of Kodro will be collected continuously throughout the study
      via a secure server in France. There will not be any identifying information collected such
      as name, address, etc. The data collected will include frequency of use, diversity of
      activities and scores on activities.

      Assessments of cognition, mood, activities of daily living and quality of life will be done
      at the baseline visit, 12-week visit and the final 36-week visit.

      Statistical Analysis The main outcome measure will be the drop-out rate and use of Kodro. The
      secondary outcome measures will be scores on tests of cognition, mood, quality of life and
      activities of daily living.
    
  