
    
      With the recent development of surgical instruments techniques, minimally invasive surgery is
      more feasible in various field of surgery. Laparoscopic surgery has potential benefit of
      decreased patient discomfort, short hospital stay, superior cosmetic results and decreased
      convalescence time. Recently, various efforts have been continued for minimally invasive
      surgery, one of the recently emerging concepts is single port surgery. Several studies have
      demonstrated that single-port laparoscopic surgery is feasible and safe in gynecology.

      However, some limits could be occurred, such as the occurrence of less freedom degrees
      between the instruments and limits surgical vision, thus limiting surgeon's movements. So,
      two-port laparoscopy combined access through umbilical and additional suprapubic incision
      have been used and reported. In case of single port access laparoscopic ovarian cyst
      enucleation, due to limits of surgeon's movements, cyst enucleation or bipolar
      electrocoagulation of the ovarian parenchyma adversely affected ovarian function.

      Some studies reported that after laparoscopic cyst enucleation, there had been shown marked
      reduction of ovarian function compared with surgery by laparotomy. Therefore we attempt to
      investigate the impact of single port laparoscopy that have limits of surgical procedures on
      ovarian reserve after ovarian cyst enucleation.

      To evaluate ovarian reserve change, we will use the anti-mullerian hormone. It is produced by
      granulosa cells of preantral and small antral follicles and has been recently acknowledged as
      the useful, reliable, and sensitive hormonal serum marker of the ovarian primordial follicle
      pool. In addition, the AMH level represents a stronger independent marker of ovarian reserve
      without significant fluctuation during the menstrual cycle, which progressively decreases
      with age.

      Therefore, this prospective study is performed to compare the differences in ovarian reserve
      after single-port, two-port, or four-port access laparoscopic ovarian cyst enucleation based
      on serum anti mullerian hormone change. Serum anti mullerian hormone is measured at
      preoperative and at postoperative 1week, 1 and 3 months.
    
  