
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of long-term disability, it reduces mobility in more than half of
      stroke survivors age 65 and over.

      Despite the lack of objective prognostic factors regarding the patient´s functionality after
      a stroke, we know that age, the level of initial disability, and the location and size of the
      lesion are elements that affect the evolution of post-stroke rehabilitation.

      After stroke, the recovery of lost functions in the brain is achieved thanks to reorganizing
      networks in a process known as plasticity. Some damaged brain tissue may recover, or
      undamaged areas take over some functions.

      One of the most relevant aspects of the rehabilitation prognosis is the time of evolution.
      After stroke, improvement is noticeably reduced over the second month, finding stabilization
      around the sixth month. One of the reasons for this is the reduction of neuroplasticity.
      There are indicative studies that reflect that, six months after a stroke, more than 60% of
      subjects will have a non-functional hand for Basic Activities of Daily Living (BADL), and
      20-25% will not be able to walk without assistance. This determines the important global
      burden that stroke represents. It is relevant to emphasize the degree of disability after the
      rehabilitation process will be determined by the combination of existing motor, sensory and
      neuropsychological deficiencies.

      In the last years, several non-invasive neuromodulation techniques have been shown efficient
      to enhance plasticity and stroke recovery. Among these interventions we can find exogenous
      neuromodulation, meaning that the neuromodulator stimulus comes from an external source, as
      is the case with rTMS (repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation) which has the capacity
      to change the cortical excitability depending on the frequency of the magnetic pulses. Low
      frequencies (≤ 1 Hz) reduce local neural activity and high frequencies (≥ 5 Hz) increase
      cortical excitability. This technique has been successfully used bilaterally, stimulating the
      injured hemisphere and inhibiting the healthy one, to treat the interhemispheric inhibition
      phenomenon in stroke patients as it influences stroke recovery.

      On the other hand, there are endogenous neuromodulation techniques that depend on the
      capacity of the subject to modulate its own brain activity. This can be achieved using
      neurofeedback (NFB), this consists of recording information of brain activity using
      electroencephalography (EEG) or functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) and displaying it to the
      subject in such way that he can receive a real time information of his own brain function.
      Virtual reality allows a new dimension on the neurofeedback immersion, and is likely to
      increase its efficacy. Stroke patients have been trained to reinforce certain EEG rhythms
      related with motor performance using NFB technique showing favourable effects on
      rehabilitation outcomes.

      Some other techniques aiming to increase brain plasticity use the practice of imagination of
      movement of the affected hemibody. This is known as motor imagery and can be also enhanced
      through the use of brain computer interfaces. All the neuromodulation techniques are used to
      complement but not as a replacement of conventional rehabilitation.

      On one hand exogenous neuromodulation effects are produced mainly by changes directly induced
      in cortical excitability and on the other hand endogenous neuromodulation is believed to have
      more widespread subcortical effects. One of the probable causes of the short-term effects of
      these techniques is the ceiling effect of changes in cortical excitability that can be
      achieved non-invasively, but despite of the good results achieved with the use of
      non-invasive neuromodulation techniques individually, there is a shortage of validated
      neurorehabilitation protocols that integrate different approaches that have been proven to be
      effective individually.

      Neurow system (NeuroRehabLab, Lisbon, Portugal) is an immersive multimodal BCI-VR training
      system that combines motor imagery and neurofeedback through BCIs, using virtual reality has
      been designed to be used in chronic stroke patients, its efficacy has been shown in a pilot
      study.

      Both approaches, the Neurow system (NeuroRehabLab, Lisbon, Portugal) and bilateral rTMS
      protocols are likely to complement their effects achieving a stronger neuroplasticity
      enhancement in stroke patients. Both have been used separately for the treatment of motor
      sequelae in the upper limbs after stroke. The effects of these combined techniques are not
      likely to be based only in the increase of cortical excitability but also on subcortical
      mechanisms.

      The main objective of this study is to carry out a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial
      aiming to study the clinical effect of Neurow system (NeuroRehabLab, Lisbon, Portugal) over
      bilateral rTMS plus conventional rehabilitation in upper limb motor sequelae after subacute
      stroke (3 to 12 months). We will look for changes in 1. Isometric strength in upper limb, 2.
      Functional motor scales of upper limb, 3. Hand dexterity 4. Cortical excitability changes.
      Our main hypothesis is that both neuromodulation techniques combined will be superior to the
      use of rTMS alone as adjuvant therapy to conventional rehabilitation.

      This protocol combines techniques that have proven to be cost-effective. If it is shown that
      the clinical improvement with this combination is significant, it will be open a new line of
      combined neuromodulation approaches to reach and effective method for the upper limb motor
      neurorehabilitation of after a stroke.
    
  