
    
      There are many health benefits associated with the consumption of omega-3 dietary fats.
      Omega-3 fats, specifically eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), can be
      found in marine food products such as fatty fish, in fortified products such as eggs and
      milk, or in dietary supplements such as fish oil. Despite numerous health benefits, it is
      well documented that most people in Western society are not meeting the recommended daily
      amounts of EPA and DHA omega-3 fats.

      The numerous health benefits associated with omega-3 fats are well documented in scientific
      literature; however, there are a limited number of studies focused on the health effects of
      omega-3 fats in emerging adults (18-25 years). Indeed, most research to date has been
      conducted in older adults, with or without hyperlipidemia. In addition, it is important to
      consider interventions in emerging adults given that behaviours learned in this life stage
      can persist later in life. It has also been reported that the diet quality (i.e., amount of
      fruits, vegetables, whole grains, etc.) is reduced for individuals within this age range;
      thus highlighting another important reason for targeting this demographic.

      The combination of genetic and dietary information (i.e., nutrigenetics) has the potential to
      not only benefit basic research, but also the general population. Therefore, more research is
      needed to determine if providing individuals with their genetic information has the potential
      to encourage behaviour changes. So far, several studies have investigated how people may
      change their behaviour in response to genetic risk information, but none have conducted a
      nutrigenetic intervention examining if providing personal genetic information alters diet
      behaviours.

      The overall objective of this study is to examine whether providing emerging adults with
      personal genetic information changes their behavior with regards to omega-3 consumption. In
      order to achieve this objective, study participants will be divided into two groups: 1.
      Genetic and 2. Non-genetic. The Genetic group will be provided with their personal
      information for a common gene variant in addition to general information regarding the health
      benefits of omega-3 fats, while the Non-genetic group will only receive the general
      information. Primary outcomes studied will include dietary habits and secondary outcomes
      include blood markers of cardiometabolic health.
    
  