
    
      Background and rationale:

      In clinical practice, antihypertensives are generally prescribed for use in the morning,
      whereas some statins are recommended for use in the evening. There is evidence that the
      reduction in LDL cholesterol achieved with some statins is superior when taken in the night,
      but it is unclear whether the additional reduction in LDL cholesterol(and the reported
      improvement in BP control when aspirin is taken in the evening) is offset by a reduction in
      adherence when taking medication in the evening. Current product labelling recommends night
      use for simvastatin and does not state a timing preference for aspirin or blood pressure
      lowering medicines. There is therefore uncertainty concerning the best timing of
      administration of the polypill. This uncertainty will be addressed by this trial.

      Trial design:

      Randomised, open label cross over trial (n=75) of the polypill in the morning compared with
      the evening administration compared with individual agent administration (acetylsalicylic
      acid and blood pressure lowering agents in the morning, and statin in the evening) in
      individuals at high risk of cardiovascular disease. Patients will be recruited to the RHP 2c
      (acetylsalicylic acid 75mg, simvastatin 40mg, lisinopril 10mg, hydrochlorthiazide 12.5mg),
      and will be randomly allocated to the sequence of time of administration.

      Aim:

      To measure whether there is a difference in LDL cholesterol levels or the 24 hour ambulatory
      blood pressure in individuals at high risk of cardiovascular disease when the polypill is
      taken in the morning compared to the evening.

      Randomisation and trial treatment:

      Eligible individuals willing to participate in the trial will receive the polypill for a
      total of 18 weeks and be randomised to the sequence of 6 weeks morning, 6 weeks evening
      administration and 6 weeks administration of the individual agents. The polypill will be
      provided by the investigator at the Trial Centre. Participants will also receive information
      about smoking cessation (if applicable) and how to follow a healthy heart diet. They will be
      advised to increase physical activity and lose weight if needed.

      Data collection and follow-up:

      Participants will be followed-up for 20 weeks. Ambulatory blood pressure will be measured at
      baseline and week 6, week 12 and week 18. Fasting lipids will be measured at baseline, weeks
      6, 12 and 18. Tolerability will be assessed at weeks 6, 12, 18 and 20 as will adverse events.
      Participant acceptability will be measured at the end of the treatment period.

      Primary outcome:

      Difference in LDL cholesterol and mean 24 hour ambulatory systolic BP.
    
  