
    
      Mechanical ventilation (MV) refers to the use of life-support technology to perform the work
      of breathing for patients who are unable to breathe on their own. One of the most common
      reasons for a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) admission is the need for mechanical
      ventilation. However, MV is associated with increased morbidity (endotracheal intubation,
      tracheal edema, atelectasis, cardiovascular instability, ventilator-associated pneumonia,
      bleeding, pneumothorax, chronic lung disease, etc), a long length of stay in the PICU and
      high health care costs. Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) has become a primary approach to
      ventilatory support of patients of all ages and it is estimated that it can avoid
      endotracheal intubation and replace conventional mechanical ventilation in around 60% of
      patients with acute respiratory failure. NIV has been shown to ameliorate clinical signs of
      failure and improve gas exchange while reducing the need for endotracheal intubation (ETI)
      thus avoiding the risks associated with invasive ventilation. NIV has been shown to decrease
      the length of mechanical ventilation, the risk of ventilator associated pneumonia, the
      sedation requirement, the length of ICU and hospital stay and mortality, while improving the
      ability to tolerate enteral feeds. NIV does not increase beside caregiver time and does
      decrease cost.

      With children because of the difficulty in assuring the patient's cooperation, the lack of
      available high quality masks and the resulting size of the air leak, synchrony between the
      ventilatory pattern of the patient and the support provided by the ventilator is poor. This
      problem had lead to repeated failure of noninvasive ventilation in children. The primary mode
      of noninvasive ventilatory support is pressure support (NIV PS). This mode is triggered to
      inspiration and cycled to exhalation by changes in patient inspiratory gas flow. But with air
      leaks the ability of the ventilator to coordinate with the patient is decreased.

      A new mode of ventilation, Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) has been recently
      introduced. This mode triggers, cycles and regulates gas delivery based on the diaphragmatic
      EMG signal via a specially designed nasogastric tube (Edi). As a result, air leaks do not
      affect the ability of the ventilator to synchronize gas delivery with the patient increasing
      patient ventilator synchrony. Based on the operation of NAVA it is expected to increase the
      successful application of noninvasive ventilation to children.
    
  