
    
      Distribution of subjects according to the group to be worked and place of data collection:

      Group to be worked:

      patients hospitalized in the medical and surgical clinic, orthopedics, neurology, emergency
      adult , gynecology and obstetrics and employees of the clinic hospital

      After randomization, participants included in the study will be allocated to one of the
      groups:

        -  The group submitted to ECT:

             1. Prayer: approximation of the person to God through words including gratitude,
                personal petition and intercession for others, about 2 to 3 minutes;

             2. Spiritual education: reading and commentary of the Gospel according to Spiritism
                for about 10 minutes;

             3. Spiritist "passe": to carry out the spiritist pass, the passers-by will be asked to
                position themselves in front of the bed, to place their hands on the head of the
                person alternating with passing their hands repeatedly on or over the person,
                positioned lying in the dorsal position, distance about 10 to 15 cm and apply the
                spiritist pass for 2 to 3 minutes. Individuals will be directed to direct the
                thoughts in heath during the intervention;

             4. Fluid Therapy by means of magnetized or fluidized water: you will be asked to stand
                in front of the table containing a tray with 20 ml water cups, to place hands on
                the cups wishing health and healing intentions, for approximately 2 minutes .

      The total time of interventions will be about 10-15 minutes.

        -  The control group (CG) will not be submitted to any intervention.

        -  The Spiritist "passe" be submitted to Spiritist "passe": To carry out the spiritist
           pass, the passers-by will be asked to position themselves in front of the participant,
           to place their hands on the head of the person alternating with passing their hands
           repeatedly on or over the person, distance about 10 to 15 cm and apply the spiritist
           pass between 5-10 minutes. Individuals will be directed the thoughts in heath during the
           intervention.

        -  The laying on of hands with intent to heal: To carry out the volunteers, the passers-by
           will be asked to position themselves in front of the participant, to place their hands
           on the head of the person alternating with passing their hands repeatedly on or over the
           person, distance about 10 to 15 cm and apply the spiritist pass between 5-10 minutes.
           Individuals will be directed the thoughts in heath during the intervention.

        -  The Fluid Therapy: Fluid Therapy by means of magnetized or fluidized water: you will be
           asked to stand in front of the table containing a tray with water cups, to place hands
           on the cups wishing health and healing intentions, for approximately 10 minutes.

        -  The No-Fluid Therapy: individuals will receive non-fluidic water.

        -  The Prayer group:

      After intervention blood collection will be performed and the questionnaires will be applied
      again.
    
  