
    
      Objectives

        1. To investigate the efficacy and safety of LI-ESWT in treatment of moderate and severe ED

        2. To investigate the effect of LI-ESWT on nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity.

      Research Plan and Methodology

        1. Study Design This is a prospective, two-centre randomized controlled trial involving
           United Christian Hospital and Tseung Kwan O Hospital. The study will be conducted in
           accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the International Conference on
           Harmonisation, Good Clinical Practice Guidelines (ICH-GCP). This RCT will be registered
           with ClinicalTrials.gov.

        2. Patient selection and recruitment Patients would be recruited in the urology outpatient
           clinics. Subjects who fulfilled selection criteria would be counselled to participate in
           the study. Written consent would be obtained.

        3. Randomisation, allocation concealment and blinding Patients are randomised to either
           LI-ESWT or sham therapy in a ratio of 1:1. Randomisation is performed with a random
           number table. The designated operator who perform the procedure is not blinded. Patients
           were blinded throughout the procedures, during clinical follow-up and data analysis.

        4. Study Intervention Patients would undergo a 4-week washout period of oral
           phosphodiesterase inhibitors after recruitment. Severity of ED would be assessed by the
           International Index of Erectile Function - Erectile Function Domain (IIEF-EF) &
           International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) questionnaires and Erection Hardness
           Score(EHS) after the washout. Nocturnal penile tumescence (NPT) and rigidity would be
           measured by the Rigiscan at the night prior to the first treatment.

           All procedures would be performed by a designated nurse consultant(co-investigator) in
           an office setting using an electromagnetic linear shockwave machine. The nurse
           consultant has received overseas andrology training, as well as on-hand machine
           operation training by ESWT product specialist. Patient would be positioned in a supine
           position. Shockwaves would be delivered to the stretched penis at proximal, mid and
           distal penile shaft and bilateral crura of penis. (Energy: 0.1-0.25 mJ/mm2; 3000pulses
           per session; Frequency 3Hz) Treatment consists of 6 sessions over 5 weeks in total. It
           would be a twice-weekly treatment with one-week interval of resting period. Patient
           would be discharged home after each treatment session. Sham therapy would be given with
           a modified probe which no shockwave would be emitted. A working noise would still be
           generated which mimicked active treatment.

        5. Post-procedure management Clinical assessment would be conducted at week 4, week 26 and
           week 52 after completion of treatment. NPT would be measured at week 4. At all follow-up
           the IIEF-EF and EHS would be assessed. Any complications would be assessed and
           documented according to Clavien-Dindo classification.

        6. Sample Size Calculation In a recent meta-analysis, the mean improvement in IIEF-EF was
           4.23. At 5% significance level and 80% power, 33 subjects were needed in each treatment
           and sham group (Total 66 subjects). Overall 84 subjects would be recruited with 20% of
           drop out expected (i.e. 42 subjects in each group).

        7. Study Period The expected study period would last for 44 months, including 30 months of
           subject enrolment, 2 months of treatment and 12 months of follow-up.

        8. Statistical Analysis The results would be analysed according to intention-to-treat
           principle. Mann-whitney U test would be used to study the IIEF-EF results, as well as
           all other non-parametric continuous variables in secondary outcomes. Chi-square test
           would be used for categorical variable, independent samples t-test would be used for
           parametric continuous variable.

      Ethical Concern All identifiable personal data will be anonymised and will follow the HA
      policy on handling of patient data privacy.
    
  