
    
      Aromatherapy is a complementary integrative intervention that can be incorporated into
      nursing care to optimize health. It is defined as the use of essential oils, obtained from
      aromatic plants, for therapeutic properties. Most State Boards of Nursing recognize clinical
      aromatherapy as part of holistic nursing. There are benefits of using aromatherapy for
      nausea, comfort, wellbeing, perception of care and anxiety which are common symptoms
      associated with hospitalized patients.

      Hospitalized patients often report a myriad of symptoms and increasingly ask for alternative
      ways to manage them. According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative
      Health (NCCIH), a national survey in the United States. Four national surveys report that a
      third or more of US adults routinely use complementary and alternative medicine (CAM)
      therapies (e.g. chiropractic, massage, yoga, supplements, acupuncture) to treat their
      principal medical conditions with total expenditures exceeding $34 billion in 2007. A global
      shift in healthcare is moving toward wider acceptance of a philosophical value-guided health
      approach that includes a whole-person/whole-system caring healing health perspective .
      Complementary therapies have become more widely known and used in western healthcare. The
      human consciousness shift toward wellness is allowing models and possibilities of inner
      healing and emotional and mental health.

      Despite widespread use and acceptance of complementary therapies in community settings, there
      is some resistance to implementing such strategies in the acute care setting. There are no
      reports of randomized clinical trials supporting such interventions in acute care settings.
      Some evidence exists to support some complementary and integrative interventions.

      One intervention that is cost effective and non-invasive is aromatherapy. While research
      indicates that the use of aromatherapy has been effective in managing nausea, anxiety, and
      discomfort, there are limited rigorous studies supporting its use in the acute care setting.
      More work is needed to understand if aromatherapy is a feasible intervention to implement in
      the acute care setting. Further research is needed to explore which essential oils are most
      effective for symptom management in patients in the acute care setting.

      Two groups of patients that commonly report anxiety, discomfort and nausea are postoperative
      surgical patients and laboring obstetric patients. This study will explore the use of
      aromatherapy as an intervention used by nurses to assist laboring obstetric patients and
      postoperative elective surgical patients manage symptoms of nausea, anxiety, and discomfort.
      Aromatherapy will serve as an adjunct and not as a replacement for standard routine care.

      For many women, having a baby provides their first experience as a patient in a hospital
      setting. Many women are hesitant to utilize pharmacological methods to decrease pain,
      anxiety, and nausea associated with their labor experience due to fear of harming their baby.
      As such, women increasingly turn to complementary therapies such as aromatherapy as a means
      of retaining control over their childbirth experience. Odor has a direct pathway to the
      limbic part of the brain, in particular to the amygdala that governs fear. Familiar smells
      such as lavender may be calming and soothing at stressful times such as during childbirth.
      Surgery is another stressful time for patients.

      Much of the limited research on aromatherapy is two decades old. A British evaluative study
      of 8,058 mothers delivering in a large teaching hospital between 1990 and 1998 indicated that
      lavender aromatherapy relieved feelings of anxiety and fear (61%), pain (6%), improved
      contractions (6%), reduced feelings of nausea and vomiting (14%) and improved general
      well-being (7%). Lavender, frankincense and rose were found to relieve anxiety in labor.
      There is some evidence that aromatherapy has been successfully used by midwives to reduce the
      level of anxiety during the antepartum period. In a clinical randomized trial of 100 women in
      labor, the level of anxiety of women in both the intervention (P=0.03) and control (P=0.003)
      groups after the intervention was reduced after the intervention. Findings from these studies
      also indicate that there were minimal to no side effects.

      Post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) continue to be a major cause of patient
      dissatisfaction affecting hospitalized patients. Although conventional approaches can be very
      effective in managing PONV, some patients are intolerant of drug side effects or decline use
      the medications. There is some evidence that inhalation of lavender, ginger, peppermint and
      other oils are alternative techniques that have been used successfully with postoperative
      patients in helping to manage discomfort and nausea. It is suggested that aromatherapy can be
      tried before conventional techniques in managing nausea and vomiting and used alongside it in
      a complementary manner.

      This quasi experimental mixed method study will utilize a convenience sample and a pre- and
      post-study design study to determine the feasibility of implementing an aromatherapy
      intervention on two acute care units.

      Primary outcomes for this study include anxiety, nausea, perception of caring and well-being.
      In addition, an open-ended qualitative inquiry will be used to further explore the experience
      including potential positive and negative outcomes.

      This study will be conducted on two acute care inpatient care areas: labor delivery unit with
      healthy pregnant women and on a general adult surgical unit with persons having elective
      surgery. Twenty patients will be recruited from the surgical unit and thirty from the
      obstetrical unit.

      Study Procedure Using inclusion/exclusion outlined criteria below, all patients meeting
      inclusion criteria will be introduced to the aromatherapy intervention by the nurse research
      assistant who is caring for them. Potential participants will be asked if they wish to enroll
      in the study during their hospitalization. If they express interest, patients will be given
      information regarding the investigation and the informed consent form to read. The Principal
      Investigator (PI) will be notified. The nurse research assistant will answer any questions of
      the potential participant and if the patient agrees to enroll in the study, the nurse
      research assistant will obtain a written informed consent. Once enrolled, demographic
      variables will be collected and the following measures will be obtained before the
      aromatherapy intervention and immediately after the intervention.

        1. Vital signs including blood pressure, pulse and level of respirations

        2. Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) scale

        3. Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for nausea

        4. Watson Caritas Patient Score

        5. Warwick-Edinburgh mental well-being scale (WEMWBS)

      The day after the inhaled essential oil is administered, a different member of the study team
      will ask the patient open-ended questions about their experience with aromatherapy.

      Aromatherapy intervention

        -  Lavender inhaled essential oil will be used for perceived caring, wellbeing and reported
           anxiety in all patients

        -  Ginger essential oil will be used for patients who report nausea.

        -  A certified study clinician will administer the inhaled essential oil during labor or
           during the postoperative recovery period.

      Patients on the labor and delivery inpatient unit (Blake 14) and post-operative surgical
      inpatient unit (Ellison 7) will be offered aromatherapy as an alternative treatment for
      nausea and anxiety in labor and during the post-operative surgical recovery period.

      Aromatherapy is an integrative, nonpharmacological intervention that will be explored as a
      treatment of nausea, vomiting, anxiety, and comfort in labor and post-operative surgical
      recovery.

      On admission, the patient will be asked to list their allergies. If the patient has allergies
      to study aromatherapy oils, then the patient will be excluded from the study. If the patient
      appears to develop an allergic reaction or any other adverse reaction to an administered
      essential oil, the use of aromatherapy in this patient will be discontinued immediately and
      the patient will be removed from the study.

      All patients on Labor & Delivery and on Ellison 7 will be asked if they wish to participate
      in this investigation. Patients must be at least 18 years of age and able to provide informed
      consent.
    
  