
    
      Agitation and aggression are the common symptoms in the acute schizophrenic patients. Under
      these symptoms, schizophrenic patients could be harmful to themselves as well as the
      environment and people surrounding. Patients' agitation and aggression are also part of the
      reason for their hospitalisation. Therefore, rapid controlling of agitation and aggression
      for the patients is critical to ensure their treatment adherence, so that patients could stay
      with their treatment for a long time. Some studies have already provided the methods for
      rapid control, of which haloperidol is a common medication. However, use of haloperidol will
      bring patients prominent adverse reaction, such as extropyromidal symptoms etc., which will
      lead to the poor adherence of patients and caregivers and finally increase the treatment risk
      rather than benefit, such as relapse, re-hospitalization, and poor social functioning etc.

      Quetiapine fumarate, a dibenzothiazepine derivative, is an atypical antipsychotic drug
      approved for treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania, and bipolar depression by FDA in many
      countries worldwide. In China, it has been used for the treatment of patients with
      schizophrenia for approximately 10 years. Quetiapine has the advantage of broad symptoms
      controlling, individualized dose range, and most important, good efficacy and tolerability in
      the acute treatment for schizophrenic patients.

      Quetiapine fumarate is indicated for the treatment of patients with schizophrenia in China.
      Lots of clinical experience and evidence has demonstrated its efficacy and tolerability for
      the patient population. Some evidence showed that quetiapine fumarate could control
      aggression and agitation within 1 week, which is appropriate for the acute treatment of
      patients with schizophrenia. PANSS and MOAS are the common measurements for the efficacy of
      psychotic symptoms controlling in the clinical trials. Generally, 2 weeks are the appropriate
      timeframe for the evaluation of clinical effect of agitation and aggression symptoms
      controlling.

      In adult patients with schizophrenia, quetiapine fumarate is licensed to maximal dose of
      750mg/day. The target dose of quetiapine fumarate recommended in the manufacturer's
      prescribing information is 300-450 mg/day in China, though similar efficacy for quetiapine
      fumarate (600 mg/day), olanzapine (15 mg/day) and Risperidone (5 mg/day) was reported in a
      small, randomised, rater-blinded trial. Because of the low incidence of EPS, the limitation
      potential for weight gain and prolactin elevation, quetiapine fumarate should be well
      tolerated in this sensitive patient population with higher dose (600mg/day-750mg/day)
      (Peuskens 2004).

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of quetiapine fumarate
      with daily dose 600-750mg/day in improving agitation and aggression for the treatment of
      Chinese acute schizophrenic patients hospitalised for acute phase over a treatment period of
      2 weeks This is a 2-week, single-blinded, randomised, parallel-group haloperidol-controlled
      pilot study. After given of informed consent and undergoing screening procedures, the
      patients will be allocated to study treatment on Day 1. Patients should have a diagnosis of
      schizophrenia by CCMD-3 criteria with MOAS total score at least 10. Eligible patients will be
      randomised into quetiapine group or haloperidol group with 1-week dose titration (at least
      600 mg/day for quetiapine and 8 mg/day for haloperidol after Day 7). After that, the patients
      should be treated by the defined dose range for another week.
    
  