
    
      800 breast cancer patients who fulfill the eligibiltiy criteria will be selected from the NUH
      breast cancer registry (400 for training, 400 for validation). Eligible patients should have
      at least 5 years' follow-up at NUH and have an available archival paraffin-embedded tumor
      block stored at the Department of Pathology, NUH. 8-10 ten-micron sections from each tumor
      block will be cut and RNA extracted from the sections. RNA will then be profiled using
      high-throughput gene expression platforms (Illumina Veracode assay, Affymetrix Quantigene
      assay). Raw gene expression data will be applied in the following signatures previously
      generated by the Genome Institute of Singapore:

        1. 32-gene p53 Pathway Signature

        2. 5-gene Genetic Grade Signature

        3. 33-gene TuM1 Signature

        4. 10-gene ER Signature (Miller & Tan, et. al., unpublished)

        5. 6-gene 3-Ratio Predictor (Miller & Karuturi, et. al., unpublished)

        6. 5-gene HER2 Amplicon Predictor (Miller & Karuturi, et. al., unpublished)

        7. 7-gene Basal-Luminal Discriminator (Miller, unpublished)

      The prognostic and/or predictive abilities of these signatures will be compared with
      conventional clinical prognosticators and predictors with the goal of developing archival
      tumor-derived genomic tests for breast cancer management in the future.

      The archival paraffin-embedded tumor blocks are left-over samples after clinical use. They
      are not samples that have been consented for research purpose. We are requesting for waiver
      of consent as this is a minimal risk study. We will ensure that sufficient tissue be left
      behind for future routine diagnostic purposes. Sections taken from each tumor will be coded
      with no patient identifiers to protect the privacy and confidentiality of the participants.

      The results generated from the tumor samples in this study will not impact on the clinical
      management of the patients.
    
  