
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is characterized with recurrent collapse of upper
      airway during sleep and resulted in hypoxia and sleep fragmentation. Several systemic and
      cardiovascular complications have been attributed to OSAS, which is caused by hypoxia and
      bursts of sympathetic activity. Increase of inflammatory mediators, which included C-reactive
      protein, oxidative stress, adhesion molecules, vascular endothelial growth factor and
      proinflammatory cytokines, were thought to involve in the developments of cardiovascular
      diseases in patients with OSAS. In our preliminary study, both serum levels of IL-6 and CRP
      were higher in patients with OSAS than control subjects, and the levels were inversely
      correlated with the lowest pulse oxygen saturation. Factors triggering inflammatory cascades
      in OSAS included hypoxia and sympathetic hyperactivity.

      Hypoxia was thought to be the trigger factor for the elevated production of inflammatory
      mediators. Through the induction of transcriptional factors and critical signaling pathways,
      hypoxia induces several physiologic responses, like increased anaerobic metabolism,
      angiogenesis, vasodilation, erythropoiesis and increased breathing.

      Microarray is the more mature gene analysis techniques so far, which can allow high
      throughput analysis of the function of many genes. Microarray can be used to understand the
      disease mechanisms and is also very useful to improve disease diagnosis, disease
      classification, prognosis evaluation and to improve treatment outcome. In this project, we
      use oligo microarray to genome-wide profile the altered gene expressions in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells of OSAS patients; and to correlate the dysregulations of gene expression
      with the clinical outcome. We will also examine the gene expression patterns change before
      and after treatment with CPAP. The information obtained by this approach will be very useful
      to understand the pathogenic mechanism of OSAS that leads to the systemic and cardiovascular
      complications. Further therapeutic intervention may therefore be possible.
    
  