
    
      The proposed project is the outcome of an interagency agreement (IAG; #CPSC-I-14-0016)
      between the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) of the United States and the Child and
      Family Research Section (CFRS) within NICHD DIR. At the CPSC, the Division of Human Factors
      (ESHF) examines products and toys for U.S. children and determines the appropriate age of
      their potential users based on a set of Guidelines last revised in 2002. Due to the outdated
      nature of the 2002 Guidelines, the CFRS is charged with revising this rulebook after
      conducting an empirical research project to inform these amendments. The goal of the current
      study is to categorize traditional and contemporary children s products and toys into age
      appropriate groups and use this information to rewrite the Guidelines for efficient CPSC use.

      Participants will be 360 parent-child dyads from 6 months to 12 years of age. We will recruit
      equal numbers of boys and girls from each of the following six developmentally determined and
      CPSC approved age groups: 6-11 mos, 12-18 mos, 19-35 mos, 36-71 mos (3-5 years), 72-107 mos
      (6-8 years), and 108-144 mos (9-12 years). Participants will be tested at the CFRS once
      parental consent and child assent have been obtained.

      Each child will receive one of three counterbalanced children s products or toys that are
      targeted to their age group from 6 of the 9 following categories: (1) Building or
      Construction (e.g., blocks, interlocking building materials), (2) Exploratory (e.g., clay,
      sand toys), (3) Games & Puzzles, (4) Instructional Toys (e.g., books, science kits), (5)
      Sports, Recreation, & Outdoor, (6) Imaginative Play (e.g., puppets, dolls, dress up
      materials), (7) Small Wheeled Vehicles (e.g., car toys), (8) Arts and Crafts, and (9) Musical
      Toys (e.g., musical instruments). Children will also receive one of three (counterbalanced)
      children s products or toys from each of the categories aimed at the age group below their
      age as well as another from each of the categories aimed at the age group older than their
      age. Each child will first play alone and then play with a parent. Different sets of toys
      will be presented when children switch from playing alone to playing in a dyad.

      Parents will provide information about their socioeconomic status and demographics. They will
      also complete the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (i.e., an instrument assessing the child
      s socialization, motor, communication, and daily living skills) and an age-appropriate
      instrument that assesses the child s temperament. They will provide information about toys
      that are already in their home. Some parents may be invited to take part in a more in-depth
      qualitative focus group interview about children s toys. All play sessions will be video
      recorded and will be scored for relevant behaviors.

      We will examine differences in play with toys from the three age groups that are
      chronologically adjacent (i.e., to determine differences in outcomes for a given age group
      with age-appropriate toys compared to toys of the same category from the next youngest and
      next oldest age groupings). Our outcome measures include the following: (1) Complexity of
      play, (2) Parts and features of toys used by the child, (3) Duration of time spent with each
      toy, (4) Preference for the toys, and (5) Number of times and duration the child solicits the
      parent s involvement during play.

      This observational study of children fits well with the CFRS program of research and the
      mission of the NICHD DIR. We will investigate children s interactions with toys that surround
      children in their natural environment, as well as study how parents moderate child play
      behavior. Observing and quantifying behaviors during play will allow us to have a richer
      understanding of social and cognitive growth during different stages of child development in
      the context of toy play with parents and will form an empirical basis for revising the 2002
      CPSC Guidelines in light of changes in the last decade and a half in the toy industry.

      The cost impact for this project is minimal. All necessary testing facilities are already
      available at the CFRS. Funding for additional staff needed to work with participants, subject
      reimbursement, and supplies to carry out the project is allocated through the IAG.
    
  