
    
      -  All patients signed informed consents for the procedure, and the participation in the
           study.

        -  Between June 2012 and June 2013, 199 patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria, 182 of
           whom were included in the final analysis.

        -  Patients were excluded from study participation if they had a contraindication for
           diclofenac, including patients with recently diagnosed peptic ulcer disease, renal
           failure, those who developed acute pancreatitis during the two weeks before ERCP, those
           with a history of chronic pancreatitis, and those who did not agree to participate in
           the study.

        -  A placebo-controlled trial was conducted in 182 patients who underwent ERCP.

        -  Preoperative, the patients received 75 mg intramuscular(IM) diclofenac or IM normal
           saline as placebo. At the end of each procedure, the investigators recorded the details
           of the maneuvers performed, including:

             1. the total time of the procedure,

             2. the number of attempts at cannulation,

             3. the number of pancreatic duct cannulation,

             4. the final diagnosis by ERCP,

             5. whether a sphincterotomy, a needle-knife papillotomy, or stent placement were
                performed.

        -  Serum amylase was determined 12 hours after ERCP.

             -  If the 12-hours serum amylase level was > 3 times the upper normal limit and the
                patient exhibited pain or nausea and vomiting, then the patient had pancreatitis.

             -  Acute pancreatitis was defined as serum amylase > 3 times the upper limit of normal
                and associated with epigastric pain, back pain, and epigastric tenderness.

        -  Statistical analysis:

             1. Randomization was done by the GI nurse, concealed envelop

             2. Data were summarized by descriptive statistics.

             3. The Chi square was used to compare categorical patient data.

             4. The Student's t test was used to compare continuous variables.

             5. Two-tailed P < 0.05 was considered to indicate significance.
    
  