
    
      With contemporary combined modality therapy the expected longterm survival of children and
      adolescents with Hodgkin's disease (HD) is exceedingly high. Thus, the emphasis for future
      therapeutic interventions must include attention to the late effects of therapy. The
      development of cardiovascular disease as a late effect of radiation therapy has been well
      described and documented. Our recent pilot study of child and young adult HD survivors
      revealed significant subclinical atherosclerosis as evidenced by increased Carotid Artery
      Intima Media Thickness (CIMT) compared to controls. The higher CIMT values were positively
      associated with increasing age, total cholesterol, LDLcholesterol and diastolic BP. This
      finding was present in children and young adults who had received no or low dose radiation
      suggesting that chemotherapy or the disease process itself contributes to the development of
      atherosclerosis and risk for cardiovascular disease. Numerous studies have shown HMG CoA
      reductase inhibitors ("statins") to be effective in reducing the progression of
      atherosclerosis in adults. These agents have been studied in children and young adults for
      over a decade.

      The primary aim of this study is:

      To obtain pilot safety data on the use of simvastatin in young adults treated for HD.

      The secondary aims of this study are:

      To obtain pilot data on the effect of simvastatin on subclinical carotid artery
      atherosclerosis as measured by Carotid Artery IMT in young adults treated for HD.

      To obtain pilot data on the effect of simvastatin on markers of inflammation measured in the
      serum of young adults treated for HD.

      To obtain pilot data to serve as the basis for the development of a multicenter randomized
      study for the use of simvastatin in survivors of HD.

      We will do this by enrolling patients diagnosed with HD and evaluating the safety of
      simvastatin as evidenced by laboratory measures
    
  