
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

      The phase Ib dose escalation will evaluate the combination of pembrolizumab and Imprime PGG
      for subjects with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after progression on
      first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. The phase II trial will test whether addition of
      Imprime PGG to pembrolizumab will increase median progression-free survival (PFS) in second
      line therapy setting in NSCLC.

      PHASE Ib DOSE ESCALATION INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

      Cohort 1 will consist of 3-6 patients who will receive

        -  Imprime PGG 2 mg/kg IV on Days 1, 8, 15 for Cycles 1-4

        -  Imprime PGG 2 mb/kg IV on Day 1 for Cycles 5-16

        -  Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV on Day 1 (cycle = 21 days)

      Cohort 2 will consist of 3-6 patients who will receive

        -  Imprime PGG 4 mg/kg IV on Days 1, 8, 15 for Cycles 1-4

        -  Imprime PGG 2 mb/kg IV on Day 1 for Cycles 5-16

        -  Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV on Day 1 (cycle = 21 days)

      If none of the 3 subjects experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of
      therapy, an additional three subjects will be enrolled at dose level 2. If all subjects in
      dose level 2 complete the first cycle of therapy without DLT, 3 more subjects will be
      enrolled into dose level 2 to ensure only 0-1 of 6 subjects have a DLT. There will be no
      further escalation beyond dose level 2.

      PHASE II INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

      Pembrolizumab will be given on Day 1 of each 21 day cycle after Imprime PGG, and the RP2D
      dose of Imprime PGG will be given on Days 1, 8 and 15 of each 21 day cycle. Treatment will
      continue up to 16 cycles, or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, subject
      refusal, or subject death either from progression of disease, the therapy itself, or from
      other causes.

      Life expectancy: of 6 months or greater

      The following baseline labs must be completed within 28 days prior to registration for
      protocol therapy:

      Hepatic:

        -  total bilirubin ≤ 1.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN) OR direct bilirubin ≤ ULN for
           subjects with total bilirubin levels > 1.5 x ULN (except subject with Gilbert's
           Syndrome, who can have total bilirubin < 3.0 mg/dl)

        -  aspartate aminotransferase (AST) ≤ 2.5 × ULN or ≤ 5 × ULN for subjects with known
           hepatic metastases

        -  alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≤ 2.5 × ULN or ≤ 5 × ULN for subjects with known hepatic
           metastases

      Renal:

        -  Serum creatinine ≤ 3 mg/dL OR

        -  if serum creatinine > 3mg/dL, estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) ≥ 20 mL/min

      Hematopoietic:

        -  hemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dL, subjects requiring transfusion will not be eligible to start study

        -  and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 × 10^9/L

        -  and platelet count ≥ 100 × 10^9/L

      Coagulation:

        -  INR < 1.5 × ULN OR

        -  for subjects receiving anticoagulant, the subjects must, in the investigator's opinion,
           be clinically stable with no evidence of active bleeding while receiving anticoagulant
           therapy. The INR for subjects on warfarin should be in the therapeutic range. Low
           molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is allowed.
    
  