
    
      Potential subjects will participate in screening with a minimum of 4 days prior to their
      planned surgery. The study involves obtaining mouth swab samples for genetic testing and
      employing standardized measures for PGx testing of subjects preoperatively.

      Study staff will pre-screen potential subjects scheduled at the preoperative center or on
      surgeons' operative schedules. The study team member will ask the treating clinician involved
      with the care of a patient for permission to speak to the patient. The physician or a member
      of the research staff will describe the study to potentially eligible patients and a study
      investigator will obtain consent. After meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria, subjects
      who agree to participate in the study will complete study questionnaires and provide a swab
      sample for PGx analysis.

      Trained members of the research staff will obtain a buccal swab sample from each subject who
      has given informed consent to participate in study procedures. The buccal swab will be
      packaged and shipped to an outside laboratory for processing and the conduct of the PGx
      testing. The results of the PGx testing will be provided in a standardized report and sent
      back to the research staff conducting the study. Typically, the turn-around for shipping the
      sample and obtaining the results will be 4 days. The results will be available to the
      anesthesiologist prior to the patient's surgery.

      Prior to the initiation of the scheduled surgery, the anesthesiologist will be asked to
      complete a questionnaire about the clinical utility of PGx testing for that subject. In the
      perioperative group of subjects for whom clinicians find clinical utility for PGx testing
      (experimental group), outcomes will be compared to the remaining subjects (control group) for
      whom PGx testing was felt not to have any clinical utility.

      After surgery, there will be two assessment periods. Clinical outcomes and the quality of the
      subject's recovery from surgery will be assessed postoperatively at 24 hours +/-4 hours after
      surgery by directly interviewing each study subject and reviewing the electronic medical
      record. Additional assessments of subjects will be conducted by review of the electronic
      medical record at 30 days +/- 3 days postoperatively.
    
  