
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The objectives of this registry are as follows:

        -  To determine the following characteristics in patients who received intravenous Xydalba
           administration:

             -  Patient characteristics.

             -  Disease characteristics.

             -  Pathogen characteristics.

        -  To characterize the usage of Xydalba.

        -  To characterize the patient's residence and, in hospitalized patients, the lengths of
           hospital and intensive care unit (ICU) stays, and the destination upon hospital
           discharge.

        -  To assess the response of Xydalba treatment, based on clinician determination.

        -  To characterize the major healthcare resource utilization (HRU) of patients treated with
           Xydalba.

      REGISTRY DESIGN This is a multicenter, prospective and retrospective registry of adult
      patients treated with Xydalba in Germany.

      All Adverse events (AEs) (serious and non-serious; special situations; related and
      not-related, collected prospectively or retrospectively) will be recorded in the eCRF.
      Treatment related AEs and SAEs will be reported to the healthcare authorities, as requested
      by local regulations and according to current Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices
      (GVP) Module VI - Collection, management and submission of reports of suspected adverse
      reactions to medicinal products (Rev 2).

      TEST PRODUCT (S), DOSE, AND MODE OF ADMINISTRATION Xydalba (dalbavancin) as prescribed by the
      physician according to clinical practice.

      RATIONALE This prospective and retrospective registry is designed to capture information
      about the clinical use of Xydalba, its safety and effectiveness, characteristics of the
      patient, disease, pathogen, clinical course, treatment course, and hospitalization. This
      registry will capture the data in real world setting on patients who received Xydalba.
    
  