
    
      There has been considerable attention placed on adverse drug events (ADEs) and their effects
      on readmission rates worldwide. Several studies have tried to identify the drugs most
      commonly responsible for ADEs, high-risk patient populations, and the causes of these ADEs.
      Some of the causes that have been postulated include the aging population, increasing number
      of drugs on the market, and a troubling upward trend in polypharmacy. The reported rates of
      ADE-related hospitalizations have varied from study to study. Kongkaew et al. estimated
      around 5% of all hospital admissions are the result of an adverse drug reaction (ADR), which
      is a subtype of ADEs. Meanwhile, Shehab et al. estimated approximately 27.3% of emergency
      department (ED) visits for ADEs result in hospitalization.

      Unfortunately, practitioners may exacerbate the problem by prescribing additional
      pharmacotherapy for conditions caused by an unrecognized ADE. Such circumstances can lead to
      additional cost and harm to patients. However, pharmacists are uniquely qualified to
      recognize and address potential ADEs through pharmacist-led medication reconciliation (PLMR).
      PLMR is the process in which a pharmacist produces an accurate list of medications a patient
      is taking and compares that list against the patient's documented admission, transfer, and/or
      discharge orders. Several years of education and training to learn the pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacokinetic characteristics of a wide variety of medications, as well as any potential
      side effects, have given pharmacists the skills to detect, assess, and understand ADEs. Many
      institutions have implemented PLMRs within specific hospital units, such as the ED, in an
      effort to increase cost savings to the patient and the health care institution.

      A meta-analysis of patients with preventable ADEs found that as much as 52% of ADEs, present
      at the time of hospitalization or an emergency visit, were preventable (8). This highlights
      the need to produce a tool to predict patients at risk for ADE-related hospitalizations.
      There have been several ADE risk prediction initiatives developed to identify high risk
      patients (9-17). Many of these risk prediction tools, such as the Prediction of
      Hospitalization due to ADRs in Elderly Community-Dwelling Patients (PADR-EC) score and the
      Brighton Adverse Drug Reactions Risk (BADRI) model, focused on older patients, hospitalized
      patients, or both. A focus on prediction tools in older adults is reasonable due to
      ADE-related hospitalization rates among adults 65 years or older, being seven times higher
      than adults younger than 65 years old (6). However, there is limited information in risk
      scoring tools for the general public who present to the ED and are at high risk of an ADE. In
      2017, a Transitions of Care pharmacy resident at Methodist Dallas Medical Center (MDMC)
      developed a risk scoring tool to help identify patients in the ED who were at high risk for
      an ADE-related hospitalization. The scoring tool, which was named the ADE-RED score, took
      into account the patient's age, presence of polypharmacy, specific high- risk medications,
      number of previous ED visits, comorbidities, and the reason for their current visit. A score
      of 12 or more alerted ED pharmacists to perform a PLMR and to make necessary interventions
      and recommendations to medical staff. Therefore the ADE-RED program has the opportunity to
      fill a gap in the care for patients who may be hospitalized or return to the ED due to a
      preventable ADE.

      This study will be conducted to determine whether the ADE-RED score can reduce the incidence
      of ADE- related readmissions compared to the incidence of such readmissions as observed from
      sister facilities within the Methodist Health System (MHS) and to determine whether the
      ADE-RED score can predict patients at risk of readmission.
    
  