
    
      Our preliminary Phase I studies using awake volunteers confirmed the increase in IOP
      associated with the prone position which is attenuated, although not eliminated, with a 15 cm
      head up table elevation. In addition we found evidence of retinal vascular changes consistent
      with venous congestion over a one hour period in the prone position in five awake volunteers
      using digital retinal imaging.

      It is known that general anesthesia decreases IOP. A critical element, however, which has not
      been definitively studied is the effect of individual anesthetics, specifically nitrous
      oxide, on IOP. It is known that nitrous oxide does increase IOP when inert gases are injected
      into the vitreous for treatment of retinal detachment and this phenomenon can last up to six
      weeks, resulting in permanent vision loss with its use. It has also been shown that nitrous
      oxide increases intracranial pressure (ICP,9) although this effect may be attenuated by
      narcotics and additional intravenous anesthetic agents. It also increases cerebral metabolic
      rate, potentially aggravating any compromise in blood flow. Several studies showed a
      significant association between elevated IOP and ICP. Therefore, it is critical to attempt to
      isolate the effect of nitrous oxide on IOP. Because nitrous oxide is used as an adjunct to
      other anesthetics, it is the most frequently used of all the inhalation anesthetics and
      delineating its effect on this variable will help clinicians decide whether the advantage of
      its use outweighs the risk.

      Because general anesthesia decreases IOP and there is significant variation between subjects
      this study is planned using a within subject design. Patients undergoing open gynecological
      procedures such as hysterectomies and patients undergoing orthopedic surgery are ideal
      candidates for the proposed study for the following reasons. The majority of patients
      undergoing general anesthesia in University Hospital operating rooms require frequent table
      position changes which might affect the results. Therefore, we choose to study patients who
      will remain in one position for the majority of the operation. The hysterectomy patients
      offer a unique benefit because It would also be advantageous to study patients in a position
      known to increase IOP in order to better detect differences in anesthetic regimen and isolate
      the effects of a specific agent. In addition, patients undergoing orthopedic surgery such as
      hand and ankle procedures are commonly in a fixed supine position for the predominance of the
      operation. University Hospital conducts a considerably greater number of orthopedic cases
      than gynecological cases daily which allows for greater ease in patient enrollment. Measuring
      IOP in the supine Trendelenburg position offers significant technical and logistical
      advantages compared to the prone position and therefore taking our measurements in this
      position is desirable.
    
  