
    
      -  Rationale/Significance of Study: Age-appropriate care for adolescents and young adults
           with cancer has been in the spotlight in recent decades due to their increasing number
           and unique needs. Cancer is a highly distressful event for adolescents and young adults.
           These AYA with cancer need to build abilities and strengths to deal with multiple,
           lifelong challenges and move toward a promising future. While traditional care for
           adolescents and young adults prioritizes survival and symptom elimination, addressing
           the lifelong psychological effects of cancer has received less attention. Human
           flourishing, which means holistic well-being, can serve as a framework of comprehensive
           health care goals for adolescents and young adults with cancer. The National League for
           Nursing defines human flourishing as an effort to achieve self-actualization and
           fulfillment within the context of a larger community of individuals through the
           experiences of suffering and coping. Nurses can support such efforts through
           individualized, culturally appropriate, relationship-focused care. Despite ongoing
           national adolescents and young adults research priorities, there are gaps in
           adolescents/young adults-specific intervention for cultivating strengths and ultimately
           promoting human flourishing. To develop holistic nursing interventions tailored to this
           population, we propose a nurse-adolescents/young adults with cancer dyadic storytelling
           intervention, representing a cost-effective, evidence-based method to promote human
           flourishing in adolescents and young adults with cancer that utilizes the synergy
           between narratives and nurse-patient therapeutic relationships.

        -  Theoretical Framework: Our study follows the Medical Research Council guidance, which
           serves as a framework for developing and evaluating multicomponent interventions that
           address complex health challenges. The intervention is designed following the Story
           Theory and Pennebaker's Expressive Writing paradigm.

        -  Sample & Setting: A total of 30 adolescents and young adults with cancer will be
           recruited at the pediatric oncology inpatient/outpatient units and childhood cancer
           survivorship clinics. Recruited adolescents and young adults will nominate three
           pediatric oncology nurses whom they are willing to invite. We will reach out to those
           nurses and introduce this study through nurse managers.

        -  Procedures: Each adolescent and young adult will be paired with a nurse and will
           participate in an online storytelling intervention for five weeks. The dyad will
           independently create digital stories about themselves. The dyad will then participate in
           weekly online meetings, during which they will introduce their stories to one another
           and discuss their reflections. Both participants will complete intervention measures
           before and after the intervention and share their qualitative feedback.

        -  Implications for Practice Our findings will serve as the foundational knowledge by which
           to conduct a large-scale, randomized clinical trial. Ultimately, this study will
           navigate comprehensive nursing approaches to guide adolescents and young adults with
           cancer toward human flourishing.
    
  