
    
      The mortality associated to MRSA bacteremia remains higher than 30% of episodes despite the
      availability of new antibiotics. Objective: To demonstrate that the combination of daptomycin
      and fosfomycin is superior to daptomycin alone in the treatment of methicillin resistant
      Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteremia. Design: Randomized, open-label and multicenter
      study. Intervention: Patients with MRSA bacteremia will be randomized (1:1) in Group 1:
      daptomycin 10mg/Kg/24h intravenous (iv) and Group 2: daptomycin 10 mg/kg/24 iv plus
      fosfomycin and 2g/6h iv. Duration of therapy will be 10-14 days for uncomplicated bacteremia
      and up to 42 days for complicated bacteremia. Follow up: There will be a clinical and
      microbiological evaluation at baseline, during treatment and at week 6 after the end of
      therapy (test of cure visit, TOC). Complicated bacteremia was considered if: a) persistence
      of a positive blood culture at 72-96 h from the start of antibiotic, b) evidence of spread of
      infection (metastatic infection) c) infection involving a non-removable device in less than 4
      days. Sample size: Assuming 60% cure rate with daptomycin and a 20% difference in cure rates
      between both groups, we estimated that 103 patients will be needed for each group (α:0.05, ß:
      0.2). Main endpoint: clinical and microbiological response at the TOC visit. Treatment
      success was defined as the resolution of clinical signs and symptoms and negative blood
      culture. Treatment failure was defined if any of the following situations: a) lack of
      clinical response at 72 h or more after initiation of the study therapy b) persistent
      bacteremia (positive blood culture on day 7 after randomization), c) withdrawal of treatment
      due to adverse effects or for any other reason based on clinical judgment. d) relapse of MRSA
      bacteremia before the TOC visit e) death for any reason before the TOC visit. Secondary
      endpoints: evaluation in both groups of clinical and microbiological response at end of
      therapy (EOT visit); mortality at EOT and TOC visit; persistent MRSA bacteremia; recurrence
      of MRSA bacteremia (positive blood culture when previous ones were negative); emergence of
      daptomycin or fosfomycin resistance and severe adverse effects.
    
  