
    
      Over the past decade, nasal high flow (NHF) has been introduced for oxygen therapy in adults.
      Its indications have been expanded, especially in cases of acute hypoxemic respiratory
      failure.

      The device consists of an air/oxygen blender connected via an active heated humidifier to a
      nasal cannula, through a single limb, heated inspiratory circuit. It delivers a fraction of
      inspired oxygen (FiO2) from 21% to 100% with a flow rate up to 60 L/min. FiO2 adjustments are
      independent of the set flow rate so that the patient is given heated, humidified high-flow
      oxygen, with a flow that can be adjusted above the patient's maximum inspiratory flow rate,
      thereby increasing confidence about the actual FiO2 being delivered to the patient. These
      device characteristics make it more promising in comparison with conventional low- and
      high-flow oxygen devices (e.g., nasal cannula, non-rebreathing masks, Venturi masks),
      especially in patients with high inspiratory flow rates, such as patients with acute
      respiratory failure (ARF).

      The benefits arising from application of oxygen with high flow rates via NHF are

        1. reduction in the entrainment of room air and thus ensuring higher and more stable FiO2
           values,

        2. generation of positive airway pressures during expiration as a result of the expiratory
           resistance imposed to the patient's exhalation against the continuous high flow of
           incoming oxygen gas,

        3. improving mucociliary function and clearance of secretion by continuous heating and
           humidifying of the administered gas,

        4. reducing dead space ventilation and

        5. reducing work of breathing. All the aforementioned NHF mechanisms of actions exert
           various effects on the respiratory system, including improved gas exchange, lower
           respiratory rate and effort and improved lung mechanics which are correlated with more
           comfort and less subjective dyspnea.

      Respiratory complications after cardiac surgery can affect morbidity and mortality, and
      increase the healthcare cost. Advanced age, duration of extracorporeal circulation, history
      of significant underlying cardiac or pulmonary disease and phrenic nerve injury are the main
      prognostic factors for post cardiac surgery respiratory complications.

      Traditionally, low- and high-flow oxygen systems are used to reverse postsurgical respiratory
      complications with or without addition of continuous (CPAP) or bi-level (NIV) positive airway
      pressure.

      NHF might be superior for the prevention or treatment of those respiratory complications,
      since it can provide high-flow of heated and hydrated oxygen while the positive airway
      pressure created by the high gas flow can recruit alveoli and increase the end-expiratory
      lung volume.

      Studies applying NHF immediately after extubation in cardiac surgery patients revealed better
      oxygenation and less need for advanced methods of respiratory support compared to
      conventional oxygen devices , and similar results compared to noninvasive ventilation.
      However, Zochios et al, summarized all the available up to date data of NHF compared to
      conventional oxygen devices and non-invasive ventilation in patients undergoing
      cardiothoracic surgery and they did not find any further benefit by NHF use. The
      aforementioned discrepancy could be explained by the differences in the studied populations
      and NHF flow settings. The proposed initial flow rate differs among the studies, with some
      authors suggesting initial lower flows (35-40 L/min) that will be better tolerated by the
      patients and others suggesting initial maximal flows (60 L/min) to rapidly relieve dyspnea
      and prevent muscle fatigue.

      Aim The primary goal of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of NHF (with initial flows of
      60 L/min or 40 L/min) versus conventional oxygen systems on respiratory parameters
      (respiratory rate, pO2/ FiO2, spO2, use of accessory muscles, dyspnoea, comfort and tolerance
      by using the visual analogue scale) immediately after the extubation of cardiac surgery
      patients.

      Additional goals of the study are to compare two different initial NHF flows of 60 L/min and
      40 L/min, ICU Length of Stay, Hospital Length of Stay, rates of ICU re-admission and
      re-intubation and any other respiratory / non-respiratory complications and adverse events.
      Moreover, the rate of failure of the initial treatment will be recorded (as a major measure
      of treatment efficacy).

      Method

      This is a prospective, non-blinded, randomized study in post-extubated cardiac surgery
      patients. The study population will consist of three patient groups:

      The first group (Study Group 1) will include patients on NHF with initial settings of
      FiO2=60% and gas flow=60L/min.

      The second group (Study Group 2) will include patients on NHF with initial settings of
      FiO2=60% and gas flow=40L/min In the third group (control group) all patients will receive
      oxygen therapy according to the standard practice of our cardiac ICU department, i.e.,
      Venturi mask with FiO2=60% and flow of 15L/min.

      Patients in both study groups would be weaned off the NHF as follows; First reducing FiO2
      gradually to 50%, and then gradually reducing the gas flow (either from 60l/min or 40/min,
      depending on the study group) down to 30l/min, aiming at the final wean-off goal of 20l/min,
      unless the attending physician decides to wean-off patient to Venturi mask directly from a
      higher gas flow supply (e.g.: 30-25l/min) Treatment failure will be defined as any crossover
      from one treatment to another due to patient's respiratory distress and discomfort. To be
      more specific, switch of gas flow from 40L/min to 60L/min, crossover from either NHF group to
      standard practice (Venturi mask) or need for more advanced respiratory support such as
      non-invasive ventilation or invasive mechanical ventilation.

      Any implemented treatment would also be defined as "failure" when any irreversible (for at
      least 48 hours) FiO2/gas-mixture flow escalation might be needed, either it is being recorded
      on Study group 1 & 2 or Control group.

      An initial power analysis was based on a predicted, average failure rate of 15% in the 2 NHF
      groups and a failure rate of 51% in the control group; this analysis yielded the need for
      enrollment of a total of 41 NHF patients and 21 controls for alpha = 0.05 and power=0.80. To
      ensure equal numbers of patients in each one of the 2 NHF groups, the authors decided to
      actually enroll 42 NHF patients (n=21 for each NHF group) and 21 controls, resulting in a
      total enrollment of 63 patients. At one year after study initiation, actual, total enrollment
      amounted to 45 patients. At this time point, the Data Monitoring Committee (after confirming
      the safe application of the study protocol) recommended the continuation of the study until
      the enrollment of 99 patients (n=33 for each one of the 3 groups); the rationale for this was
      to compensate for possible dropouts and/or missing data (especially for the secondary and
      "other" outcomes). Accordingly, the study was completed with an actual enrollment of 99
      patients.
    
  