
    
      The study is a randomized, prospective multicenter pilot study to assess the utility and
      efficacy of high-density mapping with the Rhythmia mapping system to guide PV re-isolation in
      subjects with recurrent AF after an initial cryoballoon PVI compared to repeat cryoballoon
      PVI.

      After obtaining informed consent to participate in the study, subjects will undergo baseline
      data bcollection. Subjects will then be randomized to undergo repeat PVI with either
      cryoballoon ablation or repeat PVI with an IntellaNav Open-Irrigated or other approved
      ablation catheters for atrial fibrillation under guidance of the Rhythmia mapping system and
      IntellaMap Orion mapping catheter. The performance of repeat AF ablation, use either the
      cryoballoon or Rhythmia mapping system, mapping catheter, and ablation catheters are in
      accordance with standard clinical indications and practice, regardless of participation in
      the study.

      The participants in the study will undergo a total of two follow-up visits after ablation
      (approximately 3 and 6 months) with a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) at each visit. An
      assessment of rhythm will be performed with daily transmissions as well as subject-activated
      event recordings for symptoms with the Kardia Mobile (AliveCor, Mountain View, CA) smartphone
      based monitor. The Kardia Mobile System is an FDA-cleared, clinical grade mobile ECG monitor
      coupled with a smartphone app that is able to record a single-lead ECG and securely transmit
      the tracings to the study investigators via the Kardia Pro commercial (HIPPA compliant)
      remote monitoring service for clinicians. The transmissions will not be directly available to
      the treating electrophysiologists at each site.

      At the 6 month visit, 2-weeks of continuous monitoring with a Zio XT event monitor (iRhythm,
      San Francisco, CA) will be performed according to standard clinical practice to evaluate for
      subclinical episodes of AF.

      The goal of the pilot study is to enroll 50 subjects with 1:1 randomization across 3 sites in
      the Unites States and each subject will be followed for 6 months following ablation to
      evaluate for recurrence of AF. The estimated time to complete enrollment will be 3-4 months
      assuming enrollment of at each visit 4-5 subject per month at each site.
    
  