
    
      Background The use of fractional flow reserve (FFR) to guide coronary artery bypass graft
      (CABG) is controversial. A large retrospective study on 627 patients by Toth et al. showed
      that FFR-guided surgery was associated with a lower number of graft anastomoses and a lower
      rate of on-pump surgery compared with angiography-guided coronary artery bypass graft
      surgery. This did not result in a higher event rate during up to 36 months of follow-up and
      was associated with a lower rate of angina. The six years follow-up of the same study showed
      that FFR-guided CABG was associated with a significant reduction in the rate of overall death
      or myocardial infarction at 6-year follow-up as compared with angiography-guided CABG.

      However, the three randomized studies on FFR-based CABG have achieved contradictive results.
      The FARGO (Fractional Flow Reserve Versus Angiography Randomization for Graft Optimization)
      and GRAFFITI (GRAft patency after FFR-guided versus angiography-guided CABG) did not report a
      significant impact on hard outcomes at 1 year. Conversely, the IMPAG trial support the use of
      preoperative FFR in total arterial CABG. Authors found a significant association between the
      preoperative FFR measurement of the target vessel and the anastomotic functionality at 6
      months, with a cut-off of 0.78. Authors concluded that integration of FFR measurement into
      the preoperative diagnostic workup could lead to improved anastomotic graft function.

      The currently available randomized evidences might have been flawed by limitations including
      underpowering, entry selectivity bias, cross over among treatment, difference in the type of
      conduits used and presence of unexpected confounders related to surgeons' reluctance to base
      their surgical strategy on FFR. These drawbacks not only hamper the reliability of the
      results, but more importantly, reduce their translatability to the real-life clinical world.

      Given the lack of definitive evidences and the difficulty of RCT to capture the real-life
      scenario of the clinical practice, we plan to perform a large multicentric all-comers study
      comparing the practice of FFR in CABG across several European and non-European units.

      The main aim is to obtain information on

        -  Use rate of FFR in preoperative planning of surgical candidates

        -  Effective adherence to FFR guidance during elective surgery and identification of
           factors eventually limiting observance to FFR information

        -  Short and long-term outcomes of FFR-based CABG in comparison to standard
           angiography-based CABG

        -  Post hoc analysis in relation to type of conduit used, completeness of
           revascularization, surgeon experience, volume/outcome relationship.
    
  