
    
      This is a prospective, open-label study that will examine the clinical utility and safety of
      adding the atypical antipsychotic aripiprazole as an augmenting agent to antidepressant
      therapy in treatment-resistant depressed patients. The author's a priori hypothesis is that
      aripiprazole plus a current FDA approved antidepressant will result in significant reductions
      in depressive symptoms over 6 weeks. Responders (>50% improvement in baseline HAM-D score)
      will be asked to voluntarily continue in a 6 week open-label extension in order to show that
      antidepressant effects of aripiprazole are longstanding in nature.

      After screening and consenting and liaison with a primary prescriber, 10 eligible subjects
      will receive aripiprazole 10-30 mg per day as an augmentation agent in combination with their
      current FDA approved antidepressant medication. The dose of the subject's original
      antidepressant will remain unchanged during the study unless subject notes intolerable newly
      emergent antidepressant-related side effects. Based on tolerability and response,
      aripiprazole will be started at 5 mg per day and augmented as follows (baseline, end of week
      1, end of week 2, end of week 4, and termination visit end of week 6) at 5 mg per day
      increments, the maximum dose being 30 mg per day for patients who are taking antidepressants
      that have no pre-existing significant inhibitory effect on CYP450 2D6 enzyme system. However,
      if the patient is taking any antidepressant that has significant CYP450 2D6 enzyme inhibitory
      properties, that may affect the metabolism of aripiprazole (e.g. paroxetine, fluoxetine), the
      maximum dose will be 15 mg per day (50% less than the maximum recommended dose). These dose
      ranges have been chosen because they capture the mean effective dose for ameliorating
      depressive symptoms in schizophrenia. The dose will be titrated upward or downward based on
      clinical response. Other psychotropic medications will be permitted during the study if
      deemed necessary to control side effects (hypnotics, anxiolytics, antimuscarinics, beta
      blockers, etc.). Subjects who have been on a stable dose of hypnotic or anxiolytic (GABA or
      Histamine-based) for at least 4 weeks prior to study entry may opt to continue these at
      current dose or be washed out prior to study start. Aripiprazole will be dispensed biweekly
      and the participants will be followed for 6-weeks. Participants will be monitored every other
      week by the HAMD (blinded), CGI, and SAFTEE. Vital signs and weight will also be taken at
      each visit. After 6 weeks, there will be a two-week taper of aripiprazole (50% reduction in
      dose per week). Compliance will be measured by pill count All subjects will be voluntarily
      offered to stay in the study for an additional six weeks where they will meet one final time
      at the end of week 12 to re-evaluate safety and effectiveness of longer term aripiprazole
      augmentation. Subjects would then go through a two week taper as above. Subjects who do not
      wish to continue an additional six weeks may opt out of the study at the original 6 week
      termination mark. If interim safety analysis (by independent psychiatrist TBD) suggests good
      safety profile and amendment will be sent to the IRB asking for 10 additional subjects to be
      enrolled.

      Primary and secondary measures and safety evaluations: The primary measures of the study will
      be changes in HAMD scores over time (we will monitor this to make sure depression scores do
      not worsen with aripiprazole); the secondary efficacy measure will be changes in CGI scores
      over time. Safety evaluations will be determined by the SAFTEE rating scale and patient AE
      reports. An Expectancy Scale will be given to determine if subjects' level of perceived
      confidence in the drug correlates to the outcomes noted above. This is a superficial way to
      look at placebo-like rates when placebo is not used in the study.
    
  