
    
      This study examines how skin-to-skin contact between father and newborn affects the
      attachment relationship. A randomized controlled trial was conducted at a regional teaching
      hospital and a maternity clinic in northern Taiwan. The study recruited 83 first-time fathers
      aged 20 years or older. By block randomization, participants were allocated to an
      experimental (n=41) or a control group (n=42). With the exception of skin-to-skin contact
      (SSC), participants from each group received the same standard care. Both groups also
      received an Early Childcare for Fathers nursing pamphlet. During the first three days
      postpartum, the intervention group members were provided a daily SSC intervention with their
      respective infants. Each intervention session lasted at least 15 minutes in length. The
      outcome measure was the Paternal Attachment Questionnaire (PAQ).

      Four field experts of clinical obstetrics and pediatrics validated the developed
      father-neonate SSC intervention. A description of the intervention used in this study is as
      follows:

      The researchers facilitated initial SSC between intervention-group participants and their
      infants within 24 hours of birthing under conditions that did not adversely affect
      spontaneous mother-infant SSC nor interfere with the early initiation of breastfeeding.
      Because it is standard practice to discharge vaginal-birth mothers on the third postpartum
      day, this study implemented the intervention during the first three postpartum days for both
      vaginal and cesarean birth cases.

      Meanwhile, intervention-group participants were provided with the nursing pamphlet, Early
      Childcare for Fathers, and briefed on its contents at hospital admission. Upon delivery, each
      newborn infant received immediate SSC with the mother and was then provided neonatal nursing
      before being placed temporarily into an incubator for observation. After the infant was
      confirmed as being in a "quiet alert" state, defined as eyes open and bright, breathing
      normal, and sensitive and responsive to stimuli, a researcher led the father into the
      nursery, helped him hold his infant, and facilitated initial SSC. Immediately afterward, the
      researcher - in accordance with each participant's expressed preference - either withdrew
      from the room or observed the infant from an appropriate distance. Two further father-infant
      SSC sessions were held on day 2 and day 3, respectively, in either the nursery or maternity
      ward. The sessions took place in a secluded section of the nursery or ward about two hours
      after one of the daily feedings and only after the infant had been bathed, towel dried, and
      fitted with a diaper. The session space included a comfortable armchair, a footrest, a
      partition screen, a pillow, and a towel or blanket. The ambient temperature was held at a
      constant 25~27°C.

      Prior to touching their infant, participants wore a loose-fitting, front-button shirt or
      hospital smock and washed their hands. They then sat in the provided armchair and exposed
      their chest. A pillow and footrest were also made available for use. After the researcher
      confirmed the safety of all preparations, participants were given their infant to hold. The
      infant was cradled on the participant's chest in a fetal position, with the head held upwards
      either vertically or at a 30~60° angle. The exposed back of the infant was then covered by a
      blanket or clothing. The participant supported the infant with his hands placed on the
      infant's shoulder and back. Next, he made eye contact with the infant. Touch and soft voice
      contact commenced only after the infant was appropriately relaxed, as indicated by relaxed
      eyebrows, forehead, and chin muscles; slightly curled hands; a comfortably curled body
      position; and calm smile.18 Previous studies found that infants feel most at ease within 15
      minutes of SSC with their parents and that verbal and non-verbal communication typically
      commences within this time period as well.16, 20 Thus, the researchers defined the minimum
      duration of SSC sessions as 15 minutes, with sessions longer than this duration allowed to
      continue until either consciously ended by the father or interrupted by other infant-care
      priorities.

      After receiving institutional review board (IRB) approval for this study in November 2012, a
      random allocation computer program generated a random stratified allocation table that was
      used to direct participant recruitment.23 Upon hospital admission, participants in both the
      intervention and control groups received the Early Childcare for Fathers nursing pamphlet in
      order to promote understanding of early infant care and complete the pretest PAQ instrument.
      Afterward, intervention-group participants were orally briefed on pamphlet contents and shown
      how to successfully perform father-infant SSC. These participants subsequently engaged in at
      least one >15-minute SSC session with their infant on each of the first three postpartum
      days. On the other hand, control-group participants received only standard nursing care after
      receiving the pamphlet. After the 3-day study period, all participants completed and
      submitted the demographic survey form and post-test PAQ.
    
  