
    
      The ProTarget study is a phase II, prospective, non-randomized clinical trial that aims to
      describe the safety and efficacy of commercially available, targeted anti-cancer drugs
      prescribed for treatment of patients with advanced cancer having a potentially actionable
      genomic variant revealed by a genomic test or immunohistochemistry test for protein
      overexpression performed in a laboratory accredited by the competent local regulatory
      authority. The study also aims to catalogue the choice of genomic test by clinical
      oncologists and learn about the utility of data collected through this study to develop
      hypotheses for future clinical trials. Eligible patients will have an advanced malignant
      disease with molecular aberrations for which standard treatment options are no longer
      available or feasible and acceptable performance status and organ function. A genomic test or
      immunohistochemistry test for protein overexpression must have been performed on a specimen
      of the tumor selected by the investigator in a laboratory accredited by the competent local
      regulatory authority and the test must identify at least one potentially actionable genomic
      variant as defined in the protocol. Genomic assays performed on cell-free DNA in plasma or
      other body fluids ("liquid biopsies") will also be acceptable if the genomic analysis is
      performed in a laboratory that meets the requirements described above. The investigator will
      select an appropriate drug from among those available in the protocol that targets the
      identified genomic variant and begin treatment once any drug-specific eligibility criteria
      are confirmed. If an eligible drug-variant match is not listed in the protocol, the physician
      may submit a proposal to treat with a drug available in the protocol, along with relevant
      clinical information and the genomic test results, to the study Molecular Tumor Board for
      review. The investigator may also choose to request options from the Molecular Tumor Board on
      treatment selection. The Molecular Tumor Board will return to the physician a list of
      potential treatment options. If the physician's choice of drug is among those available in
      the protocol and also one of the options provided by the Molecular Tumor Board, the
      protocol-specified treatment may be administered to the patient once any drug-specific
      eligibility criteria are confirmed. The investigator may not enroll a patient on a ProTarget
      study drug if it is not among the options listed in the protocol or provided by the Molecular
      Tumor Board. In this case, the non-ProTarget treatment and follow-up will be at the
      investigator's discretion. All patients who receive treatment with a drug available in the
      protocol will be followed for standard toxicity and efficacy outcomes including tumor
      response, progression-free and overall survival as well as duration of treatment and high
      grade or serious adverse events.

      Study Objectives:

        -  To describe in different types of population the anti-tumor activity (efficacy) and
           toxicity (safety) of commercially available, targeted anti-cancer drugs used for
           treatment of patients with advanced disease with a genomic variant known (i) to be a
           target of an EMA-approved anti-cancer drug or (ii) to predict sensitivity to an
           EMA-approved anti-cancer drug.

        -  To record the site investigator determination treatment-related adverse events
           experienced by patients receiving treatment with commercially available, targeted
           anti-cancer drugs.

        -  To perform refined biomarker analyses, including (but not limited to) whole genome
           sequencing, on a fresh tumor biopsy specimen at baseline and at progression.

        -  To study mechanisms of resistance by the use of serial fresh tumor biopsies for WGS and
           liquid biopsies.

      Study Population: Eligible patients will have an advanced malignant disease for which
      standard treatment options are no longer available or feasible and acceptable performance
      status and organ function. A genomic profiling test or immunohistochemistry test for protein
      expression or overexpression must have been performed on a specimen of the tumor in a
      laboratory accredited by the competent local regulatory authority. The results must identify
      at least one potentially actionable genomic variant that is targeted by a ProTarget Study
      drug, as defined in the protocol. Genomic assays performed on cell-free DNA in plasma
      ("liquid biopsies") will also be acceptable if the genomic analysis is performed in a
      laboratory that meets the requirements described above.

      Intervention: Treatment with a commercially available, targeted anti-cancer drug matched to a
      genomic variant identified in a tumor biopsy specimen.

      Study endpoints: Objective tumor response (complete response - CR or partial response- PR) or
      stable disease (SD) at 16 weeks or later after treatment initiation and safety are the
      primary study endpoints; progression-free survival, overall survival, duration of treatment
      on study and treatment-related high grade and serious adverse events will be collected.

      Patients from Denmark, the Netherlands and the USA will be included in three similar though
      independent protocols (ProTarget, DRUP and TAPUR, respectively), allowing data-exchange and
      empowering of the trials.
    
  