
    
      Primary outcome:

      Improvement in oxygenation

      Secondary outcomes:

      Significant improvement in other clinical and laboratory end points.

      Primary endpoint:

      Pulmonary function:

      Oxygenation (PO2- FIO2 ratio)

        -  Incidence of ALI

        -  Length of Ventilation (LOV)

      Secondary endpoints:

      Rate of complications:

      -New organ failure.

      Rate of new infections:

      -wound infection, bacteremia, ventilation associated pneumonia.

      Pain:

      -Pain score and analgesic use

      Morbidity/ mortality:

        -  Length of ICU stay

        -  Length of hospitalization

        -  28 day mortality

        -  Hospital mortality

      All patients will commence enteral feeding via a nasogastric or orogastric tube; allocation
      to either Oxepa or Pulmocare/Jevity (control group) will be determined by randomization code.
      Patients will be prescribed to receive a daily amount of enteral formula that provides at
      least 80% of their energy; the latter will be calculated every 48 to 72 hours by Indirect
      Calorimetric (IC) measurement of Resting Energy Expenditure (REE). Tolerance of EN will be
      assessed by measurement of Gastric Residual Volume (GRV) every 8 hrs and the mode of feeding
      will be modified accordingly.

      Treatment:

      Enrolled patients will be randomly divided into a control group and an intervention group.

      Control group treatment:

      Will be administered Pulmocare or Jevity (enteral nutrition formula, ABBOTT), at a dose
      determined by a patient's energy expenditure and tolerance of enteral feeding.

      Intervention group treatment:

      Will be administered with Oxepa (enteral nutrition formula, ABBOTT), at a dose determined by
      a patient's energy expenditure and tolerance of enteral feeding.

      Treatment duration:

      The above formulas will be/delivered until the first of the following occurs:

        -  patients resume regular oral feeding

        -  day 28/ discharge from ICU/ exitus

        -  Patients transferred to Total Parenteral Nutrition Note: the attending physician
           according to the patient's needs will determine feeding of patients from there on.

      Study termination (end of all study procedures):

        -  day 28/ discharge from ICU

        -  Patients transferred to Total Parenteral Nutrition before day 3 of the study
    
  