
    
      AME is a rare genetic disorder that is caused by a mutated HSD11B2 gene, which encodes the
      metabolic enzyme 11BHSD2. The altered gene interferes with the ability of 11BHSD2 to
      inactivate the hormone cortisol. Above-normal cortisol activity then leads to a rise in blood
      pressure and a reduction of potassium in the blood. It also leads to low levels of the enzyme
      renin and the hormone aldosterone, both of which are involved in the regulation of long-term
      blood pressure. Long-term high blood pressure and metabolic defects start at an early age in
      children with severe AME. In others, AME may start later in life and cause less serious side
      effects. Symptoms can include poor growth in childhood, delayed puberty, muscle weakness,
      heart rate irregularity, frequent urination, and thirst. If left untreated, AME can cause
      serious damage to the eyes, kidneys, heart, and other organs.

      Current treatment with the synthetic steroid spironolactone usually improves symptoms;
      however, despite treatment, some individuals with AME still experience disease progression
      and even death within years of being diagnosed with AME. Understanding more about AME, how it
      progresses, and how it affects people differently may help to improve treatment options. The
      purpose of this study is to examine the genetic basis, natural history, disease progression,
      and outcome of children and adults with AME. The study will also examine the family members
      of study participants with AME for any genetic abnormalities and possible mild forms of AME.

      This study will last 2 to 7 years. Participants and their family members will attend yearly
      study visits that will include interviews about medical history, symptoms, and hospital
      stays; a physical exam; blood pressure testing; and blood and urine collection. Interim
      reviews of medical records will occur as necessary. Children will undergo an x-ray of the
      left hand. During the initial study visit, participants will be asked questions about family
      members and birth size.
    
  