
    
      Previous work has demonstrated the pathophysiological role of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) in
      ischemic stroke. The mechanism of action of AVP is by 3 receptor subtypes: V1a, V1b and V2
      expressed in brain, pituitary gland, myocardium, vasculature and kidneys. The role of the
      vasopressin receptors V1a and or V2 subtype in cerebral edema formation after ischemic stroke
      remains controversial. The V1a receptor antagonism causes platelet inhibition, aquaporin-4 up
      regulation; reduce infarct size and vasodilation. V1 antagonists has also been shown to
      prevent ischemia-induced cerebral edema development, suggesting that the V1 vasopressin
      receptor is important in water regulation in brain cells. Another study indicated that the
      vasopressin receptor V1 is involved in the pathogenesis of secondary brain damage after focal
      cerebral ischemia. Recently, few studies have demonstrated that a V2 receptor antagonist
      (OPC-31260), may be one of the effective drugs for the early treatment of cytotoxic edema and
      brain injury. Treatment of OPC-31260 ameliorated cerebral neurological deficit in transgenic
      (GET-1) mice after water intoxication. Treatment of OPC-31260 also significantly abolished
      water accumulation and down regulated Aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) expression level in GET-1 mice
      after water intoxication. The intensity of AQP-4 staining was almost comparable with that of
      the controls without water intoxication. It was also shown that OPC-31260 at doses of 10 to
      30 mg/kg produced a dose-dependent inhibition of subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced cerebral
      edema formation, accompanied by an increase in urinary volume and decrease in urine
      osmolality without a significant alteration of urine electrolytes. OPC-31260 is also
      effective in treating water retention diseases, such as hyponatremia caused by inappropriate
      antidiuretic hormone secretion, congestive heart failure, and liver cirrhosis. V2 receptor
      antagonism will also help in abolishing water accumulation, decreased Glial Fibrillary Acidic
      Protein (GFAP) in astrocytes and most importantly causes renal tubule-selective diuretic
      effect called aquaresis (electrolyte sparing diuresis), which may have additional benefit in
      the reduction of cerebral edema.

      This combined approach of V1a and V2 AVP receptor antagonism will lead to attenuation of
      ischemia related cerebral edema and infarct volume by modulating ischemia-evoked AQP-4
      expression. This effect should help behavior and mortality which in turn will improve outcome
      in stroke patients. The purpose of this project is to test the effect of the mixed V1a and V2
      receptor blockade on ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke outcome.

      In summary, the investigators are using the approach of mixed vasopressin antagonism on post
      stroke edema, infarct volume and outcome. This research will lead to a greater understanding
      of the roles and interactions of the different AVP receptors and pathophysiology of post
      stroke cytotoxic edema. New information on the effects of mixed blockade of V1a and V2
      receptors on the prevention of cytotoxic edema post stroke will be revealed.
    
  