
    
      The use of fibrinolytics for the percutaneous drainage of loculated pleural effusions has
      been shown to reduce the catheter dwell time and to improve drainage of the effusions.
      Abscesses in the abdomen and pelvis are often loculated which makes percutaneous drainage
      difficult. We hypothesize that the infusion of alteplase via a drainage catheter into the
      loculated abscess collections of the abdomen and pelvis will similarly decrease catheter
      dwell time and improve overall abscess drainage. The direct injection of Activase into
      abscess cavities utilizes a very low dose of drug within a closed environment which should
      not be associated with any significant risk of hemorrhage. To date, there does not appear to
      be a significant risk of systemic hemorrhagic complications associated with the use of
      intracavitary thrombolytics for the drainage of abdominopelvic abscesses although only a few
      such studies have been reported. We hope to prove that the use alteplase for intracavitary
      thrombolysis improves outcomes associated with percutaneous catheter drainage of loculated
      abscess collections without increasing complications or costs.

      The design of the trial will be as a single-center, prospective, open-label, randomized trial
      comparing the infusion of Activase versus saline for treatment of loculated abdominopelvic
      abscesses requiring percutaneous drainage. Patients with loculated abdominopelvic abscesses
      who are referred for percutaneous drainage will be eligible for this study. Patients will
      undergo standard placement of a 10-12 french percutaneous drain into their abscess cavity
      under computed tomography guidance. If the entire contents of the abscess cavity cannot be
      aspirated at the time of initial catheter placement, the abscess will be assumed to be
      loculated. The patient will then be randomized to have their abscess catheter irrigated twice
      a day with a volume of fluid approximately equal to the one-half the residual volume of the
      abscess. In the control group, the normal saline will be fluid instilled into the abscess
      cavity. The study group will receive Activase reconstituted in sterile water and then diluted
      to the appropriate volume with normal saline.
    
  