
    
      Baseline Visit:

      If participant agrees to take part in this study, they will complete the following tests and
      procedures at their baseline visit. This baseline visit will take place before participant's
      treatment with IMPT or TORS:

        -  Participant will complete questionnaires about any symptoms of cancer they may be having
           and how they affect their daily life at work and at home, their diet, and their speech.

        -  Participant will complete the Dysphagia Inventory. This is a questionnaire about how
           difficult it is to swallow.

        -  The study staff will measure how wide participant can open their jaw to see if their
           treatment may cause any jaw opening limitations.

      It should take about 30 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

      As part of participant's baseline visit, information below will be collected from their
      medical record:

        -  Participant's medical history

        -  The results of participant's physical exam including their weight and any recent weight
           loss.

        -  Any other diseases participant may have and any drugs they are currently taking.

        -  Participant's current smoking status and smoking history.

      Activity Bands:

      The study staff will either give participant an activity band at their baseline visit or they
      will be mailed an activity wristband. Participant will be asked to wear the band 24 hours a
      day for 1 week leading up to all study visits. The wristband will record how active
      participant is and how much they sleep. The study staff will show participant how to wear and
      use the wristband.

      Study Visits:

      Participant will complete the following study procedures after they complete treatment with
      either IMPT or TORS, and at 3 and 6 months after that.

        -  The data from participant's wristband will be collected.

        -  Participant will complete the same questionnaires they did at baseline.

        -  At participant's 3 month visit only, the study staff will measure how wide they can open
           their jaw to see if their treatment may cause any jaw opening limitations.

      IMPT patients only:

      If participant is receiving IMPT, they will complete the questionnaires they completed at the
      baseline visit once a week while they are receiving treatment.

      Length of Study:

      Participant's active participation in this study will be over after the 6 month study visit.

      Participant will return the wristband to the study staff after their participation is over.
      If participant loses or damages the wristband while they are on study, another one will be
      provided to them at no cost.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 44 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  