
    
      The participants is health volunteers, age 18-60 years. When the participants agree to
      participate in the experiment, the experimenter first needs to explain the experimental
      process to the participants, and ask the participants to agree and sign the informed consent
      before they can conduct the experiment. The experiment was conducted in the emergency
      medicine department of a university-affiliated top three hospital.

      When the participants are included in the experimental study, the general demographic
      information of the participants, such as name, gender, age, etc., is first collected. Ensure
      the experimental environment is comfortable, ambient temperature 20-24℃, ambient humidity
      50-60%. Participants have loose clothing on their lower limbs to avoid pressure on their
      limbs. Take the supine position, keep the calf hanging, support the heel, make the calf level
      flush with the heart, rest for 5 minutes.

      The monitor (M3002A, Philips Medizin Systeme Boeblingen GmbH, Germany) was used to
      continuously monitor the electrocardiogram, the left upper arm measured blood pressure (BP),
      and the right middle finger to monitor pulse oximetry (SpO2). The calf circumference was
      measured at the midpoint of the bilateral humerus with a soft ruler. The maximum thickness of
      anterior fascia compartment was measured at the midpoint of the tibia using an ultrasonic
      machine (Acclarix AX8, Shenzhen Libang Precision Instrument Co., Ltd., China).

      The random number table method selects one side of the calf as the experimental side and the
      opposite side as the control side.

      (8) The following parameters were recorded at baseline (pressure 0mmHg in the calf tourniquet
      on both sides): (1) heart rate, blood pressure; (2) right middle finger, lower limbs, middle
      toe finger vein oxygen SpO2; (3) bilateral Local blood tissue parameters (TOI, THI, ΔCHb,
      CHbO2, ΔCtHb) in the calf; (4) Near-infrared thermography temperature values (T-u1, T-u2) in
      the knee and thighs of the lower leg and the instep and toe Near-infrared thermography
      temperature values (T-d1, T-d2); (5) bilateral radial artery ultrasound Doppler measurement
      parameters (D-pa, S-pa, Vs-pa, Vd-pa, DRAF-pa) Ultrasound Doppler measurement parameters of
      bilateral iliac veins (D-pv, S-pv, Vs-pv, Vd-pv), bilateral posterior tibial artery and
      dorsal artery ultrasound Doppler measurement parameters (Vs-pta, Vd -pta, SFAF-pta, Vs-da,
      Vd-da, SFAF-da). (6) Two-point identification threshold TPD.

      In turn, the experimental side calf tourniquet was inflated and pressurized to a pressure
      value of 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 mmHg, and the pressure inside the tourniquet was up to 10
      s during pressurization, and maintained stable for 1 min, measured and the above indicators
      were recorded within 3 min. During the experiment, the subjects were closely monitored for
      adverse reactions. At the end of the study, the observation was continued for 30 minutes, and
      the drinking water was at least 500 ml, and the limb sensation, pain and urine color were
      continuously observed within 24 hours.
    
  