
    
      Background

      Stroke is a personal, familial and social disaster. Apart from development of stroke
      prevention and treatment strategies, the mainstay of stroke research remains new-product
      development and improvement of current imaging tools for diagnosis, monitoring and follow-up
      of stroke patients. For initial neuroradiological work-up, usually computed tomography (CT)
      or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used to detect presence or absence, effective state
      and extent of stroke. However, their rapid and actual availability, especially in primary
      hospitals, and their dynamic capabilities and predictive values for further infarction are
      poor. Currently cerebral CT-perfusion (CTP) imaging can be regarded as the gold standard for
      assessing tissue hypoperfusion in this setting. It employs, however, both contrast agent and
      X-ray exposition and patients have to be repeatedly transferred to the scanning unit for each
      measurement. Therefore, a fast, simple, repeatable, non-hazardous and non-invasive dynamic
      bedside tool for the detection of acute brain tissue hypoperfusion and monitoring for
      potential further infarction or efficacy of thrombolysis after ischemic stroke is strongly
      needed.

      Socioeconomic importance of stroke Stroke is the first cause of acquired disability, the
      second cause of dementia and the third cause of death worldwide, and its associated
      socio-economic costs are astronomic. The burden of stroke is likely to increase, given the
      aging of the population and the growing incidence of many vascular risk factors. Therefore,
      rational and effective diagnostic and therapeutic management in stroke patients has potential
      high long-term clinical and economic consequences.

      Current standard therapy after acute ischemic stroke According to the cause of stroke and
      apart from medical treatment and surgical options in selected cases, the mainstay of
      therapeutic management of acute ischemic stroke itself usually remain systemic intravenous
      thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or selective
      intraarterial fibrinolysis and mechanical recanalization, both with or without bridging
      (combined intravenous and intraarterial thrombolysis). In this regard, reperfusion therapy is
      the only proven treatment for acute ischemic stroke.

      Current problems in diagnosis and monitoring of stroke patients At present, CT and MRI are
      usually applied for diagnosis and follow-up of stroke. However, both CT and MRI achieve
      simply a baseline study of ischemia occurred and can deliver only a snapshot of brain
      parenchyma and vessels. Furthermore, whereas CT examination is associated with x-ray
      radiation and may miss early detection of stroke, MRI is associated with higher costs and is
      not generally routinely and around-the clock available in all the hospitals. Both imaging
      methods require transportation and intensive care of the often critically ill patients to the
      scanning unit for each measurement.

      There is unanimous agreement about the need for a bedside assessment of the status of tissue
      perfusion. Invasive cerebral angiography is indicated in cases of further evaluation of
      stroke causes and intended endovascular therapy.

      Potential of ultrasound perfusion imaging (UPI) What makes contrast enhanced UPI so valuable
      is the possibility to repeatedly and non-invasively detect brain tissue at risk for
      infarction by direct brain tissue perfusion assessment and not by surrogate parameters, like
      blood flow velocity or vessel diameter. Because of the possibility to screen and repeatedly
      measure the state of perfusion, the chances increase to diagnose and monitor ischemic stroke
      and to define the appropriate window for treatment. The perfusion analysis would also allow
      determination of treatment results and guidance of rapid and adequate further therapy.

      Objective

      The objective of the present study is to assess whether cerebral hypoperfusion can be
      detected by ultrasound perfusion imaging (UPI) before and after treatment of acute ischemic
      stroke.

      Methods

      Patients with acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory ischemic stroke are evaluated for
      potential thrombolysis/thrombectomy according to the Bernese neurologic stroke algorithm. An
      experienced neurosonographer performs contrast-enhanced ultrasound perfusion imaging (UPI)
      after prospective study enrollment and specific stroke CT/MRI with perfusion measurement.
      Clinical status is documented by use of the NIHSS on admission /first day after the
      intervention. UPI and CT/MRI perfusion data is analyzed. Two different quantification
      algorithms, standard versus patient-adjusted, are used. Data is analyzed by descriptive
      statistics using the mean, median and standard deviation of the ROIs. Sensitivity and
      specificity analyses are calculated using Pearson's chi-square test. Receiver-operator
      characteristic curves are calculated for UPI/perfusion MRI/CT parameters. Pearson correlation
      is used to evaluate correlations between absolute values of UPI and MRI TTP data.
    
  