
    
      Lower-income and minority groups face significant health disparities with respect to obesity,
      cancer, heart disease and other chronic conditions. Poor diets, low in fruits and vegetables
      (F&V) and high in saturated fat, sodium and sugar, contribute to many of the health problems
      faced by vulnerable groups. While poverty, low-educational attainment and personal food
      preference are all associated with reduced F&V consumption, these individual-level factors
      must be viewed in an environmental context. Research has repeatedly demonstrated the
      important role that environment plays on health decisions and behaviors. Compared with
      higher-income neighborhoods, lower-income and minority neighborhoods are less likely to have
      a supermarket that sells a variety of F&V and other healthy foods. This is perpetuated by an
      underlying misconception that there is limited demand or potential profit for new healthy
      food ventures in these communities. In the few cases where new food outlets have opened in
      underserved areas, they have been met with substantial customer support. The NC Green Cart
      program, which our team has already been funded to lead, uses a weekly mobile market model to
      deliver low-cost boxes of fresh F&V to easily accessible community locations (such as
      churches and day care centers) and provide nutrition and cooking education. This program
      builds upon burgeoning support for a local sustainable food system in NC and leverages a
      public-private partnership to increase access to fresh F&V in underserved communities. While
      current program funding allows for minimal evaluation, the present study hopes to demonstrate
      that selling affordable, accessible F&V in lower-income communities is not only financially
      viable, but can impact behavioral risk factors of individuals in target communities. Working
      together with the Green Cart program team, this research will 1.) measure the impact of a
      mobile market at 6, 12 and 18 months on the primary outcome of F&V consumption as well as
      BMI, perceived access to F&V, and self-efficacy to purchase, prepare, serve and eat fresh F&V
      using a randomized controlled design; and 2.) assess community support, feasibility, and
      financial sustainability of the public-private Green Cart partnership. Results of this
      research will inform our understanding of how the food environment impacts dietary choices
      and provide evidence for researchers, businesses, non-profits and policy makers on the
      potential impact and viability of using similar models to reduce food access disparities and
      improve diet.
    
  