
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness
      and safety of Rhea Health Tone® in hospitalized adults with COVID-19 confirmed by PCR.

      The study is a multi-center trial that will be conducted in up to approximately 2 sites
      nationally. Interim monitoring will be conducted to evaluate the arms and for safety and
      effectiveness. Any change would be accompanied by an updated sample size.

      Eligible patients are male or female adults (age ≥ 18 years up to 50 years old) recently
      admitted as in-patients, with mild to moderate COVID-19 confirmed by positive PCR that
      fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria stated in the protocol. Laboratory assessment
      include SGOT, SGPT and Creatinine at screening. The subjects must sign their consent in
      writing electronically beforehand. Total subjects = 69.

      Subjects with any of these conditions will be excluded:

        -  Any allergy to any composition of Rhea Health Tone;

        -  Pregnant and breast feeding;

        -  History and co-morbid of severe underlying disease where treatment and follow up is not
           likely to be beneficial to the patient based on physician judgement (e.g. retinopathy,
           cardiovascular disease (QTc > 500 mdet (narrow QRS); QTc ≥ 550 mdet (wide QRS)), heart
           arrythmia, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, hypertension, chronic pulmonary disease,
           asthma, chronic kidney disease (Creatinine > 2x upper limit of normal), liver disease
           (SGOT/SGPT > 2x upper limit of normal), chronic neurological disease, or etc.). This
           includes people requiring care in designated supported living facilities and severe
           dementia;

        -  Possibility of being transferred to a non-study-hospital within 72 hours.

        -  History of autoimmune disease, cancer, HIV AIDS

      Any suspected serious adverse event reaction is reported to CRO/Sponsor and EC within 24
      hours, using patient's study ID.

      During the study conduct, the study team shall keep all the relevant source documents and
      transcribe the data in case report form (CRF). The study team should also update study
      essential document (e.g. subject log, investigational product accountability log, etc.) and
      keep the copy captured by scan/camera for monitoring/audit/inspection purpose.

      The study is expected to be finished in 2 months.

      Standard of Care (SoC) treatment is based on COVID-19 Treatment Protocol (1st edition, 2020)
      published by Medical Associations (PDPI, PERKI, PAPDI, PERDATIN, IDAI).

      Arm 1: SoC alone for 9 days Arm 2: SoC + Rhea Health Tone 2 ml twice a day after meal (every
      12 hours) for 9 days.

      It is anticipated that patients with COVID-19 will present to participating hospitals, and
      that no external recruitment efforts towards potential subjects are needed. Recruitment
      efforts may also include dissemination of information about this trial to other medical
      professionals/hospitals.

      The Ethics Committee will approve the recruitment process and all materials prior to any
      recruitment to prospective subjects directly.

      Screening will begin with a brief discussion with study staff. Some will be excluded based on
      demographic data and medical history (i.e., pregnant, < 18 years of age, severe COVID-19,
      etc.). Information about the study will be presented to potential subjects (or legally
      acceptable representative) and questions will be asked to determine potential eligibility.
      Screening procedures can begin only after informed consent is obtained.

      To evaluate the effectiveness of Rhea Health Tone® in the therapy of mild to moderate
      hospitalized adults with confirmed COVID-19 based on length of stay in hospital (after
      subject received randomization code until subject discharge/death/recovered). Secondary
      parameters will be Incidence and duration of Oxygenation (days of oxygenation), incidence is
      defined as number of days from randomization until the subject received oxygenation, duration
      is defined as total days of the use of oxygenation; incidence of Ventilation (days to
      receiving ventilation).

      Incidence is defined as number of days from randomization until the subject received
      ventilation; inflammatory biomarkers (IL-6, hs-CRP and IFNγ).

      Analyses relate outcome to the randomly allocated treatment (e.g. intent-to-treat). The
      primary analyses assess any effects of treatment allocation on length of hospitalization,
      analyzing separately people who already at mild and moderate level at entry and by age.
      Interim analysis will be carried out after 50% subject enrolled. The results will be
      monitored by monitor assigned by the Sponsor to ensure subject well-being and safety as well
      as study integrity. The monitor will evaluate the study safety parameter after 50% subject
      enrolled in the study.

      The main secondary analyses assess any effects of treatment allocation on:

        1. Incidence and duration of Oxygenation (days of oxygenation, days of free oxygenation);

        2. Incidence of Ventilation (days to receiving ventilation);

        3. Inflammatory biomarkers (IL-6, hs-CRP , IFNγ );

        4. Conversion rate from positive to negative by PCR result;

        5. Percentage of improvement of patients' clinical

        6. Percentage of improvement of patients based on chest X-ray; and

        7. QTc prolongation by ECG.

      Study related data will be recorded. All the data in the source documents shall be collected
      by the study team to be transcribed in the electronic case report form (eCRF). Once the
      document recorded, the electronic data will be automatically available for
      monitoring/audit/inspection purpose. All the electronic system used and data recording in the
      study must be conducted in compliance to Good Clinical Practice.

      The investigator must assure that subjects' anonymity will be maintained and that their
      identities are protected from unauthorized parties. On CRFs or other documents submitted to
      the sponsor, subjects should not be identified by their names, but by an identification code.
      The investigator should keep a subject enrolment log showing codes, names and addresses. The
      investigator should maintain documents not for submission to Sponsor, e.g. subjects' written
      consent forms, in strict confidence.

      The investigator shall ensure the quality control and quality assurance of the data generated
      during the study and how the data will be handled, including providing access to monitoring
      activities, audit and inspection and source documents which will be used in the study.
      Investigator will permit monitoring, audits and inspections by Sponsor/CRO, EC, and
      regulatory bodies.

      All source records including electronic data (if any) will be stored in secured systems in
      accordance with institutional policies and locally applicable regulation. All the essential
      documents should be retained until at least 5 years after the study ended or based on the
      applicable regulatory requirements or based on the agreement with the funder.

      The Drug Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) is an Independent Data Monitoring Committee
      consisting of doctors who are experienced in clinical trials, statisticians, and other
      members who do not direct involvement with this study. The DSMB responsible for the ongoing
      review of a clinical trial and for making recommendations to the sponsor concerning the
      continuation, modification, and termination of the trial as it is being conducted. The DSMB
      will be the only committee that is allowed to review the confidential data in the study. The
      statistician will analyze the subject's security data and report to DSMB to be evaluated more
      closely. The key responsibilities of the DSMB are to ensure patient safety by routine review
      of overall safety data including all SAEs, SUSARs, all severe AEs and AEs leading to drug or
      study discontinuation and, where applicable, literature cases and information from Competent
      Authorities (CAs) and by judging the relevance of the events for patients' safety. The DSMB
      will review the results of data that has been analyzed in accordance with SAP and consider
      other evidence arising from other studies and will provide advice to the Trial Steering
      Committee (TSC) (the research committee and national coordinator) regarding the
      sustainability of this study. The DSMB may recommend the TSC to the recruitment or study
      termination or provide recommendations related to alternatives treatment (if any).
    
  