
    
      Breast conservation therapy (BCT) is the standard surgical treatment for breast cancer. The
      goal of BCT is total excision of the malignant lesion while simultaneously preserving the
      cosmetic appearance and functionality of the breast. Despite advances in technique and
      pathologic analysis; however, 20-50% of malignant breast lump excisions have cancer present
      to the edge of the excision margin (defined as a "positive" margin). Excisions that are found
      to be margin positive require a secondary excision; however, in these cases residual disease
      is found to be present in only 40-70% of cases. Some researchers have hypothesized that
      re-excision was unnecessary in a certain percentage of cases. Currently there are no
      routinely utilized method for intra-operative interpretation of surgical margins. Touch preps
      or imprint cytology has been used in the past in some centers but it is not used routinely
      because an experienced cytopathologist is needed to correctly interpret the slides.

      The standard of care to evaluate surgical margins is based on permanent section. Margins are
      considered negative if there is greater than 1 mm of normal tissue between cancer cells to
      the excised surface. Many factors for this discrepancy have been postulated, including
      artifact associated with the inking process and with electrosurgery induced damage of the
      margin during excision (thermal injury); therefore, creating a "false positive" impression of
      tumor cells present at surgical margins. We propose a clinical study to evaluate the effects
      of thermal injury in breast cancer excision using traditional electrosurgery (i.e., the
      "Bovie") compared to the pulsed RF technology with the PEAK PlasmaBlade. We hypothesize that
      the PlasmaBlade will impart less thermal injury to the incised breast tissue (malignant and
      normal) and will increase the specificity of the margin status. The majority of breast
      cancers are removed by traditional electrocautery. We are just starting to utilize this new
      technology for soft tissue dissection at UCSD.

      The PEAK PlasmaBlade is a family of disposable surgical cutting and coagulation devices that
      offer the exacting control of a scalpel and the bleeding control of traditional
      electrosurgery without extensive collateral damage. The PlasmaBlade is based on proprietary
      pulsed plasma technology. This technology represents an evolutionary leap in the advancement
      of radiofrequency surgical technologies, which originated with traditional electrosurgery and
      progressed to plasma-mediated energy devices. The PlasmaBlade tissue dissection devices are
      FDA-cleared and commercially available.
    
  