
    
      Multiple treatment options are available for the treatment of kidney or ureteral calculi.
      Treatment options include shock wave lithotripsy (SWL; shock waves are transmitted through
      the body wall and focused onto the stone to break the stone into gravel), percutaneous
      nephrolithotomy (PNL; a small flank incision is made and a telescope inserted into the kidney
      to allow stone fragmentation and removal from the patient), and ureteroscopic lithotripsy
      (URS; a small telescope is inserted into the ureter or kidney and a laser is used to break up
      the stone into gravel).

      Brushite is a unique form of calcium phosphate kidney stone that often has sub-optimal stone
      fragmentation with shock wave lithotripsy (Heimbach et al, 1999). Due to its SWL resistance,
      brushite patients often undergo more invasive treatments such as URS or PNL to achieve a
      stone free status. Brushite patients often have multiple stones and have a high likelihood of
      developing recurrences (new stone formation or regrowth of existing stone fragments), often
      within the first year after surgery. These patients may also have a history of anatomical
      abnormalities of the urinary tract or a history of prior renal or ureteral surgery (Klee et
      al, 1991).

      A thorough review of the clinical, radiological and metabolic data of brushite patients has
      the potential to clarify a number of important points. Many patients with brushite stones
      often have a history of non-brushite stones (e.g. calcium oxalate) predating the development
      of brushite stones and historical review is needed to define the factors contributing to this
      shift in stone composition. In addition, it has been shown that CT attenuation values can be
      used to predict stone composition (Joseph et al, 2002). As a result, it is crucial to review
      the radiologic appearance of known brushite stones to identify specific radiographic
      characteristics and possibly allow a radiographic diagnosis of brushite to be established.
      Finally, very little information has been reported on the urinary abnormalities in brushite
      patients. By carefully examining 24 hour urine data in a large population of brushite
      patients, information may be identified that can be used to provide improved management of
      specific abnormalities to prevent stone recurrences.
    
  