
    
      Background

        -  Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and surveillance are treatment options for prostate
           cancer patients with biochemical progression after localized therapy (biochemically
           recurrent prostate cancer). The primary goal in these patients is to prevent morbidity
           from their cancer that results from disease progression and metastatic disease on
           conventional imaging.

        -  ADT can lower the PSA in these patients, but because of its substantial side effect
           profile and ambiguous long term impact, it is generally deferred by most patients until
           there is a rapid escalation in their PSA.

        -  Immunotherapy presents an alternative option for these patients that is especially
           attractive because it is not associated with substantial toxicity. Also, since
           immunotherapy can have lasting effects after treatment due to a sustained activated
           immune response, patients will not be required to take these treatments indefinitely to
           potentially benefit clinically.

        -  Current and previous clinical trials have demonstrated that single agent immunotherapy
           can impact PSA in patients in this population.

        -  The focus of this study is to determine if combination immunotherapy with immune-cell
           mobilizing vaccines can initiate an immune response in the first 4 months that is then
           augmented by an immune checkpoint inhibitor in the following 3 months.

        -  In addition to PSA responses (the primary metric in this population), safety, changes in
           immune responses, and PSA kinetics will also be evaluated.

      Objective

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Safety Lead-In: To evaluate the safety and tolerability of combination immunotherapy in
           patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer

        -  Biochemical Recurrence: To determine if the combination immunotherapy can induce a 30%
           decline in PSA in 28% of patients with biochemically recurrent prostate cancer.

      Key Eligibility Criteria (for biochemical recurrence):

        -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

        -  Patients with negative CT Scan and Tc-99m Bone Scan

        -  Patients with a PSA over 0.8 ng/ml for patients following radical prostatectomy or for
           patients following definitive radiation therapy: a rise in PSA of greater than or equal
           to 2 ng/mL above the nadir

        -  Patients with a PSA doubling time of 5-15 months

        -  No history of active autoimmune disease or history of organ compromising autoimmune
           disease

        -  ECOG 0-1

        -  Safety lead-in cohort will evaluate 6 patients with castration resistant prostate cancer

      Design

        -  Two-arm, non-randomized study

        -  Accrual goal is a total of 31 evaluable patients; 6 in an initial safety cohort and 25
           to evaluate response

        -  Patients from an on-going study (NCT02649439) with nearly identical eligibility can
           serve as a contemporary control for secondary endpoints

        -  Following the safety lead-in, all patients will be enrolled and undergo a surveillance
           period during which 4 consecutive monthly PSA values will be captured by the NIH labs.

        -  After surveillance period, patients will be treated with 2 vaccines concurrently,
           Prostvac and CV301, during months 1-4. For months 5-7, MSB0011359C [an anti-PD-L1
           antibody (avelumab) with TGFbeta-Trap molecule] will be added to the regimen.

        -  Patients will be monitored for on-treatment and post-treatment PSA, immune and imaging
           responses.
    
  