
    
      Despite any new clinical research on aspirin's effects on fracture healing, it is now being
      used more commonly in the setting of fracture due to its effectiveness as a means of VTE
      prophylaxis following major orthopedic surgery.5 Additionally, aspirin offers the benefit of
      acting as an analgesic and many patients are prescribed aspirin in the long-term management
      of various health conditions. With all of the potential therapeutic benefits of aspirin, it
      is worth understanding whether prescribing this medication following operative fracture
      repair may impose a risk of delayed fracture healing.

      Patients undergoing surgical repair of ankle fractures at UAB who are deemed healthy enough
      for orthopedic surgery will be enrolled. Patients with multiple traumatic injuries, patients
      taking any type of blood-thinner medication, and patients taking aspirin prior to the start
      of the study will be excluded. No other exclusions will be made based on prior health
      conditions. There will be a group of patients that receives no aspirin and a group that does
      receive aspirin. Approximately 250 patients will be randomly assigned to each group.

      Patients will be identified for potential enrollment based on their plan to undergo surgical
      repair of ankle fracture at UAB hospital during the IRB approval period. This study will
      follow patients following routine protocol for ankle fracture repair and follow-up. Patients
      will be randomized into a group that is prescribed aspirin (325 mg) post-operatively vs. not
      prescribed aspirin. Patients will be followed throughout their recovery process. Patients
      will be scheduled for follow-up appointments with the operating physician at 2 weeks, 6
      weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year following surgery. Patients will be asked to give a
      pain score (scale 1-10) and complete an SF-12 functional outcomes survey at each follow-up
      appointment. In line with normal protocol following fracture repair, radiographs will also be
      taken at each follow-up appointment to monitor the progression of fracture healing.
    
  