
    
      The evaluation of both cases and controls will include the following:

        -  Physical examination: a comprehensive physical examination, including neurological
           assessment of motor function.

        -  Blood tests: complete blood count, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate,
           thyroid functions (TSH, fT3, fT4), kidney and liver functions, creatine phosphokinase,
           serum electrolytes, Epstein-Barr virus and cytomegalovirus serology testing, ferritin,
           and serum vitamin B12 and folate levels.

        -  Sleep assessment: in order to estimate the quality and characteristics of sleep, the
           participating individuals will independently fill the following sleep assessment
           questionnaires:

             -  Epworth sleepiness score (ESS) - to generally evaluate subjective sleepiness (was
                validated in Hebrew).

             -  Pittsburg sleep quality index (PSQI) - to evaluate the quality of sleep (was
                validated in Hebrew).

             -  Insomnia severity index (ISI) - to evaluate insomnia (a Hebrew version exists, but
                the questionnaire is yet to be validated).

        -  Depression severity questionnaire: in order to screen for depression and to estimate the
           degree of depression severity, the participating individuals will independently fill the
           patient health questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9).

        -  Fatigue classification tool

      For chronic fatigue syndrome, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) adopted
      the clinical case definition suggested by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), and consolidated
      criteria. We adopted the portion on fatigue from the CDC criteria for chronic fatigue
      syndrome, and modified it to suit for the time frame and relations with COVID-19:

      Patient has a substantial reduction or impairment in the ability to engage in pre-illness
      levels of occupational, educational, social, or personal activities that persists for >6
      weeks and is accompanied by fatigue, which is often profound, is of new onset (appeared after
      the diagnosis of COVID-19), is not the result of ongoing excessive exertion, and is not
      substantially alleviated by rest. These symptoms are present at least half of the day time,
      to at least a moderately severe degree.

      Each participant will independently fill a designated form in which the aforementioned
      criteria will be mentioned, followed by to statement from which the participant will circle
      the one relevant for him:

        -  The criteria above accurately describe my current situation.

        -  The criteria above do not accurately reflect my current situation.

             -  Assessment of exercise physiology: All participants will undergo a cardiopulmonary
                stress test (CPET), under the guidance of sports and exercise physicians and
                nursing staff. Electrocardiogram, spirometry, blood pressure and gas exchange
                measuring will be assessed at rest. The participants will then undergo CPET
                according to a modified Astrand treadmill test protocol. The test will be
                terminated at maximal exercise or upon the appearance of limiting symptoms .
                Continuous electrocardiogram and repeated blood pressure measuring will be
                conducted at the recovery phase. Post-exercise spirometry will also be assessed.

             -  Assessment of cognitive fatigue: in order to assess cognitive fatigue, all
                participants will undergo the visual vigilance test. This test, that was designed
                to be a measure of sustained attention, was previously implemented in individuals
                with multiple sclerosis. This test will be conducted in a designated room in which
                the participants will seat in front of a computer, and will independently conduct
                the task after being instructed by the primary investigator or one of the
                sub-investigators. During the task, the different alphabetical letters will be
                screened at a rate of 500 milliseconds per each. The tested individual will be
                instructed to press the space button whenever two specific letters (i.e. the target
                letters) are presented. A total of 600 letters will be screened, of which 120 will
                be the target letters. The test is to be repeated 3 times, 5 minutes for each run.
                The percentage of correct presses, the number of errors and the mean reaction time
                will be evaluated for each time period.
    
  