
    
      Peptic ulcer bleeding is a common disease, and recurrent bleeding is an independent risk
      factor leading to mortality. The appearance of stigmata of recent hemorrhage (SRH) indicates
      possible recurrence of peptic ulcer bleeding, for which the likelihood decreases over the
      course of 3-6 days. In addition to endoscopic evidences illustrating the SRH, patients with
      co-morbidities have a higher risk of recurrent bleeding.

      Patients with co-morbidities have not only higher recurrent bleeding rates during the first 3
      days but also higher delay recurrent bleeding after 3-day proton pump inhibitor (PPI)
      infusion than those without. More than 50% recurrent bleeding develops after 3-day PPI
      infusion among patients with end stage renal diseases. Although endoscopic treatment plus a
      72-hour intravenous PPI infusion and followed by oral PPI has already been adopted as a
      standard treatment in peptic ulcer bleeding currently, several studies showed limited
      effectiveness of such treatment for high risk patients. The reasons may be because lesions of
      SRH were not completely faded after initial treatment including endoscopic hemostasis and
      intravenous PPI infusion. Thus, it is an important issue to improve such high recurrent
      bleeding risk for these patients.

      Endoscopic treatment plus a 72-hour intravenous PPI infusion is the standard protocol for
      treatment of peptic ulcer bleeding. Moreover, several studies have shown that PPI treatment
      could decrease the presentation of SRH. However, there were insufficient data to validate the
      efficacy of such standard treatment to fade the SRH, especially among high risk patients.
      Therefore, several studies looked at the efficacy of routine second-look endoscopy, defined
      as scheduled repeat endoscopy after primary endoscopic hemostasis in patients at high risk of
      rebleeding. However, the role and the selection criteria for patients who require second-look
      endoscopy remains uncertain. There is a pressing need to elucidate the role of second-look
      endoscopy in these patients.

      Hence, the purpose of this prospective study is to identify risk factors which could predict
      poor fading of SRH or early recurrent bleeding of peptic ulcer hemorrhage after successful
      endoscopic hemostasis and high-dose PPI infusion. This data will show the originality and
      clinical importance to identify the selection criteria for patients who are indicated to
      receive second-look endoscopy.
    
  