
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CMV-MVA Triplex (multi-peptide CMV-MVA vaccine)
      in vaccinated hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) recipients by assessing the following:
      non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days post HCT, severe (grade 3-4) acute graft-versus-host
      disease (GVHD) (aGVHD), and grade 3-4 adverse events (AEs) (Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events [CTCAE] 4.0) probably or definitely related to the vaccination within 2 weeks
      from each vaccination.

      II. To determine if CMV-MVA Triplex reduces the frequency of CMV events defined as
      reactivation or CMV disease in allogeneic CMV positive HCT recipients (HCT-R+).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize CMV reactivation and CMV disease in recipients of CMV-MVA Triplex compared
      to placebo by assessing time-to viremia (defined as number of days from transplantation to
      the date of > 500 CMV gc/mL), duration of viremia, recurrence of viremia, incidence of late
      CMV viremia/disease (> 100 and =< 360 days post HCT), use of antiviral drugs (triggered by
      clinically significant viremia of >= 1500 CMV gc/mL), cumulative number of CMV specific
      antiviral treatment days.

      II. To evaluate the impact of CMV-MVA Triplex on transplant related outcomes by assessing the
      incidence of acute GVHD (aGVHD), chronic GVHD (cGVHD), relapse, non-relapse mortality,
      all-cause mortality, infections.

      III. To determine 1) if CMV-MVA Triplex increases levels, function and kinetics of
      CMV-specific T cell immunity in vaccinated compared to placebo treated human leukocyte
      antigen (HLA) A*0201, CMV seropositive HCT-recipients, 2) to determine whether vaccination
      induces adaptive natural killer (NK) cell population changes, and increase in the highly
      cytotoxic memory killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily C, member 2 (NKG2C)+ NK cells,
      and 3) to explore GVHD biomarkers and compare between the vaccine and placebo groups.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive multi-peptide CMV-MVA vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on days 28 and 56
      post-HCT.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo IM on days 28 and 56 post-HCT.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for 1 year post-HCT.
    
  