
    
      Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is provided for thousands of children with
      cardiopulmonary arrests (CPA) each year in North America. The quality of CPR directly impacts
      hemodynamics, survival, and neurologic outcome following cardiac arrest. Well-trained
      healthcare providers consistently fail to perform CPR within established Heart and Stroke
      Foundation of Canada (HSFC) resuscitation guidelines. The poor quality of healthcare provider
      CPR adversely affects survival outcomes and quality of life in cardiac arrest survivors.

      CPR feedback devices that provide real-time visual corrective feedback during CPA have become
      valuable tools to help to improve the overall quality of CPR. The cardiac arrest literature
      shows that although CPR feedback devices help to improve the overall quality of CPR, there is
      still substantial room for improvement. A recent multicenter study involving ten pediatric
      institutions led by the principal investigator of this project evaluated the impact of CPR
      feedback on CPR quality during simulated CPA5. This study demonstrated that the use of CPR
      feedback improved depth compliance by 15.4% and rate compliance by 40.1%. However, overall
      compliance with guidelines in the CPR feedback group was still under 40% for depth and under
      75% for rate.

      Data collected by this research team suggests that a variety of factors may influence the
      effectiveness of real-time CPR feedback. CPR providers interviewed after a simulated cardiac
      arrest report that they often are distracted by other events while providing CPR, are unable
      to clearly see the device, or have difficulty interpreting the visual display on the CPR
      feedback device. Additionally, many providers' perception of CPR quality is inaccurate, with
      providers consistently overestimating the quality of CPR provided during simulated CPA, even
      when using CPR feedback. This suggests a need to improve provider perception of CPR and
      provider awareness of the CPR feedback device.

      To improve the quality of CPR the investigators propose the implementation of a standardized
      resuscitation team structure with a CPR coach. To date, there have been no studies describing
      the optimal team structure required for integration of CPR feedback defibrillators during
      CPA. In this study,the investigators propose the concept of a CPR coach, whose primary
      responsibility is to provide real-time coaching during cardiac arrest to improve the quality
      of CPR. Preliminary pilot work done in the intensive care unit at Johns Hopkins Children's
      Hospital suggests that use of a CPR coach improves the quality of CPR in comparison prior
      teams that functioned without a CPR coach. This study will assess the impact of a CPR Coach
      for improving CPR quality and CPR perception in a team of healthcare providers during
      simulated CPA.
    
  