
    
      The prevalence of the HIV-HCV co-infection in Spain is one of the highest because both
      infections are strongly related to parenteral drugs use; so, from 61 to 69 % of HIV infected
      patients are also HCV infected.

      Acute HCV infection is asymptomatic in 60 to 70% of cases, being the chronification the
      natural illness evolution. 20% of the patients will develop hepatic cirrhosis after 20 to 30
      years of being infected by the HCV. In cirrhosis cases, the hepatocellular carcinoma appears
      in a rate of 2 to 4% per year, according to studies done with HCV mono-infected patients.
      Fibrosis progression depends basically on the duration of HCV infection and on the age of
      infection, but also on other factors, like gender (is faster in men), alcohol consumption
      (worst over 50 g per day) and HIV co-infection. Several epidemiologist studies have described
      the negative impact of HIV co-infection, accelerating the progression to cirrhosis and the
      hepatocarcinoma.

      The Highly Active Antiretroviral Treatment (HAART) has a positive impact on survival on
      co-infected patients, although the three drug families used in HAART can cause hepatic
      toxicity in this group of patients. Hepatic toxicity appears in 5 to 20% of patients, being
      more serious and common, but not exclusive, in case of NVP treatment.

      On their part, not all PI have the same hepatotoxic profile. An association between serious
      hepatotoxicity and ritonavir at full strength, indinavir and indinavir plus saquinavir
      boosted with ritonavir has been found.

      As far as fibrosis is concerned, there are studies that show that in HIV/HCV co-infected
      patients PI-based regimens are associated with a lower progression to fibrosis, while the
      progression rate to cirrhosis is higher in NVP-based regimens, mainly in those patients with
      advanced hepatic fibrosis.

      Hepatic biopsy is considered the reference test to assess hepatic fibrosis, nevertheless it
      is an invasive, painful and with a low but potentially serious risk for the patient's life.
      Moreover, the viability of a hepatic biopsy can be doubted due to sampling error or
      interobservation variability. For that reason, several biochemist tests have been developed
      to reflect the hepatic fibrosis extent or stage in a reliable way. Recently a hepatic
      rigidity measure through elastography has been presented as a non-invasive and very promising
      method to assess hepatic fibrosis.
    
  