
    
      The goal of the study is to evaluate and compare patient perception of two different methods
      of skin closure following head and neck surgery. Currently, the standard of care includes
      closing with surgical staples or subcuticular sutures, and is decided at surgeon's
      discretion. Both methods are used in accordance with the standard of care at Boston Medical
      Center, depending on individual physician preference. There are also factors that may
      influence choice of closure at time of surgery, such as operative time, or wound
      characteristics. For instance, if the operative time was already extending longer than
      expected, to decrease patient anesthesia time, the surgeon may opt for staples, since they
      are faster to place than sutures. Also, although a rare scenario, if there was excessive
      blood loss during the surgery or the surgeon has reason to suspect post-operative hematoma
      development, they will likely opt for staple closure, to facilitate easy post-operative
      access to the wound if necessary. In the literature, incidence of hematoma as a
      post-operative complication to head and neck surgery is stated as 3-4.7%.

      There have been various studies in the literature comparing these two skin closure methods
      for general surgery (abdominal procedures) and obstetrics/gynecological surgeries, with
      inconclusive outcomes. We found a lack of data in the literature describing head and neck
      surgeries. Given the different type of wounds, and the often more visible nature of the
      resulting scars, the investigators believe there is value to accessing patient perception of
      skin closure in this cohort. Kobayashi et al. conducted a large randomized control trial of
      1264 subjects, comparing staples vs. subcuticular sutures after open and laparoscopic
      elective colorectal cancer surgery. The results of the study showed no significant difference
      in operative outcomes (wound complications, surgical site infections, post-operative length
      of stay, scar esthetics). However, staples were found to have a shorter operative time, while
      sutures resulted in statistically significant higher patient satisfaction. A meta-analysis of
      12 studies comparing sutures and staples in caesarian section showed no difference in patient
      satisfaction or scar cosmesis, but found more wound complications in the staples arm. Much of
      the existing data are reported from general surgery or obstetrics/gynecology. There is not a
      lot of literature in otolaryngology or head and neck surgery that evaluates skin closure
      methods. The importance of cosmetic outcomes and patient satisfaction is particularly
      important in the field of head and neck surgery, due to the visibility of the scars given
      their location.

      Upon review of the existing literature, there is no definitive data to support either method
      as superior, with regards to wound complications and outcomes, mature scar cosmesis, or
      post-operative pain. There is some evidence to suggest that subcuticular suture closure is
      marginally superior with regards to scar cosmesis, but given that operative time is
      increased, there is not enough benefit to the patient to change the standard of care. In
      addition, with the current trend of medicine moving towards patient-reported outcomes, it
      becomes increasingly important to evaluate patient satisfaction to determine whether there is
      a superior method. The investigators hypothesize that there will be no statistically
      significant difference between staple skin closure and subcuticular suture closure, with
      regards to the primary outcomes of patient satisfaction and mature scar cosmesis.
    
  