
    
      Auto-inflammatory Diseases (AIDs) are defined by disorders of the innate immunity. They
      manifest themselves as episodes of inflammation associated with general signs and organ
      damage, mainly to the cutaneous, musculoskeletal and digestive systems. The majority of
      monogenic AIDs described to date begin in childhood. Aside from impaired quality of life, and
      disease-related organ damage (e.g. deafness in periodic cryopyrin-associated syndromes), the
      most severe complication of AIDs is inflammatory amyloidosis (AA), which can lead to kidney
      failure and dialysis. More recently, late-onset AIDs have been described, secondary to
      somatic mutations in auto-inflammatory genes, mainly NLRP3 (1). This discovery comes in a
      more general context of highlighting new forms of late-onset genetic diseases linked to
      somatic mutations. These discoveries have been made possible by the revolution in sequencing
      techniques and in particular by the new generation sequencing which allows a more in-depth
      analysis compared to Sanger's technique.

      Blood neoplasms, known as clonal hemopathies, whether myeloid (such as myelodysplastic
      syndrome) or lymphoid (such as multiple myeloma), are constantly increasing in the general
      population. They are associated with an accumulation of somatic gene mutations that confer
      survival and proliferation properties to tumor cells (2). A number of manifestations of these
      clonal hemopathies are related to the activation of inflammatory pathways and in particular
      the activation of an inflammasome. For example, it has been shown that pyroptosis via
      activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome could be one of the pathophysiological mechanisms of
      myelodysplastic syndromes (3). In addition, inflammatory cytokines such as IL1 and IL6 have
      been shown to play a role as growth factors in these hemopathies (4). However, the mechanisms
      behind the activation of the inflammasome and the production of those cytokines are currently
      unknown.

      A number of patients with clonal hemopathies develop symptoms and complications similar to
      those encountered during AIDs. In particular, within the reference center for
      autoinflammatory diseases and amyloidosis in adults, we have identified patients with
      myelodysplastic syndromes or clonal gammopathies complicated by autoinflammatory symptoms or
      AA amyloidosis. These manifestations in the context of clonal hemopathies could be called
      "hyperinflammatory hemopathies ".

      Our hypothesis is that the inflammatory manifestations occurring in these patients are
      secondary to the occurrence of somatic mutations in genes known to be involved in innate
      immunity and AIDs.

      Our main objective is to perform in patients with hyperinflammatory hemopathy a functional
      study in search of the activation of inflammatory pathways; then a parallel genomic and
      transcriptomic study using an innovative methodology (5), in order to investigate whether
      there are somatic mutations of innate immunity genes in a clonal subpopulation and their
      impact on gene expression.

      The first step will be to identify the inflammatory signature of mononuclear blood cells from
      patients. To do this, we will recover the cells from blood and bone marrow. Real-time
      quantitative ELISA (Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay) and PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction)
      experiments will quantify the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In addition, flow
      cytometry experiments with membrane and intracellular co-labelling will be performed. These
      experiments, performed routinely in the laboratory, will make it possible to identify the
      cell type responsible for the overproduction of cytokines that may explain the symptoms.

      The second step, truly innovative and involving state-of-the-art techniques, will consist in
      carrying out genomic and transcriptomic analysis of tumor cells. For this we will use methods
      known as "single cell analysis" with parallel sequencing of the genome and transcriptome. The
      aim of genomic analysis is to search for somatic mutations present in tumor cells, and to
      compare them with those known to be associated with AIDs (comparison with the European
      Infevers database in particular. The genomic results will also be compared with international
      cancer cell databases to look for mutations in tumor cells that could explain this clinical
      presentation. These Big Data studies are necessary in view of the high number of mutations
      expected in tumor cells. The association with the parallel transcriptomic study will allow an
      unsupervised clustering analysis to study the effect of somatic mutations on gene expression.
      Indeed, it is currently recognized that the consequences of a genetic mutation must be
      analyzed both by its effect on the protein structure, but also by its effect on epigenetics.
      Today, this type of analysis is possible using the artificial intelligence analysis method.
    
  