
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD), including congestive heart failure (CHF), accounts for over 75%
      of deaths among patients with diabetes. Thus, it is imperative to rigorously evaluate
      existing and emerging hypoglycemic therapies with regard to their cardiovascular
      consequences. The thiazolidinedione (TZD) class of drugs, alone or in combination with other
      oral hypoglycemic medications or with insulin, has emerged as a safe and effective treatment
      of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have revealed
      favorable pleiotropic effects of TZD on myocyte and ventricular structure and function.
      However, approximately 10% of patients taking TZDs develop peripheral edema and some patients
      have developed heart failure decompensation on the drug. These observations have led to a
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warning regarding the use of TZDs in patients with or at
      high risk of developing congestive heart failure (CHF). The exact effects of TZDs on
      integrated cardiovascular performance remain unclear. The primary hypothesis of this study is
      that TZD treatment improves integrated cardiovascular performance in patients at risk for CHF
      by improving both central (i.e. cardiac output) and peripheral (i.e. vascular resistance)
      function.

      Recently, we have developed a sensitive, reproducible noninvasive assay to measure
      intra-cardiomyocyte fat, which varies widely in amount between individuals. The relationship
      between the amount of cardiomyocyte triglyceride accumulation and LV mass and function
      remains unclear. TZDs have been previously shown to be associated with decreases in the TG
      content of the liver and muscle. The secondary hypothesis being tested in this study is that
      TZD treatment improves cardiac function by decreasing intra-cardiac myocyte triglyceride
      content.

      Comparisons:

        -  Peak oxygen uptake (VO2) during cardiopulmonary exercise testing in individuals
           randomized to rosiglitazone, compared to those on placebo.

        -  Amount of intra-myocardial triglycerides using NMR techniques in in individuals
           randomized to rosiglitazone, compared to those on placebo.
    
  