
    
      At screening/baseline, subjects will present to the clinical site having refrained from oral
      hygiene for at least 8 hours, but no more than 18 hours, and from eating or smoking for at
      least 4 hours for baseline examinations. Baseline examinations will include Macpherson
      modification of the Lobene Stain Index (Extrinsic Stain), Volpe-Manhold Index (Calculus), and
      oral hard and soft tissue exam, Modified Gingival Index (MGI), Bleeding Index (BI) and Plaque
      Index (PI). After the baseline oral examinations, subjects who qualify will receive a
      whole-mouth supragingival dental prophylaxis and random assignment to one of three treatment
      groups.

      Subjects randomized to the control group will brush twice daily with a marketed fluoride
      toothpaste. Subjects randomized to the experimental group will brush twice daily with a
      marketed fluoride toothpaste and use an experimental mouth rinse. The last randomized group
      will brush twice daily with a marketed fluoride toothpaste and rinse with a marketed mouth
      rinse twice daily. The first product use will be conducted under supervision of study
      personnel. All other brushing and rinsing will be unsupervised and the subjects will be
      required to maintain a diary card to document twice-daily product use, with brushing and
      rinsing times. Diaries along with product accountability will be used to check for subject
      compliance.

      Subjects will return to the clinical site after one week (Day 7±1 day), two weeks (Day 14±2
      days), four weeks (Day 28±3 days) and three months (Day 91±5 days). Oral hard and soft tissue
      safety, MGI, BI, and PI will be assessed at all visits. Extrinsic Stain and Calculus will be
      assessed at baseline, four weeks and three months by a different examiner.

      At the end of the study, subjects will return all used and unused product to the clinical
      site.
    
  