
    
      It is well known that age-related impairments of the brain and peripheral nerves contribute
      to a decline in walking function. Age-related impairment of the spinal cord is also a likely
      contributing factor, as the literature describes a variety of changes in spinal cord
      structure and function with aging. Specifically, the elderly spinal cord is less excitable,
      conducts signals more slowly, and is subject to neural noise. Therefore, the investigators
      are initiating a new line of research with the goal of enhancing walking function in older
      adults by intervening on age-related neural impairment of the spinal cord. The objective of
      the proposed study is to establish the feasibility, preliminary efficacy, and variance of
      response for using transcutaneous spinal direct current stimulation (tsDCS) and textured shoe
      insoles to excite spinal locomotor circuits and enhance practice-related performance and
      retention on an obstacle walking task. Enhanced practice and retention effects will support
      future efforts to translate this approach into a longer term rehabilitation intervention.

      Excitatory tsDCS is a non-invasive neuromodulation approach in which a relatively weak
      electrical current is delivered to the desired region of the spinal cord via electrodes
      placed on the skin. The electrical current does not cause discharge of action potentials, but
      rather is designed to bring neurons closer to their discharge threshold by inducing a
      sub-threshold depolarization of membrane potentials. When combined with a behavioral task,
      tsDCS has the potential to upregulate neural circuits in a task-specific manner and promote
      Hebbian neuroplasticity ('fire together, wire together'). The investigators will use a
      previously established electrode montage to deliver excitatory tsDCS to the lumbosacral
      spinal cord during practice of a complex obstacle walking task. The investigators also
      propose to combine the use of textured shoe insoles with tsDCS. This combinatorial approach
      may be a potent strategy for simultaneously optimizing spinal responsiveness to input from
      both descending and ascending excitatory signals to spinal centers of locomotor control. The
      investigators propose a parallel groups study design in which 40 older adults who have
      walking deficits and who demonstrate a compensatory executive locomotor control strategy will
      be randomized into one of four groups: 1) dosage "A" tsDCS with smooth insoles
      (active/smooth); 2) dosage "B" tsDCS with smooth insoles (sham/smooth); 3) dosage "A" tsDCS
      with textured insoles (active/textured); and 4) dosage "B" tsDCS with textured insole
      (sham/textured). Participants will be blinded to group assignment. While receiving
      stimulation, participants will engage in walking practice over a standardized obstacle
      course. Immediately prior to and following the practice, each participant will be assessed
      while walking over the course. Practice-related gains in performance will be quantified
      primarily by fastest safe walking speed. Retention of performance gains will also be assessed
      at a separate later visit. Intervening on age-related impairment of the spinal cord to
      improve walking function is a promising but untapped area of research. The proposed
      intervention techniques are low cost and translatable to real-world settings, which enhances
      the potential long term impact of this work on the well-being of older adults.
    
  