
    
      PRIMARY AIM:

      To evaluate the efficacy of "optimal hydration" during labor in nulliparous pregnant women
      attended for spontaneous or induced deliveries with respect to the reduction in dilation
      times, second stage of labor and total labor time.

      METHODOLOGY A randomized controlled clinical trial, with concealed allocation. The study is
      being carried out in a large university hospital belonging to the Spanish National Health
      System. The trial is being carried out in the Obstetrics Service in Hospital Universitario
      Puerta de Hierro Majadahonda, Madrid. All the study participants will be nulliparous women
      (women who have not given birth by the vaginal route), and their neonates, who are attended
      during either spontaneous labor (2-3 regular uterine contractions in 10 minutes, cervical
      effacement greater than 50% and 3-4 cm spontaneous dilatation) or induced labor (when labor
      is induced artificially). The sample size was estimated on the basis of cohorts previously
      studied by the same team of investigators in the same hospital which observed that women who
      had received liquid volumes of less than 300 ml/h during labor took a mean (SD) of 754 (251)
      minutes to complete the birth, whereas women who received a volume equal to or greater than
      300 ml/h took a mean (SD) of 592 (287) minutes. Assuming a 95% confidence interval, in a
      bilateral contrast, with a statistical power of 90%, a population of 59 is required for each
      group. In addition, a 10% increase is taken into account for those lost to follow-up.
      Therefore, the final sample size is 130, with 65 women in each group.

      Intervention group protocol: "optimal hydration" Women in this group will be attended by the
      13 investigation team midwives who have agreed to collaborate with the study's clinical team.
      Attention will include: (A) administration of a volume of liquids equal to 300 ml/h during
      labor which is defined as from the moment of admittance to the delivery room until the birth
      of the child; (B) more than 80% of the volume will be perfused intravenously using a
      physiological saline solution; (C) the women will be encouraged to drink clear liquids from
      the moment of admittance to the delivery room until reaching 10 cm dilation, such liquids
      will only be bottled mineral water (80%) and isotonic drinks (20%); (D) the perfusion rate
      will be increased if the woman has diuresis lower than 400 ml in 24h or presents temperature
      equal to or greater than 37.8ºC.

      Control group protocol: "variability in hydration" Women in this group will be attended by
      the 16 delivery room midwives who do not belong to the investigation team. The women will be
      hydrated in accordance with the midwives' experience, training and clinical criteria, either
      independently or jointly with the attending clinicians (obstetricians, gynecologists and
      anesthetists). The principal lines of attention will be: (A) administration of undetermined
      volumes of liquids during labor which is defined as from the moment of admittance to the
      delivery room until the birth of the child; (B) the volume will be perfused intravenously
      using physiological saline solution, Ringer's, 5% glucose, 10% glucose or voluven; (C) the
      women will be allowed to drink clear liquids at their own pace and to their liking from the
      moment of admittance to the delivery room until reaching 10 cm dilation, such liquids can be
      water and isotonic drinks; (D) changes in perfusion rate and diuresis or increases in
      temperature (higher then 37.7ºC) will not be evaluated.

      Study procedures The midwife in the Obstetric Emergency department will verify whether women
      attending the service comply with the criteria for inclusion in the study but do not present
      any exclusion criteria. In such cases, the midwife will give the woman verbal and written
      information about the study. If the woman is willing to participate, she will have to return
      a signed Informed Consent form to the midwife. The woman will at this moment be assigned the
      next consecutive number for inclusion in the study. The midwife will open the corresponding
      envelope containing the information regarding the group to which the woman has been assigned.
      In the case of assignment to the "controled hydration" group, the midwife responsible for her
      attention will be one of the 13 in the investigating team. If the woman is assigned to the
      "uncontroled in hydration" group, the midwife responsible for her attention will be one of
      the 16 who do not belong to the investigating team.

      Study measures

      Maternal variables:

        -  Main Outcomes: duration of dilation, duration of second stage of labor, and total
           duration from onset of labor until the birth.

        -  Secondary Outcomes: times on oxytocin, with ruptured membrane and epidural anesthesia,
           incidence of Cesarean section, incidence of intrapartum fever (temperature equal to or
           higher than 38ºC) and postpartum fever, dehydration (diuresis lower than 400 ml in 24 h,
           osmolarity concentration in urine/blood, sodium in urine/blood), headaches, nausea,
           vomiting, confusional state, hyperglycemia (blood sugar higher than 120 mg/dl),
           difficulty establishing breastfeeding, badly controlled thirst, badly controlled pain.

        -  Sociodemographic variables: age, nationality, educational level.

        -  Clinical variables on admittance, intrapartum, immediate postpartum (first 2 hours) and
           intermediate postpartum period (24 and 48 hours).

      Neonate variables:

        -  Neonate outcomes: distress, seizures, nausea, vomiting, tachypnea, hypoglycemia
           (glycemia lower than 40 ml/dl), hyponatremia (sodium in umbilical cord blood <130
           mEq/L), fever (temperature equal to or higher than 38ºC), jaundice (requiring
           phototherapy), more than 7% weight loss in 48 h, difficulty initiating breast feeding.

        -  Variables related to the newborn child (from birth, at 24 and 48 h): ions (sodium,
           potassium and glucose) in umbilical cord blood, gender, weight (at birth, at 24 and 48
           h), distress, temperature, desire to suckle, colostrum, initiation of breastfeeding,
           type of breastfeeding, jaundice and capillary bilirubin levels (24 and 48 h).

      Data collection Information will be collected from: clinical histories, partogram,
      observation, physical examination, fetal monitoring, scales (adult and newborn), analytical
      values, vital signs, visual analogue scale for pain (from 0 to 10), sensation of nausea (from
      0 to 5), sensation of thirst (from 0 to 10), Armstrong scale (dehydration evaluation),
      Bilitest (capillary bilirubin levels), Silverman test (respiratory distress at birth).
      Maternal laboratory values: antenatal and in the immediate postpartum. Requests for blood and
      urine samples and their extraction, together with all other analyses, will be carried out by
      the Emergency Obstetric Service midwife according to normal clinical practice. Neonate
      laboratory values: at the time of birth. Requests for analyses will be made by the midwife
      during the dilation phase. Taking advantage of the moment when other samples are taken
      according to normal clinical practice (umbilical cord pH and blood group), sample extractions
      will be carried out by the midwife or obstetrician attending the delivery. The midwife will
      be responsible for weighing the newborn in the delivery room and in the Obstetric Service
      ward. The variables corresponding to the immediate postpartum (24-48 h) will be recorded by
      ward nurses who will be blinded to the group assignments.

      Data analysis Analyses will be carries by assigned treatment and by intention to treat. Mean
      differences will be presented for qualitative values, and relative risks, reductions of
      relative and absolute risk, and the number required to treat for qualitative variables. All
      variables will be shown with their 95% confidence interval. Statistical significance will be
      set at p<0.05.
    
  