
    
      Prior to the drug:

      If you decide to take part in this study, you will have a brief interview about your medical
      history and any medications you are taking. You will have a medical and neurological
      examination, CT scan and/or an angiogram to look at the blood vessel and blood supply going
      to the brain, and blood samples drawn for a complete blood count, chemistry analysis and
      cardiac enzymes (to assess any recent damage to your heart). You will have a surgery or an
      image guided procedure to close your aneurysm.

      Additionally, during the course of the study you may be asked to have a computerized
      tomography (CT scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) if there is a necessity. These tests
      will reveal areas that might have been damaged in your brain.

      Drug:

      If the tests show that you qualify as a candidate for this study, you will be randomly
      assigned (like a flip of a coin) to have either the minocycline drug or a dummy drug that
      looks the same but does not have the drug in it. For the first 7 days, the drug will be given
      as an injection two times a day and after that for 14 days once a day by mouth. Rest of the
      care will be standard like in any aneurysm patient. We study the status of your blood vessel
      surrounding the brain with ultrasound daily to see if they have any narrowing. If the doctors
      find any narrowing, you will be treated to relive the narrowing. If you are discharged home
      at any point in the 21 days, you will be switch the oral drug and given the required drugs
      with instructions.

      Follow up:

      Before you are discharged from the hospital and at 7, 21, 30 and 90 days after the start of
      the drug, the following evaluations will be performed: a complete physical and neurological
      examinations.

      As part of this study, you are required to return to the hospital or to your physician at one
      (1), seven (7), twenty-one (21), thirty (30), ninety (90) days after stroke onset. You will
      have a physical exam, a complete neurological exam. Additionally, you will be asked questions
      about any health problems or hospitalizations you have had since you were discharged from the
      hospital.
    
  