
    
      Without an explanation for severe and sometimes life-threatening symptoms, patients and their
      families are left in a state of unknown. Many individuals find themselves being passed from
      physician to physician, undergoing countless and often repetitive tests in the hopes of
      finding answers and insight about what the future may hold. This long and arduous journey to
      find a diagnosis does not end for many patients- the Office of Rare Diseases Research (ORDR)
      notes that 6% of individuals seeking their assistance have an undiagnosed disorder. In 2008,
      the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Undiagnosed Diseases Program (UDP) was established
      with the goal of providing care and answers for these individuals with mysterious conditions
      who have long eluded diagnosis. The NIH UDP is a joint venture of the NIH ORDR, the National
      Human Genome Research Institute Intramural Research Program (NHGRI-IRP), and the NIH Clinical
      Research Center (CRC). The goals of the NIH UDP are to: (1) provide answers for patients with
      undiagnosed diseases; (2) generate new knowledge about disease mechanisms; (3) assess the
      application of new approaches to phenotyping and the use of genomic technologies; and (4)
      identify potential therapeutic targets, if possible. Prior to formation of the Undiagnosed
      Diseases Network (UDN), the UDP had evaluated 3300 medical records, admitted 750 individuals
      with rare and undiagnosed conditions to the NIH Clinical Center, and identified more than 70
      rare disease diagnoses and several new conditions. The success of the NIH UDP prompted the
      NIH Common Fund to support the establishment of a network of medical research centers, the
      UDN, for fiscal years 2013-2022. The clinical sites perform extensive phenotyping, genetic
      analyses, and functional studies of potential disease-causing variants. The testing performed
      on patients involves medically indicated studies intended to help reach a diagnosis, as well
      as research investigations that include a skin biopsy, blood draws, and DNA analysis. In
      addition, the UDN is furthering the goals of the UDP by permitting the sharing of personally
      identifiable phenotypic and genotypic information within the network. By sharing participant
      information and encouraging collaboration, the UDN hopes to improve the understanding of rare
      conditions and advance the diagnostic process and care for individuals with undiagnosed
      diseases.
    
  