
    
      Psychiatric disorders are the leading cause of disability worldwide, and 40.5% of this burden
      is attributable to major depression (MD). Rates of MD increase markedly in adolescence, with
      nearly 20% of youth experiencing MD between ages 12 and 18. Adolescent-onset MD accounts for
      66% of lifetime MD cases and predicts interpersonal problems, substance abuse, and a 20-fold
      increased risk for attempting suicide. Despite this early onset and protracted course, up to
      70% of US adolescents with MD do not receive services. Even among those who do access
      treatment, 30-65% fail to respond. These findings highlight the urgent need for more potent
      and accessible MD interventions for adolescents.

      Emerging work suggests that single-session interventions (SSIs) may increase accessibility of
      youth MD interventions. SSIs include core elements of comprehensive, evidence based
      treatments, but their brevity makes them easier to disseminate to diverse settings. Indeed,
      SSIs can successfully treat youth psychiatric problems: In a meta-analysis of 50 RCTs, it has
      been found that SSIs reduced youth mental health difficulties of multiple types (mean
      g=0.32), including self-administered SSIs (e.g., web-based SSIs; mean g=0.32). One SSI, in
      particular, has been shown to reduce adolescent MD symptoms: the growth mindset (GM) SSI, a
      web-based program teaching the belief that personal traits are malleable, which has prevented
      and reduced adolescent MD in recent RCTs. For example, in a recent RCT conducted by the
      principal investigator on the proposed study, the GM SSI led to post-intervention increases
      in adolescents' perceived control over behavior (d=.34, p<.001) and emotions (d=.19, p=.03)
      relative to a comparison (supportive therapy, or ST) SSI. The GM SSI also predicted steeper
      9-month declines in youth depression symptoms per parent (B=-.99, p=.047) and adolescent
      reports (B=-1.37, p=.03), based on mixed-effects linear models.

      However, it is notable that the GM SSI does not reduce depression in all adolescents. For
      instance, the intervention reduced depression in adolescents who reported post-intervention
      increases in perceived control over behaviors and emotions, but it did not lead to
      significant depression reductions in adolescents who reported small or no increases in
      perceived control. Thus, the potency of GM SSIs for adolescent depression has yet to be
      optimized. Such potency may be advanced by developing new iterations of the growth mindset
      intervention, which are designed to more systematically target predictors and mediators of
      clinical outcomes, such as perceived control. Such efforts may increase the promise of growth
      mindset interventions to produce greater symptom reductions for a larger proportion of youth
      experiencing distress.

      Accordingly, the goal of the present study is to test the acceptability and effectiveness of
      a novel, single-session virtual reality-based growth mindset intervention-the VR Personality
      Project-for depressive symptoms in adolescents. The VR Personality Project was designed to
      systematically target and increase adolescents' sense of agency and perceived control by
      offering a more immersive, active, and user-directed intervention experience than the
      previously-tested web-based SSI can provide. By targeting an identified predictor and
      mechanism of intervention response, the VR Personality Project may produce larger reductions
      in depression than the existing web-based mindset SSI. Thus, this intervention may represent
      a mechanism-targeted, efficient strategy for reducing for adolescent depression--one that is
      both relatively affordable (less than $100 for any commercially-available VR headset, a
      fraction of the cost of long-term psychotherapy) and engaging to adolescents experiencing
      mood-related distress.

      There are four specific study aims for this research:

      AIM 1: Replication of past research. Our first aim is to replicate past research suggesting
      that single-session growth mindset interventions can significantly reduce depressive symptoms
      in at-risk adolescents. We hypothesize that adolescents who participate in a growth mindset
      intervention (web-based OR virtual reality-based) will show larger reductions in depression
      symptoms from baseline (pre-intervention) through the 9-month follow-up assessment, compared
      to adolescents who receive an active, web-based control program.

      AIM 2: Evaluation of new virtual reality intervention, including a comparative efficacy
      study. Our second aim is to evaluate whether the new virtual reality-based growth mindset
      intervention (the VR Personality Project) can reduce depressive symptoms in adolescents, both
      relative to an active control program and relative to the previously tested web-based growth
      mindset intervention. We hypothesize that adolescents who participate in the virtual
      reality-based growth mindset intervention will show larger reductions in depressive symptoms
      from baseline (pre-intervention) through the 9-month follow-up assessment, compared to
      adolescents who receive the web-based growth mindset intervention AND adolescents who receive
      the active web-based control program.

      AIM 3: Testing mediation through perceived control. The VR Personality Project was explicitly
      designed to target and increase adolescents' perceived control by offering a more immersive,
      active, and user-directed intervention experience than the the web-based growth mindset SSI
      can provide. Thus, the third goal of this study is to examine whether the VR Personality
      Project does, in fact, reduce adolescent depressive symptoms by eliciting proximal increases
      in perceived control. We hypothesize that the VR Personality Project will lead to larger
      increases in perceived control than either web-based intervention from pre- to
      post-intervention, and that these increases will mediate subsequent reductions in adolescent
      depression across the follow-up period.

      AIM 4: Gauge the relative acceptability and feasibility of the VR intervention. Adolescents'
      perceptions of any intervention can impact completion rates, program engagement, and
      ultimately intervention effectiveness. Thus, an additional aim of this research is to examine
      whether adolescents view the VR Personality Project as more engaging, helpful, and
      interesting than the web-based growth mindset intervention or the web-based control
      intervention.
    
  