
    
      While there has been considerable energy focused on the costs and effectiveness of bariatric
      surgery, there has been little systematically-gathered evidence on the non-surgical care and
      healthcare expenditures for similarly burdened patients. The economic burden and clinical
      impact of both need to be more carefully defined to help guide DOD decision making regarding
      obesity care. Understanding the cost effectiveness of obesity treatments is also critical
      given the cost of treatment procedures, their potential for saving future costs related to
      co-morbid health conditions and worker productivity and the growing population of operative
      candidates.

      This study will provide a comprehensive assessment of the burden and costs of operative and
      non-operative obesity care across all regions in the U.S. where the Department of Defense
      (DOD) authorizes care. The development of economic assessment tools will allow health policy
      experts, purchasers and payers of healthcare, clinicians and patients to determine the
      utility and cost-effectiveness of available treatment strategies. These economic
      considerations are relevant to the competing crises of spiraling health care costs and the
      loss of productivity related to obesity.

      The specific purpose of this study is to provide a comprehensive assessment of the burden and
      costs of operative and non-operative obesity care to develop a set of economic assessment
      tools that will allow health policy experts, purchasers and payers of healthcare, clinicians
      and patients to determine the utility and cost-effectiveness of available treatment
      strategies for managing obesity. Utility refers to qualitative components affected by
      clinical conditions such as individual's perceptions of quality of life, ability to take care
      of one-self, or ability to work/be productive. We anticipate that utility changes greatly for
      people who are able to achieve weight loss, but the differences or degree to which operative
      and non-operative weight loss treatments affects utility is not well known.

      In particular, less is known about the effect of Adjustable Gastric Band (AGB) surgery on
      utility because it has only emerged as a predominant form of surgical treatment in the United
      States approximately within the last five years - for example, the first AGB surgery at UWMC
      was only performed in April 2007. In addition, assessment of cost-effectiveness of treatments
      requires understanding healthcare use after treatment (i.e. how many follow-up visits do you
      have with a doctor because of your surgical treatment) and AGB requires frequent follow-up
      visits in the first three years to make the surgical treatment effective. There is little
      information or research reporting the actual frequency of which patients are receiving
      follow-up care after AGB surgery, the cost for that care (is it a patient cost or insurance
      covered), or whether frequency of follow-up care affects long-term weight loss or health
      outcomes.

      While the original procedures of our related study (IRB #35310, Committee E/A) only included
      secondary analysis of existing datasets, we have found very little information about
      qualitative utility or use/frequency of follow-up care for AGB patients and feel these are
      important aspects for modeling treatment choices for patients considering AGB. By adding a
      survey component, we will capture these data elements that are otherwise not found in
      literature or administrative datasets.
    
  