
    
      With the rapid technological advancement, growth and widespread use of cross-sectional
      imaging, there has been increased detection of pancreatic cystic lesions (PCs). The reported
      incidence of pancreatic cysts varies widely, with some studies reporting incidental
      pancreatic cysts detected in 0.7-2.6 % of asymptomatic adults undergoing imaging. The
      incidence reportedly increases with age with a greater than 8% detection rate in those over
      age 80 years. The prevalence of a cystic pancreatic lesion in one autopsy series was as high
      as 24%. For MRI, the frequency of detection of a pancreatic cyst is significantly higher than
      that of CT, with a reported prevalence of 13-45 % for MRI. Consequently, there has been a
      significant increased number of MRs ordered for follow-up of these lesions. In our
      institution, more than 35 MR studies for assessment of PCs were performed each month in 2015.
      This represents greater than 5% of all abdominal/pelvic MR examinations, and this number
      appears to be growing. The impact on health care system - particularly on health care costs
      as well as MR waiting times for patients with other conditions - is significant. For
      instance, in our institution, the average waiting period in 2015 for an outpatient MR
      enterography for patients with Crohn's disease is over 6 months.

      Recently, dual energy CT (DECT) has proven to be robust and clinically useful for many
      abdominal applications (including solid pancreatic masses). The investigators expect V2R
      kVmAS DECT and Subtraction imaging - two promising techniques which have scarcely been
      investigated in abdominal disease processes in the literature - to prove to be very useful
      for the characterization of pancreatic cysts and to demonstrate comparable diagnostic
      accuracy compared to MR

      The aim of the study is to investigate whether optimized DECT and/or Subtraction imaging
      protocols allow for characterization of cystic pancreatic lesions (in particular, the
      presence of enhancing septa and mural nodules) with a diagnostic accuracy equivalent to or
      greater than MRI.

      This is a prospective, single-institution study in patients who are being evaluated or
      followed for known pancreatic cystic lesions who are planned for a CT and MRI scan. All MRI
      scans performed during the study period will be monitored prospectively to identify
      consecutive patients undergoing MRI for assessment or follow-up of pancreatic cystic lesions
      and meeting the study inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Patients will be divided into two groups:

      - Group 1 includes patients who will undergo surgery for their pancreatic cysts: For these
      patients, a pre-operative CT abdomen is routinely performed for surgical planning purposes.
      The treating surgeon will contact the study team to arrange for the CT scan - which will
      include a DECT scan - to be performed on the appropriate scanner.

      - Group 2 includes patients who are undergoing surveillance. For these patients, the standard
      of care is typically to follow these patients annually with serial MRI scans.

      In cases where findings on MRI are in doubt, a CT scan - which will include a DECT scan -
      will be requested as a problem solving tool and part of the standard of care.

      For most patients, a CT scan is not required as part of the standard of care. In these cases,
      patients will be recruited and consented for an additional CT scan - which will include a
      DECT scan - to be performed within 6 months of their MRI. This CT scan is in addition to the
      standard of care. The patient will be recruited at the time of the first follow-up
      appointment with their treating surgeon after their MRI scan.
    
  