
    
      Xuanfei Baidu granules (XFBD) is a 13 medicinal traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)
      prescription developed by Dr. Zhang Boli, a member of Chinese Academy of Engineering, and his
      team, and used in Wuhan, China, during the initial outbreak of SARS-CoV2. Based on TCM
      theory, the 13 medicinals used mainly consist of heat-clearing and toxin-removing medicinals
      to reduce fever and clear viruses; cough-suppressing and phlegm-transforming medicinals to
      thin and clear the phlegm; and lung-diffusing and pant-calming to soothe the tracheal smooth
      muscle and relieve shortness of breath. Another unique quality is one of the medicinals helps
      to dissipate stasis and dissolves blood clots, providing a mild anticoagulant effect.

      Before the widespread usage of TCM, nationwide China saw a progression of disease of about
      10% of their mild and moderate cases while during the period with the TCM utilization, the
      percentage dropped to 2-5% depending on the hospital. Overall, they saw an improvement of
      clinical symptoms. Due to the challenges of the rapidly evolving outbreak, these are clinical
      observations and not evidence from a controlled study.

      The purpose of this initial pilot study is to document the safety of taking a TCM in patients
      with COVID-19 and to gain information to determine whether a study with TCM can be conducted
      in the US. The study will test a TCM which has been made into a granule formulation called
      XFBD.

      This is a randomized double-blind placebo-control pilot trial to document safety and efficacy
      endpoint assessments and to determine the feasibility of community recruitment and enrollment
      of symptomatic adult outpatients with COVID-19. The 12-week pilot will have 14 days where
      they receive XFBD or a placebo, orally twice a day and a 10 week follow up. The study will
      have a total of 60 participants with approximately 30 participants in each treatment arm. The
      participants will be randomized 1:1 individuals.
    
  