
    
      This is a single-center, prospective, randomized trial to compare outcomes of GAE versus
      observation, and to identify biomarkers and imaging endpoints that change in response to GAE.

      Subjects will be considered enrolled in the study once they have provided informed consent
      and have been determined to meet all eligibility criteria. A total of 100 subjects will be
      enrolled in the double-arm study and will be followed for 24 months.

      The study will involve a screening period in which patient eligibility is determined. Once
      eligibility is confirmed, subjects will then be randomized to GAE or observation in a 2:1
      ratio. Group sample sizes of 67 and 33 achieve approximately 85% power to reject the null
      hypothesis of no difference in KOOS between groups when the population mean difference is 9.7
      (50 from observation and 40.3 from GAE arm) with a standard deviation for both groups of 15
      and with a significance level (alpha) of 0.050 using a two-sided two-sample equal-variance
      t-test. All study subjects will undergo the initial procedures, consisting of a history and
      physical exam, dynamic contrast-enhanced knee MRI, blood serum and joint aspiration with
      biochemical analysis.

      For the treatment arm, subjects will undergo GAE with Embozene microspheres (100 micron)
      (Varian Medical Systems). Observation group will not receive the GAE procedure at baseline.
      Follow-up visits will be at 3 months (± 2 weeks), 6 months (± 2 weeks), 12 months (± 2
      weeks), and 24 months (± 2 weeks) post-procedure. At these visits, subjects will complete the
      KOOS score, visual analog scale (VAS) pain score, undergo a directed physical examination,
      and report any new adverse events (AEs). At 6 months of follow-up, all subjects will also
      undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced knee MRI, and serum and joint aspiration with biochemical
      analysis.

      At 6 months, subjects in the observation group will have the option to crossover to the GAE
      treatment arm. Subjects in the crossover group will then undergo GAE, with follow up at 3
      months (± 2 weeks), 6 months (± 2 weeks), 12 months (± 2 weeks), and 24 months (± 2 weeks)
      post-GAE.
    
  