
    
      It is widely recognized that new parents receive insufficient information about newborn
      screening (NBS) and little or no information regarding the retention of residual newborn
      screening samples. Our current research (R01 HD058854) clearly demonstrates that parents are
      supportive of NBS and the research use of residual specimens, but they want information
      before the child is born and want an informed choice regarding the retention and use of
      residual samples. Previous research has outlined the basic elements of what parents want to
      know about NBS generally. However, given that many states are adopting an "opt-out" approach
      for residual samples, it is unclear what basic information parents want to know to enable an
      informed choice about this practice. While it is recognized that retention and use of
      residual NBS samples is a valuable research resource, there are prevalent concerns in the NBS
      community that discussion of this will lead some parents to decline NBS altogether. Some
      authorities have suggested that discussions of NBS and residual sample retention be conducted
      separately to reduce the risk that parents will confuse the issues and decline NBS
      altogether.

      To address this the project has the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1) To determine what pregnant women, young mothers, and their partners want to
      know regarding the retention and use of residual bloodspot samples

      Specific Aim 2) To create multimedia educational tools to be used in the prenatal care
      environment that will provide basic information about NBS and the core information determined
      through Specific Aim 1 about residual sample retention and use.

      Specific Aim 3) To determine the impact of the prenatal education intervention on parental
      knowledge, attitudes, and decisions regarding NBS services and the retention and use of
      residual samples in diverse populations of English and Spanish speaking pregnant women.

      Specific Aim 4) To examine the normative/ethical implications of the results of SA3 for the
      conduct of state NBS programs. Recommendations on the content and timing of parental NBS
      education will be developed.
    
  