
    
      Anovulatory dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB) is the most common cause of abnormal uterine
      bleeding especially in postmenarcheal adolescent, perimenopausal women, patient with
      polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and in obese women. Aims of treatment in women with
      anovulatory DUB are to restore the natural control mechanism of endometrium (introduce normal
      synchronous growth, development, shedding of a structural stable endometrium) and to prevent
      endometrial hyperplasia. The two main treatment options are estrogen-progestin therapy and
      progestin therapy. Women who are sexually active and not immediately prepared to pursue
      pregnancy are best manage by estrogen-progestin treatment especially combined oral
      contraceptive pills (COCs) but in perimenopausal women, obese women or women who can't
      tolerate COCs or have contraindications in using COCs, cyclic progestin will be the treatment
      of choice. Common used progestin in anovulatory DUB is medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) 5-10
      mg/day for 10-14 days each month. This progestin has strong progestogenic effect but has some
      undesirable effect such as glucocorticoid effect, mineralocorticoid effect and androgenic
      effect. Long term using this progestin especially in obese women or perimenopausal women who
      have risk for diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia may be negative effect to glucose and lipid
      metabolism. DSG is the third generation progestin with no glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid
      effect and low androgenic effect may be the better choice of treatment but the data of DSG in
      treatment of anovulatory DUB us scanty. So this study will evaluate the effect of cyclic DSG
      in endometrial histology changing and lipid, glucose metabolism in patient with anovulatory
      DUB.

      Comparison : Women with anovulatory DUB are randomized into two groups, receiving a course of
      either cyclic DSG or cyclic MPA. The main outcome measured is to compare the effect of both
      interventions on endometrial histology changing.
    
  