
    
      Pancreatic cancer (mainly pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, PDAC) is a disease with extremely
      poor prognosis, and is often fatal. Surgical resection is the only potentially curative
      technique for management of PDAC, but only approximately 15% to 20% of patients are
      candidates for pancreatectomy at the time of diagnosis Gemcitabine (Gem) is widely used as a
      standard chemotherapeutic agent for advanced pancreatic cancer. FOLFIRINOX
      (fluoropyrimidine/leucovorin plus irinotecan and oxaliplatin), compared with Gem, has been
      proved to significantly improve the objective response rate (31.6% VS. 9.4%, P < 0.001) and
      prolong the median survival time (11.1 months VS. 6.8 months, P < 0.001) for patients with
      metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma(PDAC), who had a performance status of ECOG 0-1
      score. However, it is undeniable that the adverse effects of FOLFIRINOX are severe. For
      example, the incidence of 3/4 grade neutrophil decrease in patients receiving FOLFIRINOX is
      significantly higher than those with Gem (45.7% VS. 21%, P < 0.001). Thus, it is difficult
      for many patients to receive standard FOLFIRINOX and benefit from the protocol. Therefore,
      the investigators aim to explore an improvement program of FOLFIRINOX, hoping to better
      benefit patients.

      S-1 is a new oral fluoropyrimidine derivative in which tegafur is combined with two
      5-chloro-2, 4-dihydroxypyridine modulators and oteracil potassium, a potentiator of
      5-ﬂuorouracil's (5-FU's) antitumor activity that also decreases gastrointestinal toxicity.
      Combination chemotherapy with Gem and S-1 is reportedly well tolerated and benefits patients
      with advanced PDAC. Based on the results of the GEST study, S-1 is found to be non-inferior
      to Gem in patients' survival.

      Therefore, in this study, the investigators replaced 5-FU and leucovorin in the FOLFIRINOX
      regimen with oral S-1, forming a SIRIOX regimen to treat patients with advanced pancreatic
      cancer, as first- or second-line chemotherapy.
    
  