
    
      Individual delivery data has been collected in site from health centers records. Thus, the
      study does not depend on official data from the ministry of health. Not only is MOH data hard
      to obtain, it also may not contain the details we are interested in that are put by hand by
      doctors and nurses in clinic histories. In order to get uniform data that fits the study
      needs, a parallel monitoring process has been set up. Data for mortality and morbidity events
      that occured in communities during the study is limited. We don't have the community
      counterpart of our indicators. Government data of perinatal deaths in community may be
      obtained with 1 or 2 years of delay, however there may be an underreporting of such events.
      Likewise, there is no data source for maternal morbidity in community deliveries since
      community practice is usually not documented nor reported.

      The concept of perinatal mortality used in this study is not the standard concept that
      includes death from 28th gestational week to 7 days after birth. The perinatal mortality
      outcome in this study takes into account only deaths that occur during care in health centers
      (approximately 48 hours since birth). This is intentional since the aim of this study is to
      improve clinics' skilled delivery care, thereferore it is concerned on reducing the newborn
      deaths that occur during care given in site. Along this study, the focus is in these subset
      of perinatal deaths.

      The APGAR measure 1 minute and 5 minutes after birth, and the reported procedures for the
      newborn are used to identify cases of perinatal morbidity.

      This study is targetted to the low level health centers in Huehuetenango and Alta Verapaz.
      This includes 33 health centers. This is a fixed number of health centers and there is no
      control of the patients that got treated at the health centers. This is the reason why there
      is no sample size assessment. The selection of the health centers was limited by the
      definition of CAP (second level health facilities according to local definition) and the
      amount of patients that received the intervention by attending their deliveries in health
      centers can not be controlled.

      Having data on all vaginal and uncomplicated deliveries that occur in health centers, the
      analysis can be done by individual cases and also by aggregating data in time periods. Also,
      analysis methodology of trials with stepped wedge design has been developed in the last
      years. A generalized mixed model for a multilevel and longitudinal analysis is going to be
      used in order to account for different sources of variability within and between health
      centers and times. So far (April 2017) we have done preliminary analysis this way and are
      confortable with this methodology selection.
    
  