
    
      The demonstrated benefits of increased protein intake on sarcopenia and many physiological
      functions is becoming increasingly evident. For this reason, there is growing importance to
      ensuring that Americans consume the recommended amount of protein, calculated to be 17-21% of
      caloric intake. As it relates to the prevention of sarcopenia, adequate protein consumption
      inherently assumes that sufficient protein is ingested to stimulate protein anabolism.
      Specifically, adequate essential amino acid precursors, and anabolic triggers such as
      leucine, must be present for protein anabolism to occur. Population data from the NHANES
      study suggests that American protein intake pattern is skewed towards the evening meal. The
      NHANES data also suggests that the average protein consumption of both men and women over the
      age of 50 yrs is approximately 1.1 g/kg/d. Thus, the prevalent consumption pattern ensures
      that many individuals consume adequate protein, or amino acid precursors sufficient to
      stimulate protein synthesis, only with the larger, or dinner meal. The investigators have
      demonstrated that frequent stimulation of protein synthesis with amino acids preserves
      strength and function. Others have demonstrated that adequate protein intake stimulates
      muscle protein synthesis and increases lean mass. Given these data, The investigators studied
      the effects of two different protein intake patterns on metabolic and functional outcomes in
      older individuals after 8 wks of dietary control. The mean protein intake for this group of
      1.1 g/kg/d was consumed in two distinct meal patterns. Participants consumed high quality
      protein in the ratio of 15/20/65% of total protein intake for breakfast/lunch/dinner,
      respectively (Uneven protein intake pattern), or protein consumption was distributed equally
      among each meal (33% of total protein)(Even protein intake pattern). The investigators
      determined the longitudinal effects of this consumption pattern on the metabolic outcomes of
      whole-body net protein synthesis and muscle protein synthesis in older participants.
    
  