
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the incidence and severity of acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in
           rasburicase-treated patients who will undergo myeloablative human leukocyte antigen
           (HLA)-matched related or unrelated donor allogeneic peripheral blood hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation (SCT) for hematologic malignancies and compare these outcomes with
           those of historical controls.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy (in terms of reduction of uric acid levels) and safety of
           rasburicase in patients undergoing myeloablative allogeneic SCT.

        -  To evaluate the graft-versus-host and host-versus-graft immune responses in
           rasburicase-treated patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive a conventional myeloablative conditioning regimen consisting of high doses
      of cyclophosphamide, busulfan, and etoposide, with or without total-body irradiation.
      Depending on the preparative regimen selected, the conditioning of recipients will take a
      total of 6 to 7 days. On day 0, patients will receive filgrastim (G-CSF)-mobilized
      HLA-matched, related, or unrelated donor allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells
      (unmanipulated). Patients will receive standard graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis consisting
      of cyclosporine or tacrolimus and methotrexate or sirolimus. Patients will receive
      rasburicase IV over 30 minutes, beginning on the first day of conditioning therapy, for 5
      consecutive days. If after 5 days of rasburicase the patient's uric acid plasma level remains
      above 5 mg/dL, rasburicase may be continued for up to 7 days in total.

      Blood is obtained on day 0 and then at 14, 28, and 42 days post-transplant for immunologic
      studies, including quantitative analysis to follow the recovery of T cells, B cells, natural
      killer cells, dendritic cells (DC), and monocytes using flow cytometry (FCM); phenotypic
      analysis of T cells, DC and monocytes by FCM; lymphocyte activation analysis: CD3, CD4, CD8,
      CD25 2. CD3, CD8, CD71, CD69; DC analysis: CD45, CD14, DR, CD86, CD80 2. CD45, CD14, CD40,
      CD11c; and in vitro functional studies such as mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) and
      cell-mediated lysis (CML) to assess for the graft-versus-host and host-versus-graft
      responses. Peripheral blood is collected for chimerism studies on days 28 and 100
      post-transplant.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  