
    
      In preliminary work using a research grade device, the investigators tested stochastic
      vibrotactile stimulation (SVS) in infants with NOWS. Twenty six full term infants who were
      opioid exposed, as determined by meconium drug screening tests and/or maternal self-report,
      were studied. Infants were excluded if any of the following characteristics were present:
      congenital abnormality, anatomic brain abnormality, hydrocephalus, intraventricular
      hemorrhage > grade 2, seizure disorder not related to withdrawal, significant cardiac shunt,
      anemia and/or infection. Using a single session, within-subject design characteristics were
      compared during periods on and off SVS. Movement, heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature
      and oxygen saturation were quantified by continuous physiologic measurement. Infants were
      between 38.3 and 44.7 weeks at the time of study. This novel work demonstrated that SVS
      reduced prolonged movement activity and improved cardiorespiratory function in the
      opioid-exposed neonates with 35% reduction in movement and significant reductions in
      tachypnea and tachycardia. There were no noted adverse effects; specifically no alterations
      in temperature control or oxygen saturation. Parents and nurses reported that infants seemed
      less irritable, calmer, and slept better.

      Specific Aim #1: To determine the efficacy of the Prapela SVS device in preventing the need
      for pharmacologic treatment in term infants ≥37 weeks gestation with prenatal opioid
      exposure.

      Hypotheses:

      1A. The use of the Prapela SVS device will reduce the need for pharmacologic treatment for
      NOWS by 66%.

      1B. The Prapela SVS device will reduce periods of cries characterized as fussy and pain in
      the two study groups.

      1.1 1A. Study Intervention and Timing: Parents of infants at risk for NOWS will be approached
      for consent within the first 24 hours after birth prior to manifestation of withdrawal
      symptoms. After informed written consent is obtained the study procedures will be initiated.
      SVS will be delivered with a specially-constructed mattress developed during Phase I of the
      SBIR that delivers gentle, random, low-level stimulation (30-60 Hz, 10-12 micrometers RMS) in
      continuously. SVS will be added to existing non-pharmacologic care within the first 24 hours
      of birth until day 5 or until pharmacologic treatment is initiated. The rationale for the
      selection of this experimental window are: 1. Majority of infants do not start manifesting
      signs of NOWS prior to 24hours of life. 2. Most infants who require treatment with opioids
      for severe withdrawal typically begin treatment on day 3 to 5 of life. 3. To test the
      efficacy of the SVS device, we seek to study the infant who has not yet manifested signs of
      NOWS and determine if it is safe and effective in preventing the need for pharmacotherapy.
      All infants enrolled will remain on the SVS mattress throughout the first 5 days of life or
      until pharmacologic treatment is started except for periods of care and feeding. The use of
      infant swings or other motion devices will be prohibited once enrolled in the study. Two
      thirds (60 infants) will be randomized to receive the SVS mattress and one-third (30 infants)
      will receive standard care only.

      1. B Maternal and infant clinical characteristics: Clinical characteristics of the mother and
      infant will be abstracted from the medical record by a trained research coordinator using
      standardized definitions. Modified Finnegan scores will be abstracted from the medical record
      and summed over each 24 hour period. The nursing team providing clinical care to these
      infants are trained on the modified Finnegan Scores using the universally used D'Apolito
      training tool. Caregiver's assessment of infant state will be recorded every 6 hours in a
      bedside diary. Missing data will be explicitly noted.

      1C. Environmental and physiological measurements: Analyses of Cry Characteristics: To further
      characterize the ability of the SVS device to soothe infants with NOWS, we will utilize novel
      technology developed and patented by Dr. Ariana Anderson at UCLA called the ChatterBaby. Her
      work is based on the known association of abnormal cry with abnormal central nervous system
      development or disease. A more recent version of the ChatterBaby cry detection and cry
      translation algorithms will be used for this study. These algorithms are trained against
      hours of non-cry data, including NICU ambient sound, to robustly identify crying periods by
      automation. The cry during three primary states (fussy, hungry, pain) will be quantified and
      analyzed between the two groups.

      Specific Aim #2: Demonstrate the safety of the SVS hospital bassinet for infants with NOWS.

      2. Hypothesis: The device will meet non-clinical safety standards required for FDA clearance.

      Additionally, non-clinical studies (including electrical, thermal safety, biocompatibility,
      and electromagnetic compatibility) will be completed to verify the device meets or exceeds
      safety requirements for FDA clearance. Sampling before and after clinical use, as well as
      durability testing will be performed to ensure that the devices deliver the specified
      vibration over time. Prapela has prepared a data development plan (DDP) that aligns with the
      proposed measures to mitigate the identified risks to health of the Prapela® SVS Hospital
      Bassinet Pad.

      Specific Aim #3: Assess the acceptability of the SVS mattress to infants' mothers and nurses.

      Hypothesis: The Prapela SVS device will be accepted and valued by both nursing caregivers and
      parents.

      A questionnaire will be administered at the end of the experimental period to both the
      nursing staff present on the final shift of the period and to the mother, or other care-giver
      if mother not able to be present.
    
  