
    
      Biological agents are frequently prescribed to optimize rheumatoid arthritis care. In order
      to prevent joint destruction it is necessary to maintain remission or low disease activity.
      Up to now clinicians used to continue the initial treatment regimen to maintain remission or
      low disease activity. Since biologic therapy is expensive, and is associated with patient
      burden as dose dependant risk for serious infections, multiple studies have been performed to
      show that a large proportion of patients with rheumatoid arthritis with stable low disease
      activity can reduce their dose without relapse of disease. In addition the latest European
      and American recommendations pose to reduce the dosage or to discontinue the bDMARDs in case
      of persistent remission or low disease activity. Yet, there are no recommendations on how
      this should be carried out.

      Currently, most clinicians use Disease Activity Score in 28 joints (DAS28) and the Clinical
      Disease Activity Index (CDAI) to monitor dose reduction strategies. Although disease activity
      guided dose reduction is safe and cost-effective, a relatively novel strategy is dose
      reduction using serum drug concentrations (therapeutic drug monitoring). Most biologics are
      characterized by wide variation in pharmacokinetics between patients, resulting in wide range
      of drug concentrations when administered at the labeled dose. Therapeutic drug monitoring can
      be a valuable tool for optimizing the dosage of biopharmaceuticals and improving patient care
      on individual level. In other autoimmune diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, it is
      thought to be superior to empirical dose reduction and is already applied in clinical
      practice.

      The rationale behind therapeutic drug monitoring is that medication dose correlates with
      serum drug levels and drug concentration correlates with therapeutic effect. The latter
      notion is demonstrated for adalimumb by Pouw et al. Adalimumab serum concentration in a range
      5-8 mg/L is sufficient for adequate response. In the first phase of treatment, drug
      concentration must be high enough to control immunogenicity. To control disease activity in
      the 2nd phase (after 28 weeks), lower concentrations than 5 mg/L are probably sufficient. Our
      study group illustrated in 2018 that reducing adalimumab dose by prolonging the dosing
      interval with 50%, is non-inferior to continuation in patients with adalimumab levels >
      8mg/L. In addition, recent published data suggest that concentrations of 0.1-0.5 mg/L are
      enough to control TNF in this phase. Since around 70% of the patients have adalimumab
      concentration above 5 mg/l, while an adalimumab concentration of 5 mg/L is enough for
      adequate response (7), a large extent of patients might thus be overexposed.

      The hypothesis is that 1/ tapering adalimumab in RA patient doing well after 28 weeks using
      TDM aiming at 5mg/l (and disease activity measurement) results in maintenance of disease
      control and lower adalimumab use, and that 2/ tapering to a lower target drug level of 2 mg/L
      is non inferior to the higher 5mg/l target with respect to disease activity control and
      safety, and superior in adalimumab reduction. Tapering to achieve these lower targets (for
      example direct doubling of interval in patients with levels > 10 mg/L) might result in the
      lowest effective drug dose.

      Disease activity after dose reduction, aiming adalimumab concentration of 2 mg/L or 5 mg/L,
      in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with adalimumab for at least 28 weeks and a serum
      adalimumab concentration above 5 mg/L, will be evaluated in this multi-centre, randomized,
      single blinded trail. Patients with an adalimumab concentration above 5mg/L will be randomly
      assigned to dose reduction by extending their dosing interval aiming a drug level of 2 mg/L
      or aiming a drug level of 5 mg/L. A newly developed algorithm is used to determine the
      interval prolongation for each patient

      Data regarding disease status, functioning, adalimumab serum concentrations, anti-drug
      antibodies and medical costs will be collected during this study.
    
  