
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide and contributes to
      enormous cancer-related deaths annually . Hepatocellular carcinoma is a frequent complication
      of liver disease. Early recurrence is mainly tumour or treatment-related .

      Liver fibrosis stagging is essential to evaluate the expected prognosis against the
      concomitant therapies. Liver biopsy remain the gold standard for diagnosing liver fibrosis,
      however, it is limited due to the associated costs, invasiveness, and intra and inter
      observer variability. Patient discomfort, refusal and risk of complications. Ultrasound
      Elastography is a non-invasive imaging method liver fibrosis staging . Ultrasound
      Elastography is an imaging technology sensitive to tissue stiffness that was developed in the
      1990s. It has been further developed and refined in recent years to enable quantitative
      assessment of tissue stiffness. Elastography methods take advantage of the changed elasticity
      of soft tissues resulting from specific pathological or physiological processes .

      Elastography is an application, which produces the force coupled with a measurement system
      for the deformities caused by the force. There are several types of forces: 1. static
      compression induced externally by manual compression or internally by organ motion (heart,
      vessel, and breathing) 2. Dynamic compression induced with a continuous vibration at a given
      frequency 3. Impulse compression (transient vibration) induced externally by a transient
      mechanical impulse ( Fibroscan) or internally by an ultrasound impulse (ARFI, SWE), both
      compression types producing shear waves. While contrast-enhanced imaging is the first-line
      approach in the diagnosis of HCC, recent report show that the non-invasively measured
      stiffness of hepatic nodule could help to distinguish between malignant and benign liver
      lesions.

      The treatment of HCC depends on the stage of liver disease and in many cases, curative
      resection is not possible. Therefore local ablative therapies, such as transarterial
      chemoembolization (TACE) and radiofrequency ablation (RFA), are considered viable therapeutic
      options . However, HCC might behave very differently and could show more or less of a
      response to local ablative treatment
    
  