
    
      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  All pregnant women diagnosed with preterm labor defined as regular contractions
           associated with cervical change between 24 and 34 weeks of gestation.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Multiple pregnancy

        -  Preterm rupture of membranes

        -  Congenital fetal malformations

        -  IUGR (intra uterine growth restriction)

        -  Previous tocolysis this pregnancy

        -  Chorioamnionitis

        -  Cervical dilation > 4 cms

        -  Maternal medical conditions such as renal insufficiency, hepatic insufficiency, or
           myasthenia gravis

        -  Non-reassuring fetal heart rate

        -  Maternal hypotension, defined as a blood pressure < 90/50 mm Hg

      Randomization procedure:

      Randomization envelopes will be prepared by means of a random number table. After informed
      consent is obtained, the next numbered opaque envelope will be opened to assign each patient
      to receive either the low or high nifedipine dose regimen. Because of the different doses of
      nifedipine, neither patients nor physicians will be blinded to treatment allocation.

      Routine studies and procedures:

        -  A baseline ECG will be performed before starting the medication.

        -  All patients will receive a 500-mL intravenous bolus of isotonic sodium chloride
           solution unless they have clinical volume overload, followed by a maintenance
           administration of 125 mL/h.

        -  Maternal blood pressure and heart rate will be recorded every 15 minutes as long as the
           patient is in labor and every 4 hours thereafter.

        -  Fetal heart rate and uterine activity were monitored continuously throughout the study
           period.

        -  All patients eligible for the study will receive antibiotic prophylaxis for Group B
           Streptococcal infection (IV Pen G or Ampicillin) for at least 48 hours, pending the
           vaginorectal swab culture that is done routinely on every patient presenting with
           preterm labor.

        -  All patients will receive one course of 12 mg betamethasone intramuscularly every 24
           hours for 48 hours to promote fetal lung maturation and a rescue dose if they present in
           labor again at < 34 weeks of gestation.

      Interventions:

      First arm (high dose):

      Nifedipine (Adalat®) 20 mg sublingual crushed, repeated after 30 minutes if contractions do
      not decrease in intensity. Maintenance of 120-160 mgs of slow-release nifedipine (Nifedicor®)
      daily for 48 hours (30 mg Q 6 hrs up to a maximum of 40 mg Q 6 hrs). Once contractions cease,
      nifedipine will be maintained at 80-120 mg daily in divided doses up to 36 weeks of gestation
      on an outside basis.

      Second arm (low dose):

      Nifedipine (Adalat®) 10 mg sublingual crushed, then 10 mg sublingual in 15 min, followed by
      10 mg PO Q 15 mins PRN to a maximum of 40 mg in the first hour. Maintenance of 60-80 mgs of
      slow-release nifedipine (Nifedicor®) daily for 48 hours (20 mg Q 8 hrs or 20 mg Q 6 hrs).
      Once contractions cease, nifedipine will be maintained at 60 mg daily in divided doses up to
      36 weeks of gestation.

        -  Tocolysis will be considered to be achieved when uterine activity decrease to <4
           contractions/h with the absence of cervical change.

        -  If patients continue to have uterine activity after 6 hours or have cervical dilatation
           >2 cm after admission examination, they could be switched to another tocolytic regimen,
           namely intravenous MgSO4 or intravenous ritodrine.

      Written Consent:

      The written consent will be handed to every pregnant patient eligible for this study. She
      will be given enough time to read it and decide whether she is willing to participate in the
      trial.

      Outcome variables studied:

        -  Speed of onset of uterine quiescence

        -  Uterine quiescence at 6 hours of initiating therapy

        -  Delivery >48 hours from initiation of therapy

        -  Delivery >7 days from initiation of therapy

        -  Delivery <37 weeks of gestation

        -  Delivery at <34 weeks of gestation

        -  Side effects to nifedipine

        -  Maternal adverse drug reactions requiring cessation of treatment

        -  Antepartum hemorrhage

        -  Maternal length of hospital stay

        -  Pregnancy prolongation

        -  Postpartum hemorrhage

        -  Birthweight

        -  Apgar score <7 at 5 min

        -  Admission to NICU

        -  Mechanical ventilation

        -  RDS (respiratory distress syndrome)

        -  IVH all grades

        -  Neonatal nursery stay

        -  Neonatal jaundice

        -  NEC (Necrotizing enterocolitis)

        -  Neonatal death

      Side effects associated with nifedipine include a mild decrease in blood pressure and a rise
      in pulse, headache, flushing, dizziness and nausea.

      Data Collection:

      The initial information in the data sheets will be filled by the resident in charge of
      delivery suite. However, the follow up on the response of the patients to the medication and
      data regarding the maternal side effects and neonatal outcome will be filled by a part time
      research assistant.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be performed using the SPSS statistical package. Categoric data
      like maternal characteristics, the rates of neonatal morbidity and mortality will be compared
      using Chi square when sample sizes support the approximation. Otherwise, categorical data
      will be analyzed with two-tailed Fisher exact test if the expected cell frequencies were
      small. Continuous variables will be compared by Student t test if assumptions of normality
      and homogeneity of variances appeared to be reasonable. Unpaired variables and differences in
      distributions will be compared using the Mann-Whitney test. Neonatal outcomes will be
      analyzed comparing the total number of affected neonates in each group. A p-value <0.05 will
      be considered statistically significant.

      Proposed budget:

      Personnel:

      A part time research assistant with "BS" background 450,000 L.L./ month x 29 months
      =13,050,000 L.L.

      Tasks expected:

      Completing the data sheets:

        -  F/U on response of mother to tocolysis and assessing maternal side effects

        -  F/U on the neonates and getting information about the neonatal outcome variables

        -  Data entry

      Medical supplies:

      Medications will be provided through the pharmacy.

      Compensation for patients:

      None.

      The total amount of money needed in Lebanese pounds:

      13,050,000 L.L./year.

      Time frame:

        -  May 2003 - May 2006 - Collection of data and randomization of patients to the 2 arms of
           the study

        -  June 2006 - Sep 2006 - Follow up on patients that were randomized during the first 5
           months of 2006 to get information about their pregnancy outcome

        -  Oct 2006 - Nov 2006 - Data analysis and writing the final paper

      Data collection will be under the direct supervision of the principal investigator.

      Percent of time spent by principal investigator on this proposal: 20% of research time which
      accounts for about 20% of time allocated for research activities.

      Co-Investigators' Role:

        -  Dr Usta will help in data analysis and in writing the final paper (5% of research time)

        -  Dr Mroueh will help in writing the final paper (5% of research time). Two
           Investigational Drug forms will be used since this trial will involve the same drug
           nifedipine in 2 different forms Adalat® and Nifedicor®.

      Principal Investigator:

      Anwar Nassar, MD, Assistant Professor, American University of Beirut Medical Center,
      Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

      Co-Investigators:

      Ihab Usta, MD, Associate Professor, American University of Beirut Medical Center, Department
      of Obstetrics and Gynecology

      Adnan Mroueh, MD, Professor, American University of Beirut Medical Center, Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology

      REFERENCES:

      Assessment of Risk Factors for Preterm Birth. ACOG practice bulletin, Number 31, October
      2001.

      Mittendorf R, Dambrosia J, Pryde PG, Lee KS, Gianopoulos JG, Besinger RE, Tomich PG.
      Association between the use of antenatal magnesium sulfate in preterm labor and adverse
      health outcomes in infants. Am J Obstet Gynecol;186(6):1111-8. June 2002.

      Gyetvai K, Hannah ME, Hodnett ED, Ohlsson A. Tocolytics for preterm labor: a systematic
      review. Obstet Gynecol;94(5 Pt 2):869-77. Nov 1999.

      Mittendorf R, Covert R, Elin R, Pryde PG, Khoshnood B, Lee KS. Umbilical cord serum ionized
      magnesium level and total pediatric mortality. Obstet Gynecol; 98(1):75-8. July 2001.

      Weerakul W, Chittacharoen A, Suthutvoravut S. Nifedipine versus terbutaline in management of
      preterm labor. Int J Gynaecol Obstet;76(3):311-3. Mar 2002.

      Papatsonis DN, Van Geijn HP, Ader HJ, Lange FM, Bleker OP, Dekker GA. Nifedipine and
      ritodrine in the management of preterm labor: a randomized multicenter trial. Obstet
      Gynecol;90(2):230-4. Aug 1997.

      Larmon JE, Ross BS, May WL, Dickerson GA, Fischer RG, Morrison JC. Oral nicardipine versus
      intravenous magnesium sulfate for the treatment of preterm labor. Am J Obstet
      Gynecol;181(6):1432-7. Dec1999.

      Koks CA, Brolmann HA, de Kleine MJ, Manger PA. A randomized comparison of nifedipine and
      ritodrine for suppression of preterm labor. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol;77(2):171-6. Apr
      1998.
    
  