
    
      The aim of the study is to develop an accessible, reproducible ultrasound tool for objective
      clinical measurement of brain circulation in preterm infants in order to identify infants
      being at risk for preterm brain injury at an early stage. In the future, the results of this
      study might be useful to select those infants for early interventions aimed at preventing
      brain injury.

      In this study we will identify the normative values of the internal cerebral vein velocity in
      a reference cohort of stable preterm infants. This stable group of preterm infants is defined
      as all preterm infants with a birth weight appropriate for gestational age, and without major
      complications (such as a severe intracranial hemorrhage, severe hemodynamical instability,
      birth asphyxia) or major congenital malformations.

      In this group we will identify subgroups based on moments of clinical instability (sepsis,
      temporary hypotension, NEC, need for invasive respiratory support) or based on outcome
      parameters (IVH, PVL, developmental outcomes)

      Serial brain ultrasound examinations are routinely performed as standard of care after
      preterm birth for timely de-tection of brain hemorrhage in the first week of life and brain
      injury in the weeks thereafter until term equivalent age. For infants born between 28 0/7 and
      31 6/7 weeks, brain ultrasound is performed on admission, once between day 1 and 3, once
      between day 7 and 10, and then 2-weekly until discharge or transfer. For infants born before
      28 0/7 weeks, standard of care consists of brain ultrasound performed on admission, day 1,
      day 2, day 3, day 7, and then weekly until discharge.

      No additional ultrasound examinations, specifically for the purpose of this study, will be
      performed. Instead, with each routine ultrasound examination, additional images on top of the
      routine frames will be collected. Those images will document the velocity and flow in the
      internal cerebral veins bilaterally using the standard Color Doppler tech-nique. Taking these
      additional images will prolong the time of ultrasound examination only minimally (with a few
      minutes).

      The ultrasound will be performed using a standardized ultrasound protocol according to
      Ecury-Goossen et al (18) us-ing the Esaote MyLab Twice (Genova, Italy) with a linear (Esaote
      LA 435 Linear Array Ultrasound Probe, 6.0-18.0 MHz) and convex probe (Esaote CA123 Convex
      Array Ultrasound Probe, 3.3-9.0 MHz). This is the standard ultra-sound machine for ultrasound
      investigations at our neonatology ward.

      For routine cranial ultrasound, ten images are generally made through the anterior
      fontanelle: five in the coronal and five in the sagittal plane. In addition to that, color
      Doppler or power Doppler is commonly performed in one of the pericallosal arteries in order
      to evaluate the arterial circulation, quantified by calculating a resistency index (RI).
      Usually routine ultrasound takes up to 10-15 minutes.

      After routine scanning, four extra images will be acquired. These are power doppler images,
      one per insonated ves-sel of interest. The vessels of interest are the internal cerebral vein
      (left and right separate, if feasible) and one small tributary (the posterior caudate vein)
      on each side. To derive these images the duration of the US will be prolonged with
      approximately 3-5 minutes.

      Blood flow velocities (maximum velocity and velocity pattern (17)) can be calculated offline
      in the anonymously ex-ported dicom file of these four images.

      In addition to the ultrasound data, the following clinical patient data will be collected
      during the study:

        -  Data on systemic perfusion immediately before each ultrasound: arterial blood pressure,
           mixed cerebral oxygen saturation using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), fractional
           oxygen extraction, limb oxygen satu-ration, heart rate and use of inotropes.

        -  Demographic data during hospitalization, such as gender, gestational age, birth weight,
           head circumfer-ence and complications during hospitalization (infection, surgery,
           etcetera).
    
  