
    
      In Malaysia, functional limitations and impaired daily living activities affect patients with
      knee osteoarthritis (OA) in such a way that they tend to refrain from hospital visits. This
      may may lead to depression and reduced quality of life, which may then impact on increases in
      health care costs. The service provided by hospitals to these patients, is under-utilised by
      the multi-ethnic people that make up the population. Through the researcher's previous
      clinical experience, it was observed that patients were complaining of difficulty in getting
      to the hospital, long waiting times, and also increasing transport costs. Thus, adoption of
      self-care and early prevention has been suggested as a solution for the OA affected Malaysian
      community. In addition, there is no home based exercise programme for patients with knee OA
      in current health practice in Malaysia. Although some of these patients in Malaysia are
      prescribed with home-based exercises, a fully comprehensive self-management programme is
      lacking for patients generally. Therefore, there is a need for a home based self-management
      exercise programme for people with knee OA which can be implemented in community setting
      without frequent involvement of the hospitals. The UK Medical Research Council Guidance and
      Framework on developing and evaluating complex interventions will be used to facilitate the
      process of developing a complex intervention. A systematic review of the literature
      identified an exercise programme called ESCAPE-Pain as the programme with the best evidence
      for adaptation as a self-management programme to implement in Malaysia.

      In phase 1, (already conducted), the investigators have undertaken interviews with patients
      and healthcare professionals (HCPs) in Malaysia to identify their beliefs and attitudes
      towards the ESCAPE-pain programme. Preliminary analysis reveals that patients with knee OA
      and HCPs have positive views towards the implementation of the programme with integration of
      a few new components.

      In this phase, the investigators propose to undertake a feasibility randomised controlled
      trial in which the investigators compare the modified ESCAPE-pain programme for the Malaysian
      context, versus usual care in Malaysian OA patients. ESCAPE-pain is a rehabilitation
      programme that helps people with osteoarthritis (OA) and/or chronic joint pain to self
      -manage their condition. The programme aims to increase physical function and improve quality
      of life. The ESCAPE-pain programme, will be run over six weeks, with participants attending
      for one hour session, twice a week. Each session contains around a 20 minutes themed
      discussion focused on helping to support self-management and followed by about 45 minutes of
      exercise. The sessions will be led by the researcher who trained in how to deliver the
      ESCAPE-pain programme.

      This feasibility study is required to identify the best methods for a definitive trial in the
      future, to test recruitment and other trial procedures, the acceptability of the intervention
      and the way it is implemented and to provide insight into appropriateness of our outcome
      measures, including providing data to permit estimation of effect size to be used in sample
      size calculations for a definitive trial.
    
  