
    
      History and current status of related studies: Femoral neck fracture can render the blood
      supply to the femoral head insufficient, leading to avascular necrosis of the femoral head.
      This often increases treatment difficulty and can have a strong influence on the recovery of
      hip joint function. Although core decompression for treatment of avascular necrosis of the
      femoral head has been largely used in clinical settings, the mid-term therapeutic effects are
      not satisfactory in some patients.

      Biocompatibility is defined as the ability of a biomaterial, prosthesis, or medical device to
      perform with an appropriate host response. The biocompatibility of a bone implant and host
      influences the therapeutic effects. Therefore, biomaterials that are less likely to induce
      negative host responses may increase the therapeutic effects of such treatments for
      orthopedic diseases. A porous tantalum rod is a bone trabecula-like metal implant that is
      used to support weight-bearing areas of necrotic bone, preventing further collapse of the
      necrotic area. This implant has exhibited favorable effects in the early treatment of
      avascular necrosis of the femoral head. Although previous reports have focused on porous
      tantalum rod implantation for clinical treatment of avascular necrosis of the femoral head
      after fermoral neck fracture, few have assessed the long-term therapeutic effects or
      biocompatibility of porous tantalum rods.

      Adverse events Possible adverse events include any expected or unexpected symptoms. If severe
      adverse events occur, information including the date of occurrence and measures taken related
      to the treatment of the adverse events will be reported to the principal investigator and the
      institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis, and open access Data collection: Case report forms
      with demographic data, disease diagnosis, accompanying diseases, drug allergy history, and
      adverse events will be collected , processed using Epidata software, collated, and then
      electrically recorded using a double-data entry strategy by data managers.

      Data management: The locked electronic database will not be altered in any way, and will only
      be available to the project manager. Paper and electronic data regarding screening, informed
      consent, and clinical outcomes will be preserved at the Affiliated Hospital of Nantong
      University, China.

      Data analysis: The electronic database will be made available to a professional statistician
      for statistical analysis. An outcome analysis report will be made by the statistician and
      submitted to the lead researchers. An independent data monitoring committee will supervise
      and manage the trial data with the goal of ensuring a scientific and stringent trial process,
      resulting in accurate and complete data.

      Data open access: Anonymized trial data will be published at http://www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed by a statistician using SPSS 19.0
      software and will follow the intention-to-treat principle. Normally distributed measurement
      data will be expressed as a mean, standard deviation, min, and max. Non-normally distributed
      measurement data will be expressed as a lower quartile (q1), median, and upper quartile (q3).
      McNemar's test will be used to compare the percentage of patients with excellent hip joint
      function as per Harris hip scores 12 months after surgery, the percentage of patients
      presenting with femoral head collapse, prosthesis loosening, peri-prosthesis infection, and
      incidence of complications 6 and 12 months after surgery. The Mann-Whitney U test will be
      used to compare the VAS score prior to and 1, 6, and 12 months after surgery. Statistical
      significance will be accepted when α = 0.05.
    
  