
    
      Periodontitis develops due to subgingival infection with specific microbial pathogen from
      dental plaque. The bacteria can activate immunoinflammatory mechanisms within the local
      periodontal tissues that lead to destruction of collagen and alveolar bone. Bacterial
      antigens can release from the supra and subgingival dental plaque on the tooth surface as
      well as from bacteria attached to mucosal surfaces. The sulcular epithelium served as a
      physical barrier to the insult of the bacteria, the presence of Langerhans cells is also
      responsible for communication with the immune system. Dendritic cells (DCs), the most
      effective antigen-presenting cells, contact and process the antigens. Signals from pathogen
      induce dendritic cells to maturation. Mature DCs rapidly increase surface expression and
      stability of MHC class I and class II-peptide complexes, upregulate the surface expression of
      adhesion and co-stimulatory molecules (CD40, CD54, CD80, and CD86) and secrete
      proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6, IL-12…….. then they migrate to lymphoid organs,
      where they regulate T cell immune response. Human gingiva contains Langerhans and connective
      tissue dendritic cells. Immature dendritic cells appeared to be limited to the epithelium,
      whereas mature dendritic cells were restricted to the connective tissue. Studies on cytokines
      have led to controversy about the the different T cell subsets associated with the
      progression of periodontitis. Seymour proposed that susceptibility to periodontal disease
      progression involve a predominantly Th2 response while Ebersole speculated that Th2 cells
      providing protective function. Progression of periodontitis is also associated with the
      presence of gram-negative anaerobic microorganism such as Porphyromonas gingivalis,
      Bacteroides forsythus. Different bacteria and their LPS can elicit strikingly different
      response. It is possible that a given pathogen may produce different maturation signals by
      selectively activating a particular DC subset to induce a given type of immune response. In
      this study, we observed the profiles and amounts of cytokine production of DCs stimulated
      with P. gingivalis and T. forsythensis compared with E. coli, to see whether the periodontal
      pathogens may induce different response of dendritic cells in the innate immunity.
    
  