
    
      Recent progresses in the understanding of lymphoma biology allowed the identification of new
      categories in the WHO classification of lymphoid neoplasm. Among these new entities, grey
      zone lymphoma (GZL) between classical Hodgkin lymphoma and diffuse large B cell lymphoma
      entered the classification as a provisional entity in 2008 and Diffuse large B cell lymphoma
      (DLBCL) EBV-associated not otherwise specified in patient without history of immunodepression
      in 2016. These entities need however to be further characterized as no clear pathological
      definition and distinction between EBV related GZL and EBV related DLBCL are proposed in the
      literature.

      After primary infection that occurs in almost 80% of young adult population in western
      country, EBV latency state settles in a small portion of B cells. The virus is known to
      promote B-cells proliferation and transformation through complex mechanisms.

      EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders have already been largely studied in
      immunocompromised host (human immunodeficiency virus, congenital immunodeficiency,
      immunosuppressor and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder, e.g.), but its role is
      largely unknown in patients with no history of immunodeficiency. Whether these patients arbor
      an underlying type of immune deficiency has not yet been established, even though
      immunosenecence in elderly or immaturity of the immune system in children has been postulated
      in those population.

      Based on former definition, EBV-associated lymphoproliferation were usually the apanage of
      classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) or immunodeficiency-associated lymphoproliferative
      disorders. However, as published recently, several different histological patterns with
      intermediate features between primary mediastinal B cell lymphoma (PMBCL) and classical
      Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), namely grey zone lymphoma (GZL), but also diffuse large B cell
      lymphoma (DLBCL) were described to be EBV-associated. On the clinical point of view, patients
      with GZL are young and have a poor prognosis. Data regarding EBV+ DLBCL are discordant and
      further studies are warranted, even though initial report concluded to a poor prognosis for
      these patients.
    
  