
    
      This study consists of 11 visits (including screening).

      Screening Procedures:

      A chest radiograph (PA and lateral) must be obtained within 3 months prior to the first study
      injection. It must indicate that subject is free of tuberculosis (TB). The chest radiograph
      will also be used to confirm the stage of the disease.

      Histologically proven sarcoidosis will be confirmed.

      Demographic data, a complete medical history (including signs and symptoms of sarcoidosis), a
      physical examination (including vital signs, weight and height). The medical history will
      include questions about history of recent TB and history of close contact with persons who
      might have TB. Concomitant medications, including the use of oral corticosteroids and
      immunosuppressants, will be reviewed and recorded. In addition the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be reviewed.

      A tuberculin skin test will be performed.

      A serum pregnancy test will be performed for all women within the 4-week period prior to the
      Baseline (Week 0) Visit. All women must test negative for pregnancy at screening.

      ATS dyspnea score will be assessed.

      The 6-minute walk test will be performed with Borg's CR10 dyspnea score obtained before and
      after.

      Pulmonary function tests [PFTs] (spirometry) will be performed.

      Blood samples for routine laboratory analyses will be obtained.

      AE monitoring will also be performed.

      Subjects who qualify for the study should be assigned to receive treatment within 14 days of
      the screening visit except if additional time is required for repeat TB skin testing.

      Patients should still meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria
      at the time of the baseline visit before starting the injections. Subjects must agree to use
      appropriate contraception.

      The procedures involved at all study visits are described below.

        -  Informed Consent:

      (Screening Visit): Subjects will be asked to review this consent form and discuss with the
      study doctor or study staff any questions they may have

        -  Health and Medication Questions:

      (Screen, Weeks 0, 2, 6, 12, 24, 30, 36, 45, 52): Subjects will be asked to answer questions
      about their health, their medical history, and the medications they take.

        -  Physical Exam:

      (Screen, Weeks 6, 24, 52): Do a physical exam.

        -  Vital Signs:

      (Screen, Weeks 0, 6, 12, 24, 52): Blood Pressure, Pulse, Temperature

        -  Height and Weight:

      (Screen, Week 52)

        -  Blood Tests:

      (Screen, Weeks 12, 24, 45, 52): Approximately 3 teaspoons of blood will be drawn from a vein
      in subject's hand or arm for these tests.

        -  Lung Function Test:

      (Screen, Weeks 24, 52): Subject will be given a mouthpiece and asked to take deep breaths
      into a machine connected to a computer according to the cues of a staff member. The machine
      will measure the capacity of subject's lungs.

        -  Chest X-ray:

      (Screen, Weeks 12, 24, 52):

        -  Tuberculosis Test:

      (Screen only): Subject will be asked specific questions regarding their history of
      tuberculosis (also called TB: a type of bacterial lung infection) or personal contact with
      people with active tuberculosis. Subjects with active tuberculosis cannot be in the study.
      Subjects will be given a skin test for tuberculosis. For all subjects in this trial, a TB
      skin test with negative results must be obtained.

        -  6 Minute Walk Test: (Screen, Weeks 0, 12, 24, 52): Subject will be asked to complete a
           test where they will walk for 6 minutes. Subject will be asked specific questions
           regarding any shortness of breath they have.

        -  Pregnancy Test:

      (Screen only): A pregnancy blood test will be performed on all women of childbearing
      potential at the screening visit. The results of the test must be negative in order for
      subject to participate in the study.

        -  ECG:

      (Week 0 only)

        -  Study Drug Administration:

      (Weeks 0, 2, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 45): Subject will receive study drug at the Week 0 Visit
      and be taught how to give themselves injections. Subject will be given a supply of study drug
      and clinical supplies that will last until the next study visit. Subject will be required to
      return all unused study drug as well as the packaging for the used study drug at each visit.

        -  Questionnaires:

      (Weeks 0, 2, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 45): Prior to receiving any study drug, subject will be
      asked questions about their symptoms and quality of life, including their ability to care for
      themselves and carry out normal everyday activities (respiratory and health surveys) and
      health questionnaires.

      All subjects will return for efficacy and safety evaluations at each time point including
      week 52, whether or not they complete the entire treatment schedule and whether or not they
      are (still) responding to treatment.

      We will watch carefully for signs and symptoms of CHF and active TB at follow-up evaluations
      for all patients. The study agent will be stopped in subjects who are found to have NYHA
      Class III or IV CHF, severe right-sided heart failure, cor pulmonale, and/or active TB after
      enrollment in the study but they must return for further follow-up evaluations.
    
  