
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      Small pilot study evaluating pre/post impressions of information technology and the
      feasibility of using a tablet computer for education purposes and to complete a daily survey
      about preparations for discharge and post-acute care.

      The study has two distinct parts. Patients will have the option to participate in either one
      or both parts.

      PART 1: Using iPads to learn about health conditions We will enroll and randomize patients to
      intervention or control groups. Allocation to be intervention or control group will be
      determined using a computer-based random number generator. All patients will be orientated to
      using an iPad, asked to take a pre-use survey, will have a MyChart account set up and view
      EMMI modules. Intervention group patients will receive specific detailed education about how
      to access, navigate and use MyChart using tablets (iPads) . Control group patients will not
      receive this specific education about how to access, navigate and use MyChart using tablets
      (iPads). Both intervention and control group patients will be asked to complete a post-use
      survey. We will access MyChart data repositories to determine if patients continue to access
      their patient portal for up to 30 days after the completion of this part of the study.

      PART 2: Using iPads to prepare for discharge We will enrol all eligible patients (regardless
      of intervention or control group status in Part 1) to complete a daily Readiness for
      Discharge Survey (RDS). This standardized validated survey will determine a range of
      discharge and post-acute issues and will be fed back to the patient's health care team.
      Patient demographic and clinical information will be abstracted from their medical record to
      determine if there are any specific issues related to specific groups of patients. Initially
      the RDS will be completed on a paper survey but will be eventually be administered via an
      iPad.
    
  