
    
      Chronic hepatitis C (CHC) viral infection is a major health problem affecting 130-170 million
      worldwide, and 2.7-3.9 million in the US, more than 3 times those with HIV infection.
      One-third of persons with HIV have CHC, a more rapid progression to cirrhosis and liver
      failure, with liver disease as one of the leading causes of mortality.

      Standard treatment, pegylated-interferon (IFN) alfa and ribavirin (RBV), has an efficacy,
      sustained virologic response (SVR), of less than 50% in those with HCV genotype 1 (GT 1); and
      only about 25% of those with HIV-HCV GT1 co-infection. SVR is even lower in those retreated,
      who were prior treatment relapsers or non-responders; few published studies exist, especially
      in those with HIV. Improved therapy is imperative given increasing morbidity and mortality
      and the proportion of persons who are relapsers or non-responders. Newer and promising
      anti-HCV therapies, directly acting antivirals (DAA), are in development. However, only 2 are
      in Phase 3 clinical trials and most remain far from FDA approval.

      An oral agent, nitazoxanide (NTZ), with broad in vitro anti-microbial activity and a good
      safety profile, has higher efficacy rates in treatment na ve participants mono-infected with
      HCV GT 1 or 4. There have not been studies in HIV co-infected persons, nor pharmacokinetic
      (PK) studies in liver or renal disease. In vitro studies suggest that NTZ has both a direct
      suppressive effect on HCV replication, as well as a sensitizing effect on IFN-mediated
      suppression of HCV replication, yet the exact mechanism of action giving rise to higher SVR
      rates is not well understood.

      This is an open-label study in 35 HIV-HCV GT 1 co infected persons, prior relapsers (n=25) or
      non-responders (n=10) after a full course of IFN and RBV therapy. Participants will receive 4
      weeks of NTZ lead-in therapy, followed by NTZ/peg-IFN/RBV triple combination therapy for an
      additional 48 weeks. Slow responders will receive 72 weeks of triple therapy after the 4-week
      NTZ lead-in.

      The primary endpoint is safety and tolerability of NTZ. Secondary endpoints are exploratory:
      (1) efficacy rate estimation, (2) viral dynamics assessment, and determination of predictive
      response, (3) pharmacologic level assessment, (4) indirect mechanistic action evaluation of
      NTZ through virologic response, and, (5) IFN-stimulated genetic expression evaluation and
      determination of predictive response. There will be a sub-study evaluating the PK of NTZ in a
      group of 10 participants who are on a ritonavir-based HIV antiretroviral regimen.
    
  