
    
      We conducted a meta-analysis to examine the effects of task-oriented approach in patients
      with sub-acute stroke and a preliminary study of an assessor-blind randomized controlled
      trial with a total of 3 patients with sub-acute stroke (experimental group: E1; control
      group: C1 and C2). The participants were randomly assigned to the experimental group or the
      control group. All participants received 4 weeks of exercise training, which were 4 sessions
      per week and 60 minutes for each session. The experimental group received task-oriented
      circuit training to improve lower extremity motor functions. The control group received
      stretch exercises and upper extremity activities in sitting posture. Both groups received
      clinical asessments on lower extremity motor functions (primary outcomes), the structural
      integrity of the CST using diffusion spectrum imaging, and the cortical activation patterns
      of the SMC using functional magnetic resonance imaging(secondary outcomes) at baseline,
      post-training (week 4), and 1 month follow-up (week 8). Because of the small number of
      subjects, we also included one subject (E2) who received the same training programs as
      experimental group in our pilot study as one subject of the training group result. Training
      effects were descriptively analyzed for individual subjects.

      The meta-analysis results showed that task-oriented training led to significantly greater
      improvement than other training on 6-minute walking distance (mean difference = 82.49 meter;
      95% confidence interval: 27.59-137.38) and comfortable gait speed (standardized mean
      difference = 0.27; 95% confidence interval: 0.03-0.52) in patients with subacute stroke. Our
      preliminary results showed that the experimental group achieved meaningful improvements in
      most of the primary outcomes but not for the control group. In addition, different brain
      reorganization patterns were observed in the two groups.

      The results of meta-analysis provide relevant clinical evidence for the effects of
      task-oriented training on lower extremity motor functions, and this preliminary study
      provides the pilot result for the effects of task-oriented circuit training on lower
      extremity motor functions, brain structural and functional plasticity in patients with
      sub-acute stroke.
    
  