
    
      All patients receiving thrombolytic treatment for acute ischemic stroke will be included in
      this study. The decision for treatment and selection of thrombolysis type is allocated to
      treating stroke physicians who will follow national and international stroke guidelines and
      considering the clinical and radiological findings. Patients are given either a) intravenous
      rt-PA (0.9 mg/kg; maximum 90 mg, 10% as intravenous bolus and the remaining 90% as continuous
      infusion over 1 hour), b) endovascular treatment such as intra-arterial urokinase or rt-PA
      and/or mechanical recanalization techniques, or c) two thirds of the standard dose
      intravenous rt-PA followed by endovascular treatment such as intra-arterial urokinase or
      rt-PA and/or mechanical recanalization techniques (bridging concept). Patient involvement in
      this study will not influence any treatment decision. Patients will undergo a complete
      diagnostic stroke work-up, including assessment of vascular risk factors and medication,
      clinical neurological examination using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale
      (NIHSS) score on admission and 24h after thrombolysis, laboratory examination, brain and
      neurovascular imaging, echocardiography and 24-hours ECG to determine stroke etiology using
      the Trial of Org 10172 in Acute Stroke Treatment (TOAST) criteria. All patients will be
      weighed as early as possible, but stringently within 24h after thrombolysis. If they are able
      to stand at 24h, a standard calibrated licensed scale will be used (Seca, Hamburg, Germany;
      Model 799). Otherwise, patients will be weighed on a special bed scale calibrated and
      validated for the use for patient weighing (Seca; Hamburg, Germany; Model 657). In addition,
      body height, waist and hip circumference of each patient will be measured. All patients will
      be examined by CT and CTA or MRI and MRA at 24h and in any case of clinical deterioration to
      exclude intracranial hemorrhage and to assess recanalization in case of vessel occlusion
      (using the thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grading system). The treating
      physician will initiate secondary prevention of stroke as soon as possible and according to
      current guidelines. Body weight and clinical assessments (measurement of clinical scores
      NIHSS, modified Rankin Scale, and Barthel Index; assessment of adverse events such as
      in-hospital complication, death, cardiovascular event) will be performed by stroke physicians
      at following visits: I) day 3-5 and/or hospital discharge, II) 3-month and III) 12-month.
      Patients in whom a clinical follow-up examination is not possible will be evaluated by a
      structured phone interview.
    
  