
    
      Health literacy is generally affected by many factors, from demographic, cultural and
      psychosocial factors, general literacy level, individual characteristics, experiences related
      to the disease, and factors related to the healthcare system. It is stated that the evidence
      supporting the negative effects on the health of individuals is increasing due to the lack of
      health literacy.

      These effects; Low use of preventive healthcare services are shown as delay in seeking health
      care in the symptomatic period, inability to understand the medical condition of the
      individual, inability to adhere to medical advice / instructions, insufficient self-care,
      increase in health care costs and increase in mortality.

      In terms of health, health literacy is a stronger determinant than income, employment status,
      education level, race or ethnic group . The strong place of the concept of health literacy
      among the main determinants of health appears to be an important factor in the struggle for
      inequality in health. It is stated that adoption of lifelong learning policies to increase
      health literacy has important effects .

      Since health literacy is directly related to general literacy, studies to be carried out in
      the field of education can contribute to health literacy and to the improvement of health,
      thereby reducing health inequalities. It has been determined that the e-health literacy
      levels of the students studying at Kırıkkale University Faculty of Health Sciences in
      2016-2017 differ according to the departments, they are at medium and high levels (average
      29.48).

      Studies have been suggested to improve the e-health literacy levels of Faculty of Health
      Sciences students. These recommendations are in line with this study is to determine the
      students of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Department e-health literacy levels in Turkey
      and will be conducted to determine whether there is effective on the e-health literacy
      attended class. In case of a difference, secondary goal is to improve the level of health
      literacy by contributing to undergraduate education.
    
  