
    
      After acute stroke, 25∼45% of patients show difficulties in swallowing, which is associated
      with a high risk of pneumonia, malnutrition, and mortality. In addition to traditional
      swallowing therapies for post-stroke dysphagia (PSD), the Iowa Oral Performance Instrument
      (IOPI) is used to provide tongue exercise program which improving swallowing function.
      Additionally, neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is also beneficial to manage PSD.
      In rehabilitation unit, ultrasound is a convenient tool and is more widely used in
      investigating oropharyngeal muscles mass and quality in PSD. Therefore, the investigators
      hope to assess the effects on swallowing function and oropharyngeal muscle mass on sonography
      after IOPI swallowing training and neuromuscular electrical stimulation in PSD.

      First, the investigators will enroll 20 normal people, whose ages should be from 40-80 years
      old, to verify the inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of sonography and use IOPI to
      assess maximal muscle strength and endurance of oropharyngeal muscles. Second, 40 stroke
      patients with different levels in dysphagia will be enrolled. Each patient will receive
      clinical assessments of swallowing and tongue functions, general and oropharyngeal muscles
      mass and quality by sonography, and life quality. These stroke patients with dysphagia will
      be randomly allocated in two groups. the investigators will provide two interventions
      including combined simple and IOPI therapies(n=20), and combined swallowing therapy with
      NMES(n=20) for the 2 groups.

      The investigators will investigate the differences of swallowing and tongue functions,
      oropharyngeal muscles on sonography in patients with PSD. The effects of the swallowing
      therapies in swallowing function, oropharyngeal muscle mass, and life quality will be
      explored in PSD by using different swallowing therapies. The investigators will find out the
      most effective swallowing therapy from these 2 interventions for PSD. Furthermore, the
      investigators could explore that sonography is a clinically practical tool for assessing
      oropharyngeal muscles mass and quality in PSD.
    
  