
    
      The present study was carried out after the approval of "Dokuz Eylül University School of
      Medicine, Clinical Researches Ethics Committee and informed consents of the patients were
      obtained. A total of 90 normotensive and American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) I-II
      patients at and over the age of 65 years undergoing elective non-cardiac surgery were
      enrolled in the study. The study was designed as a prospective, randomized, double-blind
      study. The patients were randomly (sealed envelope method) assigned to one of the following
      groups:

      Remi 0.1= dose of remifentanil for the induction of anesthesia is 0.1 µg/kg/min (n=30) Remi
      0.2= dose of remifentanil for the induction of anesthesia is 0.2 µg/kg/min (n=30) Remi 0.3=
      dose of remifentanil for the induction of anesthesia is 0.3 µg/kg/min (n=30) The patients and
      the anesthesiologist, who would perform the induction of anesthesia, were blind for
      remifentanil dose.

      In all patients, an intravenous (IV) line was opened on the dorsum of the left hand using
      18-Gauge cannula before they were admitted to the surgery room and 0.9% isotonic NaCl
      solution was infused at a dose of 5-7 mL/kg without any agent for premedication. The patients
      underwent standard monitoring composed of electrocardiogram (ECG), pulse oximeter,
      noninvasive blood pressure measurement, and end tidal carbon dioxide measurement. After
      5-minute stabilization period following monitoring, heart rates and systemic arterial
      pressures of the patients were measured and baseline values were recorded for each patient
      (6). Measurement of systemic arterial pressure was done by automatic oscillometry
      (Hewlett-Packard HP M1008B) and heart rate (HR) was calculated on the ECG trace
      (Hewlett-Packard HP M1002A). Induction of Anesthesia Following routine monitoring in the
      surgery room, induction of anesthesia was started after the patients were peroxygenized and
      received 0.9% isotonic NaCl solution via IV route at a dose of 5-7 mL/kg. Following
      intravenous (IV) administration of 0.5 mg Atropine (Atropin, Biofarma, Istanbul, Turkey)
      prior to the induction, the patients randomly (by lot) received one of the three different
      doses (0.1, 0.2, 0.3 µg/kg/min) of remifentanil infusion (Ultiva, Glaxo Wellcome,
      Marly-le-Roi, France) for two minutes. After 2-minute remifentanil infusion (remi
      concentration of 40 µg/mL), 0.5 mg/kg propofol ( Propofol 1% Fresenius; Fresenius Kabi,
      Uppsala, Sweden) was administered via IV route increasing the dose by 10 mg every 10 seconds;
      0.5 mg/kg rocuronium was administered via IV route at the time of loss of eyelash reflex and
      consciousness (7). Two minutes later, intubation was performed at one sitting in all patients
      by a specialist with at least 5-year experience using Macintosh laryngoscope. The lungs were
      manually ventilated by sevoflurane at an inspiratory concentration of 1.5% and by 50%
      air/oxygen until the intubation. Infusion dose of remifentanil, which had been performed at
      induction dose until intubation, was decreased by 50% in all groups after intubation.

      The maintenance of anesthesia was provided with remifentanil at predetermined dose and the
      ventilation continued with 50% air/oxygen and sevoflurane at an inspiratory concentration of
      1.5% in the way target end-tidal carbon dioxide value would be 30-35 mmHg.

      After recording the baseline values of heart rate, systolic arterial pressure, mean arterial
      pressure and diastolic arterial pressure, which were planned to be investigated, and
      administering atropine, a total of six measurements at one-minute intervals were performed
      until the time of intubation; no measurement was performed during intubation period.

      Hypotension was defined as a systolic arterial pressure < 90 mmHg or a decrease more than 30%
      of the baseline value, and it was treated with 5 mg IV Ephedrine (Efedrin, Osel, Istanbul,
      Turkey) (8). Determining 40% or higher decrease in the above-mentioned values, the dose of
      remifentanil infusion was decreased by 50% in addition to administration of 5 mg IV
      Ephedrine; in case no improvement was observed and systolic arterial pressure remained below
      40% of the baseline value, the dose of remifentanil was decreased by 1/4. A heart rate <
      50/min was defined as bradycardia and treated with 0.5 mg IV Atropine.
    
  