
    
      Up to 30 adults and 15 children will be recruited from 3 different sites in Singapore.

      For Adults, this phase consists of screening and intervention periods.

      Screening Period (Week -2 to -1):

      Participants will be asked to wear a blinded flash glucose monitoring system and will be
      asked to continue testing their capillary glucose readings at least once daily for 2 weeks
      (week -2 to week -1). Sensor glucose measurements are not available to both participants and
      investigators during this screening period. Participants who are able to wear the sensor for
      the 2 weeks, and are monitoring their capillary glucose levels at least 70% of the time for
      the 2 weeks (>10 readings/2weeks), will proceed on with the intervention period.

      Intervention Period (Week 0 - 26):

      Participants will wear a personal version of the flash glucose monitoring system continuously
      for the next 6 weeks. After these 6 weeks, they will wear the sensor intermittently (one
      sensor lasting 2 weeks, per 4 weeks) for the following 18 weeks.Participants in this arm will
      receive an education package that consists of Diabetes nurse educator and/or dietitian
      appointments during weeks 0, 2, 6 and 24. After week 24, they will put on a blinded sensor
      for the last 2 weeks of the intervention period (week 25 to week 26). HbA1c will be monitored
      at weeks 0, 14 and 24. Questionnaires will be administered to assess acceptability of wear,
      and perceived value to the end-user.

      Paediatric participants will not undergo blinded sensor wear but will undergo the
      intervention period, with the schedule of wear identical to the adults'. The education
      curriculum will be age-appropriate and will be delivered over weeks 0, 2, 6, 12, and 24.
      Their HbA1c will be monitored at week 0, 12 and 24. Questionnaires will be administered to
      assess acceptability of wear, and perceived value to the end-user.
    
  