
    
      Participants (thereafter named Smoke-free Teens) Youth between Form 1 and 4 or aged 14 to 18
      will be nominated by secondary schools, youth centres and uniform groups to participate in
      the Smoke-free Teens Programme .

      Outcomes The primary outcomes include the change in (1) knowledge on smoking hazards, (2)
      attitudes towards smoking, tobacco control and smoking cessation, (3) practices for promoting
      smoking prevention and cessation, and (4) the Smoke-free Teens' satisfaction on the training
      camp.

      The secondary outcomes are (1) the number of people participated in the school- or
      community-based smoke-free programmes organised by the Smoke-free Teens, and (2) the number
      of smokers advised and referred to existing smoking cessation services by the Smoke-free
      Teens.

      The Smoke-free teens will join a "2-Day-1-Night" training camp organized by the Hong Kong
      Council of Smoking and Health(COSH) in July or August . The camp will cover a wide range of
      indoor, outdoor, adventure-based, experiential learning activities. Besides, the teens will
      be equipped with the knowledge on smoking hazards, tobacco control and smoking cessation. In
      addition, the teens will be taught how to deliver a brief smoking cessation intervention
      using the "AWARD" Model: 1) Ask about smoking, 2) Warn the smokers that at least half will be
      killed by smoking, 3) Advise to quit (reduce) as soon as possible, 4) Refer to cessation
      clinics or hotlines, and 5) Do it again until the smokers quit. By the end of the training
      camp, the teens should be confident and competent in delivering the brief smoking cessation
      intervention to smokers. After the training camp, the teens will then break down into groups
      to organize smoke-free programmes in their schools or in the community.

      Survey instrument A structured questionnaire designed by the smoking cessation team, School
      of Nursing, the University of Hong Kong will be used to evaluate the training camp. The
      questionnaire covers four areas, including (1) knowledge on smoking hazards, (2) attitudes
      towards smoking, tobacco control and smoking cessation, (3) practices for promoting smoking
      prevention and cessation, and (4) self-efficacy to deliver smoking cessation advices. The
      items of the questionnaire have been adopted and modified from previous studies on smoking
      cessation, with well-established psychometric properties. A process evaluation form will also
      be developed by the smoking cessation team to assess how the teens satisfy with the training
      camp, and to determine whether the content of the training camp meets the learning needs and
      expectations of the teens.

      To evaluate the smoke-free programmes organized after the training camp, each group of the
      Smoke-free Teens will be required to submit a written proposal to COSH. In addition, a final
      report that contains the information about the number of people reached by the programmes,
      publicity, and the process and outcomes of the programmes, will be submitted for review.

      Data collection Data collection will be conducted by COSH. All Smoke-free Teens will be
      invited to respond to the structured questionnaire at baseline (T1), immediately after the
      training camp (T2), and 3 (T3) and 6 months later (T4). In addition, they will be asked to
      complete a process evaluation form immediately after the training camp (T2). Comments and
      suggestions provided by the teens in the process evaluation form will be taken into account
      for future improvement of the training camp. In addition, each group of teens will have to
      submit the written proposal and final report regarding the smoke-free programme to COSH at 3
      (T3) and 6 (T4) months, respectively.

      Statistical analysis The Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS: Version 23; SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, Illinois, USA) for Windows will be employed to analyze the data. Descriptive
      statistics will be used to describe the demographic characteristics of the Smoke-free Teens.
      Paired samples t-test and McNemar's test will be conducted to assess the change in knowledge,
      attitudes and practices of the Smoke-free Teens regarding smoking, tobacco control and
      smoking cessation before and after the training camp. To evaluate the smoke-free programmes
      organized by the Smoke-free Teens after the training camp, descriptive statistics will be
      used to report the number of people reached by the programmes, publicity, and the process and
      outcomes of the programmes.
    
  