
    
      A study of the peritoneal ultrafiltration achieved with Carry Life® UF compared to standard
      PD therapy, performed in 12 stable PD patients. The study consists of one baseline study
      session with Icodextrin overnight and one four-hour, 2.27% glucose exchange and three Carry
      Life® UF treatments with different glucose doses. All treatments are preceded by an
      Icodextrin dwell overnight.

      Visit 1: The patient will be screened for study eligibility and a signed informed consent
      obtained before any of the study activities commence. Once included in the study the patient
      will be asked to document their ultrafiltration volumes for the week prior to the baseline
      study session (PD bags to be weighed before and after).

      Visit 2: Baseline study session with standard PD therapy. The evening before visit 2 the
      patient will use Icodextrin 2000 ml overnight which is drained at the clinic before the start
      of the second PD exchange.

        -  A four-hour dwell with 2.27%, 2000 ml PD fluid will be performed at the clinic.

        -  During the study sessions the fluid intake and output will be measured.

        -  A 24 h urine collection for urea and creatinine clearance started the day before the
           baseline study session will be completed at the baseline study session.

      Visit 3, 4 and 5: Carry Life® UF study sessions The evening before the visits the patient
      will use Icodextrin 2000 ml overnight which is drained at the clinic the next day before the
      start of the Carry Life® UF study session.

        -  The Carry Life UF study session starts with filling the peritoneal cavity with 1500 ml
           of a standard glucose-based PD solution of 1.36%.

        -  The Carry Life® UF is then connected to the PD catheter and the 5-hour treatment starts.
           The glucose dose for visit 3 is 11 g/h, visit 4, 14 g/h and visit 5, 20 g/h.

        -  During the treatment, IP fluid will be drained hourly and as required.

        -  During the study sessions the fluid intake and output will be measured.

        -  During and after each study session the patient's tolerability of the treatment will be
           evaluated by monitoring vital signs (blood pressure and heart rate hourly).

        -  Evaluation of the patient's experience of the Carry Life® UF treatment is documented in
           the CRF, regarding the sensation of the flow in and out of the abdomen and a short
           questionnaire between visit 4 and 5, regarding the usability and experience of the
           device.

      Follow-up: Follow-up will be performed after the completion of the Carry Life® UF study
      sessions. The follow-up can either be performed at the clinic or by telephone which is at the
      discretion of the investigator and the patient.
    
  