
    
      Bone Marrow Aspiration and Cell Culture Procedure

      Utilizing fluoroscopic guidance, a coaxial needle will be advanced to the bone marrow space.
      The inner portion will be removed and 10-20mL of marrow aspirated.

      MSCs will be isolated and cultured in the Case Western Reserve University National Center for
      Regenerative Medicine/Seidman Cancer Center Cellular Therapy Lab using standard operating
      procedures established under the ongoing IND - as above.

      MSC Delivery/Transplantation Procedure

      Utilizing fluoroscopic guidance, a needle will be advanced to the outer annulus of the
      affected disc(s). Through the coaxial anchor, a needle will be advanced to the middle 1/3 of
      the disc, and confirmed in two planes (AP and lateral).

      On the day of infusion, MSCs will be transported from the Cellular Therapy Lab to the IR
      suite in a validated dry shipper. MSCs will be thawed in a 37ºC water bath and drawn into 1
      ml syringes. Prior to delivery, an aliquot of the infused product will be tested for
      viability (trypan blue exclusion). Viability must be >70% for cell transplantation. Treatment
      group one will receive an injection of 1-2 ml of a 2 x 106/ml concentration solution of MSCs
      and treatment group 2 will 1-2 ml of a 4 x 106/ml concentration solution of MSCs. Both
      treatment groups will be injected under intermittent fluoroscopic observation. A manometer
      will be used to monitor disc pressures, especially during MSC injection keeping pressure
      below 100 psi. Specifically, the volume of injectate will be determined based on three
      dynamic factors: real time imaging of contained contrast volume during discography, psi as
      measured during the injection (< 100), and patient's symptoms (if patient's pain exceeds
      baseline, injection will be stopped) - up to a volume of 2cc of the assigned concentration.

      An aliquot of infused product will be submitted to the University Hospitals Cleveland Medical
      Center Microbiology Laboratory to test for microbiological contamination. In the event of a
      positive microbial test following administration of a cellular product: 1) The Principal
      Investigator and his/her designee will be notified and will notify the participant, 2) The
      contaminant will identified to a species level and antibiotic sensitivities determined, 3)
      The Medical Director of the Cellular Therapy Laboratory and/or the Principal Investigator
      will determine the best course of action based on the clinical situation. This may include
      blood cultures, administration of prophylactic antibiotics, and repeat cultures on the cell
      product. 4) An investigation to determine the source of the contamination will be conducted,
      and appropriate corrective measures will be undertaken. Finally, the adverse event will be
      reported to the IRB and FDA based on the respective federal and institutional reporting
      requirement, as well the approved data safety monitoring board charter.

      MRI/Quantitative MRI Procedure

      Routine images of the lumbar spine (sagittal and axial T1 and T2 weighted images) will be
      obtained for the purposes of: Monitoring for potential alternative effects of the cells
      including osteophyte formation, as well as any unexpected local outcome. In addition, a
      quantative MRI including fingerprinting. Magnetic resonance Fingerprinting (MRF) allows rapid
      and simultaneous quantification of T1and T2 relaxation times. The MRF sequence is based on
      varying multiple MR acquisition parameters [ e.g. flip angle (FA) and time of repetition
      (TR)] in a pseudorandom manner, such that unique signal evolutions called "fingerprints" are
      generated for each combination of tissue properties. These fingerprints are compared with a
      dictionary of simulated fingerprints generated for that sequence by a pattern matching
      process. Once there is a pattern match, the T1 and T2 values used to generate that dictionary
      entry are assigned to that voxel and used to create T1 and T2 maps that are perfectly
      anatomically co-registered.

      For spine, the proposed MRF sequence is based on a multislice Fast Imaging with Steady
      Precession (FISP) acquisition. Scanning will be done both in sagittal and axial planes using
      a multislice acquisition. The scan parameters are as follows:

      FOV: 400 mm, matrix 400 x 400 mm , TR/TE: 13-15 msec, in-plane resolution 1 x 1 mm, section
      thickness 5 mm, flip angle 5-75 degrees, acquisition time ~ 39 seconds per slice, with ~ 4
      minutes scan time for a 5 slice sagittal image. In axial plane, the disc would be covered at
      each intervertebral level in 4-5 transverse slices and each axial acquisition would take ~ 3
      minutes scan time.

      The MRF maps would be directly generated as DICOM images using Gadgetron online
      reconstruction. Image analysis would be done using a DICOM viewing software to draw Regions
      of Interest (ROIs) on nucleus pulposus for direct quantification of relaxation times. There
      is the capacity to generate MRF maps from raw data on Matlab which can also be used to draw
      ROIs for simultaneous quantification of T1 and T2 relaxation times.

      These values will be calculated on the pre and post treatment MRIs.
    
  