
    
      The goal of this study is to evaluate a 4-session, peer-facilitated asthma self-management
      intervention for Latino, middle school (6th-8th) youth in urban public school settings. The
      intervention, ASMAS (Asthma Self-Management in Schools) is administered by trained and
      supervised High School juniors and seniors of Latino descent with asthma to middle school
      peers with asthma. This study is a partnership with a second research group in San Juan,
      Puerto Rico, since there is also a high rate of asthma in children there.

      There are 2 goals in this study. The first goal is to evaluate the effects of ASMAS on asthma
      health outcomes (for example, asthma control, symptom free days, school absences and lung
      function) and on asthma self-management (skills, knowledge and self-efficacy, availability of
      rescue inhaler and action plan at school) in a sample of 432 Latino middle school children
      with asthma in Providence, Rhode Island and San Juan, Puerto Rico.

      Middle schoolers and a primary caregiver will complete a baseline research session, as well
      as, immediately post intervention and 4-month, 8-month and 12-month post intervention
      follow-up research home visits during which they will complete study questionnaires about the
      child's asthma. Students will be randomly assigned to one of three study groups. Assignment
      is random (like a coin toss), and what each student does in school depends on what group each
      student is assigned to. The ASMAS group and the Asthma + Health Education groups will learn
      about asthma and about other selected health topics during their in-school intervention
      sessions (1 per week for 4 weeks). The "no treatment" study group will not attend in-school
      group sessions at all.

      The second goal in the study is to evaluate the intervention in preparation for using it on a
      wider scale in other places. Students, caregivers, High School Peers, school administrators
      and additional community members will be invited to participate in group discussions about
      the intervention.
    
  