
    
      Heart surgery is most commonly performed through a central division of the sternum, a
      sternotomy. This procedure provides full overview of the thoracic cavity and access to the
      organs within. At the department of Cardiothoracic & Vascular Surgery at Skejby Hospital
      alone, over 1000 sternotomies are performed each year. When closing the sternum, the normal
      procedure is to use steel wires to hold the two sternal halves together. The patient receives
      no additional medical treatment to improve bone healing. Following surgery, sufficient
      healing of the sternum is important to prevent complications and to ensure a high level of
      life-quality for the patient. It has been shown that forces, equally to those produced during
      a normal cough, can displace the wire-fixated sternum by more than 2 mm. Reduced stability of
      the sternum has a negative impact on the healing process and increases the risk of
      infections. Another known complication to sternotomy is pseudoarthrosis (nonunion), which is
      caused by insufficient healing of the sternum and may result in instability, chronic pain and
      reduced quality of life. These complications result in prolonged admittance time, increased
      mortality and morbidity and from a financial point of view, increased treatment-costs for
      each patient.

      Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is a well known anabolic drug and has been used to treat
      osteoporosis in post-menopausal women with great effect. A continuous high level of PTH
      decreases bone density and induces hypercalcemia, but if given once daily PTH has an anabolic
      effect on bone. It is being investigated if it is possible to use PTH in the treatment of
      other conditions, for example in the treatment of bone fractures.

      Several studies, both clinical and experimental, show that PTH advances healing time and
      increases the quality of newly formed bone. It has also been shown to enable healing in
      sternal nonunion in one case-study. A recent human study of 102 osteoporotic women, with
      fractures of their radial bone, showed that daily injection with 20µg of the PTH-analog
      PTH1-34 (Teriparatide) reduces the fracture healing time. The effect of PTH on bone healing
      in sternum after a sternotomy has not previously been investigated.

      In this study, we aim to investigate the effect of PTH on sternal healing in a clinical
      setup.
    
  