
    
      For Patient:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to take part in 1 interview.
      During the interview, you will be asked to describe what it has been like for you to have
      chronic GVHD. In addition, if you agree to take part in this study, your family caregiver, if
      you have one, will be approached to take part in the study.

      For Caregiver:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to take part in 1 interview.
      During the interview, you will be asked to describe what it has been like for you to help
      care for a family member with chronic GVHD.

      Both Parties:

      The interview face-to-face will take place while you are at M. D. Anderson receiving care.
      You will be interviewed alone and the information gathered during the interview will be
      strictly confidential. The interview will take about 30 minutes and will be tape recorded.
      The audiotape of the interview will be kept in a locked cabinet in the office of the study
      chairperson Dr. Loretta Williams. If other study personnel need the tape for analysis, they
      must obtain the tape directly from Dr. Williams. They may keep the tape only while they are
      listening to it and must return it immediately to Dr. Williams. Identification labels on the
      tape will only contain your study number and will not contain your name, medical record
      number, or other identifying information. When all analysis for the study has been completed
      and reported, the audiotape will be destroyed.

      After the interview, you will be asked to answer a face-to-face questionnaire. This
      questionnaire will ask descriptive personal information (age, marital status, etc.).
      Answering these questions should take about 5 minutes.

      Your participation on this study ends after you complete the interview and questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. About 20 patients and 20 caregivers will take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      For Patient - Phase III:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete 1 questionnaire. The
      questionnaire will have questions asking you to rate how severe your current symptoms are and
      how much these symptoms disrupt your daily activities. You will be asked to complete this
      questionnaire during your clinic visit. The questionnaire will take no more than 10 minutes
      to complete.

      If you have chronic graft-versus-host disease, you will be asked to complete a second
      questionnaire about your opinion of the symptom questionnaire (the first questionnaire). For
      example, you will be asked if the symptom questionnaire was easy to understand and to
      complete. Learning your opinion about this questionnaire will help researchers learn what
      important questions may be missing from the questionnaire. The questionnaire will take no
      more than 10 minutes to complete.

      If you have chronic graft-versus-host disease, you will also be given questions asking you to
      rate the overall quality of your life and your ability to function. These ratings should take
      no more than 2 minutes to complete.

      Finally, you will be asked to answer a questionnaire. This questionnaire will ask descriptive
      personal information (such as age and marital status). Answering these questions should take
      about 5 minutes.

      If you have chronic GVHD, you may be asked to fill out the questionnaire rating your symptoms
      1 more time, about 3 days after you completed it the first time. You will return this second
      questionnaire to the research staff in a pre-addressed, stamped envelope given to you by the
      research staff. If you are asked to complete the questionnaire this second time, the research
      staff will also ask for your telephone number so that they may contact you and remind you to
      complete the questionnaire.

      Identification labels on all study questionnaires and forms will only contain your study
      number and will not contain your name, medical record number, or other identifying
      information. All study materials will be kept in a locked cabinet at all times. When all
      analysis for the study has been completed and reported, the questionnaires will be destroyed.

      The study ends when you have completed the questionnaires, rating scales, and interview in
      the clinic, or when you have completed and returned the second questionnaire 3 days after
      your clinic visit.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 192 patients will take part in this study. 147 will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson and 45 will be enrolled at Roswell Park Cancer Institute.
    
  