
    
      Heart failure is an emerging epidemic in especially the elderly, with high mortality rates,
      substantial loss in quality of life, and high healthcare costs, mainly due to
      hospitalizations. The majority of (usually elderly) patients with heart failure are diagnosed
      and managed in primary care. However underdiagnosis and undertreatment of patients with heart
      failure in primary care are common. Implementation of a standardized diagnostic protocol
      together with educating general practitioners in a pragmatic treatment strategy in which the
      focus lays on uptitration of heartfailure medication, would fill the gap of underdiagnosis
      and undertreatment that nowadays exists in primary care.

      All participants will undergo a standardized diagnostic work-up to establish or rule out
      heart failure. In those participants with an abnormal ECG and/or elevated natriuretic peptide
      level additional echocardiography will be performed at the outpatient clinic of the
      Diakonessenhuis in Zeist. The definite diagnosis of heart failure ('systolic' or 'diastolic')
      will be established by an expert panel consisting of two cardiologists and a general
      practitioner. The panel will apply the criteria of the updated heart failure guidelines
      (2008) of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Patients with heart failure will
      subsequently be treated by their own general practitioner. The participating general
      practitioners will be randomly divided into either care as usual (control group) or special
      uptitration (intervention group). Both groups will be using medication as recommended in the
      Dutch heart failure standard. However, general practitioners in the intervention group will
      be especially trained in the practical appliance of this guideline: the initiation of
      diuretics and ACE-inhibitors and structured uptitration of ACE-inhibitors and beta-blockers.
      In the training, practical examples will be used concerning barriers the general
      practitioners themselves encountered when using this medication. In the intervention group,
      patients with 'systolic' heart failure will receive the recommended maximal dose or the
      highest tolerated dose. Patients with 'diastolic' heart failure will receive optimal blood
      pressure and heart rate control with the preferred cardiovascular drugs. At baseline and six
      months after heart failure is established or ruled out, participants are asked to perform the
      six-minute walk test and fill out quality of life questionnaires. During those six months,
      only participants with heart failure will additionally fill out one of these questionnaires
      every three weeks. Also after six months, electronical files of the general practitioners
      will be scrutinized to assess the (dosage of) prescribed medication and visits to general
      practice and cardiology department.
    
  