
    
      This study is a prospective, two-arm, randomized trial that will evaluate and compare the
      bone healing following ridge preservation of extraction sockets (RP, Arms 1 and 2) or lateral
      ridge augmentation of edentulous sites (RA, Arms 3 and 4) using either small particle (SP) or
      large particle (LP) mineralized cortico-cancellous bone allografts in a total of 48 patients
      (12 in each arm).

      Study approval was obtained from the university's institutional review board. Qualifying
      participants and defects are randomized following a computerized permutation block to receive
      either LP or SP allografts on day of surgery. In the RP arms, tooth extraction is performed
      with a flapless minimally invasive technique, followed by socket grafting with a randomized
      graft covered with a collagen dressing and sutures. In the RA arms, lateral ridge
      augmentation is conducted utilizing a randomized bone graft covered by a collagen membrane
      fixated with tacks.

      The mineralized cortico-cancellous bone allografts utilized in this study were all obtained
      from the same donor, lot and tissue bank to account for variation in age, race, gender and
      related healing potential of different graft sources.

      In the RP arm, bone core biopsies will be harvested at time of implant placement 3 months
      following socket grafting, whereas similar biopsies will be obtained at 6 months following
      lateral ridge augmentation in the RA group. These 2x2x6 mm bone cores will then undergo
      histological and histomorphometrical analyses to determine qualitative and quantitative
      healing differences between LP and SP in all study arms.

      Clinical measurements are gathered at 2 time points (grating and implant placement) at all
      defects and will be compared for differences.

      Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) initial scans are conducted immediately following socket
      grafting (RP arms) and prior to ridge augmentation (RA arms) and second scans obtained prior
      to implant placement (all RP and RA arms). Virtual implant planning software (coDiagnostiX)
      will be utilized to assess and compare the 2- and 3-dimensional changes for all defects.
    
  