
    
      Prospective assessment of the temporal electrocardiographic-, vectorcardiographic- and
      echocardiographic changes in STelevation myocardial infarction versus the takotsubo syndrome.

      AIM To compare the temporal pattern of myocardial funtional recovery after ST-elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI) versus the takotsubo syndrome (TS).

      BACKGROUND Modern therapies have reduced the incidence of acute ischemic heart failure (AIHF)
      -But AIHF is still common and once it develops prognosis remains dismal.Despite considerable
      therapeutic advancements over the last decades, acute myocardialinfarction (AMI) remains one
      of the most common causes of death . Among patients who are admitted with AMI, the 10% that
      develop AIHF account for approximately 50% of Deaths within 30 days . The prognosis for
      patients with AIHF has not improved over the last decade . AIHF occurs due to acute loss of
      cardiac function, some of which occurs in myocardium that is not irreparably damaged - so
      called stunned myocardium.

      Myocardial stunning in AIHF - Temporary mechanical dysfunction without irreparable injury.
      Myocardial stunning was originally described in the setting of ischemia and was defined as
      temporary mechanical dysfunction that persists after resolution of ischemia, with the absence
      of irreversible histological damage . For the purpose of this application it is more broadly
      defined as temporary mechanical dysfunction, with the absence of irreversible histological
      damage - irrespective of the underlying cause. Myocardial stunning is believed to be a
      harmful phenomenon caused by cellular injury .

      Study hypothesis: Myocardial stunning is a protective mechanism by which the cardiomyocytes
      preserve energy for vital processes in states of severe cellular stress - but that can
      "overshoot" and lead to potentially lethal cardiac decompensation. In the normal heart, the
      contractile apparatus consumes the majority of myocardial energy and oxygen . Non-contractile
      myocardial functions, including cellular and electrical homeostasis, require less than 20% as
      much oxygen. When oxygen supply to the heart is interrupted myocardial stunning ensues within
      seconds, whereas it takes at least 10 minutes for the cardiomyocyte's energy metabolites to
      decrease to 50% of their initial level .Hence, by shutting down the contractile apparatus
      before it consumes the cells' energy stores myocardial stunning effectively preserves energy
      for processes that are necessary for cell survival . Irrespective of its beneficial effects
      on cardiomyocyte metabolism, myocardial stunning may lead to sufficiently pronounced cardiac
      dysfunction to cause life-threatening AIHF.

      Study purpose:

      To better understand the difference between myocardial stunning in STEMI and the more benign
      form of stunning in TS. The sudden occurrence of temporary myocardial mechanical dysfunction
      with the absence of irreversible myocardial damage is not limited to AMI. It can occur
      postoperatively after cardiac arrest; in the settings of acute myocarditis and
      tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy; and as a consequence of severe emotional or somatic
      stress in the takotsubo syndrome .Intriguingly, takotsubo is characterized by a compensated
      hemodynamic profile despite extensive myocardial dysfunction, effective recovery of
      myocardial function within days orweeks, and a relatively good prognosis .Takotsubo therefore
      appears to be a more efficient form of stunning than AIHF. Better understanding of the
      mechanisms behind the stunning phenomenon could allow for manipulation of the stunning
      phenotype in AIHF, or for pharmacological reversal of myocardial stunning once coronary
      reperfusion and adequate myocardial energy delivery has been ensured.
    
  