
    
      Background and purpose:

      Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a disabling side effect of several
      commonly used antineoplastic agents. CIPN prevalence was 68.1% within the first month of the
      end of chemotherapy, 60% at 3 months, and 30.0% at 6 months or later. Oxaliplatin as a
      chemotherapeutic drug for colorectal cancer has neurotoxicity on peripheral nerve system. A
      definite portion of patients suffered neurologic symptoms including paresthesia, dysesthesia
      over limbs and perioral area accompanied with muscles cramps or spasm sometimes; however, had
      impact on quality of life, daily functions, quality of sleep and lead to distress and
      depression. There is no drug to prevent peripheral neuropathy. Clinical observations reveal
      that acupuncture could decrease peripheral neuropathy, improve quality of life, and promote
      motivation of complete chemotherapy course.

      Material and methods:

      A total of 32 volunteers of patients with colorectal cancer will be recruited from the
      Chinese medicine or Western medicine clinics in China Medical University Hospital. These
      patients will be randomized to receive verum acupuncture or sham acupuncture treatment two
      times biweekly, prior to beginning chemotherapy and the weeks that drugs administered, for 26
      treatments in total.

      Questionnaires, neurological examination and Von Frey Filament Test will be completed at
      baseline, 12 and 24 weeks after initiation of intervention, 12 and 24 weeks after completion
      of acupuncture completion.

      Predict results:

      Investigators expect that the efficacy of verum acupuncture is superior to sham acupuncture
      in prevent or postpone occurrence of chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy and able to
      improve numbness, paresthesia, quality of life. The effectiveness of acupuncture can be
      detected by questionnaires, Von Frey Filament Test and neurological testing.
    
  