
    
      Glucose is the most important physiologic substance involved in the regulation of insulin
      release. The effect of glucose on the beta cell is dose related. Dose-dependent increases in
      concentrations of insulin and C-peptide and in rates of insulin secretion have been observed
      after oral and intravenous glucose loads with 1.4 units of insulin, on average, being
      secreted in response to an oral glucose load as small as 12 g. The insulin secretory response
      is greater with oral compared to intravenous glucose administration. This difference in
      insulin secretion is known as the incretin effect. This enhanced response to oral glucose has
      been interpreted as an indication that absorption of glucose by way of the gastrointestinal
      tract stimulates the release of hormones and other mechanisms that ultimately enhance the
      sensitivity of the beta cell to glucose. The release of insulin from the beta cell after a
      meal is facilitated by a number of gastrointestinal peptide hormones, including GIP (Glucose
      dependent insulinotropic peptide), cholecystokinin, and GLP1 (Glucagon like peptide 1). These
      hormones are released from small-intestinal endocrine cells postprandialy and travel in the
      bloodstream to reach the beta cells, where they act through second messengers to increase the
      sensitivity of these islet cells to glucose. In general, these hormones are not themselves
      secretagogues, and their effects are evident only in the presence of hyperglycemia. This
      incretin effect could account for the greater beta-cell response observed after oral as
      opposed to intravenous glucose administration.

      GLP1, the most potent of the incretin peptides, lowers glucose in patients with T2DM by
      stimulating endogenous insulin secretion and perhaps by inhibiting glucagon secretion and
      gastric emptying. Treatment with supra physiologic doses of GIP during hyperglycemia has been
      shown to augment insulin secretion in normal humans but not in individual with diabetes
      mellitus. Although cholecystokinin has the ability to augment insulin secretion in humans, it
      is not firmly established whether it is an incretin at physiologic levels. Its effects are
      also seen largely at pharmacological doses.

      Type 1 diabetes (T1DM) is characterized by autoimmune pancreatic β cell destruction and
      insulin deficiency resulting in hyperglycemia. Insulin is the mainstay of treatment in T1DM.
      There are few study which showed effectiveness of OHA (oral hypoglycemic agents) in T1DM.

      Linagliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitor. It increases endogenous glucagon
      like peptide 1 levels by inhibiting its rapid metabolism through the dipeptidyl peptidase 4
      enzyme. It is currently Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for the treatment of Type
      2 diabetes (T2DM ) as mono therapy or in combination with insulin or other oral hypoglycemic
      agents. Increasing endogenous glucagon like peptide 1 levels in patients with T2DM has been
      shown to significantly improve postprandial glucose levels by both increasing
      glucose-dependent insulin release and reducing glucagon levels.

      Studies had shown that sitagliptin, a DPP4 inhibitor is effective in T1DM. But the mechanism
      of action is unknown. In this study the investigators want to investigate the effect of
      linagliptin, another DPP4 inhibitor on the glycaemic profile, HbA1C and glycaemic variability
      in patients with T1DM. The investigators also will assess the GLP1 and glucagon response
      during mixed meal test to identify the potential mechanism of this novel form of therapy.
      These out come parameters will be compared with placebo treated T1DM patients. During this
      study patients will be monitored for any adverse effect like nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis.
      Serum urea, creatinin, amylase and lipase will be monitored monthly.
    
  