
    
      One of every five adults in the United States (46.4 million people) is affected by arthritis.
      Increasing the number of days individuals are free of arthritis pain is one of the Healthy
      People 2010 objectives. Although there are a variety of medical treatments and medications
      available, self-management is a critical component in helping arthritis sufferers learn how
      to identify, avoid, and help manage their pain. Unfortunately, clinicians face significant
      time pressure, leaving little time for desired patient-provider education and collaboration.
      This is an important omission as tailored advice (e.g., specific exercises to reduce pain)
      from health providers could enable behavior change and improve outcomes. Therefore, widely
      accessible and tailored interventions that address motivational issues are needed to
      facilitate self-management education among arthritis patients. Because of its reach across
      demographic groups, the Internet is an excellent vehicle for offering a self-management
      program to arthritis sufferers. The investigators propose to develop an interactive, online
      pain self-management program for adults who suffer from pain associated with osteoarthritis,
      rheumatoid arthritis, Ankylosing spondylitis, and other arthritic conditions (e.g., psoriatic
      arthritis) using principles from Social Cognitive Theory (Bandura, 1977). This online health
      intervention, painACTION: Arthritis, will provide clinically reliable information about
      diagnosis, treatment, and management of arthritis, written for health consumers in a clear
      and engaging manner to help increase their skills and confidence to use self-management
      strategies. Moreover, it will be designed to complement and connect to our other
      SBIR-supported pain online health interventions (chronic back pain, migraine pain,
      neuropathic pain) to be a more comprehensive resource for those seeking pain management
      assistance. The most unique aspect of painACTION: Arthritis is that it includes three
      technological innovations -- a Web 2.0-enabled platform, a Custom Recommendation Engine, and
      Dynamic Lessons - to help people self manage their arthritis pain. In Phase I the
      investigators accomplished two important objectives: 1) established the feasibility of
      painACTION: Arthritis as an intervention and a technical project and 2) generated preliminary
      plans for the content, design, and technical development of painACTION: Arthritis. In Phase
      II the investigators will produce the program and test its efficacy.
    
  