
    
      Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is characterized by formation of up to hundreds to
      thousands of polyps throughout the entire colon and rectum. When left untreated, nearly all
      patients with FAP develop colorectal cancer at a median age of 35-45 years. To prevent
      colorectal cancer in patients with FAP, prophylactic colorectal surgery is performed. The
      preferred surgical procedures for FAP are a restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal
      anastomosis (IPAA) or a subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA) or ileosigmoidal
      anastomosis (ISA).

      After both types of prophylactic colorectal surgery, subtotal colectomy with IRA/ISA or
      proctocolectomy with IPAA, patients will require life-long surveillance because disease
      progression and development of new adenomas in retained rectum, pouch or residual rectal cuff
      will occur.

      The 10-years risk of developing one or more adenomas in the rectum after IRA is 100% compared
      to 33% in the pouch after IPAA. The risk of developing rectal cancer after IRA was found to
      be 9% and 11% in two large studies with a median follow-up of 12.8 and 15 years,
      respectively. One study showed that the 10-years risk of developing a carcinoma in the pouch
      was 1%. As patients are usually operated at a young age, and nowadays have a long
      life-expectancy, the actual cumulative life-time risk will presumably be higher.

      The recently published ESGE (European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy) polyposis
      guideline recommends a one to two yearly endoscopic surveillance interval after prophylactic
      colorectal surgery in FAP, both for patients that underwent IRA/ISA and IPAA, with removal of
      all polyps >5mm. This recommendation is based on expert-opinion, since no studies have been
      reported comparing the efficacy and safety of different surveillance intervals. No advices
      are provided on which patients will benefit from which surveillance interval.

      With the proposed study, the investigators aim to provide evidence for personalized
      endoscopic surveillance for patients with FAP that have undergone (procto)colectomy with
      construction of an IRA/ISA or IPAA with the goal to prevent development of advanced neoplasia
      (AN) by endoscopically removing lesions before they progress to AN.
    
  