
    
      Acute-on-chronic liver failure (acute-on-chronic liver failure, ACLF) is a special type of
      rapid deterioration of liver function that occurs on the basis of cirrhosis or non-cirrhosis,
      which is characterized by sequential multiple organ failure and high short-term (28 days)
      mortality (15%). ACLF was first proposed by Jalan R and Williams R. in 2002. It is a newly
      discovered type of critically ill liver disease characterized by high short-term mortality
      after hospitalization [1]. At present, the pathophysiological mechanism of ACLF is not clear,
      and its definition in Europe and Asia-Pacific is still controversial. However, severe
      systemic inflammatory response is often closely related to the cause, accompanied by single
      or multiple organ failure are three important characteristics of ACLF. In the past ten years,
      the prevalence of ACLF has increased. Due to the rapid progress of the disease and the close
      relationship between mortality and organ failure, there is no effective method to improve the
      survival rate of ACLF patients except liver transplantation. The latest literature review
      shows that the 28-day and 90-day mortality rates are as high as 27.8-37.6% and 40-,
      respectively. 51.2%[2].

      In 2013, European Association for the Study of Chronic Acute Liver Failure（EASL-CLIF）
      conducted a prospective multi-center EASL-CLIF Chronic Acute Liver Failure (CANONIC) study in
      29 liver disease treatment centers in eight European countries, and proposed chronic liver
      failure-sequential organ failure assessment（CLIF-SOFA）score is used as the clinical
      diagnostic criteria for alcoholic and hepatitis B virus（HBV）related ACLF. According to the
      CLIF-SOFA score, the 90-day mortality rate of ACLF patients is as high as 51%, while that of
      non-ACLF patients is 10% [3]. The European CANONIC study also shows that systemic
      inflammation is the main driving force of multiple organ failure, which is a typical
      pathogenesis of ACLF patients with western liver cirrhosis [4]. For another, the current
      Asian ACLF diagnostic criteria is the Asia Pacific Association for the Study of Liver
      Diseases (APASL) criteria, which reached a consensus in 2009, and the guidelines were
      improved in 2014, but there is still a lack of multi-center, prospective evidence-based
      medical evidence to support . In 2016, led by the person in charge of this project, an
      oriental ACLF prospective multi-center observation cohort was established in China, which
      included 3970 ACLF high-risk patients, filling the gap in the natural course and mortality of
      oriental ACLF patients, and established a 90-day oriental ACLF diagnostic criteria for
      mortality [5]. The person in charge of this project also explored the pathophysiological
      mechanism of ACLF patients in areas with high prevalence of oriental HBV. The study showed
      that submassive hepatic necrosis is an important histological feature in ACLF patients with
      HBV-related cirrhosis. The systemic inflammatory response of multiple organ failure caused by
      parenchymal liver cells has a similar mechanism to that of western alcoholic ACLF [6].
      Although the causes of ACLF type are not the same in the East and the West, the cohorts from
      the East and the West have confirmed the short-term high mortality rate of ACLF. Systemic
      inflammation, sub-large necrosis, and aseptic inflammation may all important reasons that
      lead to multiple organ failure and eventual death of ACLF patients.

      Due to the high short-term mortality of ACLF and the limited liver source for liver
      transplantation, exploring new methods for the treatment of ACLF is a major issue facing
      clinical research. Mesenchymal stem cells have great application prospects in regenerative
      medicine because of their strong self-renewal, low immunogenicity, non-tumorigenicity and
      strong immune regulation ability[7]. Many previous documents have confirmed that mesenchymal
      stem cells in animal models can promote liver cell regeneration, resist inflammation,
      regulate local microenvironment and anti-fibrosis [8-10]. Among them, umbilical cord
      mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSC) have attracted attention of researchers because they are
      easily obtained from the medical waste-the umbilical cord, are not invasive, and have high
      expansion capabilities in vitro [11]. The possible mechanism of UC-MSC in the treatment of
      end-stage liver disease is that it can repair the liver. At present, there are the following
      opinions: ① Cell rehabilitation. In the case of liver failure, MSC can differentiate into
      hepatocytes and play an alternative therapeutic effect. A large number of studies have shown
      that MSC can be differentiated into functional hepatocytes in different inducing factors and
      culture systems in vitro, capable of storing glycogen and urea synthesis. Function; ②Immune
      regulation. Studies have shown that MSC can regulate immune cells by secreting a variety of
      cytokines in the body, and play an immunomodulatory effect; ③Anti-fibrosis. MSC can induce
      hepatic stellate cell apoptosis or inhibit its activation, and can secrete anti-fibrotic
      substances such as granulocyte colony stimulating factor and matrix metallopeptidase
      9（MMP-9）to reduce the deposition of extracellular matrix and inhibit the formation of liver
      fibrosis.

      According to the results of a single-center clinical trial published by the Third Affiliated
      Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University in the previous period, there were no serious adverse
      reactions at 6 hours and 72 weeks after intravenous infusion of MSCs. The dose was (1-6)*10^7
      cells/time for 4 times, confirming the safety and effectiveness of both low-dose and
      high-dose treatments. Another open clinical trial of Beijing 302 Hospital used mesenchymal
      stem cells at a dose of 5*10^5 cells/kg (based on the patient's weight of 60kg, the dose was
      3*10^7 cells/time), excluded severe ACLF patients accompanied by severe infections and other
      sever complications. In addition, previous pharmacokinetic tests showed that the half-life of
      mesenchymal stem cells in animals is 3 days.

      Therefore, this research plans to carry out a single-center open clinical trial to confirm
      the safety of umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells in the treatment of ACLF, and
      provide stronger clinical evidence for the safety of UC-MSCs in the treatment of ACLF.
    
  