
    
      Peripheral T cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are a group of heterogenous lymphoid malignancies derived
      from post-thymic mature T-lymphocytes. They are further classified according to their
      putative origin, immunophenotype, sites of involvement and clinical behaviour. Common
      subtypes include PTCL-not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS), angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma
      (AITL) and anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). With the exception of ALCL, PTCLs behave
      aggressively and their response to chemotherapy is typically poor. CHOP regimen
      (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisolone) borrowed from treatment of B-cell
      lymphoma is commonly used. However, there is no randomized controlled trial evaluating its
      efficacy. Moreover, despite the initial response of 40-70%, most patients suffer from disease
      relapse, giving rise to disappointing five year disease free survival (DFS) and overall
      survival (OS), typically in the range of 30% and 20%, respectively. As a result, there is not
      yet a standard agreed-on regimen for treatment of PTCLs in an upfront setting.

      One of the possible mechanisms behind the intrinsic resistance to chemotherapy in PTCLs is
      the overexpression of multi-drug resistance (MDR) gene/P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which mediates
      active efflux of chemotherapeutic medications out of intracellular compartment. Regimens
      combining drugs which are independent of the P-gp pathway were proven to be successful in the
      management of PTCL, extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, a lymphoma also expressing high level of
      MDR gene/P-glycoprotein. The PIGLETS regimen was devised to replace the conventional SMILE
      regimen in management of extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma in our institution. It had been three
      years since the introduction of PIGLETS regimen in treatment of NK malignancies. The response
      rate is encouraging, with an overall response rate (ORR) of 90% in NK malignancies. Side
      effects are generally tolerable. The investigator therefore propose the use of PIGLETS on
      newly diagnosed or relapsed/refractory PTCLs.

      Expected toxicity:

        1. The PIGLETS regimen had been in used since 2013, with the toxicities well known to the
           investigators

        2. Typical side effects of chemotherapy would be anticipated, including cytopenia,
           alopecia, mucositis and emesis. These can all be managed with supportive therapy

        3. Anaphylactic reaction to L-asparaginase may occur, but a small test dose will be given
           before formal administration to ensure the absence of allergy. Prophylactic
           antihistamine and glucocorticoids will also be given.
    
  