
    
      Study Duration and Schedule:

      The duration of the trial for each subject is expected to be 24 months. The duration for each
      individual patient includes about 6 months first-line therapy according to treating
      physicians choice with HLA ligandome analyses of CLL cells and selection of
      patient-individual multipeptide vaccine being performed in parallel, 12 months study
      treatment and 6 months followup time. The overall duration of the trial is expected to be
      approximately 4 years. Recruitment of subjects will start in 09/2016. The actual overall
      duration or recruitment may vary.

      General Criteria for Subject Selection:

      For the screening procedures of this study, physically fit subjects (as defined by ECOG score
      ≤2) with a confirmed diagnosis of a CLL/SLL according to the IWCLL guidelines requiring
      treatment are eligible. First line treatment will be performed according to treating
      physicians choice. The trial population will consist of both genders. Gender distribution in
      the trial is supposed to reflect the distribution in the real patient's population (approx.
      60% male and 40% female patients), i.e. there will be no prior defined quantitative ratio
      between females and males. To assure that the included patients have the ability to mount an
      immune response, immune response to an HLA matched EBV/CMV peptide mix will be assessed in
      the screening phase. 60ml blood will be taken at the screening study visit. Peripheral
      mononuclear cells will be isolated and analyzed in a 12 day IFNγ ELISPOT for memory Tcell
      response to an EBV/CMV peptide mix. Only patients showing a positive immune response (section
      8.1.1) will be eligible to receive the study drugs after first line treatment.

      For the study treatment, physically fit subjects (as defined by ECOG score ≤2) with a
      confirmed diagnosis of CLL according to the IWCLL guidelines, which were treated with a first
      line therapy according to physicians choice are eligible. Subjects must have achieved at
      least a PR (IWCLL guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of CLL) after treatment with
      first line therapy.The end of study is determined as the date of the last visit of the last
      patient (LSO 04/2020).

      Study Design:

      Interventional, open-label, multi-center phase II trial with use of a patient-individualized
      multipeptide vaccine and imiquimod as adjuvant

      Blinding:

      No blinding will be performed to avoid unnecessary complications of intradermal injections
      with sodium acid solution. Method against bias in patient selection: The patient selection
      will be documented. Reasons for refusal will be assessed.Method against bias in treatment
      manualized treatment protocol, monitoring and treatment reports. Method against bias in data
      analysis: Monitoring, analysis by intention to treat; independent statistician.

      Chronic lymphatic leukaemia-peptide vaccine (CLL-VAC) drug product (DP):

      Each patient enrolled in the iVAC-CLL01 trial will receive a CLL-VAC DP specifically tailored
      to the individual HLA ligandome of his/her respective CLL cells. The DPs are composed of
      peptides that are first manufactured as drug substances. A process named CLL-VAC_v1 enables
      the selection of drug substances to compose the unique, patient individual CLL-VAC DPs.
      CLL-VAC DPs will be composed based on a peptide warehouse consisting of 40 individual
      peptides (drug substances; 30 HLA class I peptides (5 A*01, 5 A*02, 5 A*03, 5 A*24, 5 B*07, 5
      B*08) and 4 HLA class II peptides. All HLA class I peptides and HLA class II peptides are
      shown to be immunogenic. For each patient 5 HLA class I peptides are selected from the
      warehouse based on patient individual HLA ligandome analysis of CLL cells and are
      subsequently formulated into the personalized drug; the 4 HLA class II peptides will be
      included in each peptide vaccine cocktail.

      All warehouse peptides are manufactured by BCN PEPTIDES, S.A, Els Vinyets-Els Fogars II,
      08777 Sant Quintí de Mediona (Barcelona), Spain, or by Wirkstoffpeptidlabor, University of
      Tübingen, Auf der Morgenstelle 15, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. Both production sites hold
      certificates for the production of GMP grade synthetic peptides. All peptides are synthetic
      peptides, which will be manufactured by well-established solid phase peptide synthesis (SPPS)
      procedures using Fmoc chemistry.

      Aldara® (imiquimod) Cream, 5%, is supplied as in single-use packets (24 per box), each of
      which contains 250 mg of the cream, equivalent to 12.5 mg of imiquimod. Aldara® (Meda GmbH)
      is a standard good of release.
    
  