
    
      Venepuncture, either to obtain blood samples for laboratory investigations or to place
      peripheral intravascular catheters, is an integral part of care in neonatal intensive care
      units (NICUs). In sick neonates, apart for collection of blood samples venous cannulation is
      necessary for provision of total parenteral nutrition and administration of medications;
      however, these skin-breaking procedures places them at risk for local and systemic infectious
      complications. Bacterial organisms inhabited on the skin travel through the insertion site
      into the catheter tract and colonize the catheter tip. This is postulated to be a common
      route of infection for peripherally inserted catheters, hence the need for maintaining
      optimal skin antisepsis during such procedures.

      It is not possible to completely sterilize the skin; however skin antisepsis aims to reduce
      the number of viable resident organisms on or in the skin and to destroy pathogenic organisms
      that may be on the skin. Several antiseptic agents are available for skin preparation
      including 70% alcohol, chlorhexidine (with 70% alcohol or aqueous) and povidone-iodine (PI).
      Most of the studies comparing the efficacy to these agents have been conducted in adults
      while there is paucity of studies regarding their use in VLBW infants.

      Chlorhexidine, one of the most commonly used biocide antiseptic product, is a broad spectrum
      bactericidal agent. It diffuses through the outer cell wall and then attacks the bacterial
      cytoplasmic or inner membrane leading to cell death. Chlorhexidine is active against common
      gram negative and gram positive pathogens as well as yeast. Numerous randomized controlled
      trials have been performed in adult patients supporting the superiority of chlorhexidine as
      skin disinfectant. One of the more influential studies was conducted by Hibbard et al in
      2002. The investigators compared 70% isopropyl alcohol; 2% CHG in 70% alcohol; and 2% aqueous
      CHG in healthy volunteers by obtaining abdominal and inguinal skin swabs at various time
      points after application. They concluded that all three solutions had excellent and
      comparable immediate antimicrobial action at 10 minutes & 6 hours after application but 2%
      CHG in 70% alcohol had better persistent action with antisepsis effectiveness at 24 hours. To
      date, this is the only study that has compared 2% CHG with and without alcohol directly.

      Even though all the above mentioned solutions have proven excellent safety profile in adults,
      there are significant concerns with their use in preterm neonates. The skin of the newborn
      infant, especially the preterm infant, is more susceptible to damage from antiseptic agents.
      Iodine preparations have been associated with transient suppression of thyroid function
      related to systemic absorption. Alcohol and iodine have been reported to be associated with
      severe skin injury including blistering, burns and sloughing. Systemic absorption of
      chlorhexidine is rare, although it has been reported to occur when alcohol is used
      concurrently. These adverse events have only been reported when these solutions were used for
      placements of umbilical lines presumably because larger surface area of skin is exposed to a
      greater quantity of solution for longer duration. Also during such procedures the solution
      can often get pooled over abdominal skin if used in excessive quantity. No serious adverse
      event has ever been reported during venepuncture (from either form of chlorhexidine). Such
      significant concerns with the use of iodine and alcohol containing solutions and more
      widespread availability of aqueous chlorhexidine has led many NICU's to endorse its use
      without systematically evaluating its efficacy in this population or standardization of
      method of application. Therefore, it is important to conduct a well designed study to
      systematically evaluate the effectiveness of using a limited amount of 2% aqueous CHG in
      clinical practice.

      This double blind planned non-inferiority randomized controlled trial will compare the
      efficacy and safety of 2% chlorhexidine in 70% isopropyl alcohol (current standard of
      practice in the NICU) to 2% aqueous chlorhexidine (investigational agent) for skin antisepsis
      prior to venepuncture in very low birth weight (VLBW, birth weight < 1,500 grams) infants.
      The effectiveness (success) of skin antisepsis will be assessed by collecting pre- and post-
      cleansing skin swabs. The skin swabs will then be cultured in the microbiology laboratory and
      pre- and post- microbial growth will be compared between the two groups.

      Changes to the study protocol:

        1. Results of the interim analysis:

           Following the pre-planned interim analysis, it is shown that the initial assumption of
           standard solution clearance rate used for sample size calculation (92%) was higher than
           the rate actually observed in the dataset collected up to the interim analysis stage by
           the investigators (84%). With the assumption of 84% clearance rate for standard
           solution, the study would have required a bigger sample size of 231 subjects in each
           arm. With the interim data, the two groups show exactly the same rates of clearance
           (84%) but with wide confidence intervals for the clearance rate estimates due to smaller
           sample size. Based on this interim analysis we do not statistically show non-inferiority
           of the test solution to standard solution. However to obtain a definitive answer we now
           need to modify our sample size to 462 subjects (231 subjects per arm).

        2. This will now be a multi-center study. We have added SickKids, Toronto as an additional
           site for recruitment. We have obtained REB approval from SickKids.
    
  