
    
      Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a highly aggressive and in virtually all cases fatal
      cancer that is tightly associated with prior asbestos exposure. Despite some improvement over
      time, the prognosis of patient diagnosed with MPM remains dismal with a median overall
      survival from diagnosis of only 12 months.

      In this single arm phase I/II trial the investigators want to demonstrate the feasibility and
      safety of WT1-targeted dendritic cell vaccination in MPM patients as frontline treatment in
      conjunction with first line platinum/pemetrexed-based chemotherapy and the induction of both
      systemic and in situ mesothelioma-specific immune responses. During three years of
      recruitment the investigators aim at including 20 patients diagnosed with histologically
      proven epithelial MPM (WHO grade 0-1) who are able to undergo leukapheresis, chemotherapy,
      immunotherapy and pleurectomy/decortication (P/D; in case of resectable disease). Patients
      who underwent prior treatment for MPM or with a history of another malignancy within the last
      five years will be excluded.

      The intention of this study is to administer four vaccine doses in combination with standard
      of care of four 3-weekly cytoreductive platinum/pemetrexed-based chemotherapy cycles to each
      participant and prior to surgery (P/D) in the case of resectable MPM. Patients will receive
      four 3-weekly intradermal vaccinations with autologous WT1 messenger (m)RNA-loaded dendritic
      cells (V1-4), at day 14 after the start of each chemotherapy cycle (CT1-4).

      The dendritic cell therapy product will be generated and administered in the Antwerp
      University Hospital, more specifically the Center for Cell Therapy and Regenerative Medicine
      (CCRG) and the Division of Hematology, both headed by Prof. Zwi Berneman.

      The DC vaccines will be under embargo from release until the safety and quality control test
      results have become available and all release criteria have been met. A detailed overview of
      all applicable release criteria is provided in the investigational medicinal product dossier.
      The embargo period generally lasts 3 weeks counting from the day of cryopreservation (i.e. 8
      days after leukapheresis).

      Recruitment started in August 2017. Study-related follow-up of the included patients is
      intended to be until 90 days after final DC vaccine administration or 22 months after
      diagnosis, whichever occurs later. In addition to feasibility and safety of the
      chemoimmunotherapy schedule, the investigators will look for the time to progression (TTP),
      progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), systemic immunogenicity and local
      immunogenicity.
    
  