
    
      A one-armed quasi-experimental trial will be used to test the effect of two embedded
      behavioural activation group (BAG) treatment augmentations on treatment outcomes and to
      identify a potential outcome mediator for patients with a stasis outcome. A non-randomised
      design enables data to be collected which reflects routine clinical practice and address
      stasis outcomes as they occur in real-world services. A matched pairs design will be
      implemented in the analysis to allow comparison of the enhanced BAG data with historical
      control data from archived outcomes of the existing treatment (i.e. the baseline data).

      Patients who access the Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) service in
      Sheffield, United Kingdom with a primary presenting problem of depression and are referred to
      BAG will be approached to take part in the study. Patients will be asked to provide informed
      consent to agree for their weekly routine outcome scores from enhanced BAG to be used in the
      study.

      Enhanced BAG Augmentations

      The existing BAG treatment will be enhanced with embedded treatment augmentations. The
      augmentations will consist of two strands; 1) implementation intentions to directly target
      reducing stasis and 2) psychoeducation to target reducing drop-out.

      Implementation Intentions: The first augmentation will be a top-down theoretically informed
      'implementation intentions' enhancement to target reducing the stasis outcome rate.
      Implementation intentions are specific plans about how, when and where goals will be acted
      upon, formed using an if-then format in order to effectively implement actions. Patients will
      be taught to use if-then planning (implementation intentions) to help them complete the
      between-session which is crucial to producing change in BA.

      Dose-Response Psychoeducation: The second augmentation will be a dose-response
      psychoeducation enhancement aimed at reducing the dropout rate. Patients will be given
      information based on practice-based evidence about the effectiveness of BAG and dose-response
      information (minimum number of sessions required to experience change).

      Treatment Integrity

      Treatment adherence to the protocol will be assessed using a BAG adherence checklist created
      for this trial. Adherence will be checked and compared using self-report and an expert rater;
      i) after each session the BAG facilitators will complete the session integrity measure to
      check self-report adherence and ii) the BAG facilitator lead will observe and rate one
      session from each course of BAG to provide an expert adherence check.

      Data Collection

      Data collection for the study will run for a year from January 2017 until December 2017
      incorporating six BAG treatment groups.

      Data Analysis

      The data will be analysed using the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. The final available
      measure will be used as the post score or if there is only one score available, it will be
      assumed there was no change. Patients who do not score above the clinical cut-off for
      depression (score of ≥10 on Patient Health Questionnaire [PHQ-9]) prior to commencing BAG
      will not be included in the analysis to avoid a floor effect when calculating stasis
      outcomes.
    
  