
    
      This study is designed as a prospective non-randomized longitudinal single- center cohort
      study to evaluate the importance of correcting total serum calcium levels. It will enroll
      around 100 patients undergoing total thyroidectomy with data being collected from March 2020
      up to August 2020.The patients will be eligible if they undergo total thyroidectomy
      regardless of the surgical indication, if complete serum PTH and calcium data are available
      through the first five postoperative days and if they sign an informed consent form. Patients
      with incomplete data, preoperative pathological calcium or PTH levels, or suffering from
      conditions affecting calcium metabolism and parathyroid function will be excluded from the
      study.

      Demographic and clinical data including age, sex, preoperative and postoperative laboratory
      values (total serum calcium, ionized calcium, corrected total serum calcium for serum albumin
      and PTH), neck dissection procedures, and postoperative calcium supplement therapy will be
      noted.

      Primary outcome measures are presence of hypocalcemia on the first and fifth postoperative
      day. Secondary outcome measures are the need for calcium supplement therapy during the first
      five postoperative days, amount of medication given and correlation between presence of
      symptoms and low values of corrected total serum calcium levels. Preoperative blood samples
      for serum PTH and calcium measurements will be obtained after hospital admission.
      Postoperative serum PTH will be sampled 1 hour after surgery and at 7 am on the firstand
      fifth postoperative day. Serum calcium sampling will be performed daily if a patient has
      hypocalcemia detected on the first postoperative day. Hypocalcemia is defined as serum
      calcium levels < 2.00 mmol/L regardless of clinical symptoms present. Normal PTH range is
      defined by the Department of Laboratory Diagnostics reference range - from 1.6 to 6.9 pmol/L.
      The recovery of parathyroid function is defined as the return of serum PTH and serum calcium
      to normal values, requiring no further calcium or vitamin D supplementation. If the patient
      does not have laboratory or clinical signs of hypocalcemia, calcium supplement therapy will
      not be administered. Supplement therapy will be administered in patients with laboratory
      findings confirming hypocalcemia. Supplement therapy consists of either peroral elemental
      calcium (calcium carbonate, 1-gram unit) or calcitriol (0.5 microgram unit) or both. If
      postoperative calcium and PTH are normal and there are no symptoms of discomfort, the patient
      will be discharged on the first or second postoperative day and serum PTH and calcium
      sampling will be performed on an outpatient basis. If the patient did not receive treatment
      during hospitalization, no supplements will be prescribed after hospital discharge.
    
  