
    
      During general anesthesia, it's important to maintain normovolemia, since hypovolemia can
      cause inadequate tissue perfusion and hypervolemia increases the rate of complications,
      overall mortality and morbidity.

      Critically ill patients commonly present with important hypotension that, in the majority of
      cases, is promptly treated with intravenous fluids to reverse organ hypoperfusion.

      However, previous studies have demonstrated that only 50% of hemodynamically unstable
      patients are responsive to fluid administration.

      In the last decade, attention has been focused on finding a parameter capable of assessing
      fluid responsiveness in a hypotensive patient.

      Recent articles have demonstrated that standard monitoring parameters have no significance
      for this purpose, while hemodynamic parameters, like stroke volume variation (SVV) or pulse
      pressure variation (PVV) may have an important role.

      An interesting field of research involves heart-lung interactions during mechanical
      ventilation. In particular, lung recruitment maneuver (LRM) induce physiological
      cardiovascular alterations and may have a correlation with the volemic state of the patient.

      LRMs are commonly performed and safe procedures that consist in application of a continuous
      positive pressure in the lungs of mechanically ventilated patient, with the aim of improving
      pulmonary compliance.

      The goal of our study is to verify whether the alterations induced by lung recruitment
      maneuver on commonly registered intraoperative parameters, such as heart rate and arterial
      blood pressure, actually differ when the maneuver is applied to hypovolemic and normovolemic
      patients respectively.

      Patients undergoing scheduled laparoscopic colon surgery will be enrolled. Informed consent
      will be obtained during the preoperative anesthesiological visit.

      General anaesthesia will be managed according to standard clinical practice. Invasive blood
      pressure monitoring will be started with a peripheral arterial catheter and hemodynamic
      parameters (SVV and CO) will be monitored through the Vigileo device.

      During the resection phase, the patient has to be maintained in hypovolemic conditions. When
      SVV reaches a value of 12-15%, a LRM is performed, consisting in the application of 30 cm H2O
      continuous positive airway pressure for 30 seconds.

      Standard monitoring values (heart rate, invasive blood pressure and saturation) will be
      registered.

      Thereafter, a fluid challenge will be performed, consisting in intravenous administration of
      8 ml/kg of saline solution over 20 minutes. As soon as SVV will reach a value of 10%, LRM
      will be performed again and the abovementioned three sets of measurements will be carried out
      once again.

      As standard management of LRM, the maneuver will be stopped if the heart rate would lower
      below 35 bpm or the systolic blood pressure would lower below 60 mmHg.

      The information provided by the study is of interest in cases in which the deployment of
      sophisticated monitoring, as the Vigileo system, is not feasible or cost-effective. In this
      way, hemodynamic management during major surgeries would become faster and easier, relying on
      traditional monitoring.
    
  