
    
      Postmenopausal women are at a risk of excessive weight gain, bone loss, hypertension, and
      metabolic syndrome. Among these risk factors, obesity is now recognized as a worldwide
      epidemic disease. Obesity-induced chronic low-grade inflammation is initiated by excess
      nutrients in metabolic cells. Aging and decline of estrogen are factors that contribute to
      weight gain in postmenopausal women, and approaches, such as anti-inflammatory potential in
      dietary antioxidants to reduce inflammation may likely combat obesity. Recent studies have
      indicated tocotrienols (one kind of vitamin E, a potent antioxidant) supplement may be good
      for mitigating negative impacts of obesity in postmenopausal women. However, no study has
      ever been done the role of tocotrienols in obesity-associated outcome measures in
      postmenopausal women. The long-term goal is to develop a new strategy featuring a dietary
      supplement (i.e., tocotrienols) for mitigating obesity in postmenopausal women. The purpose
      of the study is to examine the effect of 24-week tocotrienols on obesity-associated outcome
      measurements in postmenopausal women. The investigators plan to recruit postmenopausal women
      using flyers, non-solicited e-mail system, campus announcement, local radio, newspapers, and
      TV scripts. The investigators plan to enroll approximately 150-200 women to obtain 60
      qualified women at the start of the study. After screening, qualified participants will be
      matched by body weight and age, and then randomly assigned to no tocotrienols or tocotrienols
      group. The outcome measures will be assessed at baseline, after 12, and after 24 weeks.
      Obesity-associated measurements will be recorded using blood, urine, adipose tissue, and
      fecal samples. The investigators will monitor safety of subjects after 12 and after 24 weeks.
      Food intake and physical activity will be assessed at baseline, after 12, and after 24 weeks.
      All data will be analyzed statistically.
    
  