
    
      1. Purpose: The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of prophylactic, locally
           applied vancomycin powder against surgical site infection in patients undergoing
           posterior instrumented spinal surgery for traumatic injury.

        2. Rationale: Surgical site infection (SSI) is a morbid complication with high cost in
           management of surgical spine patients. In this era of healthcare reforms, adjuvant
           therapies that not only improve quality, but also decrease cost, are considered of
           highest value. Despite the use of prophylactic systemic antibiotics and improved
           surgical technique, surgical site infections remain a serious perioperative concern. In
           comparison to systemic antibiotics, local delivery of antibiotics is attractive because
           high concentrations are achieved directly at these sites and systemic toxicity is
           limited.

           Prior investigations have primarily focused on the treatment of infected wounds with
           local antibiotics. Only a few studies have analyzed prophylactic use of local
           antibiotics during spine surgery. To date, there are no prospective, randomized studies
           on the prophylactic use of local antibiotics. The investigators will introduce local
           vancomycin powder into their practice of instrumented posterior spinal fusion for
           traumatic spine injury and determine efficacy in preventing postoperative infections.

        3. Study Population: The study will consist of adult patients undergoing posterior,
           instrumented spine surgery for traumatic injury.

        4. Research Design: This will be a prospective, randomized, controlled trial. The study
           will primarily be carried out through the University of Tennessee Health Science Center
           with all spinal surgery taking place at the Regional Medical Center at Memphis. Once
           patients with traumatic spine injury have been deemed eligible through several other
           criteria described later in the application, they will be placed into one of two
           randomized groups:

      1) The control group will consist of patients who are administered systemic prophylactic
      antibiotic only.

      2) The treatment group will consist of patients who are administered systemic prophylactic
      antibiotic along with vancomycin powder within the surgical site.

      5. Study/Project Procedures: Patients who meet the entry criteria and agree to participate in
      the trial will be randomized to receive intraoperative vancomycin powder within the surgical
      wound or not. In all patients, vancomycin 1g and cefazolin 2g IV will be given within 60min
      of skin incision. If an allergy to cefazolin exists, 900mg of clindamycin IV will be used in
      its place. Cefazolin 1g IV will be given q6hr during surgery and continued q8hr post surgery
      for 24hrs, regardless of whether a surgical drain is in place. One to three liters of normal
      saline will be used for irrigation purposes during surgical procedure. Prior to wound
      closure, vancomycin powder will be topically applied both above (50% of dose) and below (50%
      of dose) the deep muscular fascia in patients participating in the treatment arm of the
      study. For surgeries involving 3 contiguous spinal segments or less, 500mg of vancomycin (1/2
      vial) will be applied. For surgeries involving greater than 3 contiguous spinal segments, 1gm
      will be applied.

      6. Outcome Measures: All patients will be followed on an inpatient or outpatient basis (as
      applicable) for a period of 12 months post-operatively. Residents, attendings and study
      coordinators will perform data collection. All patients with suspected wound infection will
      undergo MRI with contrast for verification, unless there is gross evidence of infection (ex.
      purulent drainage from the incision, erythema and swelling). A CT scan with contrast will be
      obtained in those patients who are unable to undergo MRI for various reasons (pacemaker,
      metallic foreign bodies, fresh vascular stents, etc.). All wound data will be collected and
      recorded in specific data forms at each clinical encounter.
    
  