
    
      Objective

      The term, dystonia, is used to describe a syndrome characterized by prolonged muscle
      contractions causing sustained twisting movements and abnormal postures of the affected body
      part(s). Although no structural brain abnormalities have been definitively demonstrated in
      the visual inspection of MRI scans from patients with primary focal dystonia, there are
      several lines of evidence for subtle structural brain abnormalities at both the subcortical
      and cortical levels. We hypothesize that those abnormalities might be detected by using
      appropriate acquisition and analysis methods.

      Study population

      This research will be conducted using patients with primary focal dystonia and normal
      volunteers.

      Design

      By using high-resolution 3D structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and
      voxel-based morphometry (VBM), and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) at 3 Tesla and high
      resolution anatomical images at 7 Tesla, we will detect structural changes in patients with
      primary focal dystonia in comparison with control subjects. VBM and DTI are methods
      implemented in the statistical parametric mapping software (SPM2). Magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy (MRS) will use special software to calculate gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
      levels in a region of interest.

      Outcome measures

      VBM and DTI analysis in SPM2 will enable us to make a voxel-wise comparison of local
      concentration/volume of gray/white matter among these groups of subjects. This study can lead
      to an improved knowledge of the pathophysiology of primary hand dystonia can help to
      elucidate dystonia s pathogenesis/etiology and may lead to specific preventative or
      therapeutic approaches. The MRS study will enable us to study GABA levels in the sensory
      motor cortices, prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia in primary dystonia patients and normal
      subjects.
    
  