
    
      Primary central nervous system lymphomas (PCNSL) are rare aggressive malignancies, mostly of
      B-cell origin, representing 4% of intracranial neoplasms and 4-6% of extranodal non-Hodgkin's
      lymphomas (NHL). Despite improvements in treatment, PCNSL is associated with an aggressive
      course and unsatisfactory outcome. The median age at diagnosis is 61 years and age over 60
      years has been reported to be an independent factor for a poorer outcome.

      The modern treatment of PCNSL includes two phases: induction and consolidation. The induction
      phase usually consists of a polychemotherapy combination, including high-dose methotrexate as
      a critical drug, while there are at least four different strategies that can be used as
      consolidation: whole-brain irradiation, myeloblative chemotherapy supported by autologous
      stem-cell transplantation, non-myeloblative chemotherapy, observation (only in patients who
      achieve complete remission after induction).

      The feasibility of this overall strategy is limited, for several reasons, in elderly patients
      with newly diagnosed PCNSL. High-doses of antimetabolite-based chemotherapy, the standard
      induction for patients younger than 70 years, is often not feasible in elderly patients.
      Among maintenance strategies, simple observation results in unacceptably high relapse rate
      and associated mortality while whole-brain irradiation and aggressive chemotherapies are
      associated with unacceptable toxicity and poor outcome. Thus, new strategies aimed at
      obtaining durable responses with an acceptable tolerability and reduced risk of
      neurocognitive decline are needed and these strategies should be tailored not only based on
      the patients' age but also on their specific co-morbidities and general health conditions.

      For the present trial, all patients aged ≥70 years taken into care at the participating sites
      will be invited to participate and after informed consent signature their baseline data will
      be collected in the trial database, including data of patients resulting in screening
      failure. This will allow to verify any potential screening bias by comparing the
      characteristics of included and excluded patients. Patients fulfilling the eligibility
      criteria are then screened for their suitability to receive a more or less aggressive
      anticancer treatment and assigned to two different treatment strategies accordingly.

      Part A:

      The more fit patients are assigned to the trial Part A and will receive the standard
      combination of high-dose methotrexate, procarbazine and rituximab as induction. Responding
      patients will subsequently be randomized to receive either procarbazine or lenalidomide as
      maintenance therapy.

      Procarbazine is a lipophilic oral alkylating agent, easily crossing the blood brain barrier
      (up to 100% of plasma levels). There is no known cumulative toxicity for procarbazine and it
      is therefore currently in use as a viable maintenance treatment option aimed at eliminating
      residual lymphoma cells in the CNS and reduce the risk of relapse. Lenalidomide is an oral
      immunomodulatory agent, active against diffuse large B cell lymphoma, the most common
      category in PCNSL, which can be taken for years, showing an excellent safety profile. On this
      background, the Part A of the present trial consists of a randomized phase II trial conducted
      in elderly patients with newly diagnosed PCNSL responsive to high-dose methotrexate-based
      chemotherapy, comparing two different maintenance strategies: the oral chemotherapeutic drug
      procarbazine and the oral immunomodulatory agent lenalidomide.

      Part B:

      The more fragile patients are assigned to the trial Part B and will receive a less aggressive
      therapy consisting of concomitant whole-brain radiotherapy, temozolomide and rituximab as
      induction therapy, followed by temozolomide single-agent as maintenance treatment.

      Whole-brain radiotherapy is the main therapeutic choice for patients with contraindications
      to chemotherapy and in particular for elderly patients. Brain irradiation is usually
      associated with transient disruption of the blood-tumor barrier, occurring from 1 week after
      the initiation of radiotherapy to 1 month after its completion, during which pharmaceutical
      agents have maximum access to tumor tissue. Concomitant delivery of active cytostatics,
      therefore, could result in increased tumor uptake. Concomitant delivery of radiotherapy and
      temozolomide is currently used as standard approach for the treatment of high-grade gliomas,
      with acceptable toxicity despite the use of a larger irradiation dose. Based on the above, in
      the Part B of the present trial, temozolomide and rituximab, two agents active against PCNSL,
      are delivered concomitantly to whole-brain radiotherapy to obtain a synergistic effect of
      radiation damage, antineoplastic effect of rituximab and cytostatic and radiomimetic effects
      of temozolomide. Finally, temozolomide maintenance has shown to be beneficial regarding
      sustained remission after initial response to induction therapy and its suitability to
      improve disease control in responding patients not fit for more aggressive therapies will
      therefore be tested in the Part B of this trial.
    
  