
    
      This protocol is designed to answer key questions about the effects of Youth First on mental
      and sexual reproductive health, educational wellbeing and substance use. A mixed-methods,
      cluster randomized trial will assess the impact of the Youth First program over time. This
      component of the Youth First impact evaluation will take place across 70 schools (40 schools
      that are new to the Youth First intervention, 30 control schools) with 7th and 8th Standard
      students located within two districts in the state of Bihar, India, specifically Patna and
      Darbhanga.

      This study will follow two cohorts of students: one of 8th Standard students and the other
      7th Standard. This will include surveys conducted at baseline and at three follow-up time
      periods across a period of 32 months post-baseline (follow-up data collection at 8 (T1), 20
      (T2), 32 (T3) months) to determine the short and long-term impact and additive effects of
      multiple years of Youth First. Eighth standard students will be followed through the end of
      10th standard; the 7th standard cohort will be followed through the end of 9th. Both students
      who stay in school and those who leave will be followed up.

      Quantitative data will be collected from 7th Standard (n=4500) and 8th Standard (n=3690) boys
      and girls across 100 schools in the two sub-studies, for a total study population of N=8190
      students. Monitoring data from schools (e.g. number of sessions implemented, adherence to
      curriculum, etc.) collected as part of program implementation will inform a process
      evaluation of program quality and fidelity. Qualitative data will be collected from students
      after the completion of the Youth First program at the end of 8th Standard and at the end of
      T3.

      Findings from this program are expected to provide much-needed evidence about the long-term
      effects of programs to address the psychosocial needs of youths in India, as well as
      information on the scalability of such a program within the school setting. It is expected
      that the findings from this study will be used by policy makers to inform decision making
      around the implementation of Youth First or similar programs within the state of Bihar and
      nationwide.
    
  