
    
      The investigators will offer a 10-week prevention program to help African American parents
      and caregivers (e.g., grandparents) diagnosed for the first time with Stages I, II, or III
      solid tumor cancer in the last 12 months who are caring for a 12-18 year old child at home
      who has been told about the parent's cancer diagnosis. Parents and their adolescent
      child(ren) will first be asked to complete a set of questionnaires that takes about 60
      minutes and then will be told within 2 to 4 weeks whether they have been assigned to 1 of 2
      programs that will get chosen by chance, like flipping a coin. Neither the families nor the
      researchers will choose what program is assigned. Both programs are designed to offer help
      coping with cancer. Both short- and long-term effects of the program will be evaluated.

      Program A involves just parents attending five educational sessions every other week (1
      hour/session) with a group of parents who are also coping with cancer with specially trained
      group leaders. Adolescent children will not participate in these group sessions; this is the
      treatment as usual comparison group as most cancer centers do not meet with adolescent
      children who have parents diagnosed with cancer.

      Program B involves five group sessions (2 hours/session) every other week with other families
      like them that include adolescents in some of the sessions and parents and adolescents
      together in other sessions with specially trained group leaders.

      The primary, secondary, and exploratory aims of this research are:

      Primary Aim:

      Aim 1. Compare the efficacy of Families Fighting Cancer Together (FFCT) to Treatment-as-Usual
      (TAU) in reducing depressive symptoms (CDI) in AA adolescents at post-treatment using an
      intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis.

      Secondary Aim:

      Aim 2. Compare the efficacy of Families Fighting Cancer Together (FFCT) to Treatment-as-Usual
      (TAU) in reducing parental stress (PCQ) in AA parents at post-treatment using ITT analysis.

      Exploratory Aims:

      Aim 3a. Determine trajectories of adolescent depressive symptoms (CDI), anxiety (RCMAS), and
      parental stress (PCQ) from baseline to 12-month follow-up.

      Aim 3b. Determine whether perceived levels of group support (HGE), adolescent gender and age,
      parent's marital and socioeconomic status, and parent's cancer staging modify the effects of
      treatment on adolescent depression (CDI) and anxiety (RCMAS).

      Aim 3c. Determine whether pre-post changes in parent-adolescent attachment and communication
      mediate the association between treatment and adolescent depressive symptoms (CDI) and
      anxiety (RCMAS) at 6- and 12-month follow-ups.
    
  