
    
      Research plan

      Health related quality of life in patients at the Nordic Clinic

      Background

      Nordic Clinic is a private clinic that provides personalised treatment based on functional
      medicine. The vast majority of the patients seeking care at the clinic suffer from
      unexplained medical symptoms, most commonly fatigue and abdominal symptoms, and have
      previously been medically evaluated by health care. Working at the clinic are a clinical
      physiologist, nutritional therapist, licensed physician and a researcher. Patients follow a
      clinical treatment process starting with the physician progressing through to the
      nutritionist. Treatment is covered either by the patient themselves, by employers or health
      insurances.

      Before treatment is initialised, an extensive medical history along with current lifestyle
      habits are taken. The treatment programme is based on lifestyle factors, mainly diet, sleep,
      stress management and physical activity. Supplements are given. Drugs are prescribed sparsely
      and by a licenced physician, and may include Rifaximin or other antibiotics for intestinal
      bacterial overgrowth, motility drugs for constipation, anti-parasitic drugs in case of
      parasite infection, and melatonin for sleep disturbances.

      The components in the treatment programme have been investigated separately. Any supplements
      used are produced by reputable organisations and most of them have been part of the treatment
      routine for several years. The aims of the study is to evaluate improvement during and after
      treatment and to identify predictors of recovery. The goal is to understand the process of
      recovery with the long term goal to improve care given at the clinic.

      Aim and research question

      The first aim is to investigate improvement in symptom burden and health related quality of
      life during and after treatment (does symptom burden and health related quality of improve
      during treatment and are improvements stable at the 2 year follow-up?) The second aim is to
      investigate factors that predict recovery (Do persons with a high level of motivation for
      behavioural change experience a better improvement in symptom burden and health related
      quality of life than persons with a low level of motivation for behavioural change?).

      Methods

      Study population and inclusion criteria

      All Swedish speaking patients (>1= 18 years) visiting the clinic will be asked to participate
      in the study by clinic personnel when visiting the clinic. All patients at the clinic are
      able to provide informed consent and to fill out online forms.

      Procedure

      This is an observational study where patients are followed over time in terms of symptom
      burden and health related quality of life. The study participants are asked to fill out forms
      once a month for one year counting from the first visit, and once again 2 years after
      baseline. Clinical data is collected from the medial record by the clinician at the end of
      the study.

      Questionnaires

      (Jylhä 2009)(K, S et al. 2003)(Westerlund, Brandt et al. 2014)(Smets, Garssen et al.
      1995)(Andreasson, Wicksell et al. 2016)(Spitzer, Kroenke et al. 2006)(Spitzer, Kroenke et al.
      1999)

      Clinical variables

      Information on diagnosis, number of visits, tests and test results, treatment programme and
      background information (including age, gender, lifestyle factors, readiness for change,
      education, occupation, social support, height and weight, blood pressure), will be collected
      from the medical record of the patient by the clinician at the end of the study period.

      Statistics

      Based on experience of these types of analyses, 150 participants would give a reasonable
      foundation for the statistical analyses. 300 unique patients are expected to enrol during the
      study inclusion period and expect 200 of these to complete at least the first year of data
      collection. In the main analysis of the first aim, the effect of time on questionnaire scores
      will be investigated using mixed effect linear regression to see to what extent symptom
      burden and health related quality of life is affected during treatment and to investigate the
      stability in any improvements. Secondly, it will be investigated it a high adherence to the
      treatment programme is associated with improvement. Thirdly, the level of adherence to the
      treatment programme will be compared between patients with predominant abdominal symptoms and
      patients with predominant fatigue.

      In the main analysis of the second aim, readiness for change will be tested as a moderator of
      the effect of time on questionnaire scores. Secondly, the level of improvement will be
      compared between patients who self-fund the treatment programme and patients with funding
      from employer or health insurance.

      Patients often present with a range of different symptoms. Principal component analysis will
      be performed in an exploratory analysis to investigate if there are subgroups within the
      patient population, and if these subgroups differ in terms of treatment response. Covariation
      over time of symptoms, health related quality of life and self-rated health will be
      investigated in exploratory analyses.

      Ethical considerations

      The present study poses little risk to the participant. The treatment programme that the
      participant would undergo independently of the study is considered safe with few and mild
      side effects such as rash. As part of the study the participant report health information on
      a web questionnaire. Health data is sensitive information and the same platform will be used
      as for all other data collected by the clinic for treatment. The platform that is used is
      certified safe (add information) and complies to the GDPR regulation.

      Risk of missing serious diagnoses

      When dealing with symptoms such as persistent fatigue there is a risk that serious conditions
      such as cancer might be missed. However, the risk is estimated as low as low as in primary
      care at a Vårdcentral. Our medical doctor is still active in primary health care in parallel
      to Nordic Clinic and has many years of experience. Most of the patients at Nordic Clinic have
      been thoroughly investigated in the primary care system before signing up as patients at
      Nordic Clinic. Should patients however present with symptoms that warrant the investigation
      of serious conditions like malignancies, it is made sure that a thorough investigation has
      indeed been performed. If it has not, our medical doctor refers them back to primary or
      specialist health care.

      Importance

      There has not been a strong research tradition to evaluate treatment programmes based on
      functional medicine, albeit the individual components therein have all been evaluated and are
      found to be safe. However, all treatments given to patients need continuing evaluation. This
      two-year observational study will provide information regarding treatment outcomes and
      stability thereof over time, in addition to identifying patient groups that get the most
      benefit of the treatment. Future randomised controlled trials are needed to evaluate the
      effectiveness of the treatment programme.
    
  