
    
      The last decade has seen increasing rates of bacterial STIs in Australia in gay and bisexual
      men in particular. Although STIs are easy to diagnose and treatment is effective, untreated
      STIs can cause significant health issues.

      Previous research has shown that taking two100mg doxycycline tablets within 24 hours of sex
      as prophylaxis reduces syphilis and chlamydia significantly. Also a pilot trial conducted in
      the US suggested that using 100mg doxycycline as prophylaxis reduced the incidence of
      gonorrhoea, syphilis and chlamydia. Thus the question of whether taking doxycycline daily in
      high risk population would reduce the rate of STIs arose.

      We set up this study as a non-randomized observational cohort trial using a before and after
      comparison to evaluate if taking 100mg doxycycline daily would help high risk gay and
      bisexual men to reduce the possibility of acquiring gonorrhoea, syphilis and chlamydia. Our
      primary objectives are to:assess acceptability of a daily dosing regimen for doxycycline
      prophylaxis, and measure the efficacy of 100mg daily doxycycline STI prophylaxis against
      reinfection with gonorrhoea, chlamydia and syphilis. Our secondary objectives are to:
      describe patterns of doxycycline use and medication adherence to the recommended schedule
      participants; evaluate change in behavioral among all study participants; evaluate resistance
      in the gut microbiota and in those colonized by S aureus at baseline and end of study, in a
      subset of consenting participants.

      The study will be conducted in 3 sexual health centres. Eligible participants will undergo
      standard care in their trimonthly visit recommended by STI testing guideline, and complete
      informed consent and a baseline survey. They will be given daily dose of 100mg oral
      doxycycline for 3 months during the visit, and instruction of how to take the medicine.
      Questionnaires will be sent out to participants in every 3 months electronically and data
      will be collected and stored directly into the study survey database. Each participant will
      be follow-up for 12 months.
    
  