
    
      Parenteral nutrition (PN) is mandatory in the nursing of very low birth weight ((V)LBW))
      babies during the first weeks of life. Numerous discussions exist about the indication of
      individually tailored or standardized PN formula. (V)LBW babies are known as fragile unstable
      babies with special requirements. Many neonatal intensive care units (NICU) prefer a tailored
      prescription for that kind of patients. Making a daily individual tailored prescription is
      often complex for numerous reasons: it is time consuming, it may be source of faults and
      incompatibility, it needs a senior neonatologist to review the prescription and has to arrive
      during daytime hours at the pharmacy. Tailored PN is often administrated with a delay, as one
      can only prescribe having reviewed the results of blood sampling. This delay can range from 6
      to 12 hours. Numeta G13°/0E is a standardized, industrial, ready to use PN specifically
      designed to meet the nutritional requirements of preterm newborn infants for whom enteral
      nutrition is not possible or insufficient. New Espghan guidelines were published in 2018
      recommending nutritional intake targets of 2.5g-3.5 amino acids per kg/day and 90-120
      kcal/kg/day. Our NICU wants to evaluate their compliance to these new guidelines. Before
      November 2016, it was common practice in CHU Tivoli to feed the preterm baby with a
      compounded binary TPN solution and lipids were administered separately in Y-line. In November
      2016, we switched to an all-in-one TPN with standardized composition (Numeta G13%E, Baxter)
      Numeta G13°/0E is stored at room temperature and is ready to be infused in a few minutes.
      Numeta G13%E is presented in the form of a three-chamber bag (3CB) or a two chamber bag
      (2CB). The activation of the lipid bag is optional, resulting in a solution containing
      glucose, electrolytes, amino acids and (optionally) lipids. Additions of water, electrolytes
      in the bag or on the side help to customize the bag to the specific needs of newborns that
      need intensive care.
    
  