
    
      Study design:

      A longitudinal untreated control group design with pre- and posttests will be followed.

      Setting and sampling:

      The study will be conducted at the Helsinki University Hospital; more specifically at the
      operating department K of the Peijas Hospital. The randomized patient sampling will include
      voluntary adult surgical patients undergoing a hip or a knee replacement procedure. The
      patients will be recruited during their preoperative visit (approx. 2-3 weeks prior to the
      operation), and an informed consent will be obtained. Approximately 12-16 patients per day
      are scheduled for the preoperative visits, summing up to 60-80 recruitments per week. A
      control group (Group A) and an experimental (intervention) group (Group B) will be formed.
      The sample size was checked with power analysis (2 sided test) with the following parameters:
      value for α = 0.05, value for power 0.8, and value for common standard deviation 0.1. The
      sample size for both groups (A and B) was set at 175. Considering the potential drop-out,
      approx. 30%, the final sample size was determined to be 245 per group. The randomization will
      be performed by an independent third party (i.e., nurses at the preoperative clinic). The
      eligible patients will draw one of two cards; one indicating that an invitation to
      participate the study will be given to them, and the other being empty. Patients for the
      Group A will be recruited on the first week and the patients for the Group B on the second
      week. This pattern will be repeated until the desired amount of patients is recruited. This
      stratification will ensure that the two groups will not be contaminated in the ward where the
      post-operative visits will be carried out.

      Data collection and instruments:

      The patient data will be collected with 1) The Good Perioperative Nursing Care Scale
      developed by Leinonen and Leino-Kilpi (2001); 2) 15D; a generic, 15-dimensional,
      self-administered instrument for measuring health related quality of life among adults,
      developed by professor Sintonen; and 3) STAI, The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory; a definitive
      instrument for measuring anxiety in adults developed by Dr. Spielberger. The following
      demographic data from the participants will be collected: age, gender, diagnosis, procedure,
      and ASA-classification.

      Intervention:

      Traditionally during the intra- and postoperative phases of surgical care, the patient is
      cared for by several nurses; i.e. by an anesthetic nurse in the operating room and by a
      recovery room nurse in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU). Furthermore, the pre- and
      postoperative visits to the surgical patients are rare in Finland; mainly due to resources
      and new surgical processes where patients arrive to the hospital in the morning of the
      scheduled procedure.

      Basically, the new perioperative practice model denotes that the one and same nurse will meet
      the patient at his/her arrival to the operating department, and will care for the patient
      both in the operating room and in the PACU. Thus, the nursing care in the operating room and
      in the PACU remains the same, but will be organized in a new way which focuses on the patient
      centered individual care and the continuity of care. Furthermore, the same nurse will visit
      the patient at the surgical unit on the first postoperative day.

      A uniform content for the postoperative visits will be defined to ensure consistency of the
      intervention. The nurse will ask the patients if they have any questions or concerns
      regarding the procedure, how they have experienced their perioperative care, what they very
      satisfied with and what they would have desired to be different or would expect in the future
      from their care. The main aim of the visits is to meet the patient as an individual with
      individual needs and desires.

      According to the previous research results this new way to allocate personnel did not cause
      additional resource needs and did not in any way harm the care of other patients who did not
      participate in the study.

      Data analysis:

      Descriptive, inferential and advanced statistical analyses will be used.
    
  