
    
      RESEARCH PROTOCOL:

      The use of Avaulta for anterior repair. A multicenter randomised prospective controlled
      study.

      BACKGROUND:

      During the resent years the methods for pelvic organ prolapse repair have changed rapidly.
      The reason for this is several. Firstly, there is a relative high recurrence rate in patients
      having an anterior vaginal repair. Thus, the rate has been estimated to be close to 40% or
      even higher and most often the recurrences occurs within the first two years. Weber et al and
      Sand et al reported various techniques of the anterior colporrhaphy without the use of mesh
      to be successful in the management of cystoceles in only 42 and 57%, respectively. In
      contrast others have shown a much lower 1-year recurrence rate. Shull reported on the safety
      and efficacy of the paravaginal repair but this procedure may also vary in success from 67 -
      100%. Taken all together however, interpretation of these studies is difficult since the
      patients included have undergone at least one (in most cases several) vaginal surgical
      procedures at the same time and some studies even include patients with recurrence together
      with patients scheduled for primary vaginal surgery. Secondly, there is a need for simple
      procedures, which can be performed in an outpatient clinic and thirdly, the surgery should be
      acceptable for the women, i.e. without postoperative pain, short recovery period and no need
      for further surgical intervention.

      In most centers a vaginal surgical repair of an anterior genital prolapse is performed in a
      standard manner through a midline incision followed by dissection of the vaginal mucosa from
      the pubocervical fascia. Interrupted sutures approximating the fascia at the midline then
      repair the cystocele. However, this may not be sufficient in those cases where no fascia is
      present or the presence of huge defects in the pubocervical fascia. As a consequence the use
      of mesh have been more popular. Several studies report a reduced recurrence rate following
      anterior repair using different types of mesh such as biomesh (6,7) or nonabsorbable mesh.
      The latter has been shown to be associated with vaginal erosion 8 - 2%%, which probably is
      related to the strong inflammatory response observed after implementation of such mesh.
      Another complication is shrinkage of the vaginal mucosa and this may be followed by sexual
      dysfunction or dyspareunia.

      Polypropylene mesh appears to induce less inflammatory respons compared to other types. A
      specific type of mesh is the Avaulta Biosynthetic Mesh, which is a polypropylene mesh coated
      with collagen. This layer protects against inflammatory response and is slowly resolved.

      Since most studies have included patients undergoing several vaginal surgical procedures at
      the same time, it is difficult to conclude whether or not the use of mesh is superior
      compared to conventional technique. Furthermore, only sparse information is available
      regarding sexual function and dyspareunia following vaginal prolapse surgery. Especially
      there is a lack of information regarding new mesh types.

      The purpose of the present study is therefore to test the hypothesis that the Avaulta
      Biosynthetic Mesh is associated with a lower recurrence rate after two years of follow-up
      compared to conventional anterior repair. Secondly, the study is planned to evaluate the
      frequency of sexual dysfunction following vaginal anterior repair, and if there is any
      difference between the two surgical methods.
    
  