
    
      Hypothesis: implementing a self managed "Sick-Day Protocol" with telephone monitoring via
      interactive voice survey dial-response system (IVSDRS) in CKD patients taking RAS blockers,
      diuretics, metformin, or NSAIDs, will safely slow renal function loss, reduce the incidence
      of acute kidney injury, and prevent urgent health utilization; in comparison to usual care.

      Study Design: 6-month randomized trial of Sick-Day Protocol vs usual care

      Randomization: In-block randomization stratified by use (with or without any other qualifying
      medication) vs non-use of RAS blocker (with any other qualifying medication)

      Intervention: Sick-Day Protocol (instructions for holding and resumption of certain medicines
      in the event of dehydrating illness), IVRSDRS remote monitoring, augmented laboratory
      monitoring, and decision support from the VA Renal Inter-disciplinary Safety clinic (RISC)

      Study Population: Veterans across the VA Maryland Health Care System (VAMCHS) with a current
      prescription for any type of RAS blocker, Diuretic, Metformin or NSAID.

      Study Site: Baltimore VA Medical Center (BVAMC), VA Geriatrics Research Education and
      Clinical Center (GRECC).

      Specific Aims 1: Conduct a pragmatic trial comparing the renal function decline, incidence of
      AKI, and urgent service utilization in eligible CKD patients provided with a self-managed
      Sick-Day Protocol versus comparable patients receiving usual care.Specific Aim 2: Determine
      the incidence of sick-days in the intervention arm using remote IVSDRS monitoring and
      end-of-study survey of all participants. Specific Aim 3: Evaluate intervention arm
      participants' usage of, and adherence to, the Sick-Day Protocol with remote IVSDRS
      monitoring.

      Study Measurements: laboratory-measured renal function, and patient- reported safety events
      obtained per IVSDRS protocol. Emergency department (ED) visits, hospitalization, renal
      progression, incidence of ESRD, and death will be measured in both groups along with patient
      satisfaction.

      Primary outcomes: 6-month change in renal function (eGFR), incidence of AKI episodes
      (including ICD-10 code designated, and detectable creatinine-based changes in renal function
      usingRIFLE criteria), preventable/urgent service utilization (to be ascertained using VA EHR
      review)

      Secondary outcomes: Determination of incidence of sick-day events (IVSDRS reporting, and
      end-of-study self-report).

      Tertiary:Adherence to self-management Sick-Day Protocol (based on IVSDRS reporting)

      Analytic plans: Comparison between intervention and usual care participants of 6-month renal
      function change, and frequency of AKI and hospitalization using generalized linear models and
      Poisson regression methods, respectively. Similar regression methods will be used to
      determine the adjusted frequency rate of sick-day incidents and participant response to
      sick-days.

      Public Health Relevance: Introduction of a self-management Sick-Day Protocol in conjunction
      with coordinated care and IVSDRS surveillance can be an innovative strategy to improve renal
      outcomes and reduce preventable service utilization.
    
  