
    
      This study will include the patients who signed the subject informed consent form among the
      patients with MDS who were chosen to be treated with Decitabine (Part I), plus additional 140
      MDS patients as a historical control (Part II). Approximately, 68 patients will be included
      who satisfy the following inclusion and exclusion criteria in the Part I study.

      Prospective collection of DNA from peripheral blood will be performed in the patients with
      MDS before commencement of decitabine therapy. We will evaluate the efficacy decitabine
      therapy according to the DNMT or HDAC gene SNPs in terms of following parameters: 1)
      hematolotic response (HR) or improvement (HI), or requirement of decitabine dose to achieve
      HR or HI, 2) complete (CR) or partial response (PR), or requirement of decitabine dose to
      achieve CR or PR, and 3) time to relapse or progression of MDS.

      Genotyping will be undertaken using the Sequenom® iPLEX platform™, according to the
      manufacturer's instructions (www.sequenom.com; Sequenom Inc, San Diego, CA, USA). Whole blood
      samples will be obtained according to the declaration of Helsinki. DNA will be extracted
      using the Puregene DNA purification Kit (Gentra Systems Inc, Minneapolis, MN, USA). The
      detection of SNPs will be performed by the analysis of primer extension products generated
      from previously amplified genomic DNA using a Sequenom chip-based matrix-assisted laser
      desorption / ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry platform. Multiplex SNP
      assays will be designed using SpectroDesigner software (Sequenom). Ninety-six well plates
      containing 2.5 ng DNA in each well will be amplified by PCR following the specifications of
      Sequenom. Unincorporated nucleotides in the PCR product will be deactivated using shrimp
      alkaline phosphatase. Allele discrimination reactions will be conducted by adding the
      extension primer(s), DNA polymerase, and a cocktail mixture of deoxynucleotide triphosphates
      and di-deoxynucleotide triphosphates to each well. MassExtend clean resin (Sequenom) will be
      added to the mixture to remove extraneous salts that could interfere with MALDI-TOF analysis.
      The primer extension products will be then cleaned and spotted onto a SpectroChip. Genotypes
      will be determined by spotting an aliquot of each sample onto a 384 SpectroChip (Sequenom),
      which is subsequently read by the MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer.

      All statistical tests will be two-sided with the significance level set as 0.05 unless
      otherwise stated. The statistical data will be obtained using an SAS version 9.1 (SAS
      Institute, Cary NC, USA). Followings are the endpoints for the study.

        1. Primary endpoint evaluation data

           • Response rate: A response rate will be obtained and its confidence interval estimated
           to be evaluated through chi-square test. If the main endpoints which may influence the
           final evaluation must be controlled, stratified analysis (Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel, etc.)
           will be conducted. If all the subjects' characteristic endpoints must be controlled, the
           logistic regression model will be used for analysis.

        2. Secondary endpoint evaluation data

             -  Overall survival: survival will be evaluated from the registration day to death
                through Kaplan-Meier method.

             -  Progression free survival: : The time of progression from MDS to AML and death from
                any cause. Progression free survival will be analyzed through Kaplan-Meier method.
    
  