
    
      This research study is being done to determine if Occupational Therapy Driving intervention
      (OT-DI) can improve the safe driving performance immediately following intervention and
      intermediate term (3months).

      Baseline testing to post test1 will include Clinical battery of tests and a Simulated Driving
      test, a Brief Driving Questionnaire, Community Integration Questionnaire, and Satisfaction
      with Life Questionnaire. Caregivers/family member will rate the participants' driving
      behaviors using a Fitness-to-Drive Screening Measure (FTDS). After baseline testing the 260
      participants (and associated caregivers) will be randomly assigned to balanced intervention
      and control groups.

      The intervention group receives Occupational Therapy Driving Intervention (OT-DI) consisting
      of three x 1hour sessions will include Sessions1: Driving evaluator reviews explicit driving
      errors with participants; Session 2: Driving evaluator provides tailored strategies to
      mitigate errors; Session 3: Participants drive simulator with targeted feedback from driving
      evaluator.

      The control group will receive from a driving safety professional, three x 1 hour general
      safety sessions (session 1: general traffic safety discussion; Session 2: Rules of the road
      and acknowledgement of the road discussion; Session 3: drive the simulator without any
      feedback from a driving safety professional). Immediately after session 3, Post test1 will
      occur using the same standardized protocol outline for baseline testing.

      Post test2: will consist of testing with the same standardized protocol as administered
      during baseline testing. Caregivers/family members will rate the participants driving
      behavior using FTDS in addition the investigators will obtain driving data from the
      Department of Motor Vehicles which include citations, violations, driving mishaps that have
      occurred for each participant.

      To ascertain impact of the OT-DI and driving safety education on real world driving, a subset
      of 30 participants will be created from the control and intervention groups to perform
      on-road driving test. The results from this test will be compared with driving performance on
      the simulated drives.
    
  