
    
      The purpose of this study is to establish accurate and robust ethnic-, age- and sex-specific
      reference intervals for hematology parameters during childhood and adolescence on the Mindray
      analyzer (BC-6800Plus).

      Subjects will be recruited for this study through the CALIPER initiative and will include
      healthy children and adolescents in the community and in outpatient clinics at the Hospital
      for Sick Children (HSC). Since all participants will be recruited through the CALIPER
      initiative, the CALIPER consent forms will be used to obtain consent from each child and
      their parent/guardian. These forms obtain consent to use the samples to develop reference
      intervals for a range of tests. This study aims to measure hematology parameters in these
      samples and is therefore encompassed within the CALIPER consent. Recruitment will focus on
      subjects from three ethnic groups: Caucasians, Hispanics, and South Asians. A total of 960
      subjects will be recruited for this study through the CALIPER initiative. The total sample
      size was determined by considering the requirement of 60-120 samples per partition for five
      age groups (0-<1 years, 1-<5 years, 5-<10 years, 10-<15 years, 15-<19 years). Each age group
      will consist of an equal number of females and males. Additional samples may be required if
      data analysis suggests further age and/or sex partitioning for specific parameters.

      Each subject will provide a blood sample, which will be collected through the CALIPER
      initiative. These samples will be analyzed as part of this study in a
      secondary-use/retrospective fashion. Specifically, fresh whole blood specimens will be
      collected in K2EDTA tubes, placed in biohazard bags, stored on ice, and analyzed on the
      Mindray hematology platform within 8 hours of collection. All available hematology parameters
      for the BC-6800Plus will be measured (37 report and 48 research hematology parameters, as per
      the user manual). All procedures will be performed according to the user manual. Mindray
      quality control materials will be used to monitor the performance of the assays during the
      study. HSC will retain all quality controls data, maintenance record and reagents/calibrators
      lot numbers. Quality controls will be run daily and analysis of the CALIPER samples will
      proceed only after all the quality control (QC) data are acceptable.

      Data analysis will be performed by the CALIPER team in accordance with Clinical & Laboratory
      Standards Institute (CLSI) EP28-A3c guidelines on defining, establishing, and verifying
      reference intervals in the clinical laboratory. The statistical approach for reference
      interval establishment has been described in-depth previously. In brief, analyte
      concentrations will be plotted against age and colour-coded by sex. Following visual
      inspection, extreme outliers will be removed and suspected age- and sex-specific partitions
      will be confirmed using the Harris and Boyd statistical method. Normality of data will be
      qualitatively assessed using quantile-quantile plots and quantitatively assessed using the
      Shapiro-Wilk's test. If skewed, the Box-Cox transformation will be applied in an effort to
      transform the data to a normal distribution. Outliers will be subsequently identified and
      removed using the Tukey or adjusted Tukey method for Gaussian and non-Gaussian data
      distributions, respectively. Reference intervals for partitions with ≥120 participants will
      be calculated using the nonparametric method. Reference intervals for partitions with ≥40 and
      <120 participants (60 for group 0-<1 years and 1-<5 years, 120 for group 5-<10 years, 10-<15
      years and 15-<19 years) will be calculated using the robust method. 90% percent confidence
      intervals will also be calculated for the lower and upper limit of each reference interval.
      Ethnic-specific reference intervals will be calculated if sample size for each ethnic group
      is adequate. Otherwise, reference value distributions for South Asian and Hispanic children
      will be compared to those of Caucasian children.

      Oversight Authority (additional information)

        -  This study is regulated by 'Canada: Health Canada'

        -  This study has been reviewed and approved by 'Canada: Ethics Review Committee'
    
  