
    
      Aim 1:

      Evaluate the HRQoL longitudinally from time of wait listing and until 1 year after kidney
      transplantation among kidney transplant candidates older than 65 years of age.

      Data collection The HRQoL will be monitored in a prospective, longitudinal study
      (QUESTION65). A minimum of 200 patients will be included and the inclusion period is
      estimated to 2-3 years. All patients give informed consent when entering the study. In
      addition, all patients have signed an informed consent when included in the Norwegian Renal
      Registry which allows the use of unidentified data from the registry in research protocols.

      HRQoL will be assessed using the Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form (KDQOL-SF-36)
      health Survey. This survey consists of two parts, a generic and disease specific part. The
      same questionnaire is used before and after transplantation. For improved evaluation of HRQoL
      data on response shift will be captured through questions related to personal preferences,
      values and internal standards. The result gathered will also be compared with data from an
      age matched Norwegian cohort.

      All patients over the age of 65 who are accepted for the kidney transplantation waiting list
      or living donor transplantation will receive an invitation to be included in the study. A new
      form will be distributed to included patients with intervals of six months until they are
      transplanted, permanently removed from the transplant waiting list or until death. Patients
      who are transplanted will receive a form at discharge from Oslo University Hospital,
      Rikshospitalet (10 weeks after transplantation), after six months and at one year.

      Aim 2:

      Explore the expectations of older kidney transplant candidates prior to transplantation and
      one year after transplantation.

      Data Collection:

      For the qualitative evaluation, 15-20 patients in dialysis will be included and a qualitative
      individual in-depth interview will be performed approximately one month after baseline HRQoL
      and repeated one year after transplantation. Selection will be made according to age and
      gender. Inclusion will continue until saturation is reached. Convenient variation and
      broadness in information will be secured in the sample. To secure shared decision making,
      patients will be invited to discuss the interview guide and design of the qualitative
      evaluation. Furthermore, the interview guide will be tested in a pilot study. An
      interview-manual will be used. We believe the results from the qualitative interviews also
      can be used to gain an improved understanding of the answers in the survey.

      Aim 3:

      Investigate the relationship between pre-transplant comorbidity, described by the Liu
      comorbidity index and post-operative complications, post-transplant 1 year survival and
      HRQoL.

      Data collection From 2012 we have included pre-transplant data according to the Liu
      comorbidity index as part of the routine work up of candidates for kidney transplantation.
      Complete data describing patient and transplant characteristics, including the Liu
      comorbidity index will be extracted from the Norwegian Renal Registry. These data will only
      be used as explanatory variables for the outcome of HRQoL/survival and are not reported as
      separate outcomes. In addition post-transplant morbidity and mortality will be extracted from
      the Norwegian Renal Registry. The data will be exported from the registry without any
      identification except from a patient number.

      In case of missing data from the registry, data will be retrieved from the patient records at
      Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet. The key necessary for identification will be stored
      at the registry.

      Aim 4 Health economic evaluation. In this sub-study, we will use data from the Short Form 36
      (SF36) part of the KDQOL-SF questionnaire to calculate Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY).
      Costs will be estimated for each patients using data from their hospital records.
    
  