
    
      NAET® testing devices are able to detect various levels of sensitivities to food substances
      in people (JNECM Vol. 1, No.1 & 2, 2005) before they manifest in symptoms. Using NAET testing
      devices various levels of sensitivities to sugar can be easily detected and the people who
      are found to be sensitive to sugar can be advised to take strict preventive measures thus
      helping to alleviate their health problems.

      Primary Objective of the Study The study will evaluate the efficacy of NAET® testing devices
      in detecting sensitivity to cane sugar (intolerance, hypersensitivity, or allergy) in a group
      of subjects from both sexes who had no prior knowledge of any health problems related to
      sugar consumption.

      Sample Characteristics Eighty subjects from a group of medical professionals of both sexes
      who came to attend a medical conference volunteered to participate in the study. These
      volunteers came from different parts of Japan thus representing a large part of the country.
      Nine NAET® practitioners volunteered to supervise the entire study.

      An on-site invitation to participate in the study was given to a group of 80 medical
      professionals who had come to attend a medical conference in Tokyo, Japan. The invitation to
      take part in the study was given to each member in the same morning at the time of
      registration for the conference. The 80 subjects who responded to the invitation were asked
      to complete an Allergy Symptom Rating Scale. They were asked to list an approximate amount of
      daily sugar consumption in number of teaspoons. They were also asked to record if they had
      suffered from any known sugar-related problems in the past. The five volunteer-subjects with
      known diabetes and hypoglycemia were excluded from the study.

      All 75 subjects had completed the Allergy Symptom Rating Scale form (ASRS) initially prior to
      entering the study. After enrolling in the study, the examiners performed the Neuromuscular
      sensitivity testing (NST Rating Scale) on their subjects before touching the test sample and
      recording of the results. Initial radial pulse was taken and recorded.

      (Detailed information on the Allergy Symptom-Rating scale (ASRS); NSTRS, and PDRS: Subject
      were asked to mark and rate their symptoms in their own words on a zero to ten scale where
      zero=normal; and ten=maximum discomfort): 0= no allergy; (1-3)=1=mild; (4-6)= 2=moderate;
      (7-10)=3=severe. After the initial testing (after completing ASRS form, NSTRS after balancing
      the body, and after initial pulse reading) each one of the subjects was given a test tube
      with clear liquid (dissolved sugar) in their hands. The examiners tested the NST of the
      subjects with them holding the sample-test tube in their hands and the results recorded. The
      radial pulse was also checked and recorded. Then they were asked to continue to hold the
      samples for full ten minutes. At the end of ten minutes, they were assigned to be tested for
      NST and Pulse by different examiners. While still holding the test tube in the hand, the
      radial pulse was tested and recorded; NST was perfomed and recorded and each one of them was
      asked to complete another Allergy Symptom Rating Scale.

      After completing the initial test, the monitors moved the subjects one at a time to a
      different area and each one of them was asked to continue to hold the sample-tubes in their
      hands for the following ten minutes.

      At the end of ten minutes' waiting period with the test tubes in their hands, each subject
      was given another ASRS form to record their symptoms one more time. They were also instructed
      to rate their symptoms on a zero to ten scale. Then the monitors ushered them to different
      examiners to check the NST and radial pulse one more time, while still holding the test tubes
      in their hands. The results were recorded in a separate paper and the monitors collected the
      results and sent for analysis.
    
  