
    
      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Age between 18 and 80 years

        -  Rectal cancer patients undergoing curative sphincter-preserving surgery with partial or
           total mesorectal excision

        -  Surgery performed between January 2007 to January 2016, with reversal of the
           defunctioning stoma before January 2016;

        -  Hence all patients had had bowel continuity restored for at least 24 months Voluntarily
           participated in the study

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  The presence of stoma and/or known disseminated or recurrent disease

        -  Other diseases of bowel dysfunction (Crohn's disease)

        -  Cognition and/or language issues.

      Detailed description of the implemented techniques

      -The validation study of the French version of the LARS score is based on one hand on the
      face and content validities and on the other hand on the measurement of its psychometric
      properties in compliance with the standards published by American Educational Research
      Association & al.

      Outcomes measures

        -  After translation/back-translation procedures in accordance with the permission from the
           original authors, the LARS-F score and the whole translation process will be then sent
           to the original authors for approval. Then, eligible patients will receive a postal
           invitation to complete the LARS-F score and the l'European Organization for Research and
           treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR29, respectively. For each item, ceiling
           and floor effects will be sought.

        -  The reliability will be assessed by both internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha
           coefficient).

        -  To evaluate reproducibility, a test-retest study will be performed in a randomly
           selected subgroup patients by comparing LARS-F scores obtained between the patient's
           first and second postal invitation (in an interval of 7-14 days).

        -  The correlations between the LARS-F score and the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR29 domains
           will allow to determine convergent validity. For discriminant and divergent validities
           testing, we will hypothesize that the LARS score will differentiate between the bowel
           functions of patients with different demographic or clinical features such as sex, age,
           length of postoperative period, distance of the tumor from the anal verge, radiation
           therapy, and prior temporary stoma.

        -  Sensitivity and specificity for minor and major LARS scores will be assessed.
    
  