
    
      Thrombectomy has significantly improved stroke outcomes. Nearly 80% of the investigators'
      clinic population now present with small strokes and low NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores.
      However, despite "good recoveries", greater than 40% endorse significant problems with
      concentration, attention, executive function, processing speed, and mood during the subacute
      phase of recovery. This dysfunction prohibits individuals from fully reintegrating into the
      individuals' prior home and workplace environments and can result in early retirement or loss
      of independence, particularly in the older population. Some degree of recovery is observed by
      6 months, but it is often incomplete or too late to reverse prior life-altering decisions.
      The impaired executive function and processing speed appear to occur independent of stroke
      size, location, or co-existing depression.

      Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is a functional imaging tool able to evaluate neurophysiologic
      processes in real time similar to EEG, but with better spatial resolution. The investigators'
      prior work with MEG suggests that cerebral activation patterns are not only slowed and more
      dispersed during task completion in individuals with minor stroke compared to controls, but
      that there is abnormal activity in the frontal lobes, even at rest. Unfortunately, many
      patients do not qualify for rehabilitation and there is little data regarding effective
      treatment options to hasten or augment recovery.

      Mindfulness training may provide an attractive therapeutic option. A combination of
      meditation, body awareness, and yoga, Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is an active
      process thought to engage the frontal lobes. MBSR has been shown to improve anxiety and
      depression in patients with chronic disease states like migraine and diabetes, and has also
      been evaluated in a small series of patients with chronic stroke and traumatic brain injury
      demonstrating improved performance during tasks of executive function.

      The investigators propose to study the effect of MBSR in the early phase of stroke recovery
      to determine if this intervention can help to prevent post-stroke morbidity. A cohort of
      patients [NIHSS <8, modified Rankin Scale (mRS) 0-2] will be enrolled. Half will be
      randomized to a standard 8 week course of MBSR, while the control group will instead
      participate in a weekly Stroke Support Group (SSG). Depression, cognition, patient perception
      of recovery, and degree of re-integration into prior environments will be evaluated pre- and
      post-intervention to determine the impact of mindfulness training on subacute post-stroke
      depression and cognition. All participants will undergo neuroimaging using MEG pre- and
      post-intervention to determine the neurophysiologic effect of treatment.
    
  