
    
      Following pre-screening at their intake appointment, if appropriate for a DIGMA and eligible
      to participate, new patients to SJHC PCDSP will be invited to attend a DIGMA scheduled
      two-weeks post-intake appointment. Participants will provide their written informed consent
      and patient demographic information, assessed by questionnaire, during the first hour of
      their appointment. With a trained research assistant, the participant will complete a series
      of behavioural measures including: the Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire (GLTEQ) and
      a modified Sedentary Behaviour Questionnaire (SBQ). Standardized anthropometric measurements,
      including waist circumference, weight, height, and capillary blood glucose, of all
      participants will also be completed separately in an exam room.

      Consistent with social learning theory, the primary care provider and the DIGMA support team
      will model, demonstrate, and verbalize aspects of increased confidence to perform the 1-hour
      appointment in a standing position and offer a variety of strategies to cope and overcome any
      feelings of discomfort. Emphasis will be placed on the strategies the primary care models
      uses to break sitting with standing and light, incidental movements. It will be anticipated
      that the participant will observe cues and relevant information specific to their behaviour
      change and engage in minimal sedentary behaviour.

      The frequency of breaks and the duration of breaks taken during the scheduled DIGMA will be
      measured using an ActivPAL4 monitor, a wearable device that can measure sitting/lying,
      standing, and walking time, sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit transition counts and step counts.

      Capillary blood glucose will be measured by the research staff at both pre- and
      post-appointment using a glucometer. As patients are not required to restrict their diet
      before a standard DIGMA, there will be no restrictions on food and/or drink intake
      before/during the morning of, the travel to, and/or during the appointment. Participants will
      be asked to self-report the time and what they ate during their last meal in their
      demographics questionnaire.

      Self-efficacy and positive and negative affect will be self-reported at both pre- and
      post-appointment using a scale adapted from the General Self-Efficacy Scale and the Positive
      and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), respectively. As well, goal intentions of the patients
      will be measured using a questionnaire along three dimensions: respondents will refer to a
      specific point in time, to the place, and to the degree of behavioural intent that is linked
      to the situational context specified by time and place. An example of one of the questions
      will be "Over the next week, do you intend to sit less at home?". Subjects will then indicate
      using a 5-point Likert scale the degree to which they endorse this statement (e.g., 1 is not
      at all to 5 is completely agree).
    
  