
    
      Adults with intellectual disability secondary to Down syndrome often have difficulty
      performing complex activities of daily living, such as shopping. These difficulties may, in
      part, be influenced by deficits in metacognitive abilities, which include self-monitoring of
      one's performance. There is evidence that interventions which target self-monitoring skills
      can improve functional performance in adults and adolescents with traumatic brain injury.

      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies on adults with Down syndrome have
      demonstrated impairments in metacognitive abilities, resulting from significant volume
      reduction in the frontal lobes and anterior cingulate cortex. These deficits likely
      contribute to the difficulties experienced by this population when performing instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADL), such as shopping. Although metacognitive-focused
      interventions that address self-monitoring skills have been used to improve functional
      performance in adults and adolescents with traumatic brain injury, these techniques have not
      yet been used to improve IADL performance in adults with intellectual disability secondary to
      Down syndrome.

      This 16-week study is a single-subject ABA design across ten participants to determine the
      effectiveness of a self-monitoring intervention on shopping performance in adults with
      intellectual disability secondary to Down syndrome. The intervention will span 8 weeks and
      will include weekly sessions that are delivered in an alternating group-individual format.
      Sessions will provide participants the opportunity to practice and apply self-monitoring
      techniques across a variety of shopping tasks and settings to promote generalization and
      transfer of learning. This study has the potential to provide preliminary information on the
      effectiveness of a self-monitoring intervention, provided in community-based settings, to
      increase observable shopping skills in adults with intellectual disability secondary to Down
      syndrome.
    
  