
    
      The acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common clinical syndrome in critically ill patients,
      occurring in up of 60% of the patients, and almost 40% of these patients will die within 90
      days . Between 5% to 10% of the patients with AKI requires renal replacement therapy and only
      30% will be alive after 5 years . The most common reported contributing factors to AKI were
      sepsis, major surgery, cardiogenic shock, hypovolemia and potentially related drugs .
      Although the AKI has been classically defined as an abrupt and sustained decrease in renal
      function and is commonly assessed on serum creatinine rise and/or fall in urine output there
      are not clear cutoffs for the diagnosis . Unfortunately the changes in these two parameters
      are poor predicting of AKI in critically ill patients . In the recent years several renal
      biomarkers have been proposed to accurately detect acute tubular injury before serum
      creatinine changes with possible improvement in the outcome; however the evidence was quite
      low . Because the majority of early AKI are related to an acute tubular injury, it has been
      suggested to evaluate the tubular function reserve by a bolus of furosemide (i.e. the
      furosemide stress test). As an organic acid, furosemide is tightly bound to serum proteins
      and gains access to the tubular urinary space through active secretion in the proximal
      convoluted tubule via the human organic anion transporter system .Once in the tubular lumen,
      furosemide inhibits chloride transport throughout the thick ascending limb of Henle,
      preventing sodium reabsorption: this results in natriuresis, increased urine flow and
      potentially reduced tubular oxygen demand . Specially a relatively intact kidney, with
      preserved estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and tubular function, should respond to
      furosemide with a quick diuresis, whereas tubular injury can be associated with urine output
      that is relatively preserved at baseline, but that fails to significantly augment with a
      diuretic challenge. In one mixed (retrospective and prospective) study and in one randomized
      trial in critically ill patients admitted in intensive care with mild AKI, the furosemide
      stress test was able to predict the progression to severe AKI. Furthermore also the response
      to electrolyte excretion should predict the possible presence of AKI . In addition the renal
      imaging techniques by ultrasound, which are non invasive and repeatable, are considered a
      mandatory component of the AKI diagnostic work up . Among the available imaging technique the
      renal resistive index (RI) which compute the ratio between the systolic and diastolic blood
      velocity in the arcuate or interlobular arteries is the most common used due to the easiness
      and to the good reproducibility . Although the physiological and clinical significance of RI
      is still debated because is related to the resistance and compliance of the renal vessels and
      to the central hemodynamic , previous studies have shown the utility of RI to predict both
      the occurrence and the reversibility of AKI .

      Aim of the present study is to compare the response to furosemide stress test in term in
      diuresis and electrolytes and of the renal index in mechanically ventilated patients at
      admission and after 3 days in patients with and without the presence of AKI

      All consecutive mechanically ventilated patients, following an hemodynamic stabilization
      (mean arterial pressure of at least 65 mmHg without the need for fluid bolus and/or start or
      increase in the dose of vasopressors or inotropic drugs within the last 6 h), admitted to the
      General Intensive Care of Santi Paolo-Carlo Hospital were enrolled. Exclusion criteria were:
      an age < 18 years, pregnancy, hemodynamic instability (defined as mean arterial pressure
      (MAP)<60 mmHg), a suspected or confirmed obstructive renal failure, the presence of a chronic
      renal failure, as defined by a basal creatinine clearance value < 30 ml min-1 . During the
      study the level of sedation and the ventilatory setting were not changed.

      Renal index

      The renal index examination was performed by one among three dedicated physicians, who were
      not in charge of the patients and trained with ultrasound examinations . Doppler
      ultrasonography will be performed at the patient's bedside by the same trained operator using
      an ultrasound scanner (LogiQ7 General Electric Healthcare, UK) with a 5 Mega-hertz
      transducer. The Doppler measurements will be obtained from the right kidney in all patient.
      After visualization of the kidney in gray scale and color Doppler modes, the absence of signs
      of chronic renal damage will be checked. The interlobar or arcuate arteries will be localized
      with sonography and color Doppler mode. Blood velocities in the interlobar arteries will be
      recorded using pulse-wave Doppler. RI will be calculated as follow:

      RI= (Peak Systolic velocity - end Diastolic Velocity)/Peak systolic velocity and average.

      At least three readings will be obtained from the selected arteries, and the mean of the
      corresponding three renal RI determinations will be used for the study

      Furosemide stress test After the ultrasonography evaluation, the patients will be tested with
      the Furosemide Stress Test (FST). Who will be loop-diuretic naïve will be given 1.0 mg/kg of
      intravenous furosemide. Because patients who are previously treated with loop diuretics
      within the previous 7 days are likely to have a blunted response over time compared to naïve
      patients, this group will receive an intravenous dose of 1.5 mg/kg) . In order to minimize
      the risk of hypovolemia, urine output will be replaced ml for ml each hour with Ringers
      lactate for six hours after the FST.

      Data collection Before and after two hours of the renal index and the furosemide stress text
      the following clinical and laboratory data were collected: mean arterial pressure, central
      venous pressure, heart rate, plasma and urine amount of sodium, potassium, chloride, and
      arterial blood gas analysis. The urine volume was measured after one and two hours
    
  