
    
      The investigators' recent studies show that large numbers of T cells in patients and mice
      with intracranial tumors are sequestered in bone marrow. This phenomenon mysteriously
      confines a pool of functional, naïve T cells with anti-tumor capacity to a compartment where
      they are unable to access tumor, eliciting a mode of T cell dysfunction categorized as
      "ignorance." The investigators have uncovered that loss of the sphingosine-1-phosphate
      receptor 1 (S1P1) from the surface of T cells mediates their sequestration in bone marrow,
      while blocking internalization of S1P1 facilitates stabilization of the receptor on T cells
      and frees them for anti-tumor activities. As the investigators look to design interventions
      targeting β-arrestin mediated S1P1 internalization as a novel anti-tumor strategy, they need
      to better understand variations in sequestration across patients, over time, and with
      treatment. Assessing these variations and biomarkers that may accompany them will help to
      establish a target treatment population, as well as the optimal timing for intervention.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. Assess variations in blood and bone marrow T cell counts as they relate to treatment
           time-points in patients with glioblastoma (GBM).

        2. Assess variations in S1P1 levels and their correlation with blood and bone marrow T cell
           counts over the course of treatment in patients with GBM

      Exploratory Objectives:

        1. Assess the associations between tumor size and degree of lymphopenia and bone marrow T
           cell sequestration observed.

        2. Compare The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) subclasses with respect to the degree of
           lymphopenia and bone marrow T cell sequestration observed at diagnosis.

        3. Examine patient plasma, tumor supernatant, and tumor ribonucleic acid (RNA) for markers
           that are associated with lymphopenia, T cell S1P1 levels, and bone marrow T cell
           sequestration. Initial candidates will include transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) 1/2,
           tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin (IL)-33, IL-6, catecholamines, signal
           transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) RNA, and Kruppel-like factor 2
           (KLF2) RNA.

        4. Compare T cell phenotypes in the blood and bone marrow of patients exhibiting versus not
           exhibiting T cell lymphopenia or sequestration.

        5. Compare differences in tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte numbers and phenotypes between
           patients with and without lymphopenia / sequestration at diagnosis.

        6. Establish baseline β-arrestin 1 and 2 expression in patients and assess variation across
           individuals.

        7. Archive samples for subsequent assessment of β-arrestin recruitment to the cytoplasmic
           component of T cell S1P1, as well as the capacity to inhibit such recruitment in vitro
           with candidate small molecules.
    
  