
    
      APPROACH:

      Overview of Study Design: This is a double-masked, randomized, placebo-controlled pilot study
      of treatment sitagliptin (100mg/day) to suppress monocyte/macrophage activation in obese
      non-diabetic participants. 16 abdominally obese18-40 year-old largely minorities will be
      randomized 3:1 to receive sitagliptin (N=12) or matching placebo (N=4) daily for 28 days.

      Eligibility Criteria for the Study Cohort: Based on prior studies conducted by the
      investigators, approximately 60-70% of participants enrolled will be Hispanics and African
      Americans. Both minorities have increased prevalence of insulin resistance (IR) at young
      ages. In their prior studies, insulin resistance (HOMA-IR* ≥3.0) had a predictive value of
      88% for crown like structure in abdominal fat (a surrogate for fat inflammation); the
      inclusion criterion for IR will assure that most study subjects will have abdominal fat
      inflammation.

      * homeostatic method of analysis-insulin resistance

      Inclusion Criteria

        1. Age 18-40 years of age

        2. Stable weight (no change >3% in prior 6 months)

        3. Waist circumference ≥102cm for men; ≥88cm for women

        4. Fasting plasma glucose 100-125, HgbA1C 5.7-6.4% or HOMA-IR* ≥3.0

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Regular use of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID); unwilling to stop NSAID
           drug

        2. On statin or other prescription anti-inflammatory drugs

        3. Diabetes or clinically evident cardiovascular disease

        4. Smoking daily or consuming >200g alcohol/day

      Study participants will be adults 18-40 years of age to exclude older persons with
      irreversible atherosclerosis (e.g. calcified, stenotic plaque) or subclinical arterial
      thrombus which release inflammatory mediators. Persons with Type 2 diabetes (a myocardial
      infarction equivalent) and those receiving "statins" (also potent anti-inflammatory drugs)
      will be excluded, thereby further excluding participants with advanced atherosclerosis. The
      goal is to identify and study persons with abdominal obesity and inflammation at a younger
      age as a potential target population for pre-emptive anti-inflammatory therapy to prevent
      serious CVD events over ensuing years.

      Outcome Measures:

        1. Change in arterial vasoreactivity measured and quantified by ultrasound assessment of
           brachial artery flow mediated dilation and carotid stiffness (elasticity and
           distensibility).

        2. Change in measures of inflammation in intra-abdominal adipose tissue:

             1. M1 pro-inflammatory macrophages and M2 anti-inflammatory macrophages by fluorescent
                activated cell sorting.

             2. Ex vivo secretion of inflammatory mediators from macrophages fractions.

        3. Change in systemic pro-inflammatory/pro-atherogenic markers and insulin resistance.
    
  