
    
      Prior studies have shown that left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation commonly
      results in right ventricular failure (RVF). Right ventricular dysfunction and failure after
      LVAD implantation is known to increase morbidity and mortality and contribute to longer
      post-implant hospital length of stay. More severe right ventricular failure is highly
      correlated with poor prognosis and death post-LVAD implantation. In current practice,
      patients who receive LVADs require right heart support, provided in the form of inotropes.
      Vasoactive inotrope score (VIS) is a measure that quantifies the amount of right heart
      support required post-operatively, including dopamine, dobutamine, milrinone, epinephrine,
      norepinephrine, and vasopressin. It has been used in other studies as a surrogate marker for
      hemodynamic cardiovascular derangement.

      In some cases, right ventricular failure post-LVAD also requires mechanical circulatory
      support during the perioperative period. Since RVF is difficult to predict and can have
      harmful effects such as increased ICU stay, adverse outcomes, and mortality, it could be
      beneficial to preemptively treat patients through preoperative or intraoperative percutaneous
      right ventricular assist device (RVAD) placement to prevent RVF. The purpose of this study is
      to test the hypothesis that preemptive use of percutaneous RVADs will mitigate the need for
      inotropic support in LVAD patients, reducing associated adverse outcomes.

      This trial will include both a prospective interventional cohort and a retrospective control
      cohort. The prospective interventional cohort will consist of patients undergoing LVAD
      implantation at Massachusetts General Hospital. These patients will receive an RVAD (either
      the ProtekDuo or Impella RP) prior to or during LVAD implantation. The historical control
      cohort will consist of retrospective data collection on patients who have undergone LVAD
      implantation in the past. This group will be matched with the enrolled prospective
      interventional patients. The purpose of this study is to compare clinical outcomes of
      standard of care treatment versus preemptive percutaneous RVAD placement surrounding LVAD
      implantation. The investigators hypothesize that the use of the RVAD will mitigate need for
      inotropic support, reducing the vasoactive-inotrope score (VIS) by 50%, and will improve end
      organ function in patients compared to standard of care.

      There are two types of percutaneous RVADs that will be used in the study: the Impella RP and
      the ProtekDuo. These devices allow for early intervention in RVF without the need for
      invasive surgical procedures requiring placement of durable RVADs via thoracotomy or
      sternotomy. The Impella RP, manufactured by Abiomed, is a heart pump that delivers blood from
      the inferior vena cava (IVC) to the pulmonary artery (PA). Its insertion is done
      percutaneously via catheterization through the femoral vein. ProtekDuo, manufactured by
      TandemLife, is another device placed percutaneously for right heart support via the right
      internal jugular (RIJ) vein.

      Subjects who consent to the study will undergo pre-operative or intra-operative placement of
      an RVAD, which will be left in up to 72 hours postoperatively. The type of RVAD (Impella RP
      or ProtekDuo) inserted will be determined by patient needs and venous access and will be up
      to the discretion of the treating physician. 25 subjects will be enrolled in the prospective
      interventional cohort and compared to 25 subjects in the matched retrospective control
      cohort.
    
  