
    
      There are about 694,000 open-heart surgeries performed in US each year. The major
      complication rates for valve plus coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) procedure are as high
      as 30.1% in Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) reports. Postoperative delirium, infection,
      acute renal failure (ARF) and major adverse cardiocerebral events (MACE) which include
      permanent or transient stroke, coma, perioperative myocardial infarction (MI), heart block
      and cardiac arrest represent the major postoperative complications. These complications
      translate into increased mortality and prolonged hospital stays with estimated costs
      exceeding $20 billion annually.6 The etiologies of these adverse events are multifactorial,
      but one major contributing factor is the surgical stress responses that result in increasing
      plasma levels of epinephrine and norepinephrine, with consequent myocardial oxygen supply
      demand imbalance and myocardial ischemia. More than 50% of all perioperative complications
      are related to adverse cardiovascular events.

      The alpha-2 receptor agonists (clonidine, dexmedetomidine) currently used in clinical
      practice have many desirable effects that may provide myocardial protection including
      analgesia, anxiolysis, inhibition of central sympathetic outflow and reduction of systemic
      norepinephrine release that improve hemodynamic stability and positively affect myocardial
      oxygen supply and demand. The most widely studied alpha-2 agonist is clonidine, a long-acting
      partial agonist with an alpha-2 to alpha-1 selectivity ratio of 39:1. However,
      dexmedetomidine is a highly selective, shorter-acting intravenous alpha-2 agonist with an
      alpha-2 to alpha-1 selectivity ratio of 1300:1.

      Multiple studies have reported that dexmedetomidine has a protective effect on specific
      organs including heart, brain, kidney and lungs. In addition, dexmedetomidine has been shown
      to have anti-inflammatory properties decreasing mortality and attenuating plasma cytokine
      concentrations in laboratory animals exposed to endotoxin in a dose-dependent fashion. The
      investigators hypothesized that dexmedetomidine may provide myocardial, brain, renal and
      immune function protection for cardiovascular surgical patients. The specific aim of this
      study was to investigate whether the perioperative use of dexmedetomidine is associated with
      improved outcomes and a decreased incidence in postoperative mortality, MACE or other
      complications in patients undergoing open-heart surgery.
    
  