
    
      Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) is a clinical entity characterized by the presence of chronic,
      widespread pain and tenderness throughout the musculoskeletal system. FMS is considered to be
      a prototype of central pan syndromes, conditions in which augmentation of pain processing by
      the central nervous system in a major feature (1;2). As such, FMS overlaps with a number of
      similar "functional" disorders, including TMJD, IBS, Interstitial cystitis, Gulf war
      syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome etc (3-5).

      A major clinical feature of FMS is the presence of chronic fatigue, which is typically
      accompanied by a severely disrupted sleep pattern. Difficulty falling asleep, frequent
      awakening and non-refreshing sleep are all features classically reported by FMS patients. In
      addition, a number of classic sleep disturbances have been identified among FMS patients such
      as alpha - wave intrusion, disrupting normal stage IV sleep, as well as nocturnal falls in
      oxygen saturation (6). Notably, disturbed sleep may contribute not only to chronic fatigue,
      but also to enhanced pain processing as well as depression in FMS patients (7). Thus, pain
      inhibitory functions of the CNS, such as the process of Diffuse Noxious Inhibitory Control
      (DNIC) appear to be impaired in by sleep disruption (8).

      Considerable interest has focused on the role of sleep apnea in FMS, as a possible factor
      contributing to fatigue and pain. Overt obstructive sleep apnea has been diagnosed in some
      patients (9) while more subtle disruptions of upper airway dynamics, such as increased upper
      airway pressure, not leading to total airway collapse, has been detected in many patients
      (10). Other researchers however have challenged the association of FMS with sleep apnea (11).

      Autonomic dysfunction is another important clinical manifestation of FMS with common symptoms
      including presyncope / syncope, palpitations on standing and dizziness (12). Postural
      Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS) is another autonomic disorder which clinically
      overlaps with FMS (13).

      Traditional polysomnography is a time-consuming and costly procedure, and hence, relatively
      few FMS patients are formally evaluated for sleep disorders in clinical practice.

      The Watch-PATTM100 is a non-invasive device, which utilizes peripheral arterial tone (PAT),
      reflecting changes in autonomic nervous system function, as a marker for identifying and
      documenting respiratory disturbances during sleep. The PAT signal is acquired through a
      non-invasive probe attached to the finger during the sleep. Parameters measured include
      oxygen saturation, heart rate, sleep and wake states, REM and non-REM sleep.

      The purpose of the current study is to use Peripheral Arterial Tonometry (PAT) in order to
      compare both disturbed sleep breathing and autonomic dysfunction in fibromyalgia patients and
      healthy controls.
    
  