
    
      A prospective, non-randomized controlled open trial in psoriasis patients with metabolic
      syndrome was conducted between January 2019 and May 2020. Inclusion criteria were age ≥ 18
      years, being affected by moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and concomitant
      metabolic syndrome and being candidate to systemic treatment with methotrexate or secukinumab
      according to the Italian guideline for psoriasis. Psoriasis was diagnosed on clinical base,
      and it was classified as moderate to severe if PASI ≥ 10, Investigator Global Assessment
      (IGA) score≥ 3 and/or Dermatology Life Quality Index ≥ 10%. Metabolic syndrome was diagnosed
      according to criteria of the National Cholesterol Education Programme Adult Treatment Panel
      III (NCEP ATP III) and The American Heart Association and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute (AHA/NHLB).3 In particular, metabolic syndrome was confirmed in presence of at
      least three of the following components: abdominal obesity (waist circumference ≥ 102 cm for
      men or ≥ 88 cm for women), triglycerides ≥ 150 mg/dL, HDL cholesterol ≤ 40 mg/dL for men or
      50 mg/dL for women, systolic/diastolic blood pressure ≥ 130/85 mmHg or receiving drug
      treatment, and fasting plasma glucose ≥ 100 mg/dL. Exclusion criteria were being affected by
      psoriatic arthritis, pregnancy, breast feeding, having initiated a systemic treatment for
      psoriasis in the previous 3 months and having a clinical condition that could affect the
      metabolic parameters other than metabolic syndrome. After having signed the informed consent
      for the participation in the study, eligible patients were consecutively assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to secukinumab (standard dose) or methotrexate 15 mg/week by subcutaneous
      administration and folic acid supplementation 5 mg given 24 hours after methotrexate. The
      primary endpoint was investigating any variation in waist circumference, body mass index
      (BMI), blood pressure, fasting glucose, total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein
      (LDL)-cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, triglycerides, aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine levels at month-6. Any
      other adverse events related to the treatments and the proportion of patients who
      discontinued the treatment because of adverse reactions were also reported. The secondary
      endpoints were assessing the PASI 75 and PASI 90 proportion of responders in the two groups
      at 6 and 12 months follow-up. Clinical and laboratory data were evaluated at the baseline and
      every 3 months up to month 12.

      Statistical Methods A descriptive statistic was conducted using proportions for categorical
      and mean and standard deviation (SD) for quantitative variables. The categorical variables
      were compared between the groups using the chi-squared test, while the quantitative variables
      were compared using the Student's T test. Variations in waist circumference, BMI, blood
      pressure, fasting glucose, total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol,
      triglycerides, AST, ALT, creatinine levels between baseline and month-6 or 12 were assessed
      by paired t-test in patient receiving methotrexate or secukinumab, respectively. PASI 75 and
      PASI 90 proportion of responders at month -6 or 12 in the two cohorts' were compared by the
      chi-squared test. The normal distribution of data was confirmed using the one-sample
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test. A value of p< 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
      Statistical analysis was performed using the STATA (version 13 StataCorp, College Station,
      TX, U.S.A.).
    
  