
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine if long-infusion schedule of bleomycin is less toxic to the lungs than
           short-infusion schedule of bleomycin in patients who are undergoing combination
           chemotherapy comprising bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin for good-prognosis,
           metastatic germ cell cancer of the testes.

        -  Determine if early lung function tests are a predictor for late toxicity.

        -  Determine if any indication of enhanced response to the long-infusion schedule justifies
           a large-scale phase III evaluation.

        -  Validate the O'Sullivan et al prognostic scoring system for bleomycin toxicity.

      Secondary

        -  Determine response to treatment.

        -  Determine progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (≤
      30 years vs > 30 years), current smoker or has smoked within the past 1 year (yes vs no), and
      creatinine clearance (≤ 80 mL/min vs > 80 mL/min). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (short-infusion schedule of bleomycin): Patients receive etoposide IV over 2 hours
           on days 1-3, cisplatin IV over 4 hours on days 1 and 2, and bleomycin IV over 30 minutes
           on days 2, 8, and 15.

        -  Arm II (long-infusion schedule of bleomycin): Patients receive etoposide and cisplatin
           as in arm I. Patients also receive bleomycin IV continuously over 72 hours on days 1-3.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months
      for 24 months.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 210 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  