
    
      Diabetes is an important public health problem as the number of people with diabetes are
      increasing across the world and contributes to high mortality burden. Prediabetes is an
      intermediate stage between normal glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
      Furthermore, people with prediabetes have higher risk to develop diabetes mellitus type 2.

      There are several objectives in this study, such as primary objective, secondary objectives,
      and exploratory objectives.

        1. Primary Objective:

           To investigate the effect of a combination of Zinc, Chromium, Vitamin C, and Copper
           supplementation (ZCC supplementation) with standard healthy lifestyle counseling in
           improving glucose profile [Fasting Blood Glucose (FBG), 2-hour Oral Glucose Tolerance
           Test (OGTT), Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR)]) from
           prediabetes to normal (reducing the proportion of prediabetes and increasing the
           proportion to become normal) or reducing the risk of progression from prediabetes to
           Type 2-Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) compared to placebo with standard healthy lifestyle
           counseling.

        2. Secondary Objectives:

           To investigate the effect of a combination of Zinc, Chromium, Vitamin C, and Copper
           supplementation (ZCC supplementation) among prediabetic adults compared to the placebo
           supplementation on:

             1. Lipid profile [Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL), High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL),
                Triglyceride];

             2. Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c);

             3. Body weight and composition (body weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), visceral fat).

        3. Exploratory Objectives:

             1. To determine cost effectiveness of intervention on prediabetic adults comparing two
                different intervention models;

             2. To determine the quality of life of prediabetes adults receiving a combination of
                zinc, chromium, vitamin C, and copper supplementation;

             3. To determine the difference of dietary intake and physical activity in prediabetes
                adults with ZCC and placebo supplementation;

             4. Level of High-sensitivity C-reactive Protein (hs-CRP); Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha
                (TNF-alpha), Zinc, Chromium, and Vitamin C will be assessed later if needed
                (optional)

      Study Design:

      This study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial in community setting, with
      two arms of intervention involving a total of 670 people.

      Study Duration:

      This study is a two-year study with 1 year of intervention for each subject.
    
  