
    
      Insomnia is a common adverse effect of cancer and its treatment. More than 25% of cancer
      survivors meet diagnostic criteria, a rate at least two times higher than that of the general
      population. Despite the pervasiveness of the problem, insomnia is underdiagnosed and
      undertreated in cancer survivors, resulting in significant suffering and associated
      consequences such as fatigue, cognitive issues, mood disturbance, functional disability,
      decreased quality of life, and immunosuppression. Consistent with recent evidence that group
      cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is effective in treating insomnia in cancer
      survivors, CBT-I is recommended as first line treatment in the new Pan-Canadian practice
      guideline for sleep disturbance in adults with cancer. A major barrier to practical
      application of this recommendation however, is the lack of appropriately trained
      professionals at cancer centres. Moreover, it is assumed that in contrast to pharmacotherapy,
      CBT-I is free of treatment-related side-effects; however, we have no knowledge of symptoms
      that may be experienced by cancer survivors and/or exacerbated during CBT-I treatment (e.g.,
      increased fatigue, cognitive impairment) because such effects are not systematically
      monitored. With the goal of improved access to CBT-I, online versions have been developed.
      One initial evaluation has been conducted in cancer patients with promising results, although
      limitations of the study include a small sample size (n = 28), control condition that failed
      to match for modality and time, lack of follow-up data, and failure to investigate potential
      side effects during treatment. Further inquiry is clearly warranted and consistent with
      insights of Canadian cancer patients who have suggested the use of technology as a factor
      that would facilitate their participation in an insomnia treatment program.

      Specific research questions to be addressed in our proposed two-group, randomized, controlled
      trial include: 1) Do cancer survivors with chronic insomnia who receive a 6-week,
      internet-based CBT-I treatment have greater improvement in insomnia severity and other
      secondary sleep and quality of life outcomes, than participants in an online sleep education
      control group? 2) Are there short-term side-effects associated with CBT-I for cancer
      survivors (i.e., do participants get worse before they get better)?

      Adult outpatients diagnosed with any type of cancer (stages I-III), completed active
      treatment for at least 1 month (with the exception of hormone therapy) and without cancer
      recurrence will be will be recruited from The Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre and Cancercare
      Manitoba (n = 150). All will meet established diagnostic and research criteria for chronic
      insomnia. Prior to acceptance in the study, the procedures will be fully explained,
      inclusion/exclusion criteria assessed, and formal consent obtained. Once accepted into the
      study, participants will be randomized (stratified by hormone therapy-yes or no) to one of
      the two study arms. Online assessment measures (insomnia severity, pre-sleep arousal, beliefs
      about sleep, fatigue, mood, anxiety, quality of life) will be completed at the baseline
      period, at week 6 (post treatment), and at 3 month follow-up; however, online diary
      assessments of sleep parameters and potential side-effects (fatigue, affect, cognition, pain,
      drug dosing) will be entered daily and potential side-effects will also be assessed online
      weekly through the course of treatment. Analyses will involve mixed modeling and latent
      growth curve models.

      The computerized intervention evaluated in this study has the potential to bridge an existing
      gap in knowledge translation by providing cancer survivors widespread access to CBT-I in a
      cost-effective manner. The study will also investigate potential short-term side-effects of
      online CBT-I so that patients can be fully informed when making treatment decisions. The
      online program could serve as the foundation of a stepped care model as recommended in the
      Pan-Canadian sleep guideline for adults with cancer. Overall, by reducing the burden of
      residual effects of cancer and its treatments, this research aims to enhance quality of life
      for cancer survivors in Canada and elsewhere.
    
  