
    
      Prenatal screening for an early detection of fetal abnormalities and pregnancy related
      complications is of great importance for both the fetus and the mother. The current follow-up
      consists of a physical screening (maternal blood pressure, edemas, weight, fundus
      altitude...), lab screenings (urine culture for screening asymptomatic bladder infection,
      urine stick for preeclampsia, sugar test for gestational diabetes, measuring cervix length
      for premature birth, Group B streptococcus screening), ultrasound monitoring (structural
      inspection, biometrics, placental function ...) and fetal monitoring with cardiotocography.

      The recent introduction of the Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing (NIPT) caused a major change in
      prenatal diagnosis. NIPT allows the early (12 weeks gestational age) detection of chromosomal
      abnormalities, such as trisomy 21, with a very high sensitivity and specificity.

      Trisomy 21 is with its incidence of 1/1000 live births only the tip of the iceberg of many
      other fetal abnormalities and gestational complications that can occur. Pregnancy
      complications, such as pre-eclampsia, intra-uterine growth retardation (IUGR) and preterm
      birth have a much higher incidence (up to 5-8% of all pregnancies) and are an important cause
      of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.

      The aim of this study is the early (presymptomatic) detection of pregnancy complications,
      which could contribute to a preventive treatment. Studies have shown that the major cause of
      these complications originate from defects in spiral artery remodeling and trophoblast
      invasion or an abnormal functioning placenta, during the 1st or 2nd trimester. Insufficient
      oxygen and nutrient flow to the placenta, caused by abnormal (narrowed diameter) spiral
      arteria, is the most proven underlying origin. These obstructing conditions can lead to a
      placenta in stress (hypoxia), and therefore potentially a fetus in stress (IUGR). General
      known is that these pathologies will lead to a different gene expression, which can be
      investigated by direct analysis of placental RNA (transcriptome) and DNA (methylation
      profiling). During the last decade, several high impact researchers (for example the research
      groups of Dennis Lo and Stephen Quake, founders of the current worldwide NIPT screening) have
      investigated gene expression profiles in the placenta in normal and complicated pregnancies,
      by analyzing the placental cell free DNA and RNA present in maternal plasma. Very recent
      findings indicate a huge potential in non-invasively profiling the placental transcriptome
      and methylome. Advances in next-generation sequencing and molecular analysis made it possible
      to measure circulating nucleic acids to improve the investigator's understanding of placental
      pathology and develop novel non-invasive biomarkers for pregnancy complications and
      monitoring high-risk pregnancies.
    
  