
    
      Study design:

      This study has two design components viz.

        -  Prospective enrollment of a cohort of term infants at birth; and 3 monthly follow-up at
           the ages of 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months.

        -  Randomization at 6 months of age to three intervention groups viz (i) measles
           vaccination at 9 months of age (as per current practice), (ii) vaccination at 7.5 months
           and 9 months of age, and (iii) vaccination at 6 months and 9 months of age.

      Methods: Enrollment:

      Pregnant women awaiting delivery in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology will be
      screened for eligibility (as per the Inclusion and Exclusion criteria). Women whose infants
      are likely to be eligible for participation in the study will be explained about the nature
      and purpose of the study prior to delivery. They will be informed about the study protocol
      and invited to participate. After delivery, mothers and their respective newborn babies, will
      be enrolled with written, informed consent.

      Procedure:

      A brief interview will be conducted to determine history of exanthematous illness suffered in
      the past by the mother, family history of similar illness and vaccinations received by her.

      At delivery, approximately 1 ml of cord blood from the infant's side will be collected in a
      sterile plastic screw-capped container, labeled and transported to the laboratory. Similarly
      1 ml of venous blood will be obtained from the mother in a sterile plastic screw-capped
      container, labeled and transported to the laboratory. Serum will be separated from these
      samples by centrifugation and deep frozen at minus 20 degree C until analysis.

      The infants will be followed-up and undergo venipuncture under aseptic precautions to
      withdraw 0.8-1.0 ml blood at five further visits viz. 3 months±2 weeks [corresponding to a
      visit for 2nd/3rd dose of diphtheria- pertussis- tetanus (DPT) vaccine and live oral
      poliovirus vaccine(OPV)], 6 months±2 weeks (corresponding to visit for 3rd dose of Hepatitis
      B at 6 months of age), 7.5 months ±2 weeks, at 9 months ±2 weeks (corresponding to visit for
      measles vaccine as per the current schedule), and at 12 ± 2 weeks months of age
      (corresponding to visit for routine follow-up).

      During the follow-up visit at 6 months of age, infants will be randomized (as described
      below) to one of three groups viz: Group A: vaccination at 6 months and 9 months of age;
      Group B: vaccination at 7.5 months and 9 months of age; and Group C: vaccination at 9 months
      of age (current practice).

      Generation of random sequence: A computer programme will be used to generate a random number
      sequence to allocate participants into three groups in a ratio of 1:1:1, as per the Groups
      described above.

      Allocation concealment: The allocation of each infant will be placed in sealed, opaque
      envelopes. For each infant presenting at six months of age, one envelope will be marked with
      the infant's name and then opened. At this stage, the sealed envelopes will contain one of
      two options viz (i) Vaccination at 6 months or (ii) No vaccination at 6 months. Those who
      receive the former will follow the protocol for Group A described below. Those who receive
      the latter will be followed-up at 7.5 months of age; at which stage a second set of sealed
      enveloped will be accessed. One envelope will be marked with the infant's name and then
      opened. At this stage, the sealed envelopes will contain one of two options viz (i)
      Vaccination at 7.5 months or (ii) Vaccination at 9 months. Those who receive the former will
      follow the protocol for Group B described below; and those who receive the latter will follow
      the protocol for Group C described below.

      Blinding: In this randomized trial design, no attempt will be made to blind the infants being
      randomized, or their parents (in order to avoid unnecessary injections through a double dummy
      design). The investigator involved in randomizing the infants will also not be blinded.
      However, the laboratory personnel performing the antibody level measurements will be blinded
      by sending the samples with only a four digit code that does not reveal the intervention
      received.Samples during any visit will be withdrawn prior to administration of vaccine(s).

      Measles vaccine will be administered as per the protocol described above by trained personnel
      in the Immunization Room of the Advanced Pediatrics Center. A standard dose of the available
      preparation will be administered in the dosage of 0.5 ml through the subcutaneous route.
      Standard post-vaccination precaution viz observation of the infant for 30 minutes after
      vaccination will be done to observe for any adverse event.

      Clinical protocol:

      At each visit history will be elicited to detect clinical features compatible with measles in
      the baby or any other member of the family in the household contact. This includes:

      Any person in whom a clinician suspects measles infection, or Any person with fever and
      maculopapular rash (i.e. non-vesicular) and cough, coryza (i.e. runny nose) or conjunctivitis
      (i.e. red eyes).

      In addition, the investigator will make a monthly telephone call to the family of enrolled
      infants asking for specific history compatible with the World Health Organization (WHO) case
      definition for measles, in the infant or any household member. In case such history is
      elicited, the infant and affected individual will be invited for clinical examination and a
      sample of blood will be obtained. Serum will be separated as described and immunoglobulin M
      (IgM) anti-measles antibody will be measured using commercially available ELISA kits as
      described below.

      After each vaccination, parents of vaccinated infants will be requested to complete a Diary
      for three days, containing a daily record of (i) excessive crying, (ii) poor feeding, (iii)
      fever, (iv) redness at injection site, (v) swelling at injection site (vi)
      tenderness/apparent pain at injection site, and (vii) any other unusual behavior/appearance
      in the infant.

      Laboratory processing:

      Clotted blood samples will be centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 15 minutes to obtain serum which
      will be frozen at -20 degree Celsius till tested. Serum will be processed in batches of 30-40
      and measles specific IgG antibodies will be quantified by micro-ELISA (enzyme linked
      immunosorbent assay) using commercially available quantitative measles IgG kits of high
      sensitivity (98-100%) and specificity (100%). IgM antibody assay will be done to confirm the
      diagnosis of measles only in those infants suspected to have measles; using commercially
      available quantitative measles IgG kits of high sensitivity (98-100%) and specificity (100%).
      Sera from subjects, calibrators, positive and negative controls will be diluted in serum
      diluents and test will be performed as recommended by the manufacturers. The obtained optical
      density value for each sample will be converted into measles antibody titre in units/ml with
      help of calibrator values in a standard log graph paper and these units/ml will then be
      interpreted as International Units/ml taking the recommendation in the kit.
    
  