
    
      A prospective, randomized controlled, double-blind clinical study was performed in unilateral
      total knee arthroplasty (TDP) surgery with a cross-linking, fixed insert, cemented total knee
      prosthesis and the same type of surgical technique. Ankara Yenimahalle Training and Research
      Hospital Patients admitted to the Rehabilitation Policlinic will be included in the study.
      Pre-study volunteers will be randomly assigned into two groups by giving information about
      the purpose and content of the study. The participants will be evaluated by a blind
      researcher before, after and 3 months after the treatment and the data obtained from the
      evaluation results will be analyzed by appropriate statistical methods.

      Patients who have at least 80 degrees of knee flexion and full knee extension, who can be
      mobilized (with ancillary equipment), who can go up and down the stairs, without any
      infections, will be included in the study after their sutures have been taken. Patients will
      be randomly divided into two groups as education group and control group. The patients in the
      control group will undergo a conservative physical therapy program under the supervision of
      the physiotherapist. The patients in the training group will be given conservative treatment
      and body stabilization exercise program under the supervision of physiotherapist. The
      assessments before and after the treatment and after 3 months will be performed by another
      physiotherapist who does not know what treatment the patients are receiving. Pre-treatment,
      post-treatment and 3-month post-treatment pain with visual analog scale, joint motion range
      with goniometer, functional performance with time up and go test, balance with Prokin balance
      device (ProKin, Tecnobody, Bergamo, Italy), lumbal lordosis angle with Baseline Bubble
      Inclinometer®, knee functions with Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis
      Index, the lower extremity muscle endurance with 30 second chair stand test will be
      evaluated. Patients in both groups will be treated for a total of 8 weeks 2 days a week.
    
  