
    
      Leukemia is a type of blood cancer that affects the body's white blood cells (WBCs). White
      blood cells help fight infection and protect the body against disease, but in leukemia, some
      of the white blood cells turn cancerous and don't work as they should. As more cancerous
      cells form in the blood and bone marrow (spongy tissue inside the bones), there's less room
      for healthy cells .

      The different types of leukemia can be either acute (fast growing) or chronic (slow growing).
      Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) happens when the body makes too many lymphoblasts (a type
      of white blood cell). It's the most common type of childhood cancer.

      Treatment outcome of acute leukemia has been improved recently using Methotrexate . Side
      effects of methotrexate usually in the form of ulcerative stomatitis, leukopenia (lower
      amount of white blood cells), nausea, abdominal discomfort, and elevated liver and kidney
      function tests. Identifying risk factors leading to these side effects would be valuable to
      develop preventive interventions and improve quality of life for these young patients.

      Studies revealed a relationship between vitamin D deficiency and adverse reactions of
      chemotherapy in cancer patients. This vitamin is important in many physiological processes in
      the body as bone mineralization and immune regulations . A human body produces vitamin D as a
      response to sun exposure. A person can also boost their vitamin D intake through certain
      foods or supplements. .

      Previous literature showed that receptors for vitamin D expressed in the mucosa and so there
      is a relationship between vitamin D deficiency and increase inflammation and impairment of
      mucosa .

      Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that not only regulates calcium absorption and bone
      metabolism, but can also regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and the immune
      response, vitamin D insufficiency/deficiency is associated with poor clinical outcome and
      significantly worse progression free survival of patients from leukemia and lymphoma.

      Calcium is the most abundant element in the human body and is essential for life. It has a
      key role in many physiological processes including skeletal mineralization, muscle
      contraction, nerve impulse transmission, blood clotting, and hormone secretion . 1,
      25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 the active form of vitamin D plays major role in intestinal calcium
      absorption, Calcium homeostasis is also regulated by parathyroid hormone.

      Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia may be at risk of vitamin D deficiency because of
      impaired vitamin intake and sunlight exposure .
    
  