
    
      The prognosis of patients with advanced small cell lung cancer is poor. Despite chemotherapy
      and immunotherapy, median survival is only 12 months. The trial SAKK 15/19 is investigating
      whether thoracic radiotherapy and the administration of durvalumab can slow down the
      progression of the disease.

      In patients with advanced small cell lung cancer, the standard therapy consists of 4-6 cycles
      of platinum-based chemotherapy plus etoposide with or without Atezolizumab. Nevertheless, the
      median overall survival of these patients is only 10-12 months, because resistance to the
      therapy usually develops rapidly.

      Radiotherapy and maintenance therapy with Durvalumab to activate the immune system The risk
      of intrathoracic progression of small cell lung cancer can be reduced by additional thoracic
      radiotherapy. It is assumed that the radiation not only has a direct cytotoxic effect on the
      tumor cells, but also stimulates an antitumor immune response.

      In the trial SAKK 15/19, it is being investigated whether the combination of the monoclonal
      anti-PD-L1 antibody durvalumab with thoracic radiotherapy in patients with advanced small
      cell lung cancer can cause an even stronger activation of the immune system with an improved
      antitumoral immune response. The trial therapy (thoracic radiotherapy + durvalumab) is based
      on chemo-immunotherapy with carboplatin, etoposide and durvalumab. The primary endpoint of
      the trial is the progression-free rate after 12 months, secondary endpoints include
      progression-free survival, median overall survival and objective response rate.

      Which patients can participate? The trial is open to patients with advanced small-cell lung
      cancer who have either metastases (stage IV) or whose lung tumor volume is so large that
      radiation therapy with curative intent is not possible as a first-line therapy (stage
      III-IV). Patients who have already received systemic therapy or thoracic radiotherapy because
      of the small cell lung carcinoma cannot participate.

      Conduct of the trial

      Participation in the trial is carried out in three phases for patients:

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive four cycles of chemo-immunotherapy with carboplatin,
           etoposide and durvalumab. One cycle lasts 21 days. In those patients who show a response
           or stable disease situation after completion of induction therapy, maintenance therapy
           follows. Maintenance therapy is not performed in patients whose disease has progressed
           further under induction therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Thoracic radiotherapy for 2.5-3 weeks (13 fractions of 3 Gray each)
           and administration of Durvalumab every 28 days for a maximum of two years.

        -  Follow-up for two years.
    
  