
    
      Background: The use of Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs) among breast cancer (BC) patients with
      hormone receptor-positive disease reduces recurrence by 41% and mortality by 31%. Despite the
      efficacy of AIs, one-quarter of BC survivors fail to take their AIs as prescribed during the
      first year with another one-fifth discontinuing later in treatment. There are a variety of
      reasons for non-adherence, including low motivation, poor patient-provider communication, low
      self-efficacy, low perceived risk, and the experience of side effects. One promising
      intervention for improving treatment adherence is motivational interviewing (MI), a broad set
      of patient-centered techniques designed to enhance motivation for behaviour change.
      Objectives: To conduct a parallel-group, double-blind, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to
      evaluate the efficacy of MI at improving 12-month adherence to AIs relative to attention
      control (AC). The primary outcome is medication adherence measured using pharmacy records and
      calculated by medication possession ratio (MPR). Secondary outcomes include self-reported
      adherence, motivation and self-efficacy. Methods: A community sample of BC survivors newly
      prescribed AIs will be recruited from a local cancer centre pharmacy for a 6-month medication
      adherence observation period. The investigators chose to recruit new AI users because a
      significant number (i.e., 20-35%) are expected to discontinue medication within 12-months.
      MPR will be calculated following the observation period and patients meeting inclusion
      criteria and deemed non-adherent (MPR < 80%) will be enrolled in the trial, randomly assigned
      to MI or AC, and scheduled for a baseline appointment. Recruitment will continue until 128
      (64 per group) non-adherent BC survivors are identified. Four MI or AC sessions will be
      delivered at 3-month intervals (0-,3-,6-,9-months), each lasting 30-45 minutes. A final
      assessment will occur at 12-months. Baseline and final assessments will be conducted by an
      assistant who is not affiliated with the trial. Given that the long-term adherence to AIs is
      poor, a lack of adherence leads to clinically meaningful increases in BC recurrence,
      morbidity and mortality, and there has been only one published intervention study related to
      AIs to date, our trial represents a top priority in the prevention and treatment of BC.
    
  