
    
      This is a prospective, open label, multicentre, randomised phase II clinical trial. An
      adaptive trial design is proposed to allow ineffective treatments to be discontinued early,
      and to potentially add novel treatment arms as the trial progresses.

      Patients will initially receive standard chemotherapy for their locally advanced or
      metastatic oesophago-gastric adenocarcinoma, according to local practice based upon their
      HER-2 status (tested locally). In order to be eligible for trial entry, HER-2 negative
      patients should have received a platinum-fluoropyrimidine based chemotherapy doublet or
      triplet (Arm A), whilst HER-2 positive patients (IHC 3+ or IHC 2+ and FISH positive) should
      have received cisplatin in combination with either capecitabine or 5-FU (CX or CF) plus
      trastuzumab chemotherapy (Arm B). Potentially eligible patients will be registered with the
      trials office whilst undergoing first line chemotherapy.

      Patients will then become eligible for trial recruitment and randomization following
      completion of at least 6 cycles of standard chemotherapy with ≥SD (stable disease) or better
      on the end-of-treatment CT scan. Eligible patients will then be randomised according to HER-2
      status as follows:

        -  HER-2 positive patients (~20%) will be currently not be randomised and will be assigned
           maintenance single-agent trastuzumab (current UK standard), a comparator arm is in
           development.

        -  HER-2 negative patients (~80%) will be randomised in a 1:1:1 fashion between
           surveillance only (current UK standard), maintenance capecitabine, or maintenance
           immuno-modulatory therapy (anti-PD-L1 antibody)

      Patients will be stratified according to: locally advanced disease versus metastatic disease,
      and performance status (0 versus 1 versus 2).

      Review of patients will occur every 4 weeks in the observation only arm. In maintenance
      therapy arms, patients will be reviewed every 3 or every 4 weeks depending upon the treatment
      strategy. CT assessments of response will occur every 12 weeks (3 months) in all arms of the
      trial. Treatment will be continued indefinitely until the occurrence of either disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patient withdrawal for another reason.

      The trial is being run from the RMH GI clinical trials unit with Professor David Cunningham
      as the over-arching CI. Effective arms in the phase II portion of the trial may be taken
      forward into a phase III maintenance trial powered for overall survival. It is also hoped
      that, as more robust data becomes available for other biomarker-selected populations (e.g.
      MET-positive, FGFR-amplified), it may be possible to amend the overall trial design to
      incorporate these biomarker-targeted maintenance therapies in the HER-2 negative population.
    
  