
    
      ADHD is often treated with stimulant medications, which have demonstrated short-term efficacy
      in numerous trials. However, treatment is often discontinued prematurely. Although ADHD often
      persists through adolescence, approximately half of all children who are treated with a
      stimulant medication discontinue treatment within one year (Charach, Ickowicz et al. 2004).
      Presumably, tolerability and treatment compliance are highly related to the side effect
      profile of stimulant medications (Schachar, Jadad et al. 2002). Sleep problems, particularly
      insomnia, are frequently associated with ADHD and are often exacerbated by stimulant
      medications, particularly at higher doses. Other frequent stimulant side effects are
      decreased appetite and mood lability (dysphoria/euphoria). Little is known about the relative
      effects of different stimulant formulations and dosages (i.e amphetamine, methylphenidate,
      dexmethylphenidate) on sleep and tolerability. There is some preliminary data with short
      acting stimulants suggesting a higher prevalence of sleep and appetite problems with
      amphetamine relative to mph (Pelham, Aronoff et al. 1999). Several studies indicate that
      sleep and other stimulant side effects are dose related (Stein, Sarampote et al. 2003),
      although this has not been found in all studies. Moreover, it is unclear if there are
      differences between long-acting amphetamine and methylphenidate based stimulants in their
      side effect profile and tolerability. Thus, we will directly compare these two long acting
      stimulant medications on their side effect profile and tolerability, including measures of
      sleep, mood, and evening behavior (e.g., family conflicts). The recently developed extended
      release formulation of dexmethylphenidate will be compared to one of the most common
      treatments for ADHD, extended release formulation of mixed amphetamine salts. The subject
      population will be older children and adolescents (10-17) with ADHD who are most likely to be
      treated with moderate to higher dose levels of stimulant medications and can complete all
      self-report measures.
    
  