
    
      COPD is a chronic disease with high mortality and morbidity worldwide. Patients with
      end-stage COPD frequently develop CHRF associated with end-of-life. In that stage of disease,
      treatment options are limited.

      Long-term nocturnal NIV has been applied in patients with chronic alveolar hypoventilation
      for decades. While there is no doubt that applying chronic nocturnal NIV improves outcomes in
      patients with restrictive and neuromuscular diseases, the evidence in COPD patients has long
      been controversial. At the HMV centre Groningen, the majority of patients treated with NIV
      therefore still concerns patients with neuromuscular diseases.

      Initial trials investigating chronic NIV in COPD showed no relevant benefits, neither in
      terms of improvement in gas exchange nor in improvements in patient-centred outcomes as
      HRQoL.However, most of these trials used low inspiratory pressures so that improvement of
      alveolar hypoventilation was not or only partially achieved. Consequently, little improvement
      in clinical outcomes could be expected.

      More than 10 years ago, the concept of high-intensity NIV in COPD was introduced. By applying
      higher inspiratory pressures and breathing frequencies aimed at a more controlled form of
      ventilation and improvement in gas exchange, clinically relevant improvements in HRQoL and
      lung function were observed, without undue loss of patient comfort. Recently, a German group
      conclusively showed that high-intensity NIV improves survival in severe COPD patients with
      CHRF. These positive results with high-intensity NIV have changed our view towards the use of
      chronic NIV in stable COPD. Nowadays, the investigators believe that the evidence for
      long-term nocturnal NIV is convincing and justifies the application of this therapy in
      patients with severe stable COPD patients with CHRF. Nevertheless, for a broader
      implementation of this treatment in a potentially large group of severe COPD patients,
      important issues have to be solved.

      First, the current inpatient NIV initiation process has to be reconsidered, which despite
      tight titration based on arterial blood gases, does not always lead to good patient
      compliance, is inconvenient for patients and is expensive. While it might be thought that
      high-intensity NIV necessitates inpatient titration to gain adequate reversal of
      hypoventilation, different in hospital set ups of NIV initiation (on a general ward, medium
      care unit or on an intensive care unit), with different ways of titration (guided by
      transcutaneous carbon dioxide (PtCO2) or arterial blood gases (PaCO2)), have not resulted in
      different outcomes or a different compliance at the long-term. Also, these inpatient options
      are expensive as initiation of NIV in COPD routinely requires 5-14 days. Recently, our group
      of the HMV centre Groningen has shown that, in patients with neuromuscular and restrictive
      thoracic diseases, initiation of NIV can safely be performed at home. Initiation of NIV at
      home was preferred by the patients, was equally effective and saved costs compared to
      inpatient initiation. Importantly, COPD patients have been excluded in this randomised
      controlled trial (RCT), as at the start of that study chronic NIV in COPD was not considered
      a regular standard treatment option in the Netherlands. Furthermore, initiation of NIV in
      COPD patients at that time was thought to be probably too difficult to be performed at home,
      because high-intensity NIV is needed in this patient group to improve outcomes.

      However, challenges with the initiation of high-intensity NIV require attention, but do not
      necessarily have to be solved in-hospital. On the one hand, patients with COPD need higher
      inspiratory pressures and higher backup breathing frequencies as it is more difficult to
      correct alveolar hypoventilation in lung parenchyma diseases compared to diseases in which
      the lungs are not primarily affected, such as in neuromuscular disease. On the other hand,
      the investigators believe that careful high-intensity NIV initiation and titration should not
      only focus on maximal improvement in PaCO2 but also on patient comfort. The consequence of
      high-intensity might be that COPD patients need even more time and attention from caregivers
      to get used to the high pressures and high backup frequencies before our target can be
      reached, i.e. improvement in gas exchange and respiratory muscle unloading, before the
      conditions also for a good long-term compliance can be satisfied.

      Finding the individual high-intensity setting leading to sufficient improvement in objective
      physiological parameters is challenging in this group of patients. This process therefore
      probably requires more frequent and more intensive monitoring. At home, the investigators
      will optimise monitoring of the patients with the use of frequent non-invasive monitoring of
      gas exchange with transcutaneous measurements (SenTec DM®, Software V-STATS 4.0; SenTec AG;
      Therwil, Switzerland). Secondly, analysis of data read from the ventilator software
      (Respironics Trilogy 202®, Philips, the Netherlands) will be used to provide information
      about compliance and the actual provided ventilation. Finally, the investigators will aid
      measurements of respiratory muscle activity by means of surface electromyography (EMG) as a
      relatively new tool which can aid in optimising NIV initiation. Surface EMG is a new tool
      that might help to optimise NIV initiation. It has been shown that especially high-intensity
      NIV is able to unload the respiratory muscles (Duiverman, work in progress).This might
      importantly add to the achievement of clinical relevant benefits. Until now, no studies have
      used non-invasive measurements of respiratory muscle unloading to optimise initiation of NIV.
      In the last decade, I have developed and validated a surface EMG technique for use in COPD
      patients, measuring respiratory muscle activity as a surrogate of respiratory neural drive
      and thus muscle loading. As this method is non-invasive, it can easily be applied at home.
      Furthermore, surface EMG can be used to asses patient-ventilator asynchrony (PVA). Especially
      with higher inspiratory pressures and/or high breathing frequencies PVA may arise.PVA is
      important as it leads to increased work of breathing, decreased patient comfort and less
      effective ventilation. During the traditional in-hospital NIV initiation, one might suggest
      that an indication of respiratory muscle (un)loading and patient-ventilator synchrony is
      received through observation of the patient. However, observation by the respiratory nurses
      is mostly of limited time and detects only events leading to a huge excess of respiratory
      muscle loading, such as during severe PVA. During home initiation, direct observation is far
      less easy and less frequent. In concordance with a recent study showing that parasternal EMG
      can be used to assess PVA in a mixed group of patients initiated on home NIV, the
      investigators have shown in a recent pilot project that also our surface EMG is feasible to
      measure respiratory muscle unloading and detect PVA, of note, during different settings, also
      high-intensity NIV (submitted work). As the use of surface EMG for optimising NIV initiation
      is relatively new, the investigators will extend the monitoring of patients in both groups
      including surface EMG as a surrogate marker of respiratory muscle unloading and to detect PVA
      during NIV.

      For the second issue, the necessity for acclimatisation time and caregiver attention, very
      elegant solutions are available to provide this at home too. A longer initiation period can
      better be met at home, in a trusted environment for the patient, saving the disadvantages and
      costs of a prolonged hospital stay. With modern technologies the necessary caregiver
      attention can also be provided at home. Monitoring data can be sent to caregivers on daily
      basis by telemonitoring. This proven technology enables caregivers to make on daily basis, on
      distance, decisions regarding the NIV initiation process, which will be discussed with the
      patient by frequent telephone calls. This so called telemedicine has already been shown to be
      a valuable and promising tool to monitor and to adjust treatment of patients already
      established on chronic NIV at home. In our home NIV initiation pilot project in neuromuscular
      patients, the investigators were the first to show in a RCT that this technology was very
      feasible to use for NIV initiation at home.

      The second important issue to be solved regards better patient selection. By collecting the
      baseline and follow-up data of the COPD patients initiated on NIV, the investigators aim to
      find predictors of a favourable response to NIV. It is known, from clinical practice and from
      studies, that not all patients respond favourably. Until now, data have shown that patients
      with CHRF benefit. Furthermore, benefits at least in terms of improvement in gas exchange,
      seem to be more prominent in patients with severe stable hypercapnia. In contrast, our group
      has shown that patients that remain hypercapnic after an exacerbation do not uniformly
      benefit. An individual COPD phenotype benefiting most from this demanding therapy has not
      been identified.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate whether home initiation of chronic NIV in
      stable COPD patients with CHRF is non-inferior to inpatient initiation in terms of
      improvement in PaCO2 after 6 months.

      Secondary outcomes are change in lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1),
      lung volumes (total lung capacity (TLC), residual volume (RV) and RV%TLC), and diffusion
      capacity (DLCO (%predicted)), change in HRQoL, and costs including cost-effectiveness
      analyses.

      The secondary objective of the study is to collect patient demographics (age, weight, height,
      social status, HRQoL, anxiety and depression scores, data on comorbidities and medication
      use), respiratory function (lung function as well as measures of respiratory muscle activity,
      arterial blood gases), and inflammatory blood markers, in order to analyse how differences in
      baseline parameters are related to changes in HRQoL.
    
  