
    
      This is an open-label, Phase 1, dose exploration and preliminary immunogenicity study of
      single agent EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox in subjects with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). Eligible subjects
      enrolled in the study will receive EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox administered weekly for 7 weeks via IV 20
      minute infusion, followed by radiological evaluation at week 8 (1 Cycle). Subjects may
      continue to receive subsequent cycles of EGFR(V)-EDV-Dox unless the subject becomes
      intolerant to investigational product (IP), withdraw consent or the individual is no longer
      receiving clinical benefit (factors taken in to consideration will be disease progression
      radiologically or clinically, and clinical benefits to quality of life). Tumour assessment
      will be repeated after each 7 week cycle (week 8).

      The study will take place in two parts, Part 1 (Dose Exploration) and Part 2 (Dose
      Expansion).

      Part 1 - Dose Exploration will assess the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of drug
      at two dose levels (5 x 10^9 and 8 x 10^9) and will enroll prior to Part 2. Three subjects
      will be recruited per dose level. Enrollment will begin with the 5 x 10^9 dose level, and the
      decision to enroll to the 8 x 10^9 dose level will follow a comprehensive safety evaluation
      and a standard 3 + 3 dose escalation study design.

      Part 2 - Dose Expansion will be conducted pending safety results of Part 1 to provide
      guidance regarding the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). Subjects will be treated and assessed
      as outlined in Part 1 above. If 0 out of 3 subjects, or 1 out of 6 subjects, experience dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs) at the 5 x 10^9 dose level in Part 1, additional subjects to a
      total of 10 will be recruited to this dose level in Part 2. Similarly, if 0 out of 3
      subjects, or 1 out of 6 subjects, experience DLTs at the 8 x 10^9 dose level in Part 1,
      additional subjects to a total of 10 will be recruited to this dose level in Part 2. If both
      dose levels are tolerated, a total of 10 subjects per dose level will be enrolled.

      A safety follow-up visit must be performed 30 (+5) days after the last dose of drug for all
      subjects.All subjects who discontinue investigational product and who have not withdrawn full
      consent to participate in the study will continue in the long term follow-up phase. Long term
      follow-up will continue approximately every 1 month for 12 months, from the 30 (+5) day
      follow-up visit, then approximately every 2-3 months for the extent of subject survival.
    
  