
    
      One of the most highly effective preventive measures a mother can make in protecting the
      health of her infant and herself is to breastfeed. Despite extensive research on breast-milk,
      limited information beyond basic micro/macronutrient composition currently exists in the
      literature. Breast-milk is a complex, non-uniform biological substance. In prior studies the
      PI has shown significant associations be-tween non-nutritive constituents in breast-milk
      (e.g. IL-6, TNF-α, insulin, leptin) and body composition in infants starting at 4wks of age.
      The putative causal influence of breastfeeding reducing obesity is mixed with no clear
      probative evidence showing causal pathways. Despite many studies in this area, there are no
      detailed studies that have examined the potential modifying role of maternal diet, especially
      one high in sugars on the compositional makeup of the three largest breast-milk sugars
      (glucose, galactose and lactose) with none to date looking at fructose. Animal models have
      demonstrated that the obesogenic effect of maternal fructose consumption is transmitted to
      offspring via breast-milk with fructose-fed lactating dams producing offspring with double
      fasting insulin levels compared to control pups. This is relevant in humans because of the
      increase in dietary sugar consumption that has occurred in the population.

      A mother/infant cohort (n=37) has been established with detailed infant phenotypic body
      composition (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry) and detailed breast-milk analysis (insulin,
      leptin, IL-6, TNF-α but no milk sugars other than glucose) in exclusively breast feeding
      mothers varying widely in BMI (19 to 44 kg/m2). Sampling of breast-milk and infant body
      composition occurred at both 4 and 24wks. As a proof of concept, fructose was detected in
      breast-milk from 9 of these mothers which was significantly related to infant body fat, which
      is a novel finding to date and has never been reported in the literature. Building upon this
      prior work this study will determine the concentration and pharmacokinetics of breast-milk
      sugars after a test beverage is consumed.
    
  