
    
      In the United States, only 49 percent of persons living with HIV infection are currently
      retained in care (Centers for Disease Control, 2018). Many individuals initially start
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) but fall out of care and discontinue treatment, only to reenter
      care at a later date. Gaps in care contribute to the likelihood that a patient might not have
      a recent viral load or CD4 count, as well as knowledge of previous ART regimens or resistance
      data. Furthermore, high plasma HIV-1 RNA is a major risk factor for HIV transmission, and
      effective ART can reduce viremia and transmission of HIV to sexual partners by more than 96%
      (Cohen et al., 2011; Palella et al., 1998). Thus, a secondary goal of ART is to reduce the
      risk of HIV transmission.

      Traditional models of care have an initial period where a person is brought back into care
      and assessed by a healthcare provider on various factors, including HIV RNA level, genotypic/
      phenotypic resistance, immune status, renal/hepatic function, and general medical
      comorbidities before reinitiating ART. These steps can add weeks without treatment and, in
      turn, delay resupression of the virus and immune system improvement, as well as continuing to
      contribute to the community viral load and offering more opportunities for the person to fall
      out of care again. (Horburg et al., 2013) This traditional model places a burden on both the
      patient and the healthcare system as multiple visits are required, each one a potential point
      where the patient can be lost again to follow-up.

      A rapid reinitiation of ART for persons who have fallen out of care is a potential
      intervention that could improve retention rates, patient satisfaction, and clinical outcomes.
      Given these factors, the single-tablet regimen of D/C/F/TAF (Symtuza®) may serve as an ideal
      regimen for a Rapid Reinitiation model of care, combining potency, sustained efficacy, a high
      genetic barrier to resistance, with a well-described safety profile of the individual
      components, and practical, convenient dosing.

      This prospective, multicenter study will follow subjects for 48 weeks with subjects either
      returning to the site or having a virtual visit (TeleVisit) for Weeks 2, 4, 12, 24, 36, and
      48. Baseline safety labs will dictate whether the ART regimen will need to be modified but
      will not be required to be completed at the initiation of ART. Assessment of drug
      accountability, reasons for non-adherence, recording of concomitant therapies, adverse
      events, weight, physical examinations (complete or symptom-directed), laboratory evaluations
      (for efficacy and safety), and health outcome assessments will be performed from baseline
      onwards.
    
  