
    
      Severe asthma accounts for the majority of the morbidity and mortality related to asthma. It
      is characterized by persistent airway inflammation despite anti-inflammatory therapy,
      persistent airway hyperresponsiveness, and "remodeling" of the airways that includes
      fibrosis. Lipoxin A4 (LXA4) and 15-epimer-LXA4 are lipid-derived mediators that have been
      shown to promote anti-inflammatory and pro-resolving cellular responses through their effects
      at ALX/FPR2 receptors. They promote resolution of inflammation, inhibit airway
      hyperresponsiveness, and counteract pro-fibrotic processes. Investigators at the Brigham and
      Women's Hospital and others have shown that the ALX effector pathway and its constituent
      ligands (ALX axis) is perturbed in severe asthma (SA) compared with non-severe asthma (NSA).
      Specifically, in SA LXA4 production is decreased and ALX/FPR2 receptor expression is reduced.
      Further, investigators at the Brigham and Women's Hospital have shown that low levels of
      lipoxins, relative to pro phlogistic leukotrienes, are associated with reduced airway
      function (FEV1). Considering these data and the function of the ALX axis, it appears that
      perturbations of constituents of this axis could identify, and perhaps underlie, several of
      the processes that characterize severe, progressive asthma. Further to this point, work in
      progress being done at the Brigham and Women's Hospital indicates that corticosteroids (CS)
      interactions with the ALX axis may underlie some of these perturbations. CS can decrease the
      production of LXA4. More importantly, while CS increase production of pro-resolving annexin
      A1, they also appear to promote pro-inflammatory signaling through ALX/FPR2 via upregulation
      of serum amyloid A (SAA). SAA is expressed in the lung and is associated with exacerbations
      of COPD.

      Hypotheses:

      Peripheral blood leukocytes and bronchoalveolar lavage fluids will be obtained from SA and
      NSA subjects before and after intramuscular triamcinolone at baseline to test the hypothesis
      that in vivo corticosteroids will reduce pro-inflammatory cellular responses and enhance
      LXA4-mediated anti-inflammatory responses in the majority of asthmatic subjects. There is a
      sub-group of individuals with severe asthma in which in vivo corticosteroids will
      paradoxically increase pro-inflammatory responses. Investigators will also test the
      hypothesis that such paradoxical signaling can be overcome by lipoxins. In addition,
      investigators will test the hypothesis that basal p anti-inflammatory responses are dampened
      in severe asthma.

      Investigators at the Brigham and Women's Hospital hypothesize that a cohort of severe
      asthmatic subjects with impaired counter-regulatory signaling will have a specific ALX axis
      phenotype that will predispose them to increased inflammation, asthma exacerbations and
      disease progression.

      Investigators will test the hypothesis that in vivo corticosteroids will not increase (and
      may decrease) LXA4 or 15-epi-LXA4 but will increase annexin A1 and serum amyloid A and that
      the levels of these compounds post-CS will differ by disease severity, remaining stable over
      a 3 year interval.

      Samples will be obtained at study entry before and after intramuscular triamcinolone to test
      the hypothesis that in vivo corticosteroids increase ALX/FPR2 expression in leukocytes and
      airway cells.
    
  