
    
      Special Operations Forces (SOF) warfighters experience tremendous physical and mental strain
      and degradation after returning from deployment and during training prior to deployment. This
      degradation has been loosely linked to behavior termed "red-line" events, such as alcohol
      abuse, suicide, and divorce, however there is a lack of comprehensive evaluation directly
      linking "red-line" behavior to physical and mental degradation. To address this issue, a
      program called Comprehensive Operator Readiness Assessment (cORA) was implemented for 3rd
      SFG(A) Green Beret warfighters at Fort Bragg as a holistic one- day physical and mental
      assessment to help identify and mitigate performance-degrading factors. However, due to the
      in-person nature of the cORA assessment, the scalability of the program is limited.
      Additionally, the current program only captures a snapshot of physical and mental status as
      all the data is collected on one day. In this study, we aim to perform a research study where
      we scale the cORA program by transforming it into a confidential, cybersecure research mobile
      application (app), called Digital cORA, that will digitize the existing measures of the
      program, as well as collect continuous measures of warfighter physical, neurocognitive (e.g.
      spatial memory, working memory), psychological, and lifestyle factors over a six-month
      period. In conjunction with data collected via the mobile app, wearable sensors will be used
      to collect physiologic (e.g. heart rate) and other data (e.g. activity, sleep), continuously
      during their approximately six-month study participation. In addition to collecting data, and
      similar to the in-person program, the app will have the capability of delivering helpful
      features, such as information and activities around nutrition, meditation and mindfulness
      features to best support warfighters, mitigate degradation, and optimize performance. The
      overall objective of the proposal is to investigate whether a digital version of the
      in-person cORA program can be created to reduce "red-line" behavioral events (e.g. injury,
      suicide, divorce, DUI, etc.) specifically, or overall warfighter degradation more generally,
      can be predicted from daily continuous measures of physical and mental behavior. We will
      recruit the following: 1) 250 warfighters from 3rd Special Forces Group (SFG(A)) (Fort Bragg,
      NC) and 2) 250 warfighters from 1st Recon Battalion (Camp Pendleton, CA). These are both
      elite military warfighting groups. 3rd SFG(A) will be enrolled within 3months of returning
      from deployment (e.g. the Red Cycle), while Reconnaissance Marines will be enrolled up to 6
      months prior to deployment during combat training (e.g. individual and unit training phases
      (ITP/UTP)). The research will allow collection of a comprehensive dataset of continuous
      physical and mental factors that can be tied to behavioral outcomes, particularly "red-line"
      events. We will analyze the data with traditional descriptive statistics to understand the
      structure of the data. We will then analyze the relationship between the various types of
      data and self-reported red-line events or general behavioral wellbeing/degradation using
      correlations and multiple regression analyses where appropriate. We will use the
      multi-faceted and continuous data from the study as a training data set to develop a novel
      machine-learning algorithm. Therefore, we will extract novel behavioral features from the
      actively and passively created data from the app.
    
  