
    
      In their natural state within the body, cells normally depend on cellular respiration as the
      source of energy and ATP. During times of complete or partial food deprivation these cells
      can also rely on ketosis as an additional energy source. Tumor cells in contrast are
      defective in this respect, lacking in the ability to utilize ketone bodies for energy and
      instead are heavily dependent on glycolysis for their survival. Malignant cells depend
      heavily on glycolysis for energy production even in high oxygen states. If the investigators
      limit the supply of glucose, glycolysis would decrease and tumor cells would lose their main
      source of energy supply.

      In addition, increased carbohydrate intake is sensed by the pancreas and results in increased
      insulin secretion. Insulin is important for normal growth in the body and is a potent growth
      factor stimulating mitosis via signal transduction and DNA synthesis. It is a potent growth
      factor which acts by binding to cell membrane insulin receptors and stimulates mitosis via
      protein kinase B/Akt- mediated signal transduction and DNA synthesis.

      Insulin also has anti-apoptotic properties, meaning less tumor cell death. Increased
      circulating insulin levels have been associated with increasing risk of certain cancers (i.e.
      prostate and colon cancer), but no association with serum glucose levels (8). By limiting
      carbohydrate intake, the investigators might expect decreased tumor growth and increased
      tumor cell destruction.

      Most human and mouse tumors take up more glucose than their surrounding normal tissue. By
      using positron emission tomography with fluoro-deoxy-glucose, FDG-PET scans can be used to
      detect and monitor tumor response to chemotherapy and radiation.

      In this study, PET/CT scanning would be utilized to measure the amount of (at the screening
      visit) glucose activity within certain tumors, before and after the diet.

      Primary Aim: To determine the safety and tolerability of a modified low carbohydrate diet in
      people with advanced cancer across different tumor types.

      Hypothesi(e)s: The long term tolerability of the KD (Ketogenic Diet) has been established
      (Groesbeck et al., 2006). Recent studies involving human patients with brain cancer showed
      tolerability of the Ketogenic diet over a period as long as 19 months with minimal side
      effects. However the MAD (Modified Atkins Diet) long term side effects are as of yet unclear.
      Given the similarity of the MAD compared to the KD, and being less restrictive, the long term
      side effects (kidney stones, dyslipidemia, gastroesophageal reflux) of the MAD is projected
      to be similar, if not reduced, in comparison to the KD. Modified carbohydrate diets as well
      as ketogenic diets have been tolerated by people with epilepsy. It is hypothesized that the
      effect this diet will have on overall weight loss, hyperlipidemia, and blood glucose levels
      will be minimal and tolerable even by cancer patients over a prolonged period of time, up to
      12 months or possibly longer. Given the tolerability of the diet in brain cancer patients, it
      is hypothesized that patients with other types of tumors will find this diet tolerable and
      safe.

      Secondary Aims: To determine if quality of life is improved with the use of this diet. To
      determine if the diet has any effect on tumor growth (size or spread) or to determine if
      there is any effect on progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of subjects
      enrolled in the study.

      Hypothesis(e): The diet showed good tolerance in human adult patient studies wherein the diet
      was tolerated well up to 12 weeks in a group of diverse tumor types and up to more than 10
      years in a glioma patient. It is hypothesized that cancer patients will be able to tolerate
      this diet at 16 weeks or more. Studies in animals as well as in tumor tissue models show
      slowing of tumor growth, and in some instances also showed tumor shrinkage. Human case
      reports and a small study of 16 patients show tumor shrinkage and stable disease while on the
      diet.
    
  