
    
      Stigma persists as a principal factor shaping HIV risk. Women involved in the criminal
      justice system have complex and highly stigmatized sexual and substance use risk profiles and
      are particularly vulnerable to, and experience, high rates of HIV. Pre-exposure prophylaxis,
      or PrEP, is an efficacious HIV prevention strategy, however, women at high-risk of HIV
      infection in the United States (US) are largely absent from national efforts to improve PrEP
      awareness and uptake. Criminal justice settings represent an important opportunity to address
      disparities in HIV by linking high-risk women, who experience multiple, intersecting stigmas
      with innovative biomedical HIV prevention strategies, like PrEP. Peer-led patient navigation
      interventions have demonstrated efficacy in building trust and reducing stigma and
      discrimination-related barriers to healthcare engagement, and hold strong potential to
      address multiple, intersecting stigmas and other multifactorial and complex barriers to PrEP
      acceptability, linkage, and uptake for criminal justice-involved women. The investigators
      propose to develop and test a peer-led patient navigator PrEP linkage intervention for women
      at risk for HIV acquisition who are on probation in San Francisco. Intervention development
      and study design will be guided by our team's pilot research, the Stigma and HIV Disparities
      Framework, and the PrEP Continuum of Care model. Study aims are to:1) Determine the content
      and structure of a peer-led PrEP screening and linkage navigation intervention (Project
      kINSHIP) for high-risk criminal justice-involved (CJI)-women; 2) Refine and test the content
      and structure of the kINSHIP intervention for CJI-women; and 3) Assess the feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary impact of the kINSHIP intervention on internalized stigma and
      the PrEP continuum of care in a pilot randomized trial. Formative qualitative work with key
      stakeholders, including women on probation, probation staff, and medical/public health staff
      in Aim1 will guide intervention development and testing in Aim 2. In Aim 3, the investigators
      will examine the primary outcome of PrEP service linkage and secondary outcomes such as time
      to linkage, PrEP prescription/initiation, and PrEP adherence/persistence. The investigators
      will explore how intersectional stigma may moderate intervention effects on linkage to PrEP.
      The proposed study has the potential to: 1) reduce the impact of intersectional stigma as a
      barrier to service care engagement, 2) inform PrEP care continuum estimates for criminal
      justice-involved women as well as identify barriers, and 3) create an intervention suitable
      for large-scale efficacy testing and translation to other criminal justice settings.
    
  