
    
      High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) has been frequently used and studied in normal
      populations. HIIT exercise shows improved exercise capacity with possible benefits to the
      neuroendocrine system and neurotransmitters associated with well-being. In this study, we
      plan to compare aerobic capacity changes during seated HIIT aerobic exercise of individuals
      with Cystinosis Myopathy. Additionally, we will assess peripheral fatigue using quantitative
      strength force production and slope decline before and after HIIT aerobic training.

      High Intensity interval training: HIIT is a type of interval training that alternates between
      intense efforts and less intense recovery periods. Benefits include improved aerobic
      capacity, anaerobic energy, oxygen transport, lactate clearance and neuromuscular
      coordination. In this study, participants will train at maximal intensities (90-95% of VO2
      Max) to place less strain on the neuromuscular system. The goal is to work at longer time
      periods above the lactate threshold causing an increase in blood lactate concentrations and
      improve muscles ability to oxidize fats and carbohydrates . Other studies have shown
      cardiovascular benefits of improved heart volume, maximal mitochondrial capacity and cardiac
      efficiency. HIIT training compared to regular moderate intensity exercise shows no difference
      in safety risk for individuals who are sedentary, have heart disease or stroke. However,
      compared to continuous exercise, HIIT appears to have improved oxygen consumption, blood
      vessel function, and glucose metabolism in healthy individuals .

      Methods:

      Ten participants who consent to participate in this exercise study, with no history or
      evidence of cardiomyopathy or conduction abnormality, and pass screening assessment for
      ability to complete the training program will be included and provided with an activity
      monitor, lower/upper extremity ergometer and remote fitness application that the participant
      will follow for the in-home training.

      This study will be a HIIT based home exercise program where participants will perform the
      lower extremity ergometer based on a HIIT protocol 3x week for 20-30 minutes for a total of 8
      weeks.

      Baseline and end of training assessments will include MRI, muscle biopsy, strength and
      functional assessments including VO2 Max exercise testing and Timed Up and Go (TUG) tests.
      Participants will be provided hands on training to use the exercise ergometer, activity
      monitor, heart rate monitor, and exercise plan. The activity monitor will be programmed so
      that the researchers have access to monitor the patient's activity to ensure adherence to the
      program and changes in activity level. Additionally, a HIIT based fitness application will be
      installed on the participant's phone. The fitness application will be used as a guided
      exercise program and also allow the researchers a secondary method to monitor exercise
      adherence. The researchers will have access to the participant's Fitbit and fitness
      application use to monitor compliance. Participants who miss one session will be contacted by
      researchers as a reminder to follow the exercise plan. Skype sessions will be used as needed
      based on participant adherence or as needed for safety.
    
  