
    
      NHANES is a nationwide cross-sectional survey conducted by the Centers for Disease Control
      and Prevention (CDC), a detailed description of which is available elsewhere. The NHANES
      administers annual face-to-face health surveys in a nationally representative sample of
      civilian, non-institutionalized households in the US. In addition to core questions
      documenting household demographic and health characteristics, survey instruments collect
      information on current health and disease status, including several questionnaires on health
      quality indicators and lifestyle practices. Besides survey instruments, NHANES collects
      information on select clinical examinations and laboratory tests.

      The study will include NHANES subjects from 2007-2010 who were 12-19 years old and from
      households where an eligible person had administered the consumer behavior questionnaire
      (CBQ). The CBQ was developed in partnership with the Economic Research Service of the US
      Department of Agriculture and has been a part of NHANES from 2007-2010. A total of 2,520
      children and adolescents met the eligibility criteria for the study.

      Food Availability and Expenditure The primary variables of interest for the study included
      household healthy food availability and supermarket spending on food that was assessed in the
      CBQ. Availability will be examined for five food items in the household including fruits,
      dark green vegetables, fat-free/low fat milk, salty snacks, and soft drinks. The responses
      for each item were ordinal, ranging from always, most of the time, sometimes, rarely, to
      never. Dark green vegetables included fresh dried, canned and frozen vegetables, and
      interviewers were instructed to exclude lettuce. Salty snacks included chips and crackers,
      but not nuts. The types of milk considered low-fat were skim or 0% and 1%. Soft drinks
      included soda, fruit-flavored drink and fruit punch; while 100% juice or sports drinks were
      excluded.

      A composite variable that incorporated answers to all the five food items will be created for
      food availability. First, a decreasing score ranging from 5 to 1 was assigned from "always"
      to "never" responses for the healthy food items including fruits, dark green vegetables, and
      fat-free/low fat milk; whereas an increasing score ranging from 1 to 5 was assigned for
      "always" to "never" response for unhealthy food items including salty snacks and soft drinks.
      A cumulative score will be calculated for each participant that ranged from 5 to 25, where a
      higher value indicated higher availability of healthy food(s) in the household. A cumulative
      score will only be calculated for participants with a non-missing response on all five
      questions.

      Food spending will be examined by the amount of money (in US Dollars) the household spent in
      the past 30 days on supermarket store purchases, non-food items, food at other stores, eating
      out and carryout/delivered foods. Non-food spending was asked as a part of supermarket store
      spending and it included money used towards cleaning and paper supplies, pet food, alcoholic
      beverages and cigarettes. This will be first subtracted from the total supermarket spending
      to give supermarket spending on food items alone. It will then be divided by the total food
      spending of the household (sum of the above food spending questions) to also calculate the
      proportion of spending on supermarket store food items.

      Prediabetes and Diabetes The primary outcome of interest will be adolescent prediabetes and
      diabetes. Pre-diabetics will be included with diabetics to determine the impact of family
      consumers on a wider range of glycemic status. Additionally, they are the most amenable to
      dietary and lifestyle changes in preventing further progression to overt diabetes. These will
      be computed by the individual's hemoglobin A1c (A1c) status. A1c values are relatively stable
      after collection15 and reflect 3 months of glycemic control. It has been shown to have less
      day-to-day as well as inter-subject and intra-subject variability16,17. The HbA1c
      concentration is expressed directly as %HbA1c. A participant was considered pre-diabetic or
      diabetic if he/she had an A1c ≥ 5.7 % (39 mmol/mol)18.

      Other Variables Covariates were selected as those designated most important in the
      association between adolescent obesity and consumer behaviors in existing literature. These
      included socio-demographic characteristics including age, gender, race, parental educational
      attainment and income levels, and household size. Physical activity, which was defined as
      participation in vigorous activity such as sports, fitness and recreational activities that
      increased the heart rate, was also examined.

      Statistical Analysis The prevalence (%) with standard error (SE) of prediabetes and diabetes
      will be estimated across different levels of study covariates. First, the distribution of
      responses to the five food availability questions as well as the cumulative healthy food
      availability score will be examined for the study population. The cumulative score will be
      dichotomized on the median value of 14.96 and divided into high and low availability of
      healthy food. Next, a chi square test will be used to look at the relationship between
      healthy food availability and adolescent prediabetes and diabetes in the population. When
      examining the monthly household supermarket spending in USD, a log transformation will be
      used due to a large degree of positive skew. The proportion of supermarket spending will be
      dichotomized at the median value of 0.67 to divide the study population into high versus low
      supermarket food spending. The prevalence (%) with SE of high healthy food availability and
      geometric mean USD with 95% confidence interval (CI) of monthly household supermarket food
      spending will be summarized across various socio-demographic and physical activity levels of
      the study population. A chi-square test will be used to demonstrate significant differences
      in the prevalence of high healthy food availability and high supermarket spending proportion
      for each demographic characteristic.

      An analysis of variance will be carried out to examine the relationship between healthy food
      availability (from the cumulative score) and supermarket spending. Subsequent correlation
      analyses were used to examine the inter-relationships between several variables in the
      consumer behavior questionnaire (data not shown).

      The unadjusted and adjusted associations between adolescent prediabetes and diabetes will be
      first examined with high healthy food availability (versus low availability) and then with
      log supermarket food expenditure in USD, using separate logistic regression models. Three
      multivariate models were established for each association: where the first was adjusted for
      age and gender, the second also adjusted for income and race, and the third further adjusted
      for education, physical activity and household size. The fully adjusted models will finally
      be stratified by gender to check for effect modification. The above associations were
      estimated using prevalence odds ratio (OR) and their corresponding 95% CI.

      All statistical analyses will be conducted with SAS version 9.3 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary,
      North Carolina), and the statistical significance level was 0.05, unless otherwise specified.
      Since NHANES is a complex probability sample, stratification and clustering of the design as
      well as sampling weights were incorporated into the analysis for proper estimation of
      nationally representative effect size and SE.
    
  