
    
      Cipla BioTec, a pharmaceutical company (company developing drugs), is developing its own
      formulation of bevacizumab called CBT124 which is similar to Avastin(Registered Trademark).
      The formulation is, intended for intravenous (into a vein) administration for the treatment
      of certain cancers. CBT124 is also a type of monoclonal antibody with a proposed biological
      activity similar to bevacizumab. Research on CBT124 indicates that it should act the same as
      Avastin(Registered Trademark) in the body. It is expected that CBT124 will provide all the
      clinical advantages of the marketed drug Avastin(Registered Trademark). The main purpose of
      this study is to test that whether CBT124 behaves the same in the human body as
      Avastin(Registered Trademark) i.e. produce the same amount/concentration of drug in the blood
      as the EU and USA marketed drug, Avastin(Registered Trademark). This is called a 'biosimilar'
      study. The study will compare the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) (the levels of
      drug in the blood), pharmacodynamics (PD) (what the drug does to the body) and immunogenicity
      (body's immune (body's defense system) response) of the 3 drugs when given intravenously
      (into a vein) to healthy male participants: new drug called CBT124, marketed drug
      Avastin(Registered Trademark) approved in United States (US), marketed drug
      Avastin(Registered Trademark) approved in European Union (EU). The results will be compared
      to see if these drugs behave the same and are therefore equivalent. In order to measure this,
      blood samples will be collected after treatment has been given and the amount of drug in the
      blood measured at specific times. In addition, the study will also compare and analyse the
      effect the drug has on your immune system from blood samples. Safety and tolerability of both
      drugs will also be monitored and compared.
    
  