
    
      There are two primary objectives to the study, which are as follows: 1) to examine the number
      of bupropion reports over time within the DAWN database and to describe the number of all
      DAWN reports for prescription drugs and 2) to examine the number of reports for bupropion,
      stratified by demographics, route of administration, and disposition of the patient.

      If sample size permits, an evaluation of the disposition of the patients exposed to only
      bupropion at the time of Emergency Department (ED) visit will be conducted.

      DAWN is a public health surveillance system that reports on drug-related visits to hospital
      Emergency Departments (ED). DAWN is used to monitor trends in drug misuse and abuse, identify
      the emergence of new substances and drug combinations, assess health hazards associated with
      drug use and abuse, and estimate the impact of drug use, misuse, and abuse on the United
      States' health care system.

      DAWN's target sample frame consists of all non-Federal, short-stay, general medical and
      surgical hospitals in the United States that have one or more EDs open 24 hours a day. DAWN
      employs a multistage sampling design for the selection of EDs for analysis. Stratified simple
      random sampling with oversampling in selected metropolitan areas is used to select the
      hospitals.

      A DAWN case is any ED visit involving recent drug use. DAWN cases are identified through the
      review of ED medical records in participating hospitals. DAWN captures both ED visits that
      are directly caused by drugs and those in which drugs are a contributing factor but not the
      direct cause of the ED visit. These criteria encompass all types of drug-related events,
      including accidental ingestion and adverse reaction, as well as drug misuse or abuse.

      DAWN collects data on all types of drugs-illegal drugs, prescription and over-the-counter
      medications, dietary supplements, and both pharmaceutical and nonpharmaceutical inhalants.
      DAWN notes whether alcohol is involved in addition to drug(s) for patients of all ages.
      Because alcohol is considered an illicit drug for minors, alcohol abuse without the
      involvement of other drugs is considered a drug-related ED visit for patients under the age
      of 21. DAWN does not report current medications (i.e., medications and pharmaceuticals taken
      regularly by the patient as prescribed or indicated) that are deemed by the ED medical staff
      to be unrelated to the ED visit.

      The study population includes patients of all ages presenting to emergency departments for
      drug-related causes. The DAWN visit eligibility criteria are intended to be broad and
      inclusive and to have few exceptions. They take into account the fact that documentation in
      medical records varies in clarity and completeness across hospitals and among clinicians
      within hospitals. The criteria are designed to minimize the potential for DAWN Reporter
      judgments that could cause data to vary systematically and unexpectedly across different data
      collectors and hospitals. In addition, the criteria allow for the capture of a diverse set of
      drug-related visits that can be aggregated or disaggregated to serve a variety of analytical
      purposes and the interests of multiple audiences.

      There are few variables within the DAWN dataset. For this analysis, variables of interest can
      be grouped into the following categories: year of visit, age, sex, race, reason for
      presentation to the emergency department, case type, drug, route of administration,
      toxicology confirmed, and result of treatment in ED.

      The Drug Abuse Warning Network datasets from 2004-2011 will be used for the proposed
      analyses.

      All eligible DAWN cases will be included in this analysis.
    
  