
    
      Despite surgical advances, up to 40% of patients continue to have chronic pain and functional
      disability after lumbar spine surgery. Our own data demonstrate that high fear of movement is
      a risk factor for increased pain and disability in this patient population.
      Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and physical therapy (PT) interventions targeting fear of
      movement have proven effective for decreasing persistent pain and functional disability in
      patients with chronic low back pain. However, the efficacy of a combined CBT and PT approach
      has not been well demonstrated in a surgical spine population. Therefore, we propose to
      conduct a two-group randomized controlled trial (RCT) to gather preliminary evidence on the
      efficacy of a brief cognitive-behavioral based PT (CBPT) intervention in patients at-risk for
      poor outcomes following lumbar spine surgery for degenerative conditions. We hypothesize that
      incorporating cognitive and behavioral strategies into postoperative standard of care PT will
      improve self-reported pain and disability and observed physical function, through reductions
      in fear of movement and pain catastrophizing (i.e., tendency to magnify pain sensations).
      This pilot study plans to recruit 80 patients with high postoperative fear of movement or
      pain catastrophizing. These eligible at-risk patients will be randomized to one of the two
      groups: (1) standard PT treatment + CBPT or (2) standard PT treatment + weekly phone calls to
      control for attention. The CBPT program consists of 1 in person and 5 telephone sessions and
      is based on well-accepted and effective CBT strategies. These strategies focus on relaxation,
      problem-solving training, cognitive restructuring, and behavioral self management. Primary
      outcomes include self-reported pain and disability as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory
      and the Oswestry Disability Index. Secondary outcomes consist of observed physical function
      as measured by performance-based tests of gait speed, balance, repeated chair stands, and
      mobility (Short Physical Performance Battery, Timed Up and Go). Outcome data will be
      collected at baseline (6 weeks after surgery), after treatment (3 months after surgery), and
      at 6 months following surgery. The proposed two-group RCT will provide estimates of effect
      sizes and sample sizes associated with the CBPT intervention and data on feasible recruitment
      and retention goals and the mechanisms through which the CBPT intervention affects long-term
      outcomes. This informative pilot data will guide a multicenter, three-group clinical trial to
      further validate the CBPT intervention. Our long-term objective is to broaden the
      availability of effective CBT strategies by expanding the implementation from traditional
      providers, psychologists, to a group of providers, physical therapists, who routinely
      interact with a large population of patients with musculoskeletal pain.
    
  