
    
      The HIV/AIDS epidemic, accidental injuries and violence have gradually increased the
      mortality rate among prime age adults in South Africa since 1997 (Statistics South Africa,
      2006) leading to an increase in the number of children experiencing bereavement. Of the
      approximately four million orphans in South Africa in 2012, over half (62.5%) are due to
      parental death from AIDS (UNICEF, 2013). Studies have found that parental loss in childhood
      and adolescence is associated with a range of immediate and later life outcomes including
      problems at school, depression, criminality, early sexual activity, and unemployment
      (Aynsley-Green, 2012). However, support counselling for bereaved children and adolescents is
      virtually nonexistent in South Africa (Collingwood, 2014) and children are often not
      encouraged to express grief or participate in mourning rituals for the deceased. A randomized
      controlled trial of AIDS orphans in Uganda found that school-based peer support groups
      reduced the symptoms of anxiety, depression and anger compared to a control group that did
      not participate in the peer support groups (Kumakech, 2009). This base of evidence
      demonstrates both the unmet need and potential impact of a bereavement initiative that will
      be offered by CWBFN & CLFS in Free State. This research will contribute to the evidence base
      for effective programming for bereaved adolescents in South Africa as well as other high HIV
      prevalence populations.

      The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of time-limited adolescent grief
      counseling peer groups in improving the psychosocial wellbeing of bereaved female
      adolescents. Results from the study will be used to develop evidence-based youth bereavement
      counselling programs to be implemented in additional areas of South Africa. The results will
      be presented to South African OVC social service organizations as well as submitted to
      peer-reviewed scientific journals for wider dissemination.

      (Note that the original study design included a family component/sessions for caregivers that
      was not able to be realized by the program implementers)
    
  