
    
      Bibliotherapy has been defined in different ways, but fundamentally means helping people
      through the use of books. In clinical contexts, it often refers to psychological self-help
      interventions that use treatment books [1]. However, other reading therapies exist, such as
      reading to patients during their treatment. Studies have demonstrated the positive effects of
      the use of reading in the treatment of patients such as increased self-awareness, empathy and
      hope and less negativity. The Reader, a British national charity, is the pioneer of a
      specific literature-based intervention i.e. shared reading. This approach is different from
      many reading therapies because it emphasizes on (1) reading aloud so that the book is a live
      presence and not an object of study (as is the case in educational settings) or a subject of
      chat (as in a book club) and on (2) literature (poetry and fiction) and its role in offering
      a model of human thinking and feeling. In the model of The Reader, small groups (2-12 people)
      come together weekly, to read novels, short stories and poetry together aloud. The target
      groups of The Reader are very diverse such as ordinary library visitors, vulnerable youth,
      rehabilitation groups in psychiatric hospitals, groups in prisons, prevention groups for
      stress and burnout, growth groups, personal etc.

      This project, however, is unique in different ways. First, reading sessions will be organized
      in the hospital setting in a 1:1 relationship, as opposed to in small groups. Second, we will
      asses the possible impact of the intervention on emotional wellbeing and quality of life of
      patients with cancer, as well as on the student's professional development. This will be done
      by means of questionnaires (not as a quantitative study, but as a basis for the in-depth
      interview), diary notes, and an in-depth interview (student and patient separately and once
      together) .

      The primary aim of this project is to assess the acceptability of this intervention.
      Specifically, this study seeks feedback on how well the reading sessions are received by the
      patients and the students. Secondly, we will assess if the sessions meet the needs of
      patients in their coping with cancer and help students in their professional development. To
      assess acceptability, in-depth interviews will be used and participants will be asked about
      their opinions regarding the reading sessions. We chose this particular interview type
      because it grants the interviewer flexibility to follow up with relevant questions and probes
      to gather richer information. The interviews will be recorded for transcription and analysis.

      A call for participation for this study was made to students in Medicine and Health Sciences
      of Ghent University at a lecture of Jane Davis, the founder of The Reader. Students could
      submit their application; in total more than 50 applications were received. Three physicians
      (Dr. Helewaut, Dr. Pype and Dr. Kerre) independently scored the applications on the basis of
      motivation, background and age.
    
  