
    
      Anastomotic leak is one of the biggest challenges in colorectal surgery with little still
      known about what causes a leak. An anastomotic leak is defined as a defect of the intestinal
      wall at the anastomotic site leading to a communication between the intra- and extra-luminal
      compartments. Current leak rates following rectal surgery are between 8% and 17%, which is
      significant given the numbers of resections performed in our unit, approximately 750 per
      year. The morbidity of an anastomotic leak can be significant. Most require re-operation and
      those that do not may require interventional radiological drainage or prolonged hospital stay
      for intra-venous antibiotics. There is also a high risk of mortality, especially for those
      requiring a further operation where it can be up to 5.8%. The cost of a leak has been shown
      to be significant both in monetary terms and by increasing the length of stay. In a study
      from the USA per 1,000 patients undergoing colorectal surgery, the economic burden associated
      with anastomotic leaks--including hospitalization and re-admission--was established as 9,500
      days in prolonged LOS and $28.6 million in additional costs.

      The investigators plan to perform an intra-operative endoscopy for participants undergoing
      rectal resection and anastomosis to understand what leads to an anastomotic leak and to try
      and reduce the rates of anastomotic leakage by fixing these problems at the time of operation
      so they do not lead to a post-operative complication. In the intervention group during the
      procedure the investigators will visualise the anastomosis endoscopically looking for
      defects, areas of ischaemia and congestion. Previous retrospective studies have proven the
      safety of this technique and significant reduction of leak rates, albeit within the
      limitations of a retrospective study; the investigators plan to take this hypothesis further
      to using a randomised approach. The anastomosis will be graded from 1 to 3 in the endoscopic
      group. Grade 1 is defined as circumferentially normal appearing peri-anastomotic mucosa.
      Grade 2 is defined as ischemia or congestion involving <30% of either the colon or rectal
      mucosa. Grade 3 is defined as ischemia or congestion involving >30% of the colon or rectal
      mucosa or ischemia/congestion involving both sides of the staple line. If appearances are
      grade 2 a suture re-inforcement or re-anastomosis will be performed; if appearances are grade
      3 a re-anastomosis will be performed. Images will be taken during the procedure to document
      the findings.

      This compares to current standard practice in the control group of air insufflation into the
      rectum while the anastomosis is bathed in sterile water to look for the presence of air
      bubbles which may have come through an anastomotic defect. If the test is positive the
      surgeon makes a decision regarding whether suture re-inforcement, re-do of the anastomosis
      and/or defunctioning stoma is required. There are no standardised guidelines for this
      decision making process. This is currently standard practice in most colorectal departments
      in the UK.

      The aim of the study is to see if this trial design is feasible within the investigators
      department and if so to progress to a full scale trial. The secondary aim is from the
      preliminary data to see if there is a significant difference in anastomotic leak rates
      between participants who receive standard care and participants who receive our intervention.
      There are no previous randomised trials into this subject and considering the significance of
      an anastomotic leak we feel this justifies further research.

      For patients an anastomotic leak can be catastrophic, both for short and long term outcomes
      and patients who have had this complication would be very keen for any intervention that may
      reduce the risk of this happening. It will eliminate a major source of risk for patients,
      improve quality of life, and produce immediate cost-savings for the NHS.

      Compared to our current standard practice, which is limited as there is no direct
      visualisation of the bowel, the investigators feel this new technique will provide
      significantly more information to make an informed decision on an anastomosis and therefore
      lead to a reduction in leak rates. The current practice of an air-leak test is standard
      practice in the UK but a small number of centres have looked at endoscopic visualisation with
      less rigorous methodology (retrospective/non-randomised studies).
    
  