
    
      Background:

      Invasive fungal infections have emerged as important causes of morbidity and mortality among
      recipients of bone marrow, stem cell, and solid organ transplantation (SOT), as well as
      patients receiving intensive chemotherapy for treatment of hematological malignancies,
      patients with aplastic anemia, and patients with inherited immunodeficiencies.

      This study has been formerly conducted through a surveillance network of BMT/SCT and SOT
      centers through collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control for the surveillance of
      invasive fungal infections in recipients of bone marrow, stem cell transplantation, and solid
      organ transplantations.

      The first three phases of this study will have been conducted over a six-year period at
      approximately 23 collaborating transplant centers and completed enrollment of multi-center
      cases of March 31, 2006.

      The addition of a fourth phase allows the study of cases of invasive fungal infections to
      continue by extending the protocol for four years at the NIH Clinical Center.

      It is estimated that at least 5-8% of immunocompromised patients will be accrued annually
      with documented or suspected invasive fungal infections.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to conduct multi-institutional surveillance for invasive
      fungal infections in recipients of bone marrow, stem cell transplantation, and solid organ
      transplantations, as well as in immunocompromised patients within the Clinical Center patient
      population.

      To maintain a multi-institute surveillance network to evaluate new approaches to the
      prevention and diagnosis of invasive fungal infections through the analysis of immune
      function, to include antigen detection, within the population of patients who develop
      invasive fungal infections.

      Eligibility:

      Any patient within the NIH Clinical Center receiving a bone marrow transplantation,
      peripheral stem cell transplantation or solid organ transplantation, or any patient with an
      inherited immunodeficiency, aplastic anemia or oncologic diagnosis meeting EORTC/MSG criteria
      for an invasive infection.

      Design:

      This is a prospective surveillance study of invasive fungal infections in the
      immunocompromised host population.

      An incident case will be defined as any transplant recipient, or an immunocompromised patient
      (i.e., having inherited immunodeficiencies, aplastic anemia or general oncology) with proven
      or probable invasive fungal infection meeting the criteria for IFI as described by the
      MSG/EORTC guidelines.

      Positive microbiological evidence will prompt acquisition of discarded serum and blood from
      the Department of Laboratory Medicine for analysis of immune function, to include antigen
      detection, to evaluate new approaches to the prevention and diagnosis of invasive fungal
      infections.
    
  