
    
      Despite the existence of a variety of evidence-based health promotion practices, it is not
      well documented how to effectively transform community mental health organizations to embrace
      wellness as central to their mission and services. Healthcare organizations have increasingly
      formed quality-improvement Learning Collaboratives to improve care for specific populations;
      however, there are few data on the effectiveness of this strategy compared to conventional
      training approaches. The primary aim of this cluster randomized implementation trial is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of a virtual learning collaborative (VLC) in the implementation of
      a lifestyle intervention for persons with serious mental illness (SMI) in routine mental
      health settings, compared to typical implementation consisting of site training and
      one-on-one individual technical assistance (TA). Forty-eight mental health provider
      organizations from across the United States providing behavioral health services to people
      with SMI will be recruited to participate in collaboration with the National Council for
      Behavioral Health. The evidence-based practice to be implemented is the InSHAPE health
      coaching intervention for persons with SMI. Sites will be stratified by size and randomized
      to receive an 18-month intensive group-based VLC with monthly learning sessions or individual
      technical assistance with four scheduled conference calls over 18 months. Sites will be
      enrolled in three blocks of 16 sites each. The investigators will compare implementation VLC
      to TA with respect to service outcomes, implementation outcomes, and participant outcomes:

      Aim 1 (Service Outcomes): Compare the effectiveness of VLC to TA with respect to Program
      Participation as measured by the proportion of enrolled individuals who received an adequate
      exposure to the evidence-based practice, as defined by attending at least 50% of the InSHAPE
      Health Mentor sessions over 6 months.

      (H1) Hypothesis: VLC compared to TA will be associated with greater Program Participation.

      Aim 2 (Implementation Outcomes): Compare VLC to TA with respect to Program Fidelity as
      measured by the InSHAPE Fidelity Scale.

      (H2) Hypothesis: VLC compared to TA will be associated with greater Program Fidelity.

      Aim 3 (Participant Outcomes): Compare VLC to TA with respect to adult participants with SMI
      enrolled in the InSHAPE program achieving clinically significant weight loss (≥5% weight
      loss).

      (H3) Hypothesis: VLC compared to TA will be associated with a greater proportion of InSHAPE
      participants achieving clinically significant weight loss.

      Secondary aims:

      The investigators will also examine the following exploratory hypotheses: VLC compared to TA
      will result in (E1) more rapid Full Program Operation; (E2) greater Program Uptake; (E3)
      significantly improved participant health behaviors of physical activity and nutrition; and
      (E4) greater likelihood of Program Sustainability at 24 months. The investigators will also
      explore (E5) the effect of Organizational Change and VLC fidelity on Program Participation,
      and (E6) agency participation and adherence to the core elements of a Learning Collaborative
      as a predictor of InSHAPE program participation, InSHAPE program fidelity, and participant
      weight outcomes.
    
  