
    
      Each year chronic kidney disease (CKD) claims the lives of millions of people worldwide.
      Costs for patient care are in excess of 2.4 billion dollars in the US alone. At the moment
      most kidney diseases are of unknown etiology, are classified according to a microscopic
      description of the kidney tissue obtained on biopsy and are treated with non-specific
      therapies.

      Each kidney contains millions of filter units called nephrons. The nephron consists of a
      glomerulus and a tubule. The glomerulus filters the blood of waste products, while retaining
      larger molecules that are required for the body to function properly. The filtered fluid then
      passes through the tubule, where salts, acids and water are regulated to keep the body in a
      normal metabolic state. After the filtered fluid passes through the tubule it is collected in
      the bladder as urine. Diseases, which affect the glomeruli or tubules result in kidney
      damage. Once kidney function is lost it is generally not recoverable and the only option for
      a patient's survival is dialysis or transplantation.

      The purpose of this study is to provide a platform, which will enable researchers with
      different areas of expertise, to investigate the molecular markers and pathways of kidney
      disease and its progression. Our goal is to increase our understanding of kidney health
      issues and to develop new prevention and treatment strategies which will be shared with the
      medical community and the public.

      Study description:

      Individuals seen in the nephrology clinic at the University of Michigan will be eligible to
      enroll in this study. Their clinical data will be recorded, blood and urine samples will be
      collected and if a biopsy is performed as a part of their standard medical care then a small
      sample will be reserved for use in the study after all pathological evaluations required for
      patient care are completed. Biological samples will be available for biochemical, molecular
      biological and genetic testing and for correlation of these parameters to the individuals
      clinical data in future studies.

      Significance:

      Advances in the understanding of kidney disease may 1) provide methods of early detection of
      disease, 2) identify molecular markers that will help physician prescribe the most
      appropriate and beneficial treatments, 3) identify targets for the development of new
      treatments, and 4) decrease the enormous cost of caring for individuals with CKD.

      Aim:

        1. Create a biobank enabling the study of kidney disease from the perspectives of
           epidemiology, genetics and molecular biology.

        2. Create a resource for the study of kidney disease, which will enable the researchers at
           the University of Michigan to work collaboratively toward the elucidation of the
           molecular pathways, which cause kidney disease.
    
  