
    
      In 20 to 35% of colonoscopies due to symptoms or for prevention polyps, so-called adenoma,
      are found. Currently, colonoscopy is the best way to detect bowel tumors and polyps, since
      these can be biopsied and removed in one working process. If the size of adenoma is larger
      than 2 cm, resections are usually done in a hospital setting. Foremost for flat adenoma, the
      resection by snares piece by piece, the so-called piecemeal polypectomy, or piecemeal
      endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR), is state of the art. Resection will usually follow a
      submucosal saline injection (saline assisted polypectomy). Recurrences occur in 10 up to 25
      %, requiring a reapplication of endoscopic therapy and follow up examinations.

      Depending on the size of adenoma, increasing amounts of cell alterations of an advanced stage
      such as high grade dysplasia / intraepithelial neoplasia (HGIN) up to early cancer are found.
      In these cases, for histo-pathological and oncological reasons, a resection in a solitary
      manner (en-bloc resection) is necessary to evaluate the completeness of resection properly.
      Also, former studies showed that recurrence rate could be decreased considerably by en-bloc
      resections, since the aim is to perform a complete resection basally and laterally. New
      endoscopic techniques of en-bloc resections have been introduced since a couple of years,
      using several endoscopic knifes to cut adenoma down after submucosal injection of liquid and
      consecutively dissect it from the tissue underneath. This technique is mostly called
      endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), and, with not too large adenoma, can be combined with
      snare resection, too. The complexity of this method though is much larger than that of snare
      resection. Therefore, the western success rate is considerably less than in Japan, where it
      was developed first, and where higher numbers of cases exist in the upper GI tract as well as
      in the lower GI tract. All in all, the complication rate of en-bloc resection is higher than
      that of snare resection. Those complications, mostly perforations, are endoscopically
      controllable in most cases, though.

      In comparison with Japan, Korea or China, early malign lesions oft he upper GI tract in the
      West are rare. Therefore, this study will be conducted on (colo)rectal lesions, which appear
      much more often in the West.

      All in all, for efficacy (resection in total, number of recurrences) and risk (perforations),
      there is an indistinct data situation between piecemeal resection (EMR) and en-bloc resection
      (ESD). Up to now, no randomised comparing data exist. The planned study is the first
      randomised study between ESD and piecemeal EMR at all, since there are no studies been done
      for the upper GI tract, either. For reasons of complexity, ESD will conceivably remain a
      method for specialized centers, while piecemeal polypectomies are done in numerous hospitals.
      Therefore, the outcomes of this study will have influence on future logistics in
      polypectomies and flow of patients with large colorectal adenoma.

      Piecemeal resection will be done by snare following marking and submucosal injection of
      saline or equivalent liquids. Small leftover adenoma tissue will be resected thoroughly by
      snare or forceps. High resolution endoscopes are mandatory.

      After three months, an Argon plasma coagulation (APC) therapy will follow any piecemeal
      resection, if necessary, another resection of leftover adenoma will be done. This second
      session can be done by sigmoidoscopy.

      En- bloc resection is done after marking by use of different customary endoscopic knifes
      including combining devices as hybrid knife to cut down the lesion. After submucosal
      injection of liquid (saline or equivalent) to elevate the tissue it will be dissected and
      removed by a snare of adequate size solitarily. Since the aim of this method is the total
      resection basally and laterally, only one session is intended.

      Follow-up care: sigmoidoscopy after 6 and 18 months, colonoscopy after 36 months each after
      the end of the primary therapy session(s). Diagnostics will be done endoscopically and
      histologically of at least 6 biopsies if the size of lesion was up to 3 cm, and of at least
      10 biopsies for larger lesions.
    
  