
    
      The eligible patients randomly into training cohort and validation cohort. The univariate
      logistics regression analyses were performed to determine the independent risk
      characteristics in the training cohort of the presence of in-hospital all-cause death. Odds
      Ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of these variables were estimated to quantify
      the strength of these associations. All variables that showed a univariate relationship with
      in-hospital mortality or that were considered clinically relevant were candidates for
      stepwise multivariate analysis in the training cohort. A nomogram model, producing by using
      the rms package, was formulated based on the results of independent risk factors in
      multivariate logistic regression. Based on the nomogram model, the total scores and
      prediction of in-hospital mortality risk of each patient were added by each eligible variable
      and then were converted to predicted probabilities both in the training cohort and validation
      cohort.

      To evaluated the model for the prediction value of in-hospital mortality, firstly, the
      investigators calculated the calibration of the model was measured by calibration with 1000
      bootstrap samples to decrease the overfit bias. Model fitting was assessed using the
      Hosmer-Lemeshow test to evaluate the goodness of fit. Secondly, the Harrell concordance index
      (C index) and receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC curve) to evaluate the predictive
      performance and discrimination of the nomogram. The ROC curve analysis was used to calculate
      the optimal cutoff values that were determined by maximizing the Youden index. Third, the
      clinical effectiveness of the resulting model was evaluated by decision curve analysis (DCA),
      which was a method for evaluating alternative diagnostic or prognostic tools that had
      advantages over others[16]. The increase in the discriminative value of MEWS and the
      resulting model for mortality was assessed by the net reclassification index (NRI).
    
  