
    
      Primary hypertension is a most prevalent cardiovascular diseases, and becomes a severe global
      public health issue because of the high morbidity and potential risk to other cardiovascular
      diseases. Several animal studies and diverse patient cohorts reported that the disorder of
      gut microbiome correlated with hypertension. Based on the investigators' previous work
      findings of metagenomics analysis, fecal transplantation and metabolomics changes in
      hypertension and pre-hypertension patients, a casual role of gut microbiome disorder was
      observed in primary hypertension and raised a hypothesis that gut microbiome restoration can
      be a potential approach to ameliorate hypertension. Recent studies indicated FMT, prebiotics,
      probiotics, dietary changes and other methodologies can assist gut microbiome restoration in
      diseases such as type 2 diabetes. The investigators therefore develop two pilot studies
      respectively utilizing FMT capsules (Pilot Study I) and innovative dietary changes (Pilot
      Study II) to explore the effect, safety and underlying mechanisms of gut microbiome
      restoration on hypertension. These pilot studies also present as the clinical translational
      section of the research project "The Role of Gut Microbiome in the Pathogenesis of Essential
      Hypertension"(Project ID 81630014, sponsored by National Natural Science Foundation of
      China).

      This study is the Pilot Study I:

      Objective: To explore the effect, safety and underlying mechanisms of gut microbiome
      restoration via FMT on primary hypertension.

      Study Design: A multicenter, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled pilot study.

      Data quality control and statistical analysis: The investigators have invited professional
      statistic analysts to assist analyzing data and a third party to supervise data quality.

      Ethics: The Ethics Committee of Fuwai Hospital approved this study. Informed consents before
      patient enrollment are required.
    
  