
    
      Introduction:

      Although the decreasing prevalence of Helicobacter Pylori (H. Pylori) worldwide, it remains
      high in developing countries. According to the most recent studies, the overall prevalence of
      H. Pylori in the developing countries is 50.8%, with the highest one presented in Africa
      (79.1%).

      Unfortunately, the data on the prevalence of H. Pylori, are not available from all the
      countries of Africa. There is a paucity of information about the magnitude of the problem in
      Egypt, according to the few available studies, the prevalence is ranging from 71.7-91.7%.

      The importance of H. Pylori infection lies in the major role in chronic gastritis, gastric
      ulcer, and duodenal ulcer, up to gastric adenocarcinoma, and gastric mucosa-associated
      lymphoid tissue lymphoma.

      Diagnosis of H. Pylori can be through invasive tests, which are cumbersome and expensive
      despite their high sensitivity and specificity. On the contrary, there are more easily and
      cheaper non-invasive tests, especially H. Pylori stool antigen and urea breath test that has
      a higher sensitivity than serology.

      The decreasing eradication rate of the standard triple therapy (STT) below 80% due to the
      emergence of resistant strains to Clarithromycin, raise the need for newer therapies that
      provide higher efficacy, and in the same time, better safety and compliance.

      Bismuth-containing quadruple therapy came as the treatment of choice that avoids
      Clarithromycin use, but it was a non-reasonable option for the countries that are lacking in
      bismuth salts and/or tetracycline, beside of the complex administration and low safety. It
      raises the era of the competing sequential and concomitant non-bismuth (clarithromycin
      containing) quadruple treatments.

      A novel two-step (dual-quadruple) treatment called the hybrid therapy (HT), which is actually
      a combined sequential and concomitant therapy, with a lower cost and better efficacy.

      However, the adding of two drugs in the last seven days of the therapy may confuse the
      patient, making him less willing to complete the treatment that promote the idea of reversing
      the sequence (quadruple-dual) in what is called the reverse hybrid therapy (RHT), to simplify
      the treatment in one-step two-phase treatment.

      Another non-Clarithromycin non-Bismuth quadruple therapy that is less complex and safer than
      bismuth quadruple therapy, which is called Levofloxacin quadruple therapy that contains
      levofloxacin, omeprazole, nitazoxanide, and doxycycline (LOND), showed promising results on
      the level of the cure rate and low drug resistance profile.

      Methods:

      Technical Design:

      A) The site of study:

      The study was conducted in Internal medicine department clinic in Zagazig University
      Hospitals.

      B) Sample size:

      Assuming that the eradication rate in patients receiving Hybrid therapy is 91% versus 78.3%
      in Reverse Hybrid therapy. So, the sample size is 309, using OPEN EPI at power 80% and C.I
      95%.

      Tools of data collection:

        1. Medical history to all participants.

        2. Complete clinical examination.

        3. The fecal antigen test (FAT) which identifies H. pylori antigen in the stool by enzyme
           immunoassay was positive in all participants.

      Operational design:

      A) This is a randomized (interventional) study conducted at Zagazig University Hospital,
      internal medicine department clinic after informed consent. All the participants were
      positive for H. pylori fecal antigen test.

      B) Steps of performance: (330) participants were chosen from the Internal Medicine Department
      clinic, grouped into 3 groups:

        1. Group 1: (110) participants received reverse hybrid regimen in the form of
           clarithromycin 500mg bid, omeprazole 20 mg bid, amoxicillin 1gm bid, and metronidazole
           500 mg tid for 1 week, followed by omeprazole 20 mg bid, and amoxicillin 1gm bid in the
           2nd week.

        2. Group2: (110) participants received hybrid regimen in the form of omeprazole 20 mg bid,
           and amoxicillin 1gm bid in the 1st week, then clarithromycin 500mg bid, omeprazole 20 mg
           bid, amoxicillin 1gm bid, and metronidazole 500 mg tid in the 2nd week.

        3. Group3: (110) participants received Levofloxacin quadruple regimen (LOAD) in the form of
           nitazoxanide 500 mg bid, levofloxacin 250 mg QD, omeprazole 40 mg QD, and doxycycline
           100 mg QD for 10 days

      C) Retesting by The fecal antigen test (FAT) after stopping the regimen by at least one month
      and withholding proton pump inhibitors for four weeks.
    
  