
    
      RAD001 is designed to stop cancer cells from multiplying. It may also stop the growth of new
      blood vessels that help tumor growth, which may cause the tumor cells to die.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. They will be
      performed within 2 weeks before starting the study, unless listed otherwise. You will have a
      complete physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate,
      temperature, and breathing rate). Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine
      tests. This routine blood draw will include a pregnancy test for women who are able to have
      children. To be eligible to take part in this study, the pregnancy test must be negative. You
      will need to "fast" for 6 hours before having these blood tests performed. This means you
      will not be able to have food or drink (except water) during this time.

      Also as part of the screening tests, you will have an electrocardiogram (ECG)a test that
      measures the electrical activity of the heart). You will have a bone marrow biopsy and
      aspiration within 3 months of starting the study (or within 2 weeks of starting the study, if
      you have received treatment for SM). To collect a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate, an area of the
      hip bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn
      through a large needle. The bone marrow samples will be used not only to check the status of
      the disease, but also for a routine test to see if there is a mutation (change) in a certain
      gene. If your doctor feels it is necessary, you may need to have additional screening tests
      (such as a bone scan) to check the status of the disease.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive your first
      supply of RAD001. You will take 1-2 pills of RAD001 by mouth once a day while you are on
      study. During the 3 hours before each dose of RAD001, you must eat no more than a light
      fat-free meal (such as a salad with no dressing, or a bowl of cereal with skim milk). You
      should also try to keep your dietary habits consistent before each dose. This means that you
      should eat at about the same time, and about the same amount of food each time.

      Each "cycle" of RAD001 lasts 1 month. You will have study visits on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, and
      3. At each visit, you will receive a new supply of RAD001. You will have a physical exam,
      including measurement of vital signs. You will be asked about any side effects you may have
      had. While you are on study, you must not take any additional medications (including
      over-the-counter products) without asking the study doctor first. At each study visit, you
      will be asked if you have taken any additional medications. You will also be asked if you
      have had any non-drug therapies or blood transfusions. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be
      drawn for routine tests. Like you did at screening, you will need to fast for 6 hours before
      having these blood tests performed.

      Halfway through each cycle (at about the beginning of Week 3 of each cycle), blood will be
      drawn for routine tests. This will be about 2 tablespoons of blood each time. You will need
      to fast for 6 hours before having these blood tests performed. It is your choice whether to
      have these blood tests performed at M.D. Anderson or at an outside laboratory.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 4, you will have another study visit. You will have all of the same tests
      performed as you did at the study visits on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, and 3. You will also have a
      bone marrow aspirate and biopsy in order to check the status of the disease. If your bone
      marrow sample collected at the time of screening showed that you have a mutation in a certain
      gene, the bone marrow sample collected at this time will be studied further (for a routine
      test). If this test result shows that the disease has not responded by this time, you will be
      taken off study.

      If the disease has responded by Day 1 of Cycle 4 (or if certain signs and symptoms related to
      SM have improved), you will continue taking RAD001 for as long as you are benefitting. You
      will continue having blood (about 2 tablespoons) drawn for routine tests every other week.
      You will also continue having study visits (with the same tests performed as on Day 1 of
      Cycle 4), but the visits will be once every 3 months. In other words, you will return on Day
      1 of Cycles 4, 7, 10, and so on. On Day 1 of the months when you do not have study visits
      (Cycles 5, 6, 8, 9, and so on), you will be called on the telephone by the research staff.
      During these phone calls, you will be asked about any side effects you may have had. You will
      also be asked about the results of the study-related blood tests that you have had since the
      last phone call or study visit.

      If the disease gets worse, you begin another therapy for cancer, or intolerable side effects
      occur, you will be taken off study.

      This is an investigational study. RAD001 is not Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved
      or commercially available. It has been authorized for use in research only. Up to 25 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  