
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by joint
      inflammation, subsequent joint destruction leading to loss of joint function, and disability.
      Joint erosions develop quickly in 25 % of RA patients during the first 3 months of the
      disease and in about 75% of patients during the first 2years .

      Early therapeutic intervention with synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (sDMARD)
      and biological agents that target specific molecules can prevent joint damage and improve the
      prognosis of the disease. Since these therapies can have potential toxic effects ,it is very
      important that practitioners diagnose early and reliably the disease, especially the more
      aggressive forms, in order to select the appropriate treatment for patients.

      Early diagnosis of RA can be challenging. During the last 15 years, there has been
      significant progress on the pathogenesis of RA with the discovery of antibodies against
      citrullinated protein antigens (ACPAs). ACPA production is associated with the HLA-DRB1
      shared epitope, cigarette smoking, and periodontitis .

      ACPAs have been shown to predict joint damage and are associated with more severe disease and
      extra-articular manifestations . In order to better identify RA patients at earlier stages,
      new 2010 classification criteria for RA by the American College of Rheumatology
      (ACR)/European League against Rheumatism (EULAR) include rheumatoid factor (RF) and ACPAs .

      The most common commercial assay for the detection of ACPAs is anti-cyclic citrullinated
      peptide (anti-CCP) test, which uses synthetic cyclic citrullinated peptides that mimic RA
      epitopes.

      Citrullination occurs also in other autoimmune diseases .

      . Indeed, histone citrullination may lead to the release of neutrophil extracellular traps,
      and juxtaposition of citrullinated histones with infectious pathogens, complement and immune
      complexes may compromise tolerance of nuclear autoantigens and promote autoimmunity .

      Antibodies to other citrullinated peptides or proteins have been suggested as good candidates
      for diagnosing RA.

      Anti-MCV antibodies have been recommended to be better diagnostic marker for early arthritis
      .

      Vimentin is an intermediate filament that is widely expressed by mesenchymal cells and
      macrophages and easy to detect in the synovium. Modification of the protein occurs in
      macrophages undergoing apoptosis, and antibodies to citrullinatedvimentin may emerge if the
      apoptotic material is inadequately cleared .
    
  