
    
      Based on a pilot study of 20 participants, 10 in each group, the mean visual analogue score
      of pain at rest (VAS) ± Standard Deviation (SD) at 6 hours postoperatively for Thoracic
      paravertebral block group (TPVB) participants were 3.0 ± 1.4 and that for systemic analgesia
      (SA) participants were 4.2 ± 1.6. The calculated significant sample size with a power of 0.85
      and alpha error of 0.05 was 60 participants, with 1:1 allocation in each group.

      Eighty two participants were assessed for eligibility criteria to be included in the study,
      18 participants were excluded pre-randomization, and one participant was excluded
      post-randomization due to re-exploration for bleeding. Sixty three participants were analyzed
      in the study. Thoracic paravertebral block group (TPVB group) included 32 participants and
      systemic analgesia group (SA group) included 31 participants.

      Technique of intraoperative paravertebral catheter insertion:

      The investigators used the technique that was described by Sabanathan et al in 1988[14] and
      modified by them in 1990 [15]. After completing the surgical pulmonary procedure and with the
      chest is still open, starting from the posterior end of the thoracotomy, parietal pleura is
      raised from the posterior chest wall to the vertebral body and for two spaces above and below
      the incision of thoracotomy creating a pouch. A 16-gauge disposable Tuohy needle is inserted
      percutaneously through a low posterior interspace. The needle is advanced until the tip
      appeared in the created pouch. The stylet is removed, and a 16-gauge side-holed epidural
      catheter is advanced into the created pouch and the needle is withdrawn. Using a curved
      forceps, a small defect is done in the extrapleural fascia to be directly in the
      paravertebral space. The cannula is passed to the paravertebral space through the defect and
      advanced cranially for 2 to 3 cm. The parietal pleura is reattached to the posterior edge of
      the wound and the catheter is secured. Then a bolus dose 15-20 ml of 1% lidocaine is injected
      through the catheter and the chest is closed as usual with one or two intercostal drainage
      tubes according to the surgical procedure.

      Protocol of analgesia:

      All participants, in both groups, received intravenous analgesia with 1gm paracetamol and 30
      mg ketorolac half an hour before the end of surgery.

      Systemic analgesia (SA) group continue to receive 1gm paracetamol and 30 mg ketorolac by
      intravenous infusion every 6 hours for 3 days. Thoracic paravertebral block (TPVB) group
      received continuous infusion of 0.1 ml/kg/h of 1.0% lidocaine (l mg/kg/h) using infusion pump
      through the inserted paravertebral catheter for 3 days. Intravenous morphine sulfate
      (0.05mg/kg) was given as a rescue medication if the VAS ≥ 4 for both groups. A senior nurse
      was responsible for handling the analgesia regimen and another nurse was responsible for
      recording pain score on visual analogue scale (VAS) and morphine consumption, as scheduled.
    
  