
    
      The purpose of this randomized controlled 2-group study is to test the effect of an
      innovative educational intervention called Integrated Language Learning for Chronic Care
      (IL2L) on successful self-management of diabetes. It pursues an integrated development of
      second language and interpersonal communication skills that will facilitate productive
      interactions between Spanish-speaking nurse practitioners (NP) and limited English
      proficiency Hispanic patients with diabetes. The intervention targets the acquisition of
      language skills that facilitate communicative functions known to be effective in engaging
      chronically ill patients. It accelerates acquisition of these skills by adding a longitudinal
      clinical instruction dimension. Further, the investigators propose that the efficacy of the
      intervention can be demonstrated at the provider level through improved linguistic and
      interpersonal performance and at the patient level through improved diabetes outcomes in
      response to language concordance. In support of these claims, the investigators seek to
      achieve the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To determine the efficacy of the IL2L for Chronic Care intervention on physical and
      mental health outcomes for Spanish-speaking patients with diabetes. Our hypothesis is: H1:
      Patients in the IL2L care group will report better physical health (HbA1C, lipids, and
      weight), mental health (depression and anxiety) and satisfaction with their healthcare than
      patients in the non-IL2L care group.

      Aim 2: To determine the efficacy of the IL2L for Chronic Care intervention on provider
      language proficiency and interpersonal communication skills. Our hypothesis is:H2: Providers
      exposed to the IL2L intervention will demonstrate improved Spanish language skills and
      interpersonal communication skills upon completion of the intervention.Specific Aim 3: To
      assess the acceptability of the IL2L for Chronic Care model within a graduate level nurse
      practitioner curriculum in a leading College of Nursing.

      The study will employ a mixed-methods model to assess the efficacy and accessibility of the
      IL2L for Chronic Care educational intervention in The Ohio State University's College of
      Nursing nurse practitioner program. To achieve Aim 1, the investigators will use a randomized
      control trial to demonstrate efficacy of the IL2L for Chronic Care model at the patient
      level. The investigators will compare a group of patients exposed to providers who underwent
      the IL2L intervention (intervention group) and a group of patients who are undergoing
      standard care (comparison group). To achieve Aim 2, the investigators will use a qualitative
      data interaction analysis system to demonstrate improvement in Spanish language proficiency
      and interpersonal communication skills. To achieve Aim 3, the investigators will use a
      combination of quantitative and qualitative measures within the RE-AIM model to assess the
      acceptability of the IL2L for chronic care model at the program level in a nurse practitioner
      program in a leading College of Nursing. The study has been approved by the institutional
      review boards of both universities prior to implementation and patients and student providers
      provide written informed consent.
    
  