
    
      BACKGROUND The current Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) recommendations for essential amino
      acid requirements are based on recommendations for young healthy adults and have not been
      directly determined in patients with Crohn's disease. Protein and amino acids are key
      components of our diet. Having defined the requirement of the essential amino acid, Threonine
      in healthy adults using the IAAO, the investigators are now in an ideal position to define
      the needs in vulnerable populations, such as patients with chronic inflammatory conditions,
      such as Crohn's disease (CD).

      Studies in animals suggest an increase in the threonine requirement in Crohn's and colitis
      models. If this is also true in humans, knowledge of the threonine requirement in patients
      with IBD could provide valuable information for improvement in medical nutritional management
      of this patient population. Improved medical nutrition therapy could likely shorten recovery
      time and/or increase the period of remission in patients with IBD.

      Method:

      Indicator Amino Acid Oxidation

      Hypothesis:

      It is hypothesized that the requirement for threonine in patients with CD will be higher than
      the threonine requirement previously determined in young adults using the IAAO method (19
      mg/kg/d).

      Objectives:

        1. To determine the requirement for threonine in patients with CD using the IAAO technique;
           by measuring the oxidation of L-[1-13 C] phenylalanine to 13 CO 2 [F 13 CO 2] in
           response to graded intakes of leucine.

        2. To compare, on the basis of body weight and fat-free mass, the requirement derived from
           this study to the requirement of threonine determined previously in young adults by the
           IAAO method.

      Subjects:

      Up to 10 clinically stable patients with CD will be recruited from the IBD Clinic at Mt.
      Sinai Hospital, Toronto, who will be identified by Dr. Mark Silverberg for this study and
      subsequently followed up at the Clinical Research Center (CRC), The Hospital for Sick
      Children (SickKids), Toronto, Canada. Before the study begins, the participants will be
      required to visit the CRC (Room 5500 Hill Wing, The Hospital for Sick Children) for a
      pre-study assessment of their height, weight, fat mass, fat free mass, resting metabolic rate
      and medical history. These assessments will take about 3 hours to complete. They will need to
      have been fasted for 10 hours prior to the pre-study assessment. We need the pre-study
      assessment to calculate their dietary requirements for the study, and to assess health
      status.

      After signing the consent form, the subjects will complete the screening procedures (height,
      weight, fasting blood sample and medical history questionnaire, BIA, Skinfold and
      calorimetry).

        -  The voluntaries will receive financial compensation for the costs incurred while
           participating in the study.

        -  All procedures in the study will be approved by the Research Ethics Board at SickKids.

      Experimental Design:

      The experimental design will be based on the minimally invasive IAAO model for collecting
      breath and urine, instead of blood during the study day. A maximum total of 50 IAAO studies
      will be carried out to determine the requirement for threonine in patients with CD. Up to 10
      male patients with CD will be recruited. Each subject will be studied for at least 2 intake
      levels and up to at a maximum of 5 different intake levels of threonine. Each level of intake
      will be randomly assigned to subjects.

      At the pre-study assessment, the subject's resting energy expenditure (REE) will be measured
      by continuous, open-circuit indirect calorimetry, and body composition will be measured by
      skinfold thickness and bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA). Subjects will also be weighed
      at the pre-study assessment and at the start of each IAAO study day to ensure accurate
      prescription of diets and isotopes, and to confirm weight maintenance throughout the study.

      Each study will consist of a 2-day adaptation period to a prescribed diet in accordance with
      the energy requirement of the subject and 1-study day. The diet will provide an adequate
      amount of protein, of 1 g protein∙kg-1∙d-1. The 2-day adaptation period is to allow the body
      to adapt to an adequate amount of protein as it has been shown that protein kinetics is
      altered without it. Following the 2 days of adaptation is the study day where threonine
      intake will be randomly assigned and phenylalanine (Phe) kinetics will be measured with the
      use of L-[1-13C]Phe. On this day, VCO2 will be measured by calorimetry immediately after the
      5th meal for a period of 20 minutes.

      Dietary Intake and Experimental Diet:

      3-day protocol

        -  On days 1 and 2, the subject will consume an adaptation diet and on the 3rd day
           participate in an 8-hour testing period. Each 3-day protocol will be separated by at
           least one week (wash-out period).

        -  Dietary intakes during the 2-day adaptation period before the day 3 IAAO study will be
           provided in the form of lactose-free milk shakes (Scandishake) with added carbohydrate
           (SolCarb) and protein (beneprotein) to meet the subjects' requirement. The protein will
           be provided from the scandishake as milk protein (casein and whey) and providing
           1g.kg-1.day-1 protein intake. Total calories will be provided as resting energy
           expenditure (REE) measure by indirect calorimetry and multiplied by 1.7. On the
           adaptation days, the diet will be provided as four isonitrogenous, isocaloric meals
           spread evenly throughout the day.

        -  On the study day (3rd day of each 3-day period), the diet will be provided as 8 hourly
           isocaloric, isonitrogenous meals made up of a flavored liquid formula and protein free
           cookies developed for use in amino acid kinetic studies. Each meal will represent 1/12th
           of the subject's total daily requirements. The nitrogen (protein) content of the diet
           will be provided in the form of a crystalline amino acid mixture based on the amino acid
           composition of egg protein. The energy intake on the study day will be provided as REE x
           1.5.

        -  Tyrosine will be provided in excess at 40 mg/kg/day

        -  Phenylalanine will be provided at a constant intake of 20mg/kg/d.

        -  Threonine will be provided at graded intakes ranging from 3-45 mg/kg/d and alanine
           levels will be adjusted to balance the changing levels of leucine and ensure formulas
           are isonitrogenous.

        -  A daily multivitamin supplement will be provided during the study period.

        -  No other food or beverages will be consumed on the adaptation days except water, 1 cup
           clear tea, or 1cup clear coffee.

        -  During the 8-hr study day, no other food or drink will be consumed except water.

      Study Day

        -  The study day diet will be divided into 8 isonitrogenous, isocaloric meals each
           representing one-twelfth of the total subject´s daily requirements.

        -  On the morning of each study day, the subject will consume 4 of the hourly meals at home
           and then visit the research laboratory. The subject will then start to consume the
           remaining 4 out of the 8 isocaloric meals at hourly intervals.

        -  Up to 5 dietary threonine intake levels will be tested in random order as mentioned
           under "experimental design".

        -  1-13C phenylalanine will be given as the tracer in the 5th meal and continue to be
           administered with the remaining meals.

      Body-composition measurements

      • Body composition will be determined by bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA and multiple
      skin fold-thickness measurements at the beginning of study during the pre-study assessment.
      Four Skinfold thicknesses (triceps, biceps, subscapular, and suprailiac) will be measured to
      obtain estimates of fat mass. BIA will be performed by using a fixed-frequency analyzer (50
      kHz; BIA model 101A: RJL Systems). Equations described previously will be used to calculate
      FFM.

      Isotope Infusion Protocol:

        -  1-13C phenylalanine will be used as the isotope. Oral priming dose of 0.66 mg/kg will be
           administered with the fifth meal, and an hourly oral dose of 1.2 mg/kg/d will begin
           simultaneously and continue for 3 hrs with meals 6, 7 and 8. A total of 4 isotopic doses
           are given to ensure background 13CO2 in breath reaches equilibration

        -  At the same time which the priming dose of L-[13C]phe is administered, an oral priming
           dose of 0.176 mg/kg of bicarbonate (NaH13CO3) will also be given

        -  The amount of phenylalanine given as the isotope on the study day will be subtracted
           from dietary phenylalanine to maintain the total dietary intake at 20 mg Phe /kg/d

        -  Tyrosine intake will be maintained at 40 mg∙kg-1∙d-1 to ensure an excess of tyrosine

        -  Breath and urine samples are collected periodically before and after the tracers are
           consumed

      Sample Collection:

        -  Urine and breath samples will be collected at baseline and at isotopic steady state.

        -  Breath samples will be collected simultaneously with urine samples.

        -  Five baseline breath samples will be collected 60, 45, 30, 15 min, and just before the
           tracer protocol begins.

        -  Three baseline urine samples will be collected 60, 30 min, and just before the tracer
           protocol begins.

        -  Four plateau breath samples will be collected every 15 minutes 2.5 h after the tracer
           protocol begins.

        -  Three plateau breath samples will be collected every 30 minutes 2.5 h after the tracer
           protocol begin

        -  Breath samples will be collected with subjects breathing into an Exetainers plastic tube
           and samples will be stored in pre-evacuated glass tubes at room temperature until
           analysis.

        -  Urine samples will be collected in Eppendorf tubes and stored at - 20 º C until analyzed
           for 1-13C phenylalanine enrichment.

        -  The rate of CO2 production (VCO2) will be measured on each testing day using a
           ventilated hood indirect calorimeter at meal 5 to quantify 13CO2 excretion in breath.

      Sample Analysis.

        -  Breath: expired 13 CO2 enrichment will be measured by continuous flow isotope ratio mass
           spectrometer (IRMS).

        -  Urinary 1-13C phenylalanine enrichment will be analyzed by gas chromatography tandem
           mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS).

      Estimation of Isotopic Kinetics Whole-body phenylalanine flux will be calculated as
      previously described according to the stochastic model of Matthews et al. Isotopic steady
      state in the tracer enrichment at baseline and plateau will be represented as the unchanging
      values of L-[1-13C]phenylalanine in urine and 13CO2 in breath.

      Phenylalanine flux (umol/kg/h) will be calculated from the dilution of orally administered
      13C-phenylalanine into the metabolic pool (at steady state) by using enrichment of 13C-
      phenylalanine in urine. The rate of appearance of 13CO2 in breath (F13CO2 umol/kg/h) after
      the oxidation of ingested 13C-phenylalanine will be calculated according to the model of
      Matthews et al., by using a factor of 0.82 to account for carbon dioxide retained in the
      body's bicarbonate pool. The rate of phenylalanine oxidation (umol/kg/h) will be calculated
      from F13CO2 and urinary 13C-phenylalanine enrichment.

      Statistical Analysis

      A paired t test will be used to test for: differences in FFM and percentage of body fat;
      differences in the two body-composition methods of BIA and skinfold. ANOVA will be used to
      test for differences among the various estimates of body composition (fat and FFM), and
      correlation analysis will be performed to test for associations

      Threonine intakes will be completely randomized within subjects, with the amount of threonine
      intake serving as the main treatment effect. The effect of threonine on phenylalanine flux,
      oxidation, and F13CO2 will be tested by using a mixed linear model with subject as a random
      variable (PROC MIXED) by using SAS. Differences between individual fluxes will be compared by
      ANOVA, with post hoc analysis using the Bonferroni multiple-comparisons test.

      Threonine requirement will be determined by applying a biphasic linear regression crossover
      analysis to determine the breakpoint (EAR) and subsequently calculate the 95% CI. The mean
      threonine requirement will be estimated by applying a nonlinear mixed-effects model (PROC
      NLMIXED; SAS Institute) to the oxidation and F13CO2 data. Observations within subjects will
      be regarded as statistically depended.
    
  