
    
      PRECIS

      Background:

        -  We have constructed a single retroviral vector that contains both and <= chains of a
           murine T cell receptor (mTCR) that recognizes the New York Esophageal Squamous Cell
           Carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1) (ESO) tumor antigen, which can be used to mediate genetic
           transfer of this T-cell receptor (TCR) with high efficiency.

        -  In co-cultures with human leukocyte antigen serotype within the HLA-A serotype group
           (HLA-A2) and ESO double positive tumors, anti-ESO mTCR transduced T cells secreted
           significant amounts of Interferons (IFN)- >= with high specificity.

      Primary objective:

      - To determine whether the administration of anti-ESO mTCR-engineered peripheral blood
      lymphocytes (PBL) plus high-dose aldesleukin following a non-myeloablative lymphoid depleting
      preparative regimen may result in objective tumor regression in patients with metastatic
      cancers including melanoma expressing the ESO antigen.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 15 years and less than or equal to 70 years. Patients aged
           15-17 years must weigh at least 50 kg.

        -  HLA-A*0201 positive

        -  Metastatic cancer including melanoma whose tumors express the ESO antigen

        -  Previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred after receiving
           standard care for metastatic disease

        -  No contraindications for high-dose aldesleukin administration

      Design:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis will be cultured in
           the presence of anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (OKT3) and aldesleukin to stimulate T-cell
           growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of cells to retroviral vector supernatant
           containing the anti-ESO mTCR genes. This mTCR targets the exact same epitope as the
           human T-cell receptor (hTCR).

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  On day 0 patients will receive anti-ESO mTCR gene-transduced PBMC and then begin high
           dose aldesleukin.

        -  A complete evaluation of evaluable lesions will be conducted 6 weeks (+/- 2 weeks)
           following the administration of the cell product.

        -  The study will be conducted using a phase II optimal design (Simon R, Controlled
           Clinical Trials 10:1-10, 1989). The objective will be to determine if the combination of
           high dose aldesleukin, lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, and anti-ESO TCR-gene
           engineered lymphocytes is able to be associated with a clinical response rate that can
           rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor of a modest 20% Partial Response (PR) + Complete Response
           (CR) rate (p1=0.20).

        -  A total of up to 43 patients may be enrolled (41, plus allowing for up to 2
           non-evaluable patients).
    
  