
    
      Older adults (i.e. aged ≥60 years) who are physically inactive are at increased risk of
      falls, functional limitations, disability, and mental health problems. Encouragingly, there
      is evidence that various physical activity interventions can elicit meaningful improvements
      in physical function and health-related quality of life in older people. Effective programmes
      have included aerobic exercise, progressive resistance training and Tai Chi. Yoga is an
      alternative approach to improving fitness and health outcomes in older adults. The benefits
      of yoga may be greater than those of exercise alone because yoga offers a combination of
      physical exercise with mental focus, and participants are taught good posture,
      self-awareness, and self-care along with relaxation. Indeed, a recent systematic review and
      meta-analysis that included 16 studies (n=649) concluded that yoga may provide greater
      improvements in physical functioning and self-reported health status than conventional
      physical activity interventions in elderly people. However, the previous studies had
      limitations, including small sample sizes, a single yoga teacher delivering the programme,
      and short-term follow-up. Furthermore, none of the included studies had been conducted in the
      United Kingdom. Many different schools of hatha yoga exist in the West, such as Iyengar,
      Sivananda, Viniyoga, Bikram (Hot Yoga), and it is likely that some of these forms are more
      acceptable and effective than others in elderly people, many of whom present with multiple
      morbidities. Gentle Years Yoga© is a yoga programme which was developed in North Yorkshire,
      England by the British Wheel of Yoga 'Approved Centre' Yorkshire Yoga in 2009 to cater
      specifically for the needs of older people with age-related conditions such as
      osteoarthritis, arthroplasty, dementia, sensory impairment. To date, only anecdotal evidence
      exists regarding the acceptability, feasibility and effectiveness of this programme;
      therefore, further research is warranted. Here, we are proposing to conduct a two-arm,
      parallel-group, pilot randomised controlled trial in physically inactive adults aged ≥60
      years, the aims of which are to: (i) inform the design of, and assess the feasibility of
      conducting, a definitive randomised controlled trial, and; (ii) explore the acceptability,
      safety and potential benefits of the Gentle Years Yoga© programme in this specific
      population.
    
  