
    
      Background. Involvement of the axial skeleton (of sacroiliac joints and / or spine) is one of
      the frequent manifestations associated with psoriatic skin disease along with involvement of
      peripheral musculoskeletal structures (peripheral arthritis, enthesitis, dactylitis), which
      are usually referred to as psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Depending on the definition used, the
      prevalence of axial disease varies from 25% to 70% of patients with PsA. There is an urgent
      need for an evidence-based definition and a unified and widely accepted nomenclature for
      axial involvement in PsA that would allow defining a homogeneous subgroup of patients in the
      heterogeneous PsA population.

      Aim and study objectives. To develop a data-driven definition of axial involvement in PsA
      based on cross-sectional evaluation of patients with a diagnosis of PsA fulfilling the CASPAR
      criteria. The study objectives are: to determine the prevalence of axial involvement in a
      cohort of patients with PsA; to identify the frequency of imaging findings suggestive of
      inflammatory involvement of axial skeleton in PsA; to identify factors (clinical, lab,
      imaging) associated with the presence of axial involvement in PsA.

      Study design and study population. This is a multinational multicenter cross-sectional study
      in patients with a definite diagnosis of PsA. The population of interest will consist of 400
      adult patients diagnosed with PsA and fulfilling the classification criteria for PsA and not
      receiving biological or targeted synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (b or
      tsDMARDs). Participating rheumatologists are encouraged to include consecutive PsA patients
      not treated with biologic or a targeted synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug
      because of their potential impact on active inflammatory changes in the axial skeleton, which
      will be the focus of the current study. Patients will be recruited prospectively in selected
      study centres and will undergo study-related examinations including imaging of the axial
      skeleton (X-rays and magnetic resonance imaging). Collected data will serve as a basis for
      the judgement on the presence or absence of axial involvement by the local investigator and,
      independently, by the central study committee.

      Analysis and study outcomes. The prevalence of axial involvement in a cohort of patients with
      PsA according to the local and central assessment will be calculated in PsA patients
      presenting with peripheral involvement (the primary analysis population) as well as in the
      entire group. The prevalence of axial involvement as assessed by the local investigator in
      PsA patients presenting with peripheral involvement will be the primary outcome of the study.
      The agreement between local and central judgements will be analyzed. A sub-analysis of a
      group presenting without peripheral involvement (i.e., pure axial disease) will be performed.
      The frequency of imaging findings (on MRI and X-rays) suggestive of inflammatory involvement
      of axial skeleton (sacroiliac joints and spine) in PsA according to the local and central
      assessment will be calculated. The agreement between local and central judgements will be
      analyzed. Parameters associated with the presence of axial involvement in PsA will be
      explored as well. The diagnostic / classification value of each parameter will be evaluated.
    
  