
    
      A systematic case replication series utilising an A-B design with 1-month follow-up will be
      used within this study to replicate MCT intervention across SAD subtypes. (A = no treatment
      baseline; B = 8 weekly one-one sessions of MCT). This design was chosen as MCT is a
      relatively novel approach to SAD, particularly within a child and adolescent population.

      Recruitment:

      Potential participants will be identified by CAMHS Clinicians during routine clinical
      practice. If the Anxiety Disorders Interview Schedule-IV Child/Parent Version indicates
      clinical severity of SAD, individuals will be invited to participate in the full study.

      This study aims to recruit 5 participants experiencing social anxiety disorder. Participants
      who drop out of the study during the baseline phase (i.e. before receiving any sessions of
      MCT intervention) will be replaced by another eligible participant who will be recruited in
      their place. However, any participants who drop out during the intervention phase of the
      study will not be replaced.

      Phase 1 (Baseline):

      During the initial phase of the study, participants will be asked to complete baseline
      measures once a week for a minimum of 2 weeks (with at least 3 data-points) until stability
      of scores is achieved. Stability of scores will be defined as 3 consecutive data points
      showing an increasing or horizontal trend on the primary outcome measure. If the last data
      point is decreasing, baseline will be extended until stable trends can be plotted, although
      if stability of scores is not achieved by 6 weeks (i.e. 6 data points) then intervention will
      be introduced at this point regardless.

      Phase 2 (Intervention):

      Participants will be invited to attend 8 weekly sessions of MCT at their local CAMHS. Each
      session will last approximately 1 hour. Participants will be asked to complete sessional
      measures to allow for monitoring of SAD symptoms and metacognitive beliefs, as well as
      measures of treatment acceptability.

      Phase 3 (Follow-up):

      Follow-up will be conducted between 4-6 weeks after the final treatment session. Participants
      will be asked to complete and return a final set of measures via the post. This will provide
      a final measure of SAD symptoms and metacognitions and see whether any benefits of receiving
      MCT have been maintained.

      Phase 4 (Exit Interviews):

      Participants will be invited to complete an optional, semi-structured exit interview to
      gather descriptive level information regarding how they found the intervention. This will
      examine factors such as which components of the intervention were well received.
    
  