
    
      The P53 mutation plays an important role in the development of ovarian cancer and endometrial
      cancer, which has been found to occur in more than 95% of high grade serous ovarian cancers,
      25% of the endometrial cancer, with serous endometrial cancer having a P53 mutation rate of
      88%.

      In Acute promyelocytic leukemia treatment, a combination of retinoic acid (ATRA) and Arsenic
      trioxide (ATO) has an extremely high cure rate, with an overall five-year survival rate of
      88% , the therapeutic effect of ATO on some hematologic malignancies has been widely
      recognized. What's more, it is also found that arsenic has potential therapeutic effects on a
      variety of solid tumors, including Esophageal, liver and lymphoma.

      Preciously research modified H1299 cells with structural mutant P53 (p53-R175H) and treated
      them with doxcycline to knock down p53-R175H. The system was able to determine whether the
      observed antitumor effects were dependent on the structural mutant p53. In the transplanted
      tumor model of this cell line in mice, ATO significantly inhibited the tumor growth rate. In
      mice fed with doxcycline, cancer cells expressed almost no P53-R175H, and the ATO had limited
      inhibitory effect on the transplanted tumor model. These results suggest that ATO inhibits
      tumor cell proliferation mainly by targeting structural mutant p53.

      Researchers tested the antineoplastic effects of ATO on various solid tumor PDX models on a
      small scale. the results showed than the antineoplastic effect of ATO on the PDX
      (Patient-Derived tumor Xenograft) model was observed in several solid tumor models with
      structural mutant P53, including liver, Lung, and Pancreatic Cancer. This suggests that the
      antineoplastic effects of ATO are not limited to the types of cancer. Its anti-tumor effect
      is only related to the structural mutant p53 in cancer cells.

      Previous studies have shown that Arsenic trioxide can bind to the structural mutant P53 and
      partially restore its function, so the goal of this study is to observe the efficacy, safety,
      and tolerability of Arsenic trioxide for injection in patients with recurrent and metastatic
      ovarian cancer and endometrial cancer combined with P53 mutation.
    
  