
    
      Feasibility and effectiveness of the 'Tell-us Card' Communication Tool on hospital patients'
      perception of participation and quality of Care.

      The use of 'Tell-us Cards' in basic care is an intervention facilitating communication for
      enhanced patient participation in basic care. The effectiveness of the card is tested by
      Jangland et al (18) in a population of patients admitted to the hospitals surgical wards. The
      use of the 'Tell-us Card' in this patient group resulted in significant improvements in
      patients abilities to participate in decisions about their nursing and medical care. In our
      study we will investigate feasibility and effectiveness of the 'Tell-us cards' in three
      different hospital settings; patients admitted to the hospitals' surgical and medical wards
      and in patients attending the hospitals' emergency department.

      Aim: The aim of this study is to investigate feasibility and effectiveness of 'Tell-us Cards'
      for patients participation in basic care in three different hospital settings. Description of
      the Intervention: The 'Tell-us card' (18) is a tool to elicit patients preferences and needs
      in basic care. Patients are invited to write down their specific questions and concerns for
      the day or before discharge. 'Tell-us Cards' are handed out on a daily basis to patients
      admitted to the hospital. Patients and their informal caregivers are invited to use the
      'Tell-us Card' to state their preferences in basic care during their stay in the hospital.
      Nurses are instructed to use the 'Tell-us card' as a tool in their dialogue with the patient
      in making care plans, during ward rounds or for discharge information sessions.

      Design: Feasibility and effectiveness of the 'Tell-us Card' will be tested in a controlled
      early trial design (Phase 2B, MRC Framework). Trained nurses will be handing out the 'Tell-us
      Cards' on a daily basis to patients admitted to the hospital. Baseline assessments on patient
      participation will be conducted at all wards in patients and nurses before the introduction
      of the 'Tell-us Cards'. For the baseline assessment; Nurses and patients will be asked to
      fill in a questionnaire. The nurses receive a questionnaire in their postbox at the ward they
      are working on with an envelope for returning the questionnaire to the researcher. Patients
      will be asked to fill in a questionnaire one week after discharge from the hospital or one
      week after their visit to the emergency department. Assessment of effects of the intervention
      in patients at T1 will start 3 months after the introduction of the 'Tell-us Cards' at the
      intervention wards. Nurses will be asked to fill in the questionnaire again 6 months after
      they filled in the first questionnaire.

      Patients & Settings: Hospital patients admitted to two surgical wards and two medical wards
      (n=4x35=140) will be included in this study. One surgical ward, one medical ward will be
      randomly assigned to the intervention and control group. Baseline and follow up assessments
      will take place in 35 patients per assessment per ward, resulting in 165 assessments at
      baseline, and 165 assessments at follow-up. Outcomes: Primary outcome is patient perception
      of participation in individualised care. For measurement of patient participation in patients
      admitted to the hospital we will use the Individualized Care Scale for patients (19-23).
      Secondary outcomes will comprehend perception of quality of care, assessed with the Quality
      from the Patients' perspective (QPP) questionnaire (24, 25) as well as the use and content of
      the 'Tell-us Cards' and the actions taken by nurses as a consequence of what patients 'tell
      them' by means of the 'Tell-us Cards'. As generic tools we will use the EQ-5D for measurement
      of Quality of life (www.euroqol.org) and one question from the consumer Quality index for
      patient experience (www.centrumklantervaringindezorg). Furthermore nurses' perception of
      individualised care will be assessed at baseline and follow-up with the Individualized Care
      Scale for nurses.

      Analysis: Results are clustered at ward level. We will therefore perform a random effects
      regression model to estimate the effects on (surgical and medical) patients' perceptions of
      Individualised Care for the intervention versus the usual care group at follow-up. In this
      analysis, ward will be entered as random effect, and covariates in the model are patients'
      perceptions of Individualised Care at each ward at baseline.

      Descriptive analysis will reveal the topics patients regard as most important during their
      stay. A thorough process analysis on the use of the Card en the actions taken as a
      consequence of the content of the cards, will give insight in feasibility and effectiveness
      of the 'Tell-us Card' in daily practice.

      Timeline (21 months): 1-6 (6m):Preparation time; 7-9 (3m):T0-Baseline assessment; 10-12
      (3m):'Tell-us Card' Intervention Introduction; 13-15 (3m):T1-assessment; 16-21 (6m):Data
      analysis and study reporting
    
  