
    
      The majority of new HIV infections are transmitted through heterosexual contact. Currently,
      there is no single product that is completely efficacious in preventing initial HIV infection
      through vaginal transmission. Thus, the development of a topical product which could block
      local virus replication once infection has occurred is needed. Topical microbicides are
      designed to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV and other disease pathogens. Potentially,
      they can be applied vaginally to prevent both male-to-female and female-to-male transmission.
      They also offer a female-controlled option. PMPA gel has shown some activity against HIV and
      STD pathogens in in vitro and in vivo laboratory studies.

      Participants undergo eligibility screening tests which include: a general physical exam; a
      pelvic exam; a urine pregnancy test; urinalysis; HIV and STD testing and counseling; and
      hematology, liver, and renal function tests. For HIV-infected participants, a CD4 cell count
      is performed and specimens are collected for quantitation of HIV viral load in plasma and
      cervico-vaginal fluids. [AS PER AMENDMENT 05/29/02: and for HIV resistance genotyping.] PMPA
      gel is evaluated among 4 types of women distributed into 7 cohorts. All participants apply
      PMPA gel intravaginally for 14 consecutive intramenstrual days. The dose and frequency of
      application is escalated across "cohorts." Cohorts A1 through A4 consist of HIV-uninfected,
      abstinent women who use different doses of PMPA gel once or twice daily. Cohort B includes
      HIV-uninfected women who are sexually active. Cohorts C and D consist of HIV-infected women
      who are abstinent or sexually active, respectively. Cohorts B, C, and D use the highest
      practical dose frequency. The male partners of sexually active participants undergo HIV and
      STD testing and counseling as well as an optional genital exam and a post-regimen interview.
      Participants keep a daily record of when doses are taken and of any adverse effects. Pelvic
      exams, and hematology, liver, and renal function tests (and CD4 cell counts [AS PER AMENDMENT
      05/29/02: and resistance genotyping] in HIV-infected participants) are performed at follow-up
      visits. After the regimen is complete, participants participate in group interviews to
      discuss adverse effects, adherence to, and general perception of PMPA gel.

      The first 6 participants in Cohorts A2, B, and C take part in a pharmacokinetic (PK) study of
      PMPA gel. Serum collection and PK analysis are performed at different time intervals during 2
      study visits.
    
  