
    
      Subjects:

      I. Eligibility criteria:

        1. Male and female participants

        2. Older adults aged 60-74 years

        3. Education ≥ 4 years

        4. Performance on neuropsychological tests below normal for age and education

        5. Availability to attend the sessions of the application of TMS and neuropsychological
           assessments

        6. Signing an informed consent by the participant or his guardian

      II. No eligibility criteria:

        1. Prior diagnosis of dementia

        2. Any psychiatric disorder, except for mild depression in remission for at least 6 months.
           Shall be excluded those with scores > 12 on the Hamilton Depression Scale

        3. History of neurosurgery and implantation of metal clips, head trauma, implantation of
           cardiac pacemakers, stroke, transient ischemic attack, cardiac surgery

        4. Clinical or neurological diseases with impact on cognitive ability

        5. Neurodegenerative central nervous system disease(eg. Parkinson Disease)

        6. Alcohol and other drug abstinence for less than one year

        7. Use of psychotropic medications (anticholinergic, mood stabilizers, neuroleptics),
           except for antidepressants

        8. Chronic use of benzodiazepines with abstinence for less than 6 months

        9. Severe uncontrolled organic disease that might interfere with the conduct of the study,
           such as cancer, congestive heart disease, digestive disorders, diabetes mellitus type I
           or type II, dyslipidemia etc.

       10. Sensory impairments(to guarantee a adequate performance in the tests to evaluate
           cognitive functions)

       11. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain with evidence of lacunar or large vessels
           infarctions, cerebral hemorrhage

      13. Hachinski Ischemic score of > 7 (or modified by Loeb > 5) 14. Any other condition that in
      the opinion of the investigator becomes problematic inclusion of the patient in a trial of
      this nature, as well as patients who do not adhere or do not cooperate.

      III. Outcome measures:

      Will be considered as an outcome measure a variation greater than or equal to 10% compared to
      baseline scores of neuropsychological tests, which will be applied on three occasions:
      immediately before (T0), after treatment (T2) and 4 weeks after the end of it (T3).
    
  