
    
      Over 700 000 Canadians are living with the effects of stroke. Approximately 60% of people
      living with the effects of stroke need help with every day activities and 84% are limited in
      the activities which they would like to participate in. Much research has focused on
      interventions for acute and sub-acute rehabilitation but it is also known that gains can
      still be made in the chronic stage. Among common rehabilitation interventions to reduce
      impairment, there is moderate evidence of effectiveness of constraint induced movement
      therapy (CIMT) and mirror therapy and weak evidence of effectiveness of repetitive task
      training. However, positive effects on impairment do not necessarily carryover into
      activities of daily living.

      Therefore, an intervention program with a goal of improvement in occupational performance
      outside of the clinical setting, one that targets everyday activities and participant
      selected activities, would be a valuable tool for occupational therapy post stroke. The
      objective of this study was to explore whether the LSVT BIG® program, an intervention
      targeting participant-identified functional goals which includes strategies to encourage
      generalization to other tasks, could be applicable to the rehabilitation of the chronic
      effects of stroke.

      LSVT BIG is a time limited, high intensity rehabilitation program designed to be used by
      occupational therapists or physiotherapists to target Parkinson's disease motor symptoms of
      bradykinesia and hypokinesia, in an outpatient environment, with a goal of improving
      function. This intervention involves exercises and repetitive practice of patient-selected
      activities with a focus on big (increased amplitude) movements. It is believed that this will
      lead to normally paced and sized movements which will generalize to untrained activities.

      Although Parkinson's disease and stroke have different pathological mechanisms, the elements
      in the LSVT BIG program are based on the same neuroplasticity and motor learning principles
      that form the basis for stroke rehabilitation methods. What is novel, however, is the focus
      on amplitude and just one cue, 'big', for all difficult movement situations, potentially
      increasing generalizability outside of the clinical setting and trained activities.

      The LSVT BIG program uses motor learning principles of blocked practice, serial practice and
      elements of random practice (varying environmental factors), extrinsic feedback (including
      verbal feedback, modeling, shaping and focus on knowledge of results) as well as a single
      external, knowledge of results focused cue 'big' to encourage adaptation, recalibration of
      the internal motor program of the movement, and transfer to other tasks. LSVT BIG also
      respects the neuroplasticity principles of intensity, repetition, specificity and saliency
      The aim of this study is to begin to explore the effectiveness of LSVT BIG in late stroke
      rehabilitation.

      The primary hypothesis is that participants with chronic stroke will demonstrate improvement
      in trained activities following LSVT BIG.

      A secondary hypothesis is that participants will also improve in untrained activities due to
      carryover of the intervention effects.

      Study Design A single-case experimental design (SCED) with one replication was used . An
      A-B-A design was selected and included a baseline phase, an intervention phase, and a
      post-intervention phase. Perceived performance and satisfaction with performance of
      participant-selected activities, and self-report of everyday upper extremity use were the
      outcomes subjected to repeated measures. In addition, pre- and post- measures of observed
      performance quality and upper extremity function were carried out.
    
  