
    
      The Study Drug TPI 287 is designed to block tumors from growing by preventing cancer cells
      from dividing, which may cause them to die.

      Study Groups:

      Patient will be assigned to a study group based on when they join this study. Up to 4 groups
      of 3-6 participants will be enrolled in the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 64
      participants will be enrolled in Phase II.

      If patient is enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of TPI 287 they receive will depend
      on when they joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose
      level of TPI 287. Each new group will receive a higher starting dose of TPI 287 than the
      group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the
      highest tolerable dose of TPI 287 is found.

      If patient is enrolled on one of the earlier dose levels, and they do not experience
      intolerable side effects after 2 study cycles, their dose may be increased to the next higher
      dose level that has been shown to be safe.

      If patient has intolerable side effects, their dose may be lowered, paused, or stopped
      completely. This will be up to their doctor.

      If patient is enrolled in the Phase II portion, they will receive TPI 287 at the highest dose
      that was tolerated in the Phase I portion.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is about 28 days (+/- 3 days).

      TPI 287 will be given by vein over about 1 hour, on Days 1, 8, and 15 (+/- 2 days) of each
      study cycle.

      Since TPI 287 does not mix well in water, patient will receive doses of TPI 287 that have
      been dissolved in cremophor. Cremophor is a chemical that is created from castor oil. Some
      participants may be allergic to cremophor. Before patient receives each dose of TPI 287, they
      will receive dexamethasone, Benadryl (diphenhydramine), and Pepcid (famotidine) by vein, to
      help prevent allergic reaction. Each of these medications will be given over about 10
      minutes. Patient will also receive drugs to prevent nausea and vomiting. The study staff will
      tell patient more about these drugs and the risks for them.

      Study Visits:

      At all study visits, patient will be asked about any symptoms they may be having and any
      drugs they may be taking.

      On Days 1, 8, 15, and 21 of each cycle, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine
      tests. The blood sample on Day 21 may be drawn at a clinic near patient's home. The study
      staff will give patient more information about this.

      On Day 28 of each cycle:

        -  Patient will have a physical exam, including measurement of their height, weight, and
           vital signs.

        -  Patient's performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, patient will have an MRI scan of the brain to check
           the status of the disease.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, patient will have a neurological exam.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2 and then every other cycle after that (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on),
      patient will have a CT scan of their chest, abdomen, and pelvis to check the status of the
      disease.

      Every 8 weeks, patient will have a CT or MRI scan of the brain to check the status of the
      disease. If patient has brain metastasis, they will have a CT or MRI scan every 4 weeks.

      Length of Study:

      Patient may continue taking the study drug for up to 6 months. Treatment beyond 6 months will
      be decided by patient's doctor. Patient will be allowed to continue taking the study drug for
      as long as the doctor thinks it is in their best interest. Patient will no longer be able to
      take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if they
      are unable to follow study directions.

      Patient's participation on the study will be over once they have completed the
      end-of-treatment visit and follow-up.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      About 4 weeks after patient stops receiving TPI 287, they will have an end-of-treatment
      visit. At this visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Patient will have a physical exam, including measurement of their weight and vital
           signs.

        -  Patient's performance status will be recorded.

        -  Patient will be asked about any problems or side effects they may be having.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If patient's doctor thinks it is needed, they will have a CT or MRI scan to check the
           status of the disease.

      Follow-Up:

        -  Patient will be contacted by phone or they will come in for a clinic visit. The phone
           call should last about 5 minutes. Patient will be asked about any problems or side
           effects they may be having:

        -  Every 2 months unless the disease gets worse.

        -  Then, every 3 months after that.

      These follow-ups end 3 years after they enrolled in the study.

      This is an investigational study. TPI 287 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It
      is currently being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 82 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  