
    
      BACKGROUND

      Following tooth extraction, the alveolar ridge undergoes a marked change. During the first
      year after tooth extraction, about 50% of the bucco-lingual ridge dimension will be lost.
      Furthermore, ridge reduction will become more pronounced from a buccal than from a
      lingual/palatal aspect. The hard tissue modelling and remodelling following tooth extraction
      were studied in the dog model. It was demonstrated that the socket was first occupied by a
      coagulum that was replaced with granulation tissue, provisional connective tissue and woven
      bone. This immature hard tissue was subsequently replaced with lamellar bone and bone marrow.
      During the healing phase, the height of the buccal bone wall was substantially reduced. In
      addition, about 30% of the marginal portion of the alveolar process of the extraction site
      was lost.

      Several approaches have been tested to preserve or improve the dimension and contour of the
      ridge following tooth extraction including the use of various graft or filler materials such
      as autografts, allografts, xenografts and/ or barrier membranes. The most recent studies on
      animals as well as in humans showed that the placement of xenografts in fresh extraction
      sockets promoted de novo hard tissue formation, in particular in the marginal portion of the
      extraction site. Moreover, it should be considered that the dimension of hard tissue walls
      was maintained and the profile of the ridge preserved. The data concerning socket
      preservation techniques in humans are still scarce. Therefore, firm conclusions about
      dimensional changes cannot be drawn currently; in reality, socket preservation procedures may
      aid in reducing the bone dimensional changes following tooth extraction. However, they do not
      completely prevent bone resorption so that a loss in width and height may be still expected;
      even if this procedure can allows a better location for implant placement and minimize the
      need for GBR procedure simultaneously with implant placement when compared to natural healed
      sites.

      The histologic and histomorphometric evaluations showed the early phase of hard tissue
      formation were altered in extraction sockets that were grafted with a deproteinized bovine
      bone mineral immediately after tooth removal. The authors suggested that this modified wound
      healing and bone modelling may have been influenced by the presence of multinucleated cells
      that occurred in tissues harbouring the xenogenic graft. Thus, in grafted sites, substantial
      amount of newly formed bone could only be detected in the apical portion of the sockets where
      the graft material was absent. In the remaining portions of the grafted sockets a mildly
      inflamed provisional matrix surrounded the majority of bovine bone mineral particles, whose
      surface was frequently, but not always, coated with multinucleated cells. The biological
      behaviour can be explained with the type of biomaterial which is not resorbable/or slowly
      resorbable.

      Given these premises, this prospective, randomized-controlled multicenter clinical study will
      compare the dimensional healing pattern, the quality of de novo bone formation and the
      implant placement in large tooth extraction sites after grafting with two types of
      xenografts: MP3 vs. Apatos by Tecnoss- Osteobiol.

      Specific objectives:

        -  To augment fresh premolar and molar extraction sites with MP3 and Apatos;

        -  To evaluate dimensional ridge changes with MP3 and Apatos ( clinical measurements and
           volumetric evaluations with a computerized analysis of study casts);

        -  To place implants (BT EVO, Biotec, Povolaro, Italy) 3 months after grafting ( diameter,
           length, need for additional GBR procedures);

        -  To evaluate the histological aspects of bone biopsies taken at the osteotomy preparation
           sites;

        -  To follow and to monitor the implant success in treated sites for up to 24 months.

      The present study tested as first outcome the null hypothesis that there were no differences
      between the 2 biomaterials against the alternative hypothesis of a difference;

      - second long-term outcome performance of implants placed in grafted sites. .

      Statistical Analysis The sample size was calculated for the primary outcome measures (implant
      failure); it was decided to recruit 30 patients in each group.

      Data analysis was performed with descriptive statistics and independent sample t-test was
      used for comparison of mean values between groups to evaluate the significant differences
      between the two treatment groups. The Pearson Chi Square test was used to test for
      relationships between variables. A p value <0.05 was selected as the level of statistical
      significance. The estimation of the implant survival rate was based on Kaplan-Meier analysis.
      Cumulative implant survival over time was assessed using the Kaplan-Meyer analysis. The
      cumulative survival rate (CSR) is the probability that the implant will survive at least to a
      stated time within the observation period of the investigation. The failure time for each
      implant was defined as the elapsed time from placement to the date of failure. In cases where
      the terminal event was not reached, the elapsed time between implant insertion and last visit
      was assumed as the survival time. All evaluations were performed using SPSS software version
      6.1.2 for Windows.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Visit 1 Pre-surgical assessment Patients will be seen for evaluation and enrolment. Upon
      enrolment an informed consent form will be signed by the patient prior to enrolment in the
      study after which a patient study number will be assigned. Documentation of demographic,
      medical and dental conditions and pre-operative site conditions will be recorded on a
      specific case report form. Impressions will be taken to obtain an individualized template
      which will be used for clinical measurements after tooth extraction.

      VISIT 2 Tooth Extraction and Grafting Procedure All surgeries have to be performed with the
      same technique by calibrated clinicians. After dental extraction, the resulting sockets will
      be debrided and clinical measurements evaluated. The number of extracted tooth will be
      recorded on a specific case report form. Impressions will be taken to obtain study casts to
      evaluate volumetric changes of the extraction socket site with the use of a computerized
      software system.

      At completion of tooth extraction efforts, the patient's randomization card will be unmasked
      to reveal the treatment group assignment for each extraction site.

      For the purpose of this study it will be necessary to ensure the removal of all remaining
      root fragments, fibers and soft tissue from the sockets prior to placement of graft material.
      Either curettes and/or burs may be used for degranulation of extraction sockets. The
      following extraction procedure observations will be documented: methods used for tooth
      removal, need for curettage of extraction site.

      Each alveolar socket will be classified according the following classification in addition [
      Joudzbalys et al. 2008 and 2010].

      Type Classification Type I Socket The facial soft tissue an buccal plate of bone are at
      normal levels in relation to the cementoenamel junction of the pre-extracted tooth and remain
      intact postextraction Type II Socket Facial soft tissue is present but the buccal plate is
      partially missing following extraction of the tooth.

      Type III Socket The facial soft tissue and the buccal plate of bone are both markedly reduced
      after tooth extraction.

      Grafting material will handled according to manufacturer's recommendations and each
      extraction site will receive the graft type that has been assigned according to randomization
      scheme. Do not over compact. The patient's blood is the preferred hydration material for
      mixing with the graft material.

      The use of a collagen membrane is mandatory in order to ensure capture of the graft material.
      The Evolution membrane will be trimmed according the size of the defect and will be adapted
      over the bone cavity in attaching the ends underneath the adjacent soft tissue. The mucosal
      margins will be fixed in place in using "mattress sutures". Removal of sutures will take
      place ten (10) days thereafter. Information on all surgical materials used in the alveolar
      socket procedures that remain in the patient and any other ancillary procedures used to treat
      the patient will be documented in the according Case Report Form.

      Post surgical medications should be standardized for all study patients, see the above
      reported material and methods section.

      Photographs of each of the treated sites will be done to document the condition of the site.

      Preparation of a bite blocks are essential to ensure proper radiographic alignment for
      subsequent periapical radiographs ( see materials and methods section). A periapical
      radiograph will be obtained for each study alveolar socket after tooth extraction to
      determine if complete removal of the teeth has been achieved. Please provide the radiographic
      files with the patient study identification, the date, and the tooth site number. For centers
      using conventional radiographic films, only original radiographs can be used for evaluation
      and analysis. The use of duplicate original film will therefore be needed.

      VISIT 3 Healing Assessment (10 days)

      Patients will return to clinic and be examined for healing assessment and suture removal.
      Patients will be interviewed for determination of any signs or symptoms of medical events.
      Clinical assessments of the treated sites will be done as described in the Special Procedures
      section. The condition of the membrane will be documented. After suture removal the sites
      will be inspected to ensure the proper seating of the membrane and that no spillage of graft
      material is observed. All information will be documented on the specific Case Report Form.

      Visit 4 Membrane Assessment (Month 1)

      The patients will return for membrane healing assessment. The condition of the membrane will
      be documented and registered.

      Impressions will be taken to obtain study casts to evaluate volumetric changes of the
      extraction socket site with the use of a computerized software system.

      Visit 5 Implant Placement ( Month 4 )

      An evaluation of the implant sites will be done prior to the implant placement procedures. If
      any residues of the collagen membrane will be observed the findings will be documented.

      Impressions will be taken to obtain study casts to evaluate volumetric changes of the
      extraction socket site with the use of a computerized software system.

      A perioprobe will be used to measure the thickness of the mucosa at the crestal center and
      the buccal (3 mm distant from central aspect) lingual position (3 mm distant from the central
      aspect) of where the implant will be placed. These values will be recorded in millimeters.

      Mucoperiosteal flap has to be raised and clinical measurements were taken using an
      individualized template. All surgeries will be performed under clean conditions keeping the
      implant sterile throughout placement. Procedures indicated in Biotec surgical manual will be
      followed and final drilling should be performed with low speed, high torque, irrigating hand
      piece and drills.

      As part of preparing the osteotomy site, a trephine drill will be used and all bone material
      removed with the drill will be preserved for histological analysis. The length of the core
      needs to be 6 to 8 mm to be sufficient for analysis.

      The specific dimensions of the implant will be at the discretion of the investigator. The
      implant catalog and lot numbers will be documented. At completion of implant placement
      procedures record the ultimate position of the seating surface: Sup = supracrestal, Cres =
      crestal, or Sub = subcrestal. All information including the position and the size of the
      chosen implants will be documented on the appropriate Case Report Form. Moreover, the need
      for simultaneous GBR procedures should be registered.

      The final torque and use of the ratchet will be recorded along with the amount of rotation
      applied to the implant on the appropriate Case Report Form.

      A periapical radiograph will be obtained of all grafted sites (at the beginning of the visit)
      and an additional one will be taken of all study implants after the implant placement surgery
      is completed.

      Visit 6 Healing Assessment( 1 Week Post-implant Placement)

      An evaluation of the status of the implant surgical sites will be done. Scores for gingival
      inflammation, gingival and plaque indices, implant mobility, peri-implant radiolucency and
      suppuration will be recorded on appropriate Case Report Form. An evaluation of the patient's
      oral health will be done by scoring gingival and plaque indices as described in the Special
      Procedures section. The final restoration is at the discretion of the investigator and
      according to the treatment plan design within six (6) months of implant placement.

      The insertion of a temporary prosthesis will be accomplished at the investigator's
      discretion; he may also fabricate the final restoration directly. The insertion of the
      restoration will not take place before four months in the mandible and six on the maxilla
      after implant placement surgery the delivery of the final prosthesis will be completed.
      Information on prosthesis composition, insertion, outcome, anchorage and abutments used will
      be recorded on the appropriate Case Report Form.

      Visit 7, 8 and 9 Clinical Assessment (12, 18 and 24 Months)

      Follow-up evaluations will be carried out at six month intervals following implant placement
      surgery for two years. At each follow-up interval, patients will return to the clinic for
      assessment of implant and periodontal tissue. A periapical radiograph of all study implants
      will be obtained. All data gathered at these evaluations will be recorded on appropriate Case
      Report Forms. Scores for site-specific gingival inflammation, gingival and plaque indices,
      implant mobility, peri-implant radiolucency, and suppuration will be recorded on appropriate
      Case Report Form. An evaluation of the patient's oral health will be done by scoring gingival
      and plaque indices as described in the Special Procedures section.

      By the end of 6 months after implant placement surgery the delivery of the final prosthesis
      will be completed. Information on prosthesis composition, insertion, outcome, anchorage and
      abutments used will be recorded on appropriate Case Report Form.

      PROTOCOL AMENDMENTS

      Any proposed change to the protocol is to be discussed with the clinical monitor in a timely
      manner. Once both the investigators and the sponsor have accepted the changes by, a written
      addendum to the protocol or a revised protocol will be sent to the investigators for
      signature. Copies of addenda and revised protocols will be kept by both parties in their
      respective files.

      PROTOCOL DEVIATIONS AND VIOLATIONS

      Occasionally during the study, deviations from the procedures established in the protocol may
      occur. Any deviation from the protocol is reason to contact the clinical monitor without
      delay. The deviation will be documented on the Patient Status Form. Enrollment and treatment
      of patients who do not meet Admission Criteria will be considered a protocol violation.
    
  