
    
      Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common autosomal dominant, progressive disorder with an
      incidence of 1 in 3,500 of the population. NF1 is characterized by diverse, progressive
      cutaneous, neurological, skeletal and neoplastic manifestations with no standard drug
      treatment options available. Patients with NF1 have an increased risk of developing tumours
      of the central and peripheral nervous system including plexiform neurofibromas (PN) (27%) and
      optic gliomas (15-20%).

      Genetic aberrations targeting the Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling
      pathway are a hallmark molecular feature of Low Grade Gliomas (including optic pathway
      gliomas) and NF1 as well as some low-grade glial-neuronal tumours. The gene responsible for
      NF1 has been cloned and encodes a protein called neurofibromin. Loss of Neurofibromin is
      associated with elevated levels of Ras, and Activated Ras results in the initiation of a
      cascade of signalling events such as activation of Raf and MAPK that leads to increased cell
      proliferation. Thus MAPK inhibitors offer an attractive novel therapeutic option for both NF1
      related PN and optic pathway gliomas

      This study will comprise 2 phases. Phase 1 will be a dose escalation phase, designed to
      establish the correct dose of selumetinib. Phase 1 will be open to NF-1 participants, aged 3
      to ≤18 years with inoperable plexiform neurofibromas (PN). This phase of the study will
      investigate a new intermittent schedule of oral administration of selumetinib, (given twice
      daily on 5 out of every 7 days) to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and a
      recommended phase 2 dose. The starting dose level will be 25mg/m2/dose given twice daily.
      This was the MTD determined by the Paediatric Brain Tumour Consortium study of Selumetinib in
      children with NF1 related LGG and the National Cancer Institute study of children with NF1
      inoperable PN. In both of these trials selumetinib was given twice daily, every day. The
      purpose of this phase 1 study will allow the investigators to define the acute and chronic
      toxicities and pharmacokinetics (PK) of Selumetinib in this population and contribute to
      determining the effect of Selumetinib on the growth rate of PN.

      The Phase 2 part of the study will be a dose expansion study and will be open to 2 groups of
      participants. Those with progressive NF-1 related optic pathway gliomas (OPG), and those with
      NF1 related inoperable PN. This part of the study will only commence when the recommended
      phase 2 dose is established from part 1. The purpose of this part of the study is to
      determine the effectiveness of the 5 out of 7 day intermittent dosing schedule of
      Selumetinib, using response rates (and duration of response), appropriate MRI criteria and
      functional assessments (REINs criteria). The investigators plan to further evaluate the acute
      and chronic toxicities of selumetinib in this population and to assess the clinical status
      and quality of life in this population.
    
  