
    
      The aim of the study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of daratumumab added to a
      standard induction regimen of bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (VCD). A
      secondary aim is to assess the efficacy of maintenance therapy until progression using
      daratumumab in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone. Thirdly the efficacy of a
      daratumumab-containing regimen at first relapse shall be tested following a
      daratumumab-containing first line regimen.

      Rationale:

      VCD has been established as a standard of care for first line therapy of transplant-eligible
      patients in Germany. The favorable toxicity profile makes this regimen also suitable for
      transplant-ineligible patients. Daratumumab has shown to be safe and efficacious in a variety
      of combinations such as with VMP, Vd or Rd. Using a reduced dose of cyclophosphamide the
      study shall investigate safety and efficacy of Dara-VCD in the transplant-ineligible patient
      population.

      Maintenance therapy has become standard of care in transplant-eligible and non-eligible
      patients. However, there is uncertainty whether a single agent maintenance is sufficient or
      whether a combination therapy is necessary. In this study the safety and efficacy of
      maintenance with daratumumab in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone will be assessd
      with a focus on MRD negativity as a novel endpoint.

      The multitude of treatment options at first relapse has generated the need to find an optimal
      sequence of therapy regimens in first and second line. In particular it is unclear whether
      the efficacy of daratumumab at relapse is affected by its prior use as part of the first line
      treatment. Patients in this study will relapse on or after a daratumumab-containing
      maintenance and shall receive DRd at first relapse. In the POLLUX study patients received DRd
      but had no prior exposure to daratumumab. Therefore, patients included into the POLLUX study
      can serve as an indirect control cohort for the present study. If in the present study the
      PFS after DRd is similar to the PFS of the comparable cohort from the POLLUX study, the
      assumption is supported that prior exposure to daratumumab does not impair the activity of a
      subsequent daratumumab-containing regimen at relapse. In addition, the overall efficacy of
      the whole protocol treatment will be assessed by analyzing PFS2 after relapse from study
      inclusion (PFS2).
    
  