
    
      Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a molecularly heterogeneous disease with a high degree of genomic
      instability. Despite improvements in event-free survival and overall survival with the use of
      autologous stem cell transplantation and novel agents, MM remains an incurable disease (1,2).
      The best induction protocol to eligible patients was not established. Combination of three
      drugs demonstrated better outcomes than two drugs combo. Nevertheless, until now four drugs
      combo did not prove gain against three drugs One of the three drugs protocol studied as
      induction was CTD scheme (cyclophosphamide+ thalidomide+dexamethasone) (3). This is an
      induction protocol commonly used in Brazil , with largely access in the brazilian public
      health system. Several new molecules have been developed in an attempt to improve treatment.
      One of these new treatment is an anti CD38 (Daratumumab). This potential target is present on
      plasma cells. The CD38 is a transmembrane glycoprotein recognized by combining several
      functions including adhesion, receptor and enzymatic function. (4-6) The expression of CD38
      is finely regulated during ontogenesis of B cells and is expressed by progenitors and early
      stages hematopoietic cells with loss during maturation and only re- expressed during cellular
      activation .(4) With the information derived from tissue distribution and from pioneer
      experience in vitro indicates that very early precursors of the hematopoietic stem cells do
      not express CD38.(7) Despite the description of CD38 on progenitor cells, there was no
      myelosuppressive effect observed in studies to date. Apart from immune cells, the molecule
      CD38 has also been found in the brain, pancreatic acinar cells, smooth muscle and osteoclasts
      although expression in these tissues is in the cytosol or nucleus rather than the cell
      membrane. (8). Daratumumab has shown a strong signal in preclinical modeling with
      broad-spectrum killing activity through complement-mediated cytotoxicity (CDC),
      antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), and ADC phagocytosis . (9) Daratumumab
      was first evaluated clinically in a phase I trial involving patients with relapsed/refractory
      multiple myeloma (10). In combination with others agents (lenalidomide + dexamethasone)
      preliminary analysis involving 20 patients, the rate of partial response or better was 75%
      with 3 patients achieving complete response and 6 patients a very good partial response
      (VGPR). The most common adverse reactions were infusion- related events (IREs) such as fever,
      cough, nausea, dizziness, and bronchospasm. A total of 9% occurred during predosing and 26%
      during the first full infusion with a gradual decrease with subsequent infusions. The onset
      of IREs was within 3-4 hours of infusion. Prophylactic steroids were administered to reduce
      the incidence of IREs (up to a maximum dose equivalent of 27 mg of dexamethasone per week).
      There were six serious adverse events (SAEs) related to daratumumab. Treatment-related
      adverse events included anemia, thrombocytopenia, and infusion reactions. All patients
      recovered from their SAEs with treatment and the maximum tolerated dose has not yet been
      reached. There was a dose-dependent decrease in peripheral-blood NK cells that was noted,
      with full recovery after treatment (11). Daratumumab has a novel mechanism of action that
      results in enhanced activity in combination with existing standards of care, including
      first-generation novel agents, such as thalidomide, as well as other therapeutics.
      Considerable responses have been observed in a cohort of heavily pretreated patients with
      relapsed/refractory MM. (12) However, in order to harness the full potential of the
      antimyeloma effect of daratumumab, the identification of synergistic drug combinations that
      target various mechanisms to overcome drug resistance will be vital. The potential role of
      cytotoxicity induced by the anti-CD38 antibody and the activation of effector cells with the
      immunomodulatory drugs could make this a very attractive antimyeloma combination therapy.
      Thalidomide, an oral immunomodulatory drug (IMID), has revolutionized clinical management of
      patients with MM with responses rates of 30% at relapse (alone) and higher rates at first
      line and at relapse when in combinations (50-65%) . The mechanism of action of thalidomide in
      myeloma cells remains under investigation. Thalidomide was found to potently inhibit the
      proliferation of endothelial cells and angiogenesis.

      Thalidomide has direct cytotoxic effects on myeloma cells lines. In addition to its direct
      effect, IMIDs appear to modulate the bone marrow microenvironment. They can inhibit the up
      regulation of IL-6, necrose factor-α production and Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
      (VEGF). It has a direct effect on the T-lymphocytes stimulating cytotoxic T cell
      proliferation, and induction of secretion of interferon γ and IL-2. The authors mentioned
      that as thalidomide does not show haematological toxicity, it may be used in advance disease
      when the platelet count is low . Thalidomide and the iMIDs have been used in combination with
      other chemotherapeutic agents with known and investigational activity in myeloma in several
      clinical trials. In vitro studies have suggested synergy between these agents and
      dexamethasone. The use of a treatment combination with monoclonal antibody associated with
      immunomodulator (in a four drug combo) can lead to a improvement in response rates and in
      survival, reflects on a better free time interval. Another interesting point is the use of
      Daratumumab intensified during consolidation and maintenance.

      This trial will represent a new option of treatment with a combination of anti CD38
      monoclonal antibody (Daratumumab) as induction regimen with CTD protocol (four drug
      combination). And It use as consolidation and maintenance to give better immunomodulatory
      response and extended survival and disease control.
    
  