
    
      Aminoglycosides are one of the mainstays of antibiotic therapy in CF. They are administered
      parenterally in synergistic combinations with β-lactam antibiotics for acute exacerbations
      and used by inhalation as single agents for chronic maintenance therapy. It is well known in
      CF and other chronic infections that chronic use of antibiotics results in resistance. Thus,
      the increasing use of aminoglycosides could have dramatically changed the microbiological
      epidemiology of CF, since it was last examined a decade ago. It will be important to
      determine the current prevalence of antibiotic resistance in CF pathogens. Current
      antimicrobial strategies may also be contributing to the increased rate of isolation of novel
      and difficult to treat organisms, including intrinsically antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
      These issues are important both for CF clinicians and for researchers developing new
      antimicrobials to be used in CF.

      To determine if the prevalence of P. aeruginosa resistance and the prevalence of other CF
      pathogens has changed over the past ten years, this multi-center cross-sectional study will
      enroll a contemporary cohort of patients with CF and will compare their sputum microbiology
      and susceptibility data with corresponding baseline data from an historical cohort consisting
      of patients enrolled in the prior phase 3 trials of inhaled tobramycin, conducted by
      PathoGenesis Corporation. (A Phase III Placebo Controlled Clinical Trial (PC-TNDS-002) to
      Study the Safety and Efficacy of Tobramycin in Inhalation in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis).
      The data set from the phase 3 trials which will be used for this research project will be
      anonymous.

      This current study will be coordinated by the CF research team at CHRMC and aims to enroll
      520 patients at approximately 50 participating sites across the United States. The
      contemporary cohort will include patients with CF who are ages 6 years and older and able to
      expectorate sputum. Patients will be enrolled from many of the same CF centers that
      participated in the phase 3 trials of inhaled tobramycin, and eligibility criteria will be
      similar to those used in the phase 3 trials. Subjects enrolled in the contemporary cohort
      will have a single study visit to obtain a sputum sample that will be sent to a central
      laboratory for culture and susceptibility testing.
    
  