
    
      Past research has shown that HIV-uninfected men who receive counseling regarding high-risk
      sexual behavior are less likely to engage in such behavior with other men. The rising rates
      of HIV infection among gay men suggest that some HIV-infected men are still engaging in
      high-risk sexual activity. There are several existing counseling interventions that focus on
      reducing high-risk sexual behavior, but the need exists for an intervention specifically
      targeted to HIV-infected men. This study will focus on the development of a specialized
      counseling intervention to help HIV-infected men identify and re-evaluate their
      "self-justifications," which are their thoughts, attitudes, and beliefs when deciding to
      engage in high-risk sexual activity with other men. In turn, this counseling may decrease the
      incidence of high-risk sexual behaviors, thereby reducing HIV infection rates among gay men.
      This study will evaluate the effectiveness of the specialized counseling intervention versus
      a standard risk-reduction counseling intervention in promoting safer sexual activity among
      HIV-infected men.

      This study will consist of two phases. In Year 1, interviews will be conducted with 30
      HIV-infected men who have engaged in high-risk unprotected sex within the previous 12 months
      with HIV-uninfected partners or partners with an unknown HIV status. The data resulting from
      these interviews will aid in the development of a specialized counseling intervention that is
      specifically geared for HIV-infected men. In Years 2 through 4, approximately 400
      HIV-infected men will be randomly assigned to receive either the specialized counseling
      intervention or a standard counseling intervention. All participants will attend two
      counseling sessions: the first will occur at study entry and the second will occur 6 months
      later. Outcome measurements will be assessed at the second counseling session and again 6
      months later, and will include self-reports of unprotected sex and laboratory testing for the
      presence of sexually transmitted diseases.
    
  