
    
      There is a need for better visualization of presence and extent of breast cancer to improve
      breast cancer management. Molecular imaging of breast cancer associated targets is a
      promising method to improve visualization. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has
      proven to be a valid target for molecular imaging with radioactive labeled tracers. However
      in view of radiation safety, infrastructure, costs and stability, fluorescent labeling of
      bevacizumab (a VEGF targeting humanized monoclonal antibody) has potential advantages over
      radioactive labeling. Therefore recently the near-infrared fluorescent tracer
      bevacizumab-IRDye 800CW has been developed. In mice the fluorescent signal was clearly
      present in tumor tissue and could be visualized intra-operatively. The tracer was also
      approved for administration to patients in a microdose (tracer dose).

      In this prospective multicenter feasibility study the new tracer bevacizumab-IRDye 800CW will
      be administered to a maximum of 30 patients with proven breast cancer 3 days before surgery.
      Part of the surgical specimen will after surgery extensively be investigated by macroscopy
      and microscopy to determine the uptake of the tracer in tumor tissue, surrounding normal
      tissue and lymph nodes. To detect the tracer before surgery, two different pre-operative
      imaging methods are used: MSOT (in the UMCG en FDOT in the UMCU. During surgery the
      intra-operative MFRI camera is available at both centers to detect the fluorescent signal.

      The study consists of a total of five study procedure related patient visits.

        1. During a screening visit, eligibility will be evaluated and patient characteristics will
           be collected.

        2. During the administration visit, 3 days before surgery, 4.5 mg of bevacizumab-IRDye
           800CW will be administered intravenously, followed by 4 hours observation. Also before
           and 4 hours after tracer injection pre-operative optical imaging will take place (in the
           UMC Groningen, the hand-held MSOT system will be used and in the UMC Utrecht, the FDOT
           system will be used) and blood samples are taken.

        3. A third visit, approximately 36 hours after tracer administration, another pre-operative
           optical imaging procedure will take place.

        4. At the day of surgery, first a blood sample will be taken and the last pre-operative
           optical imaging procedure will take place, followed by standard surgery. During surgery,
           the MFRI camera will be used to detect a fluorescent signal before and after incision an
           after removal of the tumor. Part of the surgical specimen will after surgery extensively
           be investigated by macroscopy and microscopy to determine the uptake of the tracer in
           tumor tissue, surrounding normal tissue and lymph nodes.

        5. At an outpatient visit (approximately 10 days after surgery) (visit 5), the last blood
           sample will be taken.
    
  