
    
      As much as $17 billion could be saved annually by identifying patients at risk for hospital
      readmission, and better supporting them during their "transitions" home. However, current
      interventions aiming to decrease readmissions are limited by the fact that the most
      frequently used risk models relying on clinical and administrative data fail to identify a
      significant number of patients readmitted. A potential reason for the limited power of models
      seeking to identify those at risk for readmission is that they fail to incorporate
      patientcentered factors associated with health outcomes. Research continues to document how
      social needs (e.g. food and housing insecurity) and supportive resources (e.g. instrumental
      social support) play important roles in health outcomes. Yet, while admissions assessment of
      social needs and supportive resources is required for JCAHO and CMS, our previous research
      identified that 1) conducting an assessment of patients' supportive resources (i.e.
      instrumental social support) reveals information important to discharge planning (e.g.,
      living alone, poor relationships with providers) otherwise unknown by inpatient teams; 2)
      lack of agreement between patients and nurses regarding readiness for hospital discharge
      (personal status, knowledge, coping ability, and expected support) is associated with patient
      coping difficulties and readmissions; and 3) even in systems with dedicated discharge
      planners (e.g., RN case managers, LCSWs), health team members involved in discharge planning
      and education are frequently unaware of patients' social needs and supportive resources.
      These findings suggest that facilitating communication between patients, family members, and
      inpatient health care providers regarding patients' social needs and supportive resources
      will improve patient outcomes (e.g., readiness for hospital discharge, readmissions).
      However, we do not yet understand whether or how patients' social needs and supportive
      resources inform clinical decision-making, and there are concerns about incorporating such
      assessments into routine care without sufficient understanding of its impact on patients.
      Therefore, the objective of this study is to provide inpatient health care teams with
      information about patients' social needs and supportive resources, evaluating whether it
      facilitates clinical decision-making, impacts readiness for hospital discharge and,
      ultimately, reduces hospital readmission. We will use a pre-post design, with a segmented
      regression (interrupted time series) analytic approach, to test the effect of communicating
      results of a SocNSuppR assessment to medical and surgical inpatient teams during routine
      discharge planning rounds, or the NEEDS intervention. The hypothesis is the incorporation of
      patients' SocNSuppR information into inpatient care will result in higher and more congruent
      readiness for hospital discharge ratings (between patients, family caregivers, and members of
      the health care team) compared to patients without SocNSuppR assessment and communication.
      The study's specific aims are:

      Specific Aim 1. To test the effect of the NEEDS intervention (assessing patients' SocNSuppR
      and communicating SocNSuppR to discharge teams) on patient- family caregiver- nurse-
      provider- outcomes.

      We will compare the following pre and post intervention: (1a) patient-reported readiness for
      hospital discharge (primary outcome) and post-discharge coping difficulty (secondary
      outcome), (1b) degree of congruence among readiness for hospital discharge ratings (among
      patients, families, caregivers, nurses, and providers), and (1c) 7- and 30-day readmission
      rates.

      Specific Aim 2. To test the effect of the NEEDS intervention on discharge planning processes.

      We will (2a) track changes in discharge plans based on SocNSuppR qualitatively through
      clinical documentation, and (2b) compare documentation of designated caregiver teaching,
      discharges before 11am, discharges before 2pm, time from discharge order to discharge, and
      HCAHPS scores.

      Specific Aim 3. To examine patient and provider experiences of the NEEDS intervention.

      We will qualitatively examine patient- caregiver- and provider-reported barriers,
      facilitators and recommendations for clinical adoption of the NEEDS protocol (SocNSuppR
      assessment and communication).
    
  