
    
      Mechanical ventilation is frequently used in the operating room and the intensive care
      settings. Although essential in many cases, mechanical ventilation can be responsible for
      ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI). The relationship between mechanical ventilation and
      VILI has been clearly demonstrated in animals and is highly suspected in humans. The putative
      mechanism responsible for VILI is excessive pulmonary strain or overdistension. Frequently
      observed in mechanically ventilated patients, the presence of a severe pre-existing pulmonary
      disease can increase the risk of overdistension. The development of a tool allowing early
      detection of pulmonary overdistension would represent a great asset in the prevention of VILI
      by allowing safer adjustments of mechanical ventilation parameters. Ultrasonographic imaging
      is a non-radiant, non-invasive technique already available in the intensive care setting.
      Already used for cardiac strain measurements, ultrasonography is a promising avenue to assess
      pulmonary strain.

      This pilot study will aim to assess the feasibility of the measurement of local pleural
      strain in 4 predetermined pulmonary areas using ultrasonographic imaging.

      Following the induction of general anesthesia and the patient's intubation, 4 different tidal
      volumes of 6 ml/kg, 8ml/kg, 10 ml/kg and 12 ml/kg will be studied. For each volume, images of
      the pleura will be made at 4 predetermined areas. The sites to be studied will be: the 4th
      intercostal space at the mid-clavicular line (left and right side), the 7th intercostal space
      at the posterior axillary line (left and right side). For each tidal volume, 3 consecutive
      respiratory cycles at each site will be recorded for subsequent analysis.

      To assess intra- and inter-observer variability, for the 10 ml/kg tidal volume only, the
      examination will be immediately repeated by a second observer at the 4 predetermined sites.
      The first observer will also return to repeat the examination at the same sites.

      Mechanical ventilation parameters will be standardized throughout the study as follows:
      volume-controlled ventilation, respiratory rate at 12 breaths per minute adjusted to obtain
      expired carbon dioxide (CO2) between 30 and 40 mm Hg, initial inspired oxygen fraction of 40%
      adjusted between 40% and 80% to obtain oxygen saturation ≥ 92% and positive end-expiratory
      pressure at 6 cm H2O. In the event of a desaturation (saturation inferior to 90%) despite an
      increase in inspired oxygen fraction, the study will be stopped and adjustments of mechanical
      ventilation parameters will be left to the attending anesthesiologist's discretion.

      Lung ultrasonography will be performed by the principal investigator and a co-investigator
      using a Terason (Teratech Corporation, Burlington, MA) device and a 12L5 linear ultrasound
      probe. For each image, the probe will be oriented perpendicularly to the ribs and pleura with
      the pointer towards the participant's head. Depth will be adjusted in order to have the
      pleural line in the center of the screen. The beam's focal zone will be positioned at the
      level of the pleural line. A 12 megahertz (MHz) frequency will be used.

      Using a reference ultrasonographic image, an experienced lung ultrasonographer will segment
      the pleura. From this image, an algorithm will define a region of interest which will be
      followed throughout the rest of the images of the video sequence. Thereafter, the algorithm
      will calculate the various components of pulmonary strain in relation to tidal volume. An
      experienced technician will visually validate the speckle-tracking.
    
  