
    
      Study Drug Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of vorinostat and either sirolimus, everolimus, or temsirolimus based on when you
      joined this study. Up to 9 dose levels of sirolimus and vorinostat will be tested. Up to 3
      dose levels of everolimus and vorinostat will be tested. Up to 3 dose levels of temsirolimus
      and vorinostat will be tested. Three (3) to 9 participants will be enrolled at each dose
      level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of the study drug
      combination. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no
      intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of
      the combination vorinostat and sirolimus, everolimus, or temsirolimus is found.

      Once the highest tolerated dose of the combinations are found, up to 14 participants with the
      tumor type that is most likely to respond to the study drug combinations will receive the
      study drugs at that dose level.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study "cycle" is 28 days.

      There are 3 arms in this study, Arm A, Arm B, and Arm C. You will be assigned to an arm
      depending on when you enroll in the study and what your doctor thinks you will benefit from.
      You will take vorinostat either with sirolimus (Arm A), with everolimus (Arm B), or with
      temsirolimus (Arm C).

      Everyday, you will take sirolimus by mouth 1 time a day. You should take it at about the same
      time each day with food and a cup (8 ounces) of water.

      If you are in Arm A, on Day 7 of Cycle 1, you will start taking vorinostat by mouth 1 time a
      day. You should take it at about the same time each day with food and a cup (8 ounces) of
      water.

      If your are in Arm B, you will take everolimus by mouth at the same time every day with or
      without food, swallowed whole with a glass (8 ounces) of water. Do not chew, break, or crush
      everolimus.

      If you are in Arm C, you will receive temsirolimus by vein over 30-60 minutes on Days 1, 8,
      15, and 22 of each cycle. You will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side
      effects. You may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their
      risks.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, you will be asked about any current health conditions you have, drugs
      you may be taking, and if you have had any side effects.

      About Days 8 and 22 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      If you are enrolled in Arm B and have Hodgkin lymphoma, on Days 8 and 28 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a needle tumor biopsy. This biopsy will be used for DNA testing and to
           check for a response to the study drugs, as described above in the "Screening Tests"
           section.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      About Day 15 of Cycle 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About Day 22 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

      You will have a physical exam. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every 4 weeks, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) drawn or urine collected for a
      pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.

      Every 8 weeks, you will have an x-ray, CT scan, MRI, and/or PET/CT to check the status of the
      disease. If the study doctor thinks it is needed, they will be performed more often.

      If you are enrolled in Arm B and have Hodgkin lymphoma, at any point that the disease appears
      to get worse:

        -  You will have a needle tumor biopsy. This biopsy will be used for DNA testing and to
           check for a response to the study drugs, as described above in the "Screening Tests"
           section.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken
      off study if you experience intolerable side effects, the study doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest, or the disease gets worse.
    
  