
    
      Subjects will be screened in the ambulance based on the information available; those
      fulfilling the eligibility criteria who have provided verbal witnessed/short written informed
      consent will be randomized and enrolled in the study. Following a single weight-based dose of
      subcutaneous study drug by the ambulance staff, the patient will be transferred to the
      clinical site PCI center for angiography and intervention.

      Regular standard of care is performed from the provision of informed consent through the last
      study mandated subject visit. Concomitant medications will be recorded. Treatment with IV
      P2Y12 antagonists or other αIIbβ3 receptor before PCI/angiography is prohibited.
      Demographics, concomitant medications, vital signs, and medical history will be collected in
      the CRF. Adverse events, bleeding events and injection site reactions will be collected.
      Angiography and PCI details will be recorded. Full written informed consent will be obtained.
      Additional blood samples for safety will be collected at 1, 6, 24 and 72 hours (or hospital
      discharge) post-PCI/angiography. Blood samples for high-sensitive cardiac troponin T (upon
      arrival and 24 hours post PCI/angiography) and NT-ProBNP (24 hours post PCI/angiography) will
      be assessed by central laboratory. Follow up phone contacts will occur at 1 month to report
      AEs, bleeding events, and injection site reactions, and 12-months to record mortality, and
      hospitalizations for heart failure or atrial fibrillation.

      Angiography/PCI data and ECGs will be evaluated at independent Core Laboratories. An
      independent, blinded Clinical Events Committee will provide central adjudication of all
      clinical endpoint events. A DSMB will examine the safety data in an ongoing manner and to
      alert the Steering Committee in case of clinically concerning safety issues that should lead
      to consideration of altering the trial, and can recommend modification of the study protocol
      based on pre-specified rules.

      The duration of participation for each subject will be 12 months (± 1 month), including
      enrollment, study drug administration, hospitalization, and phone contact follow-up at 1 and
      12 months.
    
  