
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, single-centre clinical study. Serum Vit D level will be
      assessed in all patients at baseline. Patients with Vit D level ≥30 will be excluded from the
      trial but included in the study and those with Vit D level <30 will be randomized into 3
      groups A, B and C. Patients with Vit D level ≥30 will be categorized into Group D. Patients
      belonging to Group A will be treated with low dose Vit D (2000 IU/day) according to Indian
      council of medical research (ICMR) guidelines. Those in Group B will be treated with high
      dose Vit D (60,000 IU/week) and group C will not be given any Vit D supplements. Patients
      belonging to Group A and B will be treated for 12 weeks in order to safely restore Vit D and
      achieve a steady state. In addition levocetirizine, 10 mg will be given to all patients in
      groups to control urticaria symptoms. All patients will be treated according to
      EAACI/GA2LEN/EDF guidelines after 12 weeks. All participants will also be provided with
      rescue prednisone use for intolerable or uncontrolled symptoms. At 6 weeks and 12 weeks, a
      physician assessment (physician blinded to treatment arm) will be conducted to check if
      patients had intolerable symptoms or took rescue prednisolone 40 mg therapy. Safety
      monitoring will be completed throughout the entirety of the study. Specific stopping rules
      and discontinuation of the study included pregnancy, a serum Vit D level higher than 100
      ng/mL, or a serum calcium level higher than 11 mg/dL. Patients will be followed for 6 weeks
      after the study completion and thereafter data analysis will be done in 3 steps:

      Step 1: Comparison of serum Vit D level in CSU patients vs. controls Step 2 : Assessment of
      factors associated with Vit D deficiency in urticaria patients Step 3: Effect of Vit D
      supplementation (group A (low dose), group B (high dose), group C(no supplementation) on
      urticaria severity using UAS4
    
  