
    
      Reading is a uniquely human endeavor and failure to develop this skill can lead to serious
      educational and emotional consequences. Reading more slowly or less accurately, as is the
      case in developmental dyslexia, occurs in between 5% and 15% of individuals in the United
      States. Developmental dyslexia significantly interferes with academic achievement and with
      activities of daily living that require reading skills. Although dyslexia is considered a
      reading disorder, dyslexia's clinical signs are varied and include deficits in the sensory
      domain, abnormal phonological awareness, and problems in related linguistic skills.
      Phonological awareness training and visual perceptual training can improve reading ability in
      children with dyslexia. Recent functional imaging studies on sensory and language processing
      in dyslexia have demonstrated involvement of the posterior temporal and inferior parietal
      cortical systems of the brain. However, how these brain areas are changed as a result of
      dyslexia treatment has not been determined.

      This study will investigate the neurophysiologic changes before and after treatment in 11- to
      14-year-old children immersed in Lindamood-Bell training utilizing either phonological (LiPS)
      or visual (Seeing Stars) strategies. These training programs have successful behavioral
      outcomes, but neurophysiologic changes have not been evaluated. The study will determine
      whether behavioral changes in reading skills result in physiological differences in the brain
      identifiable with functional brain imaging and whether initial physiological observations are
      indicative of the degree of success of the intervention.

      Participant will be randomized to receive either Lindamood-Bell training, a math intervention
      (active control), or no intervention (passive control). The intervention will last 6 weeks;
      children will have both pre- and post-intervention behavioral testing and fMRI scans.
    
  