
    
      This is a prospective, phase II/III, randomized clinical study to compare the efficacy and
      safety of BEGEDINA® (Begelomab) versus "conventional treatment" for treating
      steroid-resistant acute graft versus host disease (GvHD). Despite prophylactic treatment,
      GvHD still develops in up to 30% of allogeneic hemopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT)
      recipients. GvHD is a life-threatening and complex immunological disease that may be acute or
      chronic. Acute GvHD affects mainly the skin, liver and gastrointestinal (GI) tissues with
      long-term survival directly related to the severity of skin, liver and gut involvement. First
      line treatment for patients with acute GvHD (Grade II or higher) is the immunosuppressive
      corticosteroid methylprednisolone. Although effective in over 50% of patients, durable
      responses are observed in only a third of patients and it also confers a risk of severe
      infection. Steroid-resistant acute GvHD is associated with a high rate of morbidity and
      mortality, primarily from infections and/or multi-organ failure. Despite this, there are no
      authorized treatments for non-responders and GvHD remains largely an untreatable disease with
      limited survival and thus a great unmet therapeutic need. BEGEDINA® (Begelomab) is a murine
      immunoglobulin G (IgG) 2b monoclonal antibody against CD26 (dipeptidyl peptidase-4; DPP4) and
      is produced by biotechnological means and is a new potential therapeutic approach. BEGEDINA®
      has been shown to bind to CD26 which is present on a subset of CD4+ T helper lymphocytes
      leading to down-regulation of CD26 signaling and inhibition of immune response and thus
      therapeutic improvements. BEGEDINA has been investigated in two completed clinical studies: a
      pilot study and a dose-finding study and so far showing promising efficacy, safety and
      tolerability.

      The primary objective for this study is therefore to determine the efficacy of BEGEDINA®
      versus conventional therapy in steroid-resistant acute GvHD. To satisfy this objective, two
      co primary hypothesis will be tested. The first is that the overall response rate consisting
      of the Complete Responders and the Partial Responders (CR+PR) at Study Day 28 will be higher
      in the BEGEDINA® treated subjects. The second is that the incidence of transplant-related
      mortality (TRM) at 6 months will be reduced in those subjects treated with BEGEDINA® versus
      those treated with conventional therapy. Additional secondary efficacy endpoints will also be
      assessed as a measure of effectiveness. In addition, some pharmacokinetics assessments will
      be performed. Adverse events (AEs) will be coded using MedDRA and the frequency, causality
      and intensity of AEs will be compared to conventional therapies. Further safety analysis will
      also include laboratory findings, vital signs, immunogenicity and other assessments. Finally,
      some exploratory analysis will also be performed.

      This will be a prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label, phase II/III clinical study
      in which subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive BEGEDINA® treatment or
      the best conventional treatment available in their territory as no second line therapy is
      currently approved. It is planned to enroll 184 male or female adult subjects with an upper
      age limit of 65 years with steroid-resistant acute GvHD. BEGEDINA® will be administered at a
      dose of 2.7 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days from Study Day 1 through to Study Day 5, and on
      Study Days 10, 14, 17, 21, 24, and 28. Thus, the expected duration for each subject will be
      approximately 12 months. The final statistical analysis plan (SAP) will be finalized prior to
      database lock. Baseline characteristics of the subject sample will be described using summary
      statistics. All statistical tests will be conducted at a 2-sided significance level of 5%
      unless specifically specified. Multiple Imputation methods will be used as the primary method
      for accounting for missing data.
    
  