
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA)50 response rate (i.e., percent of patients
      with a PSA decline of at least 50% below baseline) following 12-weeks of treatment with
      bipolar androgen therapy (BAT) plus olaparib in men with asymptomatic metastatic
      castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) who have progressed on abiraterone and/or
      enzalutamide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the percent of mCRPC patients achieving a radiographic response per Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria following treatment with BAT plus
      olaparib.

      II. Determine the radiographic progression free survival (PFS) in mCRPC patients treated with
      BAT plus olaparib using RECIST 1.1 criteria for soft tissue metastases and Prostate Cancer
      Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria for bone metastases.

      III. Determine the PSA PFS rate according to PCWG3 criteria in mCRPC patients treated with
      BAT plus olaparib.

      IV. Determine the PFS (i.e. whichever occurs first: clinical, radiographic or PSA
      progression) in mCRPC patients treated with BAT plus olaparib.

      V. Determine the overall survival in mCRPC patients treated with BAT plus olaparib.

      VI. Track changes in quality of life (QoL) as determined using the Functional Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy -Prostate (FACT-P) and International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF)
      surveys.

      VII. Assess the incidence and severity of adverse events according to the National Cancer
      Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate for differences in response and PFS in patients with/without mutations in genes
      involved in homologous recombination.

      II. Determine intratumoral androgen levels using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
      (LC/MS).

      III. Assess for evidence of double stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (dsDNA) breaks using
      gamma-H2AX immunostaining on circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and metastatic tissue.

      IV. Assess androgen receptor (AR) and AR splice variant (AR-V) transcript expression levels
      using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) on CTCs.

      V. Assess androgen receptor (AR) and AR splice variant (AR-V) protein expression levels using
      immunostaining on circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and metastatic tissue.

      VI. Sequence tumor DNA (cell-free circulating tumor DNA [ctDNA] and/or metastatic tissue).

      VII. Conduct transcript profiling studies on CTCs (multiplexed qRT-PCR) and metastatic tissue
      (ribonucleic acid sequencing [RNA-seq]).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and testosterone
      enanthate or cypionate intramuscularly (IM) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of the study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 6
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  