
    
      Research Procedures

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease

        -  Must be able to swallow tablets

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Insulin dependent diabetes

        -  Thyroid disease

      Potential female participants, ages 47 to 63, will contact the PI via e-mail or phone to
      express interest. The PI will recite a verbal script over the phone or via email.
      Participants who qualify will make appointments with the researchers in Exercise and Sports
      Nutrition Clinic in the Institute for Women's Health, HDB 011, on the Texas Woman's
      University Denton campus to ask any questions and sign the informed consent. Once the
      questions are answered and informed consent is signed, participants will complete the
      following questionnaires:

      Demographic information questionnaire. This identifies and characterizes each participant
      (Appendix C).

      Health history questionnaire. The purpose of the health history questionnaire is to verify
      the #6) medical history and physical fitness level of the participant (Appendix D).
      Participants with a history of any type of diseases such as diabetes (requiring or not
      requiring insulin) that will cause interfere with this research study will be screened out.

      Diet history questionnaire (DHQ). This questionnaire lists the participants' other sources of
      phytochemicals and evaluate nutrient intake (Appendix E).

      Three-day dietary intake. This self-administered assessment is used to record intake of fruit
      and vegetables, describing the amount, time, and effect of grape powder/placebo consumption 3
      days per week, including 2 weekdays and one weekend day each week, for 12 weeks (Appendix F).

      Body Composition Assessment Body composition measurements will be taken to assess the
      participant's percentage of fat and lean tissue. The height (to the nearest 0.1 cm) and
      weight (to the nearest 0.1 kg) of participants will be measured with a floor-standing
      Perspective Enterprises stadiometer and a calibrated electronic scale (Tanita scale),
      respectively, in Exercise and Sport Nutrition Clinic (HDB 011). In addition, waist
      circumference will be measured. The waist-to-hip ratio at the minimal waist and maximal hip
      locations will be measured with a Lufkin (W606PM) steel measuring tape (cm). The height (m)
      and weight (kg) will be used to measure the participant's body mass index (BMI = weight
      (kg)/height2 (m2)). The participants will be randomized by Body Mass Index (BMI) into two
      equal groups. Each group will have 20 participants. One group will receive the grape powder
      supplement and the second group will receive a placebo.

      Participants will undergo a dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan (model DPX-IQ, Lunar
      Prodigy Advance, PA +302666, GE Medical Systems Pewaukee, WI) in Institute for Women's Health
      biochemistry lab (HDB 017). A researcher will measure total bone mineral density, percentages
      of fat and lean body mass and regional values of the android or gynoid regions. Participants
      will wear street clothing free of any metal and plastic. While undergoing the DXA scan,
      participants will remain #10)motionless in the supine position. The personal data's for all
      the body composition measurement will be collected by the PI.

      Blood Draw Participants will be asked to provide fasting blood samples before the beginning
      of the research period. Twenty five mLs of blood will be obtained in Institute for Women's
      Health biochemistry lab (HDB 017) by a phlebotomist, who will insert a needle into a vein in
      the participant's arm. The blood will be collected in a small tube and the serum frozen for
      later analyses.

      Grape and Placebo Powder Supplement One group (treatment group) of 20 participants will
      receive grape powder (GP) supplement while the other group (placebo control group) of 20
      participants will receive placebo powder (P) supplement. The grape powder is equivalent to 2
      servings of fresh grapes/day. The placebo is composed of table sugar and will be similar in
      appearance and energy content to the grape powder. The intake of both groups will be 46 g/day
      of grape powder (GP) or placebo powder (P) for 12 weeks in a double blinded manner. The grape
      powder or placebo will be added to water and consumed as a beverage.

      On a weekly basis, participants will be contacted via telephone or e-mail to discuss with or
      participate in question-and-answer sessions with the researchers about the effect of the
      grape powder supplement or any matter regarding the research progress. Participants will
      self-report physical activity levels each week for 12 weeks. Also, a diet record of 3 days,
      including 2 weekdays and one weekend day, will be self-recorded by the participant each week
      for 12 weeks.

      Every two weeks, participants will complete a taste questionnaire for detailed feedback on
      participants' opinions on the grape powder supplement or placebo (Appendix G).

      Repeat Analyses:

      Body composition assessments. These procedure previously discussed will be repeated in
      Exercise and Sport Nutrition Clinic (HDB 011) at the end of 12 weeks.

      Blood draw. A phlebotomist will take 25 ml of blood at the end of the 12-week research period
      in Institute for Women's Health biochemistry lab (HDB 017) for analyses of bone serum
      biomarkers.
    
  