
    
      After written informed consent obtained from patients, patients will be randomly assigned to
      placebo group (Group I) and block group (group II) using sealed envelope method. IV venous
      catheter will be inserted and saline or Ringer's Lactate solution will be infused to patients
      for prehydration.0.1-0.5 mg/kg midazolam will be given for premedication. After arriving into
      OR, the patients will be monitored with ECG, pulse oximetry and noninvasive blood pressure.
      Anesthesia will be induced using 2-2,5 mg/kg propofol, 1-2 mcg/kg fentanyl, 10 mg-20 mg
      rocuronium, and a proper size laryngeal mask airway (LMA) will be placed to secure the
      airway. The lungs will be ventilated with a mixture of 50% air + 50% oxygen. Propofol and
      remifentanil based total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) technique will be used for the
      maintenance of anesthesia. Tenoxicam 20 mg will be used for preemptive analgesia, cefazolin
      25 mg/kg for antibiotic prophylaxis, ranitidine 50 mg for gastric protection, and
      metoclopramide 10 mg for postoperative nausea and vomiting. Acetaminophen 10-15 mg/kg IV will
      be given for postoperative analgesia at the time of wound closure.

      At the end of the operation, an ankle nerve block will be performed in group II patient using
      a mixture of 2%lidocaine and 10 ml of bupivacaine and the same amount placebo in group I
      (placebo group) under the guidance of peripheral nerve stimulator. The anesthesia will be
      discontinued and LMA will be removed. The patients will be transferred from postoperative
      care unit to the ward after they were eligible for discharge according to modified Aldrete
      scoring system.

      Postoperative analgesia will be evaluated by a study member who is blinded to study groups
      using visual analog scale (VAS). Acetaminophen 1000 mg p.o. were given at 8 hours intervals
      and an intravenous patient-controlled analgesia containing 3 mg/ml of tramadol will be used
      for postoperative pain therapy. Pethidine 0.5 mg/kg IV will be used for rescue analgesic if
      VAS score is greater than 3.

      The motor block will be evaluated using Bromage scale, sensorial block with pin-prick test.
      The duration of motor and sensorial block, postoperative VAS scores, the time to the first
      analgesic requirement, total analgesic consumption and vital parameters will be recorded.
      Patient's satisfaction will be evaluated using 3 point scale between the scores 0 and 2. 0=
      poor 1= fair 2=satisfied Postoperative discharge times will be recorded.
    
  