
    
      Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most frequent neoplasm worldwide and also
      represents the main cause of cancer death. However, it represents the main cause of death by
      cancer. The prognosis of survival at 5 years is poor, approximately 13-15%.

      The timely detection of NSCLC is difficult and the options for curative treatment are limited
      since the majority of patients are diagnosed in advanced stages. The standard treatment in
      metastatic disease is cytotoxic chemotherapy with platins (cisplatin or carboplatin) in
      combination with a third generation drug (vinorelbine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, gemcitabine or
      pemetrexed). This therapeutic scheme results in response rates between 20-30%, with a mean
      overall survival between 8-11 months.

      In recent years, research in oncology has focused on the development of therapies aimed at
      molecular targets that control the growth and proliferation of the tumor cell. Various
      monoclonal antibodies (bevacizumab, cetuximab) and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (erlotinib,
      gefitinib, afatinib, crizotinib) have been evaluated with this purpose in NSCLC treatment.
      Clinical studies in advanced NSCLC, using these new drugs with or without chemotherapy, have
      had favorable results by increasing the progression-free survival and the response rate,
      without being able to demonstrate to date, a significant improvement in the overall survival.

      Various studies suggest that patients who clinically present with a limited number of
      metastases, a term defined as oligometastatic disease, could have a better prognosis of
      survival with a radical treatment, than for their counterparts with a greater number of
      metastasis.

      Much of the current medical information on clinical outcomes in oligometastatic disease is
      based on clinical studies and retrospective case series of institutions. The majority of the
      reports have included a mix of patients with synchronous and metachronous oligometastatic
      disease, focusing on the radical treatment of specific sites such as the brain and adrenal
      glands. These results have been recognized by the European Society for Medical Oncology
      (ESMO) and have been included in its treatment guidelines for lung cancer (2012). The
      recommendation states to consider some radical treatment in selected patients with solitary
      metastases.

      There is limited information about the clinical benefits in overall survival in the subgroup
      of patients with NSCLC that clinically present with synchronous oligometastatic disease and
      equal to or less than 5 synchronous metastases at the time of diagnosis.

      The purpose of this study is to add more information to the current medical literature about
      the benefits in overall survival of radical treatment of oligometastatic disease in patients
      with NSCLC and equal to or less than 5 synchronous metastases at the time of diagnosis. The
      outcomes of the study are to determine the global survival and progression-free survival in
      patients with synchronous oligometastatic (equal to or less than 5 sites) advanced NSCLC
      undergoing radical treatment of all metastatic sites and the primary tumor.
    
  