
    
      The aim of the study is to investigate novel putative mechanisms involved in the
      pathophysiology of kidney disease in diabetic patients.

      The investigators will make use of plasma, serum or urine obtained from patients with
      diabetes.

      Cells in culture will be treated with plasma or serum or urine; cells extracts or supernatant
      will be studied to screen for modulation (activation/inhibition) of different cellular
      pathways using gene array, metabolomic and/or proteomic. Once some cellular pathways have
      been identified specific analysis will be conducted on the biological material collected to
      confirm specific "cell signatures" that could represent potential target for treatment.

      The investigators will recruit patients with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes attending our
      outpatient diabetes clinic at Guys' and St Thomas Hospital. The participant will be informed
      of the aim of the research and if agreeable in donating blood and urine sample; participants
      will be asked to sign a written informed consent explaining in simple word the aim of the
      research, the involvement they should have (blood sample and urine sample collection), the
      minimal risk to which they will be exposed (venopuncture).

      The study will involve one or more blood collections from the arm, for up to 30 mls (6 tea
      spoons) per year (up to 10 yeas duration), to be collected on up to 2 occasions/ year
      (minimum time between two collections: 4 weeks), with up to 15ml (3 tea spoon) of blood
      maximum volume taken per occasion. Urine samples (any amount) might also be collected at any
      time. Blood and urine collections will take approximately 15 minutes.

      This research is low risk. Samples will be stored within the Unit of Metabolic Medicine (Dr
      Gnudi), King's College London, United Kingdom, and its potential future use will be within
      the remit of the advancement of science and for the benefit of public domain within academic
      and/or commercial organisations (e.g. pharmaceutical industry) worldwide.

      Any information collected from participants during the course of the research will be kept
      strictly confidential. Any information leaving the hospital will have the name and address of
      patient removed so that it can not be recognised by third parties.

      The results obtained from this research will likely to be published in a medical journal. The
      investigators will provide copy of any published results to anybody that may request for it.
      Participants will not be identified in any report/publication.
    
  