
    
      This is an intervention pilot project examining the acceptability, feasibility, and utility
      of a group-based transdiagnostic treatment delivered to rural Veterans. Approximately 5.2
      million Veterans reside in rural communities across the United States, making it difficult
      for them to access quality medical and mental health (MH) care. The Department of Veterans
      Affairs (VA) established Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) to improve access to
      healthcare for rural Veterans; however, these clinics often lack MH specialists including
      psychiatrists and psychologists, limiting the breadth of specialty services available. As
      such, MH care is often delivered by primary care providers or MH clinicians who (a) lack
      familiarity with evidence-based interventions and (b) lack the time needed to implement such
      intensive therapies. Group-based cognitive behavioral protocols that target a number of
      different diagnoses are likely to be more attractive in these settings and therefore more
      readily disseminated. Such protocols, often referred to as transdiagnostic treatments, are
      based on the theory that emotional disorders share common features and therefore respond to
      common therapeutic procedures. One such treatment, termed Safety Aid Reduction Treatment
      (START), has received increasing empirical support. This group-based transdiagnostic
      treatment is designed to address cognitive and behavioral strategies, otherwise known as
      safety aids, that are common across a number of psychiatric conditions (e.g., anxiety
      disorders, trauma- and stressor-related disorders, obsessive-compulsive and related
      disorders, and depressive disorders) and used to reduce anxiety. START has been found to
      effectively reduce psychopathology in community-based clinical samples and more recently
      among Veterans at the Southeast Louisiana Veterans Health Care System (SLVHCS). However, the
      utility of this treatment has yet to be examined in rural settings. Thus, the primary aim of
      the current proposal is to test the acceptability and feasibility of a group-based
      transdiagnostic treatment, termed START, delivered to rural Veterans at CBOCs. Because this
      is a pilot project, we will not emphasize symptom reduction, as we will likely be
      underpowered to detect treatment effects. Nevertheless, a secondary aim of the project is to
      examine the utility of START by gathering data on symptom change, which will be used as pilot
      data for a subsequent grant proposal. For this pilot project, Veterans (N = 24) will be
      recruited from two of the five Southeast Louisiana Veterans Health Care System (SLVHCS)
      CBOCs. The anticipated results of the proposed study include: 1) START will be both
      acceptable and feasible to Veterans and mental health care providers, alike and 2) START will
      lead to meaningful reductions in symptoms of anxiety and depression. Findings from the
      current study will help to advance our understanding of the amelioration of anxiety and
      depressive disorders among Veterans.
    
  