
    
      Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD) include aggression, agitation,
      depression, anxiety, apathy and hallucinations and are exhibited by up to 90% of nursing
      facility residents with dementia. BPSD result in negative health outcomes decline in physical
      functioning and high cost of care. In addition, BPSD put residents at risk for inappropriate
      use of antipsychotic drugs and other restraining methods that reduce function, increase
      social isolation, and increase risk of physical abuse. Prior NIH-funded clinical trials show
      that behavioral approaches reduce BPSD. These behavioral approaches are endorsed as the first
      line of treatment for BPSD. In fact, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
      National Partnership to Improve Dementia Care and Reduce Antipsychotic Use in Nursing Homes
      requires that care for residents with dementia be delivered using person-centered behavioral
      approaches. Despite regulatory requirements, less than 2% of nursing homes (also referred to
      as facilities) consistently implement these approaches. Established barriers to use of
      behavioral approaches include limited knowledge, skills, and experience with
      non-pharmacological approaches, beliefs in the superiority of psychotropic medications over
      behavioral interventions, and lack of staff motivation to use non-pharmacologic strategies
      consistently. The proposed project responds to this gap between knowledge and practice. A
      novel implementation approach will be tested to assure that staff in nursing homes [i.e.,
      those who provide direct care to residents] use non-pharmacologic, behavioral approaches for
      the management of BPSD.

      To advance the CMS National Partnership, a comprehensive compendium of
      peer-reviewed/expert-endorsed resources was developed for utilizing person-centered,
      behavioral approaches for BPSD (the Nursing Home Toolkit: www.nursinghometoolkit.com). The
      Toolkit has resources that support a theoretically-based 4-step approach that we found
      effective in prior implementation work. The four steps include: 1. Assessment of the
      environment and policies; 2. Education of staff; 3. Establishing person-centered care plans;
      and 4. Mentoring and motivating staff. While the Toolkit is free and accessible, staff in
      nursing homes need help with implementation. Implementation of the theoretically based 4-step
      approach is guided by the Evidence Integration Triangle (EIT) framework. The EIT brings
      together evidence and key stakeholders from the facility to influence care practices. EIT
      includes: participatory implementation processes, provision of practical evidence-based
      interventions, and pragmatic measures of progress toward goals. This implementation framework
      was merged with the 4-step approach and the Nursing Home Toolkit resources to develop the
      intervention, EIT-4-BPSD. The goal is to demonstrate that EIT-4-BPSD is an implementation
      strategy that enables staff in nursing homes to reduce BPSD using behavioral approaches while
      optimizing function, preventing adverse events and improving quality of life of residents. A
      Hybrid III cluster randomized trial will be done with 50 nursing facilities randomized to
      EIT-4-BPSD or Education Only (EO). The aims are:

      Primary Aim 1: To implement and test the implementation of EIT-4-BPSD. Facility Level
      Outcome: Research question: Do facilities exposed to EIT-4-BPSD demonstrate evidence of
      implementation at 12 months evaluated by the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation,
      and Maintenance (RE-AIM) criteria? For evaluation of Effectiveness within RE-AIM: Resident
      Level Outcomes: Hypothesis: Residents in EIT-4-BPSD facilities will experience less BPSD,
      maintain or improve function, have reduced use of psychotropic medications, experience fewer
      adverse events, and have improved quality of life compared to residents in EO facilities. We
      will measure these outcomes at baseline, 4 and 12 months post implementation of the
      intervention. Facility Level Outcomes: Hypotheses: (1) EIT-4-BPSD facilities will demonstrate
      improvements in Environment and Policy assessments that reflect support for behavioral
      approaches for BPSD, and will have a greater percentage of residents with behavioral
      approaches incorporated into their care plans at 12 months post-implementation when compared
      to EO facilities; (2) We will examine Maintenance of EIT-4-BPSD facility outcomes at 12
      months and then at 24 months post-implementation.

      Primary Aim 2: Evaluation of the Feasibility, Utility and Cost of EIT Approach in EIT-4-BPSD
      Facilities. Using descriptive and qualitative data captured during the intervention and from
      focus groups at 12 months,use of the EIT strategy and the participatory implementation
      process with the Stakeholder Team and facility staff will be evaluated. In addition a
      description of the costs of implementation using an activity-based costing method will be
      completed.

      This study will add critical knowledge to what little is known about implementation of
      effective interventions in nursing facilities. It will serve as an implementation model with
      potential to be widely disseminated. In addition, the study will demonstrate how facilities
      can implement person-centered dementia care and decrease BPSD, the ultimate goal of the CMS
      National Partnership.
    
  