
    
      Itch was recently identified as one of the top three priority topics in dermatology at a
      Research Agenda Conference sponsored by the American Academy of Dermatology in 2012. Chronic
      itch is a complex phenomenon, involving the skin, immune and nervous systems to various
      degrees. Therefore, focusing on a particular pruritic disease will enable us to work out the
      underlying pathophysiological mechanisms that occur between the skin and the brain to
      establish a rational treatment approach.

      Atopic Dermatitis (AD) is defined as a chronic inflammatory dermatological disease
      characterized by immunological and neurological cutaneous hyperreactivity with ongoing itch
      and inflammation. It is linked to an atopic predisposition with skin barrier abnormalities,
      recurrent delayed-type inflammations; frequently the development of IgE-mediated inhalant and
      gastrointestinal-related immediate type reactions. It is estimated that the prevalence for AD
      is at least 17% of the population lifetime worldwide with some reports of increasing
      prevalence in the last decades. It is also increasingly being observed in the aging
      population with dry, itchy skin.

      Various topical and systemic therapies are available and choices are based on disease extent,
      presence of acute flare, and age of the patient. Unfortunately, itch in AD can be challenging
      to control; although multiple topical and systemic treatments are available, to date no
      universally accepted treatment exists.

      The investigators have previously shown that opioid receptors play an important role in
      pruritus. Therefore, the investigators plan on expanding on previous and ongoing experiences
      with opioid antagonists and study the epigenetic and molecular mechanisms behind. Moreover,
      the investigators have recently discovered that the endogenous opioid ligand Met-Enkephalin
      influences circadian rhythm by binding directly to CLOCK gene promoters in the nucleus, which
      then change the amplitude and phase-shift these genes in keratinocytes.

      Ultimately, the investigators would like to evaluate the effectiveness of topical application
      of Naltrexone in an effort to potentially help to treat chronic, untreatable itch and learn
      more about peripheral disorders of sensation (itch and pain).
    
  