
    
      Although pain must be assessed to be treated, it has been challenging to obtain consistent,
      objective, and quantifiable measurements. The best methods currently available are subjective
      scales communicated by the patient such as standardized sentences, visual analog scales
      (VAS), or plain numeric scales.

      When a patient is unable to communicate, methods used to monitor pain are inadequate. A
      device that provides an objective assessment of pain in these patients would alert the
      patient's caregivers that the patient may be in pain and analgesic treatment is indicated.

      Various methods (Evans et al, 2013; Kantor, 2014; Isnardon, 2013) have been proposed to
      monitor patients' reactions to nociceptive stimulation such as:

        -  changes in heart rate or blood pressure

        -  changes in microcirculation

        -  pupillometry

        -  EEG

        -  Auditory or somatosensory evoked potentials

      All of these methods have been found lacking, mostly due to a lack of specificity for pain.
      Pupillometry is not suitable for long periods of measurement and is sensitive to concomitant
      treatment (e.g. opioids).

      Galvanometry has the potential to provide specific information related to pain in patients
      who are unable to communicate.

      Since sweat glands are the only organs controlled solely by the sympathetic nervous system,
      there is a reasonable chance that the use of galvanometry can provide a reliable means of
      assessing pain. There are numerous papers on this topic; searching in PUBmed on the key words
      "pain" and "skin conductance" results in more than 250 papers (selected references are
      included in the list below). The PainMonitor system uses galvanometry to monitor changes in
      skin conductance responses per sec mirroring the number of bursts in the skin sympathetic
      nerves. This creates a warning for caregivers to assess the potential that the patient is in
      pain.
    
  