
    
      PROCEDURES STEP-BY-STEP

        1. Once enrolled in the study, patient will be randomized to either:

             -  The intervention group (music played on a portable speaker system), or

             -  The control group (no music).

        2. Prior to epidural placement, patients in both groups will be asked to answer one
           question about their music preference: "What is your favorite music? You can name an
           artist, genre, album, or any other identifier"

           • If patient preferred music is not available on the Pandora app, other apps will be
           searched (Spotify, Youtube, itunes Radio, etc.)

        3. If patients are randomized to the intervention group, the investigator will create a
           station in the Pandora music app using the patient's preferred music. Volume will be
           initially set on low and portable speaker system placed within 3 feet of the patient (in
           order to ensure that she can hear the music). The music will be started and volume will
           then be adjusted to the patient's preference, avoiding music that is too loud but
           ensuring it is loud enough so the patient can hear it.

        4. At that point, epidural placement will begin. Patients will receive an epidural in the
           normal fashion. Music will be continued throughout the duration of the epidural
           placement procedure, unless the patient requests that it be discontinued earlier.

        5. If patients are randomized to the control group, no music will be played.

        6. One hour after epidural placement, the patient will be asked to fill out the patient
           satisfaction survey to assess their satisfaction with the epidural placement. All
           patients from both the intervention and control group will be asked to complete the
           survey.

        7. Data (see below) will be collected from the chart at time of enrollment and at time of
           study completion.
    
  