
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effectiveness of treating anal HSIL to reduce the incidence of anal
      cancer in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected men and women.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine safety of infrared coagulation, electrocautery, imiquimod, 85% trichloroacetic
      acid and 5-fluorouracil (fluorouracil) treatments for anal HSIL.

      II. Compare quality of life measures between arms.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the human papilloma virus (HPV) type in cancer and compare to that of overlying
      HSIL and HSIL biopsies collected concurrently that did not progress to cancer.

      II. Determine the strain variant of HPV 16 in participants who progressed to anal cancer and
      compare to participants with HSIL biopsies who did not progress to cancer.

      III. Determine the HPV integration site in overlying anal cancer to that of HSIL overlying
      the cancer and HSIL biopsies collected concurrently that did not progress to cancer.

      IV. Perform gene expression array analysis comparing expression in anal cancer with HSIL
      overlying the cancer; perform gene expression array analysis comparing expression in HSIL
      biopsies that progressed to cancer with non-progressing HSIL biopsies at other locations;
      perform similar analyses comparing expression in HSIL biopsies that progressed to cancer with
      the same lesion at earlier time points prior to progression.

      V. Characterize genetic changes in anal cancers compared with HSIL overlying the cancer;
      characterize genetic changes in HSIL biopsies that progressed to cancer compared with
      non-progressing HSIL biopsies at other locations; characterize genetic changes HSIL biopsies
      that progressed to cancer with the same lesion at earlier time points prior to progression.

      VI. Identify host and viral biomarkers of progression from HSIL to cancer. VII. Evaluate
      medical history and behavioral risk factors for HSIL progression to cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients are directed to receive either topical or ablative treatment at the
      discretion of the clinician. Patients receiving topical treatment apply imiquimod
      intra-anally, peri-anally or both thrice weekly for up to 16 weeks, fluorouracil twice daily
      for 5 days every 2 weeks for up to 16 weeks, or trichloroacetic acid every 3 weeks up to 12
      weeks. Patients receiving ablative treatment using infrared coagulation,
      hyfrecation/electrocautery, or laser. Patients may undergo excision under anesthesia if the
      clinician believes none of the other treatment approaches will be effective. The number and
      timing of such treatments will be at the discretion of the investigator. Patients with
      persistent HSIL should continue a protocol-approved treatment or a new protocol treatment
      should be considered.

      ARM II: Patients undergo active monitoring with examinations every 6 months. Every 12 months,
      patients undergo biopsies of visible lesions. Patients have cytology performed at every
      visit.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  