
    
      Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the leading cause of pediatric lower respiratory tract
      infection. RSV also causes lower respiratory tract disease in the elderly and
      life-threatening disease in immunocompromised hosts. An RSV monoclonal antibody (palivizumab)
      is currently available for passive immunoprophylaxis in high-risk infants. Vaccines and
      antiviral agents are under development for the treatment and prevention of RSV, but none are
      licensed. The ability to challenge healthy volunteers with RSV could rapidly facilitate
      efficacy studies of future antivirals and vaccines. In addition, challenge studies would
      provide critical information on viral pathogenesis, including types of cells infected,
      mucosal and systemic immune response, and alterations in respiratory microbiota. Clinical
      trial material for human challenge studies has been prepared from live recombinant
      (complementary DNA-derived) RSV of subgroup A (RSV A2).

      This study will be a phase 1 study in healthy adult male and non-pregnant female subjects 18
      years to 50 years of age. The main purpose of the trial is to define the safety profile,
      determine the frequency of RSV shedding in nasal wash, estimate RSV illness rates, and study
      immune responses in subjects given 1 dose of 10^7 PFU of RSV A2 challenge virus using a nasal
      atomizer. If RSV A2 is found to be sufficiently infectious in adults, then it may be used as
      a challenge virus in future studies evaluating antivirals or the protective efficacy of RSV
      vaccines, or in studies of the immunopathogenesis of RSV infection.

      Subjects will be admitted to the NIH Clinical Center and receive a single intranasal dose of
      10^6.3 PFU or 107 PFU of RSV A2. Subjects will remain at the Clinical Center for
      approximately 9-14 days after challenge infection undergoing sequential clinical evaluations.
      Research specimens, nasal washes and blood, will be collected for various research assays.
      Subjects will be discharged when their daily nasal wash RSV result is negative for two days
      in a row, and they do not have any signs or symptoms suggestive of possible RSV-associated
      lower respiratory tract disease. Subjects will return for follow-up evaluation 28 and 56 days
      after viral challenge.
    
  