
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety, and potential toxicities associated with treating patients with
      metastatic NSCLC and mesothelioma with polyclonal autologous central memory and naive cluster
      of differentiation (CD)8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific T-cell
      receptor (TCR) (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

      II. Determine the feasibility of treating patients with metastatic NSCLC and mesothelioma
      with polyclonal autologous central memory and naive CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to
      express a WT1-specific TCR (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

      III. Determine and compare the in vivo persistence in blood and tumor of transferred
      polyclonal autologous central memory and naive CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to
      express a WT1-specific TCR (Arm 1 and Arm 2).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the antitumor efficacy for patients with metastatic NSCLC and mesothelioma (Arm
      1), as measured by time to progression (TTP) based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria.

      II. Determine the in vivo functional capacity of adoptively transferred polyclonal autologous
      CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific TCR, and assess the
      acquisition of phenotypic characteristics associated with T cell exhaustion (Arm 1 and Arm
      2).

      III. Determine the migration to tumor sites of adoptively transferred polyclonal autologous
      CD8+ T cells that have been transduced to express a WT1-specific TCR (Arm 2).

      IV. Evaluate the tumor response and T cell infiltration in tumors of patients with stage IIIA
      NSCLC treated in the neo-adjuvant setting.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced
      CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

      ARM I, STAGE I: Patients receive autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn
      lymphocytes intravenously (IV) on days 0 and 14, cyclophosphamide IV on days 11 and 12, and
      aldesleukin (IL-2) subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) for 14 days. Patients who have
      received radiation to the chest/lung tissue may receive T lymphocytes 90 days after
      completion of radiation.

      ARM I, STAGE II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2, autologous WT1-TCRc4
      gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes IV on day 0, and aldesleukin SC BID for 14
      days.

      ARM II: Patients receive autologous WT1-TCRc4 gene-transduced CD8-positive Tcm/Tn lymphocytes
      IV between 24-96 hours after the last dose of chemotherapy and receive aldesleukin SC BID for
      14 days. Patients then undergo surgery within 3-4 weeks after the T-cell infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months and then
      annually for 14 years.
    
  