
    
      TargomiRs are targeted minicells containing a microRNA mimic. They consist of three
      components: 1. A miR-16-based microRNA mimic. The miR-16 family has been implicated as a
      tumour suppressor in a range of cancer types. The mimic is a double-stranded, 23 base pair,
      synthetic RNA molecule. 2. Drug delivery vehicle - EDVs. EDVs are nonliving bacterial
      minicells (nanoparticles). They function as leak resistant micro-reservoir carriers that
      allow efficient packaging of a range of different drugs, proteins or nucleic acids. 3.
      Targeting moiety. The EDVs are targeted to EGFR-expressing cancer cells with an anti-EGFR
      bispecific antibody.

      TargomiRs are IV injected.

      Phase 1 Planned dose levels

      Dose level 1: 5 billion once a week Dose level 2: 5 billion twice a week Dose level 3: 5
      billion once a week with cardiac monitoring Dose level 4: 2.5 billion twice and week with
      cardiac monitoring Dose level 5: as above with an additional dexamethasone challenge

      All patients begin on a micro dose of 1 billion once a week and escalate to the full phase 1
      dose for their dose level on week 3.

      Duration of treatment for each dose level is on a patient by patient basis. Officially the
      cycle is 8 weeks long however a patient can continue on treatment if they are deriving
      clinical benefit from the treatment.

      If at any time point before or after the 8 week mark, a patient progresses, experiences
      ongoing or unreasonable toxicities or withdraws from the study, they will cease treatment.

      Escalation of dose in cohorts of 3-6 patients per dose level. If at least 2 patients are
      observed to experience Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), the prior dose level is defined as the
      MTD.

      Adherence to the protocol tends not to be problematic in patient groups where the trial
      treatment is their only treatment option. They are often very keen to participate and
      motivated to be part of the research.
    
  