
    
      Cancer is one of the leading health disorders that can lead to impaired functioning and
      mortality in the elderly. With the aging of the population, more people will be living with a
      cancer diagnosis. The most dramatic increases will be among ethnic minorities. Advances in
      cancer detection and treatment are increasing cancer patients' survival and making it
      possible for many to be managed as outpatients and remain in the community. These advances
      have also contributed to an increased number of older adults living longer with/surviving for
      longer periods with having had cancer.

      Recognition of the centrality of families' role in patients' treatment and recovery is
      widespread. Less attention, however, has been focused on developing programs and
      interventions that include or target the families' role during the cancer survivorship
      period, a period when patients are coping with the consequences of cancer and its treatment.
      During this period, when contact with the health care system is less intense, cancer
      patients' symptoms may go unrecognized or be poorly managed. Family members are directly
      involved in health care decision-making, functioning not only as a health care advocate for
      the elderly patient, but also ensuring that patients adhere to symptom management routines (e
      .g. encouraging them to take their pain medication, providing reassurance of the
      appropriateness of attending to certain symptoms). Family members' ongoing, frequent, contact
      with their elderly relative makes them ideally situated to monitor patients' functioning and
      detect subtle changes in their condition.

      The goal of the proposed study was to implement and evaluate the utility of a brief training
      program to support and enhance the problem-solving caregiving skills of familial caregivers
      to facilitate optimum symptom control for older cancer patients during the post-treatment
      period. The rationale for this approach is based upon a diverse body of theoretical and
      empirical work. It represents a distillation and consolidation of research on cancer and the
      family, and draws from the broader bodies of work on disease management in the elderly,
      disparities in health care, cultural perspectives on illness, family caregiving in chronic
      disease, health behavior, health education and emerging approaches in palliative care.

      Given the challenges patients and families may be experiencing during the post treatment
      period, ethical considerations mandated some type of service provision for the comparison
      condition. It was necessary to select an intervention that would be of potential benefit to
      the caregiver and/or the elderly patient, but would not necessarily be expected to directly
      impact the caregiver skills targeted in the Problem-solving condition. These considerations
      led to the selection of a caregiver support program as an acceptable comparison condition.

      This investigation addresses a significant gap in the caregiver literature. While there is
      widespread recognition of the centrality of the family's role in long-term care situations,
      little attention has been focused on the post-treatment period. Programs that can empower
      familial caregivers and enhance their problem-solving strengths may enable them to be more
      effective in managing their relatives' care needs.
    
  