
    
      This is a local, multi-centre, prospective, randomised, double blinded trial of 976 patients.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to determine if the use of sugammadex (compared with neostigmine)
      reduces the rate of postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs). Secondary objectives are to
      determine if the use of sugammadex compared with traditional reversal agents improves patient
      quality of recovery, reduces the rate of postoperative nausea and vomiting and reduces the
      rate of airway complications in the Post Anaesthesia Care Unit (PACU).

      Study procedures:

      Following informed consent prior to surgery, patients will be randomised to two groups
      allocating drugs used for reversal of muscle relaxation;

        1. 2mg/kg sugammadex

        2. 50mcg/kg neostigmine with 10mcg/kg glycopyrrolate

      Randomisation will be via computer generated numbers, which will be sealed in opaque,
      sequentially numbered envelopes.

      Treating anaesthetist and staff assessing outcomes will be blinded to treatment.

      Patients will have neuromuscular transmission (NMT) monitoring intraoperatively to ensure
      return of train-of-four count (TOFC) >2 prior to reversal. Muscle relaxant will be limited to
      rocuronium or vecuronium, at the choice of the individual anaesthetist. As this study is
      planned to be a 'real world' trial, mode of anaesthesia, analgesia, postoperative nausea and
      vomiting (PONV) prophylaxis and time of reversal will be determined by the individual
      treating anaesthetist.

      Postoperative outcome data will be collected in the recovery unit, on postoperative day 1 and
      2 (if still an inpatient), at hospital discharge and via a 30 day post-operative phone call.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Conservatively estimating the baseline incidence of PPC at 7% baseline incidence and an
      equally conservative estimate that sugammadex can reduce this to 3% would produce a
      clinically relevant number needed to treat (NNT) of 29. Accepting an alpha error of 0.05 and
      beta error of 0.2 would require 930 patients. Allowing for 5% incomplete data and loss to
      follow up requires 976 patients.

      Groups will be analysed on an intention-to-treat basis

        1. PPC rate, QoR-15 score and hospital stay will be assessed as continuous variables

        2. Post operative Nausea and Vomiting (PONV) score will be assessed as an ordinal variable

        3. Mortality and the presence of respiratory and PACU events will be assessed as
           categorical variables.

      The effect of sugammadex on continuous variables will be analysed by 2-tailed Student T-test.
      The effect of sugammadex on ordinal and categorical variables will be analysed by Chi-squared
      tests. Binomial regression analysis will be performed on the categorical outcomes for the
      subgroup analyses. Logistic regression will be performed to analyse the effect of PONV risk
      on PONV scores.

      Appropriate statistical tests to confirm test assumptions are met will be performed. In the
      case of non-parametric data, the appropriate test will be performed. Interim analysis is
      planned after 50% data completion.
    
  