
    
      Compared with open surgery (OS), the laparoscopic surgery (LS) can conduct less invasion,
      less pain and decrease the rate of wound infection and probably improve the quality of life
      for patients. For these benefits, laparoscopic surgery was widely used for gastrointestinal
      surgery. DVT is a common complication of surgery. However, whether LS can reduce the
      incidence of postoperative DVT is unclear. So the investigators conduct a cohort study, with
      a sufficient sample size in a rigorous scientific overview, to investigate the impact of
      laparoscopic versus open surgeries on the incidence of postoperative DVT in patients with
      gastrointestinal malignancy.

      This study was approved by the institutional review board of the First Affiliated Hospital of
      Chongqing Medical University. The protocol design is in accordance with Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statements.

      This study is designed as a cohort study to investigate the incidence of postoperative DVT in
      patients undergoing gastrointestinal malignancy laparoscopic surgery (group LS) and open
      surgery (group OS).

      Participants in group LS will receive laparoscopic gastrointestinal malignancy surgery.

      Participants in group OS will receive open gastrointestinal malignancy surgery. All
      participants will receive unified post-operative analgesia and the prophylaxis of infection
      and thromboembolism.

      The primary outcome of this study is the incidence of DVT after laparoscopic and open
      gastrointestinal malignancy surgery within 7 days postoperatively.

      The secondary outcomes of this study including: concentration of plasma D - dimer 2, time to
      first flatus and mobility, incidence of lung infection and infection of incision within 7
      days postoperatively, lengths of hospital stay .

      This study will be conducted under the supervision of an independent auditor. Every week, the
      auditor checked the data of the participants the day after the survey was conducted.
      Assessment of pain intensity and prognostic outcomes must be confirmed by the auditor in
      sampled population. When there is disagreement between surgeon and anesthesiologists in
      evaluating the prognosis of patients, the auditor must solve this disagreement by discussion
      with both evaluators. Data were double-entered by two statisticians with limitation of access
      and locked during statistical analysis.
    
  