
    
      Background:

      Transcatheter left atrial appendage closure (LAAC) has been shown to be non-inferior to oral
      anticoagulation in preventing cardioembolic strokes associated with atrial fibrillation.
      However, optimal antithrombotic treatment regimen following successful LAAC remains an
      unresolved issue. The scope and duration of antiplatelet treatment following LAAC is of
      paramount importance as it may significantly contribute to post-procedural as well as
      long-term procedural safety and efficacy.

      Objective:

      SAFE-LAAC Trial has been designed as a comparative heath effectiveness study with the
      following aims:

        1. compare safety and efficacy of 30 days vs. 6 months of dual antiplatelet therapy
           following LAAC with Amplatzer Amulet device (randomized comparison)

        2. compare safety and efficacy of stopping all antithrombotic and antiplatelet agents 6
           months after LAAC vs. long-term treatment with single antiplatelet agent (nonrandomized
           comparison)

      Patient population:

      Patients (n=160) with contraindications to oral anticoagulation, after successful LAAC with
      Amplatzer Amulet device.

      Perspective:

      Results of this pilot trial will provide: 1. data to aid practitioners and guideline writers
      recommend most optimal antithrombotic treatment after LAAC, and 2. data to support power
      calculations for designing future randomized trials.

      Methodology:

      SAFE LAAC has been designed as a multicenter (4-5 centers in Poland), open-label, comparative
      heath effectiveness trial with central, independent adjudication of events comprising primary
      end-point. The first part of the trial is randomized and after 6 months of follow-up
      continues for another 12 months as a non-randomized study.

      Timeline:

      The duration of the trial has been planned for 3 years. The enrollment phase will continue
      over 1.5 years and follow up will extend to 3 years.
    
  