
    
      Background Hypothermia, defined as core body temperature less than 36 degrees Celsius, occurs
      frequently during the course of surgery in patients across all ages, especially in the young.
      It causes significant medical consequences including cardiac events, bleeding, surgical site
      infection, increased shivering and patient discomfort, as well as longer hospital stays.
      Although guidelines exist for health care providers in terms of temperature management during
      surgery, these guidelines are not always followed as the warming measures can be costly, for
      example, single-use temperature probes and disposable blankets, with potential risks of the
      equipment overheating causing burns and contamination during surgery

      Methodology The investigators aim to include up to 6,000 children presenting for either
      scheduled or emergency surgeries. Core temperature before, during and after surgery using
      routine temperature monitoring devices such as tympanic, axillary, oral, rectal and SPOTON (a
      non-invasive method using a sticker placed on the forehead) will be measured. Other outcomes
      collected will include cardiac arrhythmias, blood loss, hyperthermia, burn injuries,
      shivering, discomfort, length of PACU and length of hospitalization, wound infection rates, .
      Patients will receive the usual heat-loss prevention and warming measures.

      Interim analysis of the first 2000 patients using the SPOTON method of continuous core
      temperature monitoring will be done to determine incidence and duration of peri-operative
      hypothermia. This monitoring modality will be compared for agreement with the conventional
      tympanic and forehead infra-red thermoscan methods. Patient and perioperative risk factors
      predisposing to hypothermia will be identified to guide in the formulation of clinical
      practice guidelines tailored to the local population. Guidelines will be implemented, and
      post-implementation incidence of IPH will be determined A pre- versus post-implementation
      cost analysis will be carried out.
    
  