
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To identify new breast cancer susceptibility alleles in breast cancer patients and
           family controls.

        -  To compare the prevalence of known polymorphisms in genes involved in hormonal
           activation and degradation pathways in breast cancer patients and family controls.

        -  To correlate these polymorphisms with quantitative intermediate markers of
           susceptibility to breast cancer, such as circulating hormone levels and mammographic
           density.

        -  To perform linkage analysis to detect new susceptibility genes in larger multiple-case
           families combined with data on families previously collected by the Institute of Cancer
           Research.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between these polymorphisms and hormone levels in relatives
           and family controls.

        -  To compare average hormone levels in patients' unaffected first-degree relatives with
           family controls using urine samples from premenopausal women and urine and/or serum
           samples from postmenopausal women.

        -  To perform follow-up in a cohort of unaffected first-degree relatives at
           moderate-to-high risk of developing breast cancer with prospective questionnaire data
           and hormone measurements.

      OUTLINE: Unaffected and affected first-degree female relatives and family or friend controls
      undergo blood sample collection once during study. Genomic DNA is purified from the blood
      samples for genetic analyses. Within a cohort of unaffected first-degree relatives,
      postmenopausal women also provide a single urine sample for hormonal assays. Hormones
      analyzed in the serum and/or urine of postmenopausal women include estradiol, estrone,
      sulphate, prolactin, androstenedione, testosterone, progesterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, and
      SHBG. Unaffected premenopausal women within the cohort provide urine samples on 6 successive
      days around the midpoint of their menstrual cycle and on one day towards the luteal phase of
      their menstrual cycle. These samples are analyzed for luteinizing hormone and metabolites of
      estradiol and progesterone (i.e., creatinine ratios for estrone glucuronide and pregnanediol
      glucuronide).

      Access to case notes, mammograms, and archival tumor blocks and accompanying pathology
      reports of breast cancer patients and their affected relatives is requested. When tumor
      samples from both tumors in bilateral cases are available, these samples are analyzed to
      identify regions of loss of heterozygosity in which both tumors have lost the same
      chromosomal region.

      Cancer patients and controls, including affected or unaffected first-degree relatives,
      relatives by marriage, or friends complete a questionnaire at baseline to provide information
      on demographics (i.e., personal and family), cancer diagnosis and treatment (if applicable),
      and known risk factors for breast cancer (i.e., lifestyle, reproductive behavior, and family
      history).

      Study participants may be followed periodically for cancer incidence and cause-specific
      mortality.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.
    
  