
    
      This is a phase II, open label study to determine the efficacy and safety of treatment with
      MEK162 in patients with a diagnosis of select solid tumors or hematological malignancies that
      have been pre-identified (prior to study consent) to have activations of the RAS/RAF/MEK
      pathway and whose disease has progressed on or after standard treatment.

      Genomic profiling is becoming more accessible to patients and their physicians. This is a
      signal-seeking study to match patients with mutations in RAF, RAS, NF1 or MEK to the
      ATP-noncompetitive MEK 1/2 inhibitor, MEK162. Pre-identification of these mutations or
      activations in the pathway will be performed locally at a CLIA certified laboratory prior to
      screening for participation on the trial.

      Once the patient has been identified, treating physicians who are qualified investigators may
      contact Novartis to consider enrollment in this study. For the purpose of this study, genomic
      profiling is not considered part of screening. Informed consent must be signed before any
      screening activities take place. Once eligibility (screening criteria met) has been confirmed
      by Novartis, the patient will initiate therapy with single agent MEK162. The patient may not
      receive any additional anti-cancer therapy during treatment with MEK162.

      Patients will continue to receive study treatment until disease progression (assessed by
      RECIST 1.1 or appropriate hematologic response criteria), unacceptable toxicity, death or
      discontinuation from study treatment for any other reason (e.g., withdrawal of consent, start
      of a new anti-neoplastic therapy or at the discretion of the investigator), otherwise known
      as End of Treatment. All patients who discontinue from study treatment due to disease
      progression must have their progression clearly documented.

      Disease assessment (per RECIST 1.1 or appropriate hematological response criteria) will be
      performed every 8 weeks (±4 days) after first dose of study drug (Day 1 of every odd cycle),
      until disease progression or end of treatment, whichever occurs first. The frequency of
      disease assessment may be reduced to every 12 weeks for patients who have at least 4
      post-baseline disease assessments and are clinically stable (except AML and MM patients).
      Scans will be assessed locally by the investigator. After discontinuation of treatment,
      patients, regardless of reason for treatment discontinuation, will be followed for safety for
      30 days after the last dose.

      All patients will be followed for survival status every 3 months for 2 years after the last
      patient has enrolled in the study regardless of treatment discontinuation reason (except if
      consent is withdrawn or patient is lost to follow-up.)
    
  