
    
      BLOOD SAMPLING:

      Blood samples are collected using two sampling methods at different time points (indicated on
      the timeline above); DBS sampling (max 39 samples/patient) and venous blood sampling (max 13
      samples/patient). Venous blood sampling will be performed during a standard outpatient clinic
      in one of the participating centres, and forwarded to the Laboratory for Therapeutic and
      Diagnostic Antibodies in Leuven for further analyses. DBS samples will be send directly to
      the Laboratory for Therapeutic and Diagnostic Antibodies in Leuven through classical mailing.

      DBS sampling will be performed by the patient during the outpatient clinic (at same moment as
      venous punctures, max 13 samples/patient) and at home for the intermediate values (max 26
      samples/patient). Patients will be taught how to perform a finger prick during the outpatient
      clinic. A conversion factor will be defined. Determination of concentration-time profile and
      exposure of golimumab in the individual patients will be performed by intensive sampling for
      3 to 4.5 months. Time point of max concentration, intermediate concentration, and trough
      concentration will be determined in each patient.

      Note: A similar procedure will be adopted to measure free anti-golimumab antibody
      concentrations on the DBS using a drug sensitive assay. Free anti-golimumab antibody
      concentrations will be measured when the serum golimumab concentration is below limit of
      quantification.

      MEASUREMENT OF GOLIMUMAB AND ANTI-GOLIMUMAB ANTIBODY CONCENTRATIONS:

      Golimumab concentrations will be measured using a sandwich type ELISA, in which golimumab is
      captured between an immobilized monoclonal antibody towards golimumab (MA-GLM) 171D8 and an
      added horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled MA-GLM159B8. The assay was developed and
      validated, analytically (external and internal) and clinically, as described by Detrez et al.
      Golimumab concentrations will be measured on every sample.

      Free anti-golimumab antibody concentrations will be measured using a drug sensitive assay.
      Total anti-golimumab antibody concentrations will be measured using a drug tolerant assay.
      Development and validation (analytical + clinical) of these assays is described by Detrez et
      al. Total anti-golimumab antibody concentrations will be measured on every venous sample.
      Free anti-golimumab antibody concentrations will be measured when the serum golimumab
      concentration is below limit of quantification on both venous sample and DBS sample (based on
      adalimumab serum concentrations measured in by our laboratory, we expect that 11% of samples
      measured within the first year of treatment have an undetectable golimumab concentration).

      BASELINE CHARACTERISTICS:

        -  Baseline characteristics will include: sex, age at diagnosis, weight, body mass index,
           disease extent, smoking status (never, ex, active), primary sclerosing cholangitis,
           haemoglobin, serum albumin, and C-reactive protein

        -  Previous medical characteristics will include previous use of mesalamine, steroids,
           immunosuppressive agents, ciclosporin, infliximab, adalimumab, vedolizumab, …

        -  Current medical characteristics will include use of mesalamine, use of steroids (dosing,
           duration since initiation), use of immunosuppressive agents (dosing, duration since
           initiation), use of golimumab (dosing, duration since initiation, last dose), …

      QUESTIONNAIRE REGARDING PATIENT FRIENDLINESS:

      • At the end of the study the participants will be requested to fill out a questionnaire
      regarding the patient friendliness of the dried blood spot (DBS) methodology
    
  