
    
      A low FODMAP diet includes FODMAP restriction, FODMAP re-introduction and FODMAP
      personalisation. This study will focus on FODMAP restriction whereby foods high in FODMAPs
      are avoided for 4 weeks.

      Patients with IBS will be recruited from primary and secondary care centres.

      STUDY GROUPS

      Group 1: 2 x Booklets produced produced by the Department of Nutrition and Dietetic in Guy's
      & St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, and the Diabetes and Nutritional Sciences Division at
      King's College London. These booklets have been produced by dietitians and are commonly used
      in clinical practice across the UK. They contain the following information:

      Group 2: Patients will be asked to download an application on their mobile phones or tablets.
      This application has been produced by dietitians from the Department of Nutrition and
      Dietetic in Guy's & St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, and the Diabetes and Nutritional
      Sciences Division at King's College London.

      Group 3:Patients will attend a clinic visit for a one-to-one consultation with a dietitian.
      As per current clinical practice, the initial visit will last for 1 hour.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE The primary objective is to estimate recruitment and retention rates of
      patients with IBS receiving different education delivery methods of the low FODMAP diet.

      SAMPLE SIZE As this is a feasibility study, a formal sample size calculation is not
      appropriate. For such feasibility studies, sample sizes between 24 and 50 have been
      recommended. Therefore, for this study, a total sample size of 45 was chosen (15 patients per
      group). Previous work indicates an approximately 12% attrition rate and, therefore, the final
      sample size will be 50 patients.

      ANALYSIS Descriptive statistics such as mean values, standard deviations (SD) for continuous
      variables, and counts (percentages) and confidence intervals (CI) for categorical variables
      will be calculated. To assess recruitment and retention rates the following will be recorded:
      number of people directly contacting the researchers for the study, number of participants
      pre-screened and screened, number of participants randomised, number of drop-outs.

      ETHICS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS The trial will be conducted in compliance with the principles
      of the Declaration of Helsinki (1996), the principles of Good Clinical Practice. Ethical
      approval for this study has been granted by an NRES Committee London.

      DATA HANDLING

      The Chief Investigator will act as custodian for the trial data. The following guidelines
      will be strictly adhered to:

        1. Patient data will be anonymised

        2. All trial data will be stored on a password protected computer and limited to authorised
           study personnel

        3. All records and samples will be stored in a secure environment

        4. All trial data will be stored in line with the Data Protection Act

        5. Data and samples will be securely stored for 5 years after the study has ended and may
           be used for further in depth analysis

        6. Data may be accessed by regulatory authorities for audit purposes
    
  