
    
      Title:

      Randomised Feasibility Study of Optimal Transfusion Thresholds in Anaemic Cancer Patients
      Treated with Chemotherapy (HaemOPtimal)

      Background:

      Cancer patients treated with chemotherapy very often become anaemic, which have profound
      negative impact of their quality of life. Blood transfusions can ameliorate symptoms caused
      by anaemia. Data are lagging with regard to what threshold should be used when offering blood
      transfusion.

      Aim:

      The primary aim is to determine which end-points reflect symptoms caused by anaemia in cancer
      patients treated with chemotherapy. The secondary aims are to collect data to estimate sample
      size in a future definitive study and to compare symptom relief using to different
      transfusion thresholds.

      End-points:

        -  Numeric Rating Scale measuring fatigue, dizziness, palpitations, headache, and dyspnea.

        -  FACT-G,

        -  FACT-An (Total anemia scale) including a fatigue subscale

        -  Patient-assessed WHO performance status

      Design:

      Open two-arm interventional randomised feasibility study

      Intervention:

        -  Blood transfusion.

        -  Randomisation between two transfusion thresholds:

      Haemoglobin < 6.0 mmol/l (9.9 g/dL) versus Haemoglobin < 7.1 mmol/l (11.7 g/dL) for female
      and 8.1 mmol/l (13.4 g/dL) for males.

      Population:

      Cancer patients treated with chemotherapy

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Documented cancer

        -  Planned treatment with chemotherapy

        -  Age 18 years or older

        -  Informed consent

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Heart failure (NYHA 3 and 4)

        -  Prior serious complications to blood transfusion

        -  Medical conditions that require special considerations for blood transfusion

        -  Treatment with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents.

      Number of patients:

      Transfusion of at least 30 patients in each intervention arm. An estimated number of 90
      patients will be randomised in each arm (180 in total) as a third of included patients are
      expected to require transfusion.
    
  