
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether the percentage change in the diffuse optical spectroscopy imaging
           (DOSI) measurement of the tumor/normal (T/N) tissue optical index (TOI) from baseline to
           mid-therapy is predictive of the final pathologic response of the primary tumor in
           patients with locally advanced breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To investigate whether change of TOI measurements from baseline to post-therapy are
           predictive of the final pathologic response in these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To investigate whether baseline TOI measurements are associated with final pathologic
           response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To investigate whether TOI measurements at baseline, change from baseline to
           mid-therapy, and change from baseline to post-therapy correlate with available MRI
           volumetric imaging measurements.

        -  To investigate whether changes on TOI measurements from baseline to mid-therapy, and
           from baseline to post-therapy, correlate with other standard-of-care imaging and/or any
           MRI-imaging measurements.

        -  To explore whether additional optical endpoints and indices obtained during DOSI
           measurements can be used to predict final pathologic response in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  To determine a cutpoint for the percent change of TOI from baseline to mid-therapy that
           is predictive of pathological complete response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo diffuse optical spectroscopy imaging (DOSI) at baseline, 5-10 days after
      initiation of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, during early- and mid-neoadjuvant therapy, and within
      21 days after completion of neoadjuvant therapy. Results are compared to standard-of-care
      imaging (e.g., MRI, ultrasound, mammography). Patients then undergo surgery.
    
  