
    
      Background

      Opioid use in the United States has escalated on an unprecedented scale since 1997, when the
      American Academy of Pain Medicine and the American Pain Society issued a statement declaring
      that respiratory depression typical to opioid use is a significant concern. The Trends and
      Risks of Opioid Use for Pain (TROUP) study demonstrated a broad-based increase in the use of
      potent opioids in publicly and privately insured enrollees between 2000 and 2005. Their
      findings suggest a significant liberalization in opioid use for non-cancer pain that is not
      limited to one geographic region or socioeconomic group.

      Chronic use of opioid medication' (i.e., longer than 6 months) predisposes patients to the
      development of an irregular breathing pattern with central apneas during sleep, best
      characterized as Biot's respiration, ataxic breathing. Ataxic breathing is characterized by a
      breathing pattern in which there are groups of similar sized breaths alternating with regular
      periods of central apnea.

      The WatchPAT HSAT device and polysomnography are both standard diagnostic tests for sleep
      disordered breathing, in particular for obstructive sleep apnea. However, the WatchPAT has
      never been validated in regards to its diagnostic accuracy pertaining to narcotic-induced
      central apneas.

      This study has important implications to the medical field and patients for the following
      reasons:

        1. Narcotic induced central sleep apnea is a marker for respiratory suppression and is
           thought to increase the risk of respiratory failure, hospital admission, and death.
           Validating the accuracy and reliability of WatchPAT is a more cost-efficient and
           accessible test than polysomnography and thus improves patient access and better
           identification of this problem in patients at risk. If the accuracy is validated, this
           would potentially benefit our patients by allowing those patients to be tested at home
           (more convenient), require less wait time (access for full polysomnography (PSG) is
           prolonged), and reduce healthcare costs (PSG is about 10-fold more expensive that home
           sleep apnea testing).

        2. WatchPAT is one of the most commonly used HSAT devices. Thus, validating its technology
           has significant implications in sleep testing workflow throughout the nation.

      Study Design

      Recruitment

      Patients who are referred to the sleep center, clinically identified to be at risk for
      narcotic-induced central sleep apnea and triaged to polysomnography testing will be eligible
      for recruitment. Investigators will perform a preliminary eligibility chart review and will
      contact potentially eligible patients by telephone to ask patients whether they would be
      interested in participating in a research study. Investigators will confirm eligibility,
      review the study protocol and informed consent utilizing an Institutional Review Board (IRB)
      approved telephone script for those who are interested in participating. Patients who have
      expressed verbal consent will be mailed or emailed a blank copy of the informed consent form
      (ICF) to allow for review prior to the sleep study. For those that elect for the ICF to be
      emailed, a blank ICF will be emailed from either Health Connect (via KP.org) or an internal
      Kaiser Permanente (KP) Outlook email utilizing an IRB approved email script. The patient will
      be provided with contact information for any questions during the time in between receiving
      the ICF and night of their sleep study. The phone recruitment process with the patient will
      generally occur as follows:

        1. During each investigator's standard review of the chart of patients already scheduled
           for polysomnography and determine their risk of narcotic induced central sleep apnea
           based on the investigator's (physician) clinical judgment.

        2. In the event that either investigator identifies an eligible patient, he will then
           prepare the eligibility form for the subject and contact the patient.

        3. During the recruitment phone call with the patient who is eligible for the study, the
           investigator will follow the proposed telephone script to a review of the protocol,
           study risks, study procedures, and final consenting plan. At the moment of the phone
           conversation the investigator will give the patient the opportunity to ask questions.
           The investigator will attempt 3 recruitment phone calls. If he is unable to contact the
           patient after 3 tries (including voicemails and direct contact messages), he will
           consider that patient a recruitment fail.

        4. Once the patient expresses their verbal consent for the study and documented in Health
           Connect, the investigator will ask if the patient has any finger deformity, which
           disqualifies the patient from the study, and confirm the patient takes narcotic
           medication at least 4 nights/week. Once those inclusion/exclusion criteria are confirmed
           and communicated, the investigator will finalize the eligibility form by personally
           signing and dating, and then the investigator or designee will either mail or email the
           patient a blank copy of the ICF within 2 business days, to allow for review of the ICF
           prior to the sleep study visit. For those patients electing for the ICF to be emailed,
           the investigator or designee will email the blank ICF from their internal Kaiser
           Permanente Outlook email. The patient will be provided with contact information for any
           questions during the time between them receiving the ICF and the sleep study visit.

      In-Person Consenting Process

      Once the investigator receives a verbal consent from the patient, the investigator will
      inform the Research Associate, the designated sleep technician and/or department
      administrator that is scheduled to work at the Sleep Lab the night the patient is scheduled,
      about the potential subject. The subject will be asked to be in the sleep lab at the usual
      scheduled time (overall, per standard of care, the sleep study will end at 6:00 am the
      following morning). The in-person consenting process with the patient will generally occur as
      follows:

        1. The Sleep Lab Technician or Department Administrator, who completed the appropriate
           clinical trials required training (i.e. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
           Act (HIPAA), IRB Standard Operating Procedure 502 (SOP 502), and Collaborative
           Institutional Training Initiative Good Clinical Practice (CITI GCP)) along with protocol
           training, to obtain consent and are designated by the PI, will obtain a written informed
           consent from the patient by reviewing the IRB-approved ICF. The patient will be given
           time to review the ICF to signing the form in accordance to GCP and the regulatory,
           legal requirements.

        2. The patient will be given a copy of the signed ICF by the person obtaining consent (e.g.
           Sleep Technician, Department Administrator) after a review that the documents were
           properly signed.

        3. The in-person consenting process will also be documented in the subject's records by the
           person obtaining consent (e.g. Sleep Technician, Department Administrator)

      Consenting Process Training and Supervision Study site staff will be trained by the
      Investigator and Research Associate on the two part consenting process in the following way:
      (1) investigators will be trained for recruitment with verbal consent via phone and (2) sleep
      technicians and department administrators will be trained for in-person consenting. The
      supervision of the two-part consenting process is delegated to the Primary Investigator and
      Research Associate. The primary investigator and/or Research Associate will be present during
      the first subject in-person consenting for each Sleep Technician and Department Administrator
      to ensure that they understand the requirements.

      Patients who have consented will undergo an in-lab PSG while simultaneously wearing the
      WatchPAT200. The WatchPAT200 is a wrist device which contains a pulse oximeter probe and an
      external snoring/body position (SBP) sensor (SBP is attached to the subject's chest just
      under the sternal notch). Authorized and trained investigators/ evening sleep technicians
      will be responsible for setting up PSG and WatchPAT200 equipment on all research patients.
      Technicians will also be responsible for attaching a synchronization cable from the
      WatchPAT200 device to a PSG auxiliary Direct Current (DC) channel to sync data for 15 minutes
      at the start and end of the sleep study. The technicians will only score PSG data and will
      not have access to the WatchPAT200 data.

      During the day, a trained investigator or daytime technician will be responsible for
      downloading the WatchPAT200 data and setting up the device for the next research patient.

      Participants will not be compensated for this study, although co-payment for the in-lab PSG
      will be waived and participants will not have to pay for the additional WatchPAT200 testing.

      Patient baseline characteristics (gender, age, BMI, Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), etc.)
      will be acquired from the patient themselves and/or from the patient's medical chart. The
      data obtained by the WatchPAT200 will be analyzed automatically by the WatchPAT200 software
      (zzzPAT) and will be compared to the PSG's manual scoring. Variability in the following data
      will be assessed and analyzed between PSG and WatchPAT200:

        1. Respiratory and oximetry data (Apnea-hypopnea index, oxygen disturbance index,
           respiratory disturbance index, oxygen saturation, central apnea index, central hypopnea
           index, total central index, periodic breathing, etc.)

        2. Sleep position and staging data (supine time, Rapid Eye Movement (REM) time, sleep time,
           etc.)

        3. Sleep-wake data (analyzed time, sleep time, sleep efficiency, etc.)
    
  