
    
      Somatic symptoms not caused by a known biomedical condition ("somatoform disorders") are
      highly prevalent, involve a high risk of chronicity, are one of the major reasons for doctor
      visits, and are a tremendous burden for health care systems. Despite the economic relevance,
      research activities are disproportionately low. The only intervention with an evidence grade
      I is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). However, average effect sizes for CBT in
      somatization syndromes are only moderate (Cohen's d < 0.5), and more powerful interventions
      are needed.

      There is convincing evidence that patients with somatoform disorders have emotion regulation
      deficits, which are not addressed by current CBT approaches. We conducted a randomized
      controlled trial in which we compared a conventional CBT for patients with chronic multiple
      somatoform symptoms with CBT complemented with emotion regulation techniques (ENCERT; see
      ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01908855). Previous interventional studies have mainly focused on
      acute effects and rarely include follow-up periods > 2 years after the end of therapy. The
      primary goal of the proposed project is to investigate whether effects that were demonstrated
      for both treatments in our previous randomized controlled trial can be maintained until 3
      years after the end of therapy.

      This study is based on the intention-to-treat (ITT) sample (N=255 patients) of our previous
      randomized controlled trial (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01908855). Patients were primarily
      recruited via referrals by primary care doctors. After a screening phase baseline assessments
      with different self- and clinician rating scales (see Outcome Measures) followed.
      Participants who fulfilled the eligibility criteria were randomized to one of the two study
      arms: cognitive behavioral therapy vs. cognitive-behavioral therapy complemented with emotion
      regulation strategies. The post assessment took place after the 20th therapy session and at a
      follow-up at six months after post treatment. In the current project all randomized patients
      will be reassessed 3 years after the end of therapy.

      Different methods were applied to prevent bias and to assure a high quality level of the
      current study. Data handling, data monitoring and statistical analyses were supervised by the
      Coordinating Center for Clinical Trials (KKS) of Philipps-University of Marburg; data quality
      and safety principles were applied. Additionally an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board
      was nominated. Randomisation occured and was controlled centrally through the randomisation's
      central office in KKS Marburg. The current study qualifies as a single-blinded trial.
      Assessment interviews are conducted and analyzed by people blinded to the treatment
      condition. Treatments in the previous randomized controlled trial were manualized, and
      therapists received an intense training. Treatment fidelity/integrity were analyzed with
      rating schemes for an priori defined proportion of randomly selected videotaped treatment
      sessions. Allowed additional treatments during study inclusion were thoroughly monitored and
      analyzed.

      The sample size calculation was based on the primary outcome variable "somatization severity
      index" of the Screening of Somatoform Disorders (SOMS-7T). Based on results of the main
      validation study of SOMS-7T, metaanalytic estimations, and results of a pilot study of the
      efficacy of ENCERT, the power calculations yield a necessary total sample size of N=194 to
      detect a clinical relevant difference of 4 points symptom reduction on SOMS-7T between the
      two treatments with a power of 0.80 and an alpha=.05. With regard to an estimated drop-out
      rate of 25%, N=255 patients were recruited.

      As main efficacy analysis the primary outcome shall be analyzed with linear mixed-effect
      models according to the ITT principle. Multilevel longitudinal mediation analyses will be
      conducted in order to test whether the effect of treatment condition on intraindividual
      changes in somatic symptom severity can be explained by intraindividual changes in emotion
      regulation skills.
    
  