
    
      This study will be carried out in Assiut University Hospital pain clinic and in participation
      of department of neuropsychiatry in Assiut University Hospital. After obtaining approval of
      hospital ethical committee, informed written consent will be taken from all patients with
      malignant visceral pain to be involved in this study.

      In these study investigators test the hypothesis that Does transcranial direct current
      stimulation induce analgesia in chronic abdominal visceral pain due to liver cancer ?

      Preparation:

      The patient will seat in a comfortable chair and will be asked to relax as much as possible.
      tDCS was delivered using a battery driven DC stimulator (neuroConn Gmbh,98693 llmenau,
      Germany). Current was delivered by electrodes encased in sponge pads soaked with 1% saline
      solution. The machine was kept behind the participant and out of their view at all times. For
      both the active and sham conditions, the anode was placed over the motor cortex of the
      patient and the cathode was placed over the contralateral supraorbital region. Electrodes
      were secured using soft elastic straps.

      In the active stimulation condition a constant current of 2mA intensity was applied for 30
      minutes with a 5-second ramp phase at the beginning. In the sham stimulation condition the
      machine was activated for 30 seconds using identical parameters but was then switched off
      without the patient's knowledge. This sham control is commonly employed because over the
      initial 30 seconds of stimulation, an initial sensation of tingling under the electrode fades
      away. Patients are less likely to distinguish active from sham conditions if the initial
      period of tingling is present in both.

      Patients were evaluated by verbal descriptor scale (VDS), visual analog scale (VAS), and
      Hamilton rating scale for depression (HAM-D) at the baseline, after 1st, 5th, 10th session,
      and 1 month after end of sessions.
    
  