
    
      Emergence agitation (EA) occurs in up to 67% of patients undergoing Sevoflurane anesthesia
      for bilateral myringotomy tube placement (BMT). Often EA presents as inconsolable screaming,
      crying, thrashing, and kicking, and may require restraints. It can be dangerous for the
      patient because it may be difficult to monitor their vital signs during a critical phase of
      recovery (i.e. unable to detect hypoxemia), they may injure themselves as they thrash about,
      it usually requires the presence of extra staff, and it can be very distressing to the
      parents. Causes of EA are theoretical, but can be exacerbated by pain. 70% of patients
      undergoing BMT have pain requiring treatment. Since BMT is performed without IV placement the
      options for analgesia are limited to intranasal fentanyl, intramuscular ketorolac, rectal or
      oral acetaminophen, oral opioids (i.e. codeine, oxycodone). Intranasal Fentanyl has been
      shown to decrease EA, but results in post operative nausea and vomiting, as with any opioids.
      Intramuscular ketorolac is costly and can lead to hematomas. In previous studies (common
      practice), acetaminophen is given either 30 minutes before induction (PO route) or
      immediately after induction (PR route). Since the procedure is generally completed in 5-10
      minutes, the therapeutic effect of acetaminophen can not be appreciated. The peak effect (for
      analgesia) of acetaminophen is 60-120 minutes. Our hypothesis: If acetaminophen is given
      60-120 minutes prior to emergence, when it reaches therapeutic effect, it can decrease EA in
      patients undergoing BMT. The importance of mitigating EA not only involves patient safety and
      satisfaction, but will also impact hospital/surgery center efficiency (RN staffing and
      smoother and shorter recovery periods).

      This study will be a randomized controlled trial. Potential subjects will be identified and
      recruited by study personnel and/or patient's surgeon. Children scheduled for BMT placement
      whose parents' consent to participate will be enrolled in the study. These patients will be
      consented on the day of surgery. Parents will be informed that whether they enroll their
      children in the study or not, they will be receiving standard clinical care. Only subjects
      meeting all inclusion criteria and requirements for continuation in the study will be
      consented.

      Patients will be enrolled into one of three study groups. All patients meeting all inclusion
      criteria and requirements for the study (see below) will be identified, consented then
      computer randomized into either control, group 1 or 2.

      Control - acetaminophen PR (20-40mg/kg) after induction of Anesthesia (acetaminophen is in
      suppository form and given rectally) Group 1 - acetaminophen PO (10mg/kg) 60-120min before
      start of BMT placement (acetaminophen is in syrup form and given by mouth) Group 2 -
      acetaminophen PO (20mg/kg) 60-120min before start of BMT placement (acetaminophen is in syrup
      form and given by mouth)

      After randomization, treating physicians will be made aware of what treatment group the
      patient is assigned to. The data collection and behavior/pain assessments will be made by
      blinded study personnel in the operating room (only for induction) and PACU.

      Data Collection: Data will be collected at the time points: Induction, Emergence (spontaneous
      extremity movement), and every 5 minutes after emergence until the patient is discharged.
      There will also be a follow-up questionnaire for the parent on satisfaction with the child's
      emergence, side effects, additional medications, and his/her PACU experience. This will be
      conducted on the phone within 36 hours after the parents have left the hospital.
    
  