
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether an accelerated course of hypofractionated whole-breast irradiation
           (WBI) including a concomitant boost to the tumor bed in 15 fractions following
           lumpectomy will prove to be non-inferior in local control to a regimen of standard WBI
           with a sequential boost following lumpectomy for early-stage breast cancer patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether breast-related symptoms and cosmesis from accelerated WBI that is
           hypofractionated (in only 3 weeks) with a concomitant boost is non-inferior to standard
           WBI with sequential boost.

        -  To determine whether the risk of late cardiac toxicity in patients with left-sided
           breast cancer treated with hypofractionation will be non-inferior to conventional
           fractionated radiation therapy (RT) based upon analysis of radiation dosimetry from
           CT-based treatment planning and NTCP calculations.

        -  To determine whether CT-based conformal methods intensity-modulated radiation therapy
           (IMRT) and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) for WBI are feasible in a
           multi-institutional setting following lumpectomy in early-stage breast cancer patients
           and whether dose-volume analyses can be established to assess treatment adequacy and
           likelihood of toxicity.

        -  To determine that cosmetic results and breast-related symptoms 3 years after
           hypofractionated breast radiation with concomitant boost will not be inferior to that
           obtained 3 years after WBI with sequential boost.

        -  To determine whether future correlative studies can identify individual gene expressions
           and biological host factors associated with toxicity and/or local recurrence from
           standard and hypofractionated WBI.

        -  If shown to be non-inferior, to then determine if accelerated course of hypofractionated
           WBI including a concomitant boost to the tumor bed in 15 fractions following lumpectomy
           will prove to be superior in local control to a regimen of standard WBI with a
           sequential boost following lumpectomy for early-stage breast cancer patients.

        -  To determine whether treatment costs for hypofractionated WBI with concomitant boost are
           not higher than WBI with sequential boost.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (< 50 vs. ≥ 50
      years), prior chemotherapy (yes vs. no), estrogen-receptor status (+ vs. -), and histology
      grade (1-2 vs. 3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Treatment begins within
      9 weeks of last surgery or chemotherapy delivery.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard whole-breast radiotherapy (WBI) comprising
           intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy
           (3D-CRT) 5 days a week for 3-5 weeks followed by a sequential radiotherapy boost to the
           lumpectomy area 5 days a week for 1-1½ weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo accelerated hypofractionated WBI comprising IMRT or 3D-CRT with
           a concurrent boost to the lumpectomy area 5 days a week for 3 weeks. Treatment continues
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients' tissue samples may be collected for future research studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 1 month, at 6 months, and then
      yearly.
    
  