
    
      One day international cross-sectional audit in all types of intensive care units. Data are
      collected with the help of questionnaires. Anonymised data entry into the audit database is
      done with individual and anonymous center and unit-codes.

      There are 4 questionnaires to be completed on nutritionDay.

        1. Unit Sheet: asks for nutrition related organisational and structural information on the
           ward.

        2. Patient Medical Information Admission Day: asks for patients status
           (gender/age/weight/height etc.), date of ICU admission and laboratory parameters on
           admission day.

        3. Patient Medical Information Actual Day: includes questions about treatment (insulin
           therapy/antibiotic treatment, etc.) and laboratory parameters on actual day.

        4. Patient Nutrition: comprises questions about enteral and parenteral nutrition. Number of
           days of parenteral/enteral feeding, planned amount of calories per day and the patients
           well being.

      Outcome Evaluation: re-assesses the patient's outcome 60 days after nutritionDay (discharged,
      still in hospital, transferred, death...).

      Participation rules:

      A user needs to register to nutritionDay as a member to the nutritionDay network. Each may
      choose a personal user name. Each user needs to provide a valid email address. After
      responding to a validation email the user is registered with the chosen user name. User
      details are stored on a system that is not connected to the nutritionDay registry at any
      time. One user may serve as contact for several units and centers.

      A user may order codes for participation for one or several centers and units. Access to the
      registry is only possible with a center code and unit code. These codes are selected from a
      list of random numbers.

      Audit/registry recruitment plan:

      Participation to the registry is voluntary. There is actually no participation fee. All
      necessary information can be obtained from a dedicated website (www.nutritionday.org).
      Participation can be promoted via international and national scientific societies,
      universities, health care organisations or governmental agencies as well as via advertisement
      at international and national congresses. The target would be intensive care units within
      hospitals of different sizes and level of care.

      Risk and benefit assessment:

      The benefit for each patient is that awareness and knowledge about nutrition related factors
      and treatment options in the treating unit is increased. There is no individual risk since
      the audit is purely observational.

      The benefit for the individual unit is to receive an extensive benchmarking report displaying
      the unit data in comparison with all units from the same specialty from the previous 3 years
      immediately after the end of data entry and a validation step. Units or groups of units may
      request specific reports that can be obtained only after a case by case agreement and
      financial coverage. All data used as a reference for benchmarking purpose are from units
      where a minimum of 60% of actually present patients have been recruited and the outcome at
      day 60 is available in more than 80% of these patients. There is no risk for the unit since
      anonymity of unit is structurally strictly maintained.

      The benefit for the registry up-to-date data enabling benchmarking in pace with medical and
      care evolution. Moreover the registry data are used for research of the scientific community.

      Data security:

      On the datasheets the unit and the hospital/center are identified by a numeric code delivered
      after application to the nutritionDay coordinating center by an automatic system. The only
      requirement is a valid email address for direct communication with the unit.

      Patients are usually identified on the locally used questionnaires by initials and age, but
      use of initials is not mandatory. Consecutive numbering is also possible. Only the
      participating unit has to trace patients identifier to be able to collect hospital outcome at
      day 60 after nutritionDay and to answer automatic requests for data clarification during the
      data quality feedback.

      During data entry into the electronic registry only anonymous codes for center, unit and
      patients are possible. Thus the data handling centre cannot trace data back to an individual
      patient. The access to data entry is protected by anonymous center-code and unit-code.

      Typically all data are collected via a dedicated website accessed via www.nutritionday.org .

      The protected data server is run by the Center for Medical Statistics Informatics and
      Intelligent Systems (CEMSIS) of the Medical University Vienna. The data server is mirrored
      and backed up. The data server is protected within the University Firewall against external
      access.

      Data feedback and individual unit report

      All participating units are entitled to receive a bench-marking report from the registry. The
      report generator is started by the participating unit, when data entry has been completed. As
      a first step each unit receives a data feedback sheet that is based on an electronic data
      plausibility and missing data analysis. After stating that all data are correctly entered the
      final report can be generated. This final report offers complete descriptive statistics of
      the unit data compared to the reference data from the previous 4 years of the corresponding
      specialty. Only data from units fulfilling a high data quality standard are used for the
      reference. More than 60% of the patients present in the unit need to participate and 80% of
      these patients need to have their outcome recorded. Optionally the period used for comparison
      can be extended until 2007. All descriptive statistics represent prevalent data and are not
      corrected for cross-sectional sampling to allow direct data control and interpretation.

      All downloaded reports of a unit are consecutively numbered and stored for documentation
      purpose.
    
  