
    
      Objective:

      Writer's cramp, a form of focal hand dystonia, is the most frequently observed task specific
      dystonia. Symptoms of writer's cramp often appear as soon as the pen is picked up, or after a
      few words of writing. Patients with simple writer's cramp have difficulties writing, but
      carry out other tasks with the affected hand without spasms. Little is known about why the
      hand spasms when writing, while performing other tasks normally.

      The purpose of this study is to identify brain areas of activation associated specifically
      with the task of handwriting with the dystonic hand, in patients with simple writer's cramp.
      Simple writer's cramp can be defined by a patient exhibiting the symptoms only when writing
      and symptoms are not present in any other task performance. Specifically for this study,
      patients should be able to write for 20 seconds consecutively in a run. We plan to use
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify the pattern of blood oxygenation
      level-dependent (BOLD) activation in the brain when different tasks are performed by
      different limbs in healthy volunteers and patients with focal hand dystonia.

      Study Population:

      This research will be conducted using 22 patients diagnosed with simple writer's cramp and 32
      healthy volunteers matched for age and gender.

      Design:

      Using a block design in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we will examine the
      brain activity of patients and healthy volunteers while they execute three tasks: writing,
      tapping and a zigzagging motion, with three separate limbs: the dystonic hand, the opposite
      hand, and the right foot.

      Outcome Measures:

      The changes in signal intensity of the brain activity correlated with the motor program (task
      of handwriting) and effector (dystonic hand) will be collected and analyzed.

      The findings we expect to obtain with this experiment may contribute to basic knowledge of
      the linkage between task specificity and the dystonic hand, and may provide a better
      understanding of the pathophysiology of writer's cramp.
    
  