
    
      High-dose chemotherapy with autologous peripheral stem cell (PSC) transplantation is a
      standard consolidation treatment for the initial management of patients with myeloma treated
      with high-dose Melphalan, or patients with certain lymphomas or with chemosensitive relapses
      of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) or malignant non Hodgkin's lymphoma (MNHL). This procedure is
      associated with prolonged neutropenia and considerable morbidity. Many randomized trials have
      tested post-graft administration of granulocyte growth factors (granulocyte colony
      stimulating Factor: G-CSF) or granulocyte-monocyte growth factors (granulocyte macrophage
      colony stimulating Factor: GM-CSF). All have shown a reduction of neutropenia and shorter
      hospital stays on G-CSF or GM-CSF treatment. Different guidelines have recommended the use of
      growth factors after autologous stem cell transplantation. The effectiveness of growth factor
      treatment would be identical, whether given immediately after PSC transplantation or delayed
      until D5 or D7.

      Pegfilgrastim is a growth factor resulting from the modification of Filgrastim by addition of
      a polyethylene glycol (PEG) moiety, which increases its half-life by decreasing its renal
      clearance. Thus, one injection is equivalent to several Filgrastim injections. Studies of
      Pegfilgrastim or Filgrastim efficacy on the duration of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in
      patients with breast cancer or with non-small cell lung cancer or LMNH have produced
      equivalent results.

      In haematology, Pegfilgrastim has been used for PSC mobilization. Six studies evaluating the
      efficacy of Pegfilgrastim compared to other G-CSF after autologous hematopoietic PSC
      transplantation in patients with myeloma and lymphomas have shown equivalent results. A
      superiority of Pegfilgrastim over other G-CSF has even been reported (though in only one
      randomized small-scale study).

      A randomized phase II study evaluating Pegfilgrastim efficacy and tolerance in lymphoma or
      myeloma patients receiving PSC transplantation appears necessary to confirm or refute the
      potential clinical interest of the drug.

      On the day of autologous PSC transplantation (D0) the patients will be randomly assigned to
      receive one or the other treatment strategy.

      NB: Patients will receive support care, antibiotic treatments and transfusion procedures
      specific to each participating centre.

      They will be followed-up according to recommendations for the management of this type of
      patients. No additional examination is planned.
    
  