
    
      Despite the potential for antiretroviral therapy to improve maternal health and reduce
      mother-to-child transmission of HIV to as low as 1%, HIV-related maternal deaths and HIV
      infection among infants remain unacceptably high across sub-Saharan Africa. This is
      particularly true in Kenya, where crucial drop-offs occur in the cascade of prevention of
      mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) services. Weak health systems contribute to insufficient
      service coverage, but many barriers lie beyond the clinic-in the partner, family, and
      community factors that shape women's health decisions. The investigators' research in a high
      HIV prevalence area of southwestern Kenya has shown that many women avoid couples HIV testing
      and do not adhere to PMTCT regimens because they fear negative consequences from a male
      partner. Men can play a crucial supportive role for family health, but male partners in Kenya
      are poorly engaged in antenatal care and uptake of couples HIV testing during pregnancy is
      low. Pregnant women desire to be tested for HIV together with their partner and need the
      support for mutual disclosure involved in couples HIV testing and counseling (CHTC),
      regardless of whether they know their own HIV status. In this context, the investigators will
      test the efficacy of an interdependence theory-based couples intervention that reaches
      pregnant women and male partners through home visits by male-female pairs of lay health
      workers, and includes offer of home-based CHTC services. The randomized pilot study of this
      intervention with 96 pregnant couples (R34MH102103) demonstrated significant increases in
      uptake of couples testing (64% in intervention vs. 23% in control, p<0.001) and significant
      improvements in health behaviors such as exclusive breastfeeding and postpartum care. The
      investigators will now conduct a more robust investigation to determine whether this
      intervention improves uptake of couples HIV testing and health outcomes over and above less
      intensive male engagement strategies being used in the region. This theory-based couples
      intervention has strong potential to increase couple HIV testing and collaboration for family
      health. The study will inform decision-makers about cost-effective strategies to engage
      pregnant couples in PMTCT and family health, with important downstream benefits for maternal,
      paternal, and infant health.
    
  