
    
      Poor adherence to the prescribed regimen of medication is one of the major obstacles to
      successful treatment of many chronic diseases, in the case of both grown-ups and children. In
      1998 we initiated a randomized, prospective intervention study with per protocol design
      involving 60 young children re-cently diagnosed as having asthma and with a high risk that
      this condition would persist.

      The parents of the children in the intervention group received extra support and information
      in the form of group discussions, whereas the control patients were treated in a routine
      manner. All children 0-6 years of age who fulfilled at least one of the criteria for risk of
      persistent asthma among the 9410 children in our catchments area were evaluated at our
      out-patient clinic during a period of 1.5 years beginning in 1998. Of the 66 patients thus
      identified the parents of 6 declined to participate and the remaining 60 children were
      randomized consecutively in groups of four by a nurse to either the inter-vention or the
      control group. The groups turned out to be well-matched.

      All of the children received the usual management and care, including individual oral and
      written information concerning how to deal with their asthma. The intervention consisted of
      additional infor-mation and support in a group setting, with three 1.5-hour meetings soon
      after inclusion in the study (with 70% participation, no gender difference) and a fourth
      meeting 6 months later (with 40% partici-pation). The three nurses, three pediatricians and
      two psychologists who performed this investigation were also in charge of the intervention,
      i.e. the study was not blinded.

      The initial examination included a clinical examination, spirometry, chest x-ray, examination
      of the patients' records and questionnaires concerning issues of adherence, burden of asthma
      and quality of life (Pediatric Caregiver's Quality of Life Questionnaire, PACQLQ). This
      Questionnaire was filled out separately by the fathers and the mothers and a change of > 0.5
      units on a 7-point scale was considered to be clinically important. The blood and urine were
      analyzed for inflammatory parameters. Skin prick tests were performed being considered
      positive if the mean diameter of the wheal was >3 mm. The al-lergen extracts used were
      Soluprick速 (ALK-Albello A/S, Denmark) and included egg, birch, timothy, mugwort, dog, cat,
      horse and Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus. RAST速 testing (Pharmacia Diagnos-tics & Upjohn AB)
      with the same allergens (considered positive when the IgE-level was >0.7 kU/l) and Phadiatop速
      testing (Pharmacia Diagnostics & Upjohn AB) (considered positive if the value > 1.0 kU/l)
      were also performed.

      The children made regular visits to their own pediatrician and nurse during the subsequent
      years and their medical records have been continuously updated and computerized. The
      examination after 6 years was performed during 2005. In this context each child was examined
      and interviewed, in the company of one or both parents and the examination being the same as
      earlier, except that no chest x-ray or objective assessment of adherence was carried out.

      This time separate questionnaires addressed to the child (the Pediatric Asthma Quality of
      Life Questionnaire) and to the child and parent together (the Asthma Control Questionnaire)
      were included, with a value of < 0.75 considered as being an indicator of good asthma
      control. Furthermore exhaled NO was measured with the help of the NIOXMINO速 Airway
      Inflammation Monitor (Aerocrine AB, Solna, Sweden), utilizing a 10-sec expiration at a
      constant flow rate of 0.05 l/s. In addition, we per-formed dry-air tests (Aiolos AB,
      Karlstad, Sweden), in connection with which a fall in FEV1 of > 10% was considered
      pathological.

      During the follow-up parents and doctors estimated adherence on a visual analogue scale
      (VAS). The children were told to begin taking high doses of ICS (0.2 mgx4) as soon as they
      caught a cold, even before they had any asthmatic symptoms, and to subsequently reduce the
      dose gradually during the first week, stopping medication when they no longer had any
      symptoms. When symptoms of asthma developed they were instructed to continue ICS for one
      month and, if they had experienced three or more exacerbations during a12-month period, to
      continue this treatment for another six months.
    
  