
    
      The deleterious effects of institutionalized care on the health and growth and development of
      children have been described. Early studies have shown that the effects of institutionalized
      care on a child's growth and development may not be fully reversible. The exact mechanism
      through which these early stresses affect bio-behavioral outcomes has yet to be determined. A
      likely mechanism in which environmental influences could regulate both biological and
      psychosocial development may be through the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis (HPA). Recent
      advances in the area of brain research have enriched our understanding of the importance of
      early life experiences on physical, cognitive, developmental, mental and behavioral health
      outcomes. Children adopted from orphanages in countries as diverse as the former Soviet Union
      and Guatemala provide an opportunity to learn more about the effect of deprivation on
      neuro-endocrine function, physical growth, and developmental outcomes, including cognitive
      and behavioral measures.

      This protocol proposes to study the changes of the HPA axis of the post-institutionalized
      adoptive child, ages 10 months to 4 years, which may help elucidate the etiology of the
      complex findings in this population. We will recruit 60 adopted children who experienced
      institutionalized care and were recently adopted by a US family and 60 controls. Our primary
      hypothesis is that a number of adopted children will have biochemical evidence of
      stress-induced activation of the HPA axis and sympathetic adrenal medullary system. HPA
      dysfunction will be evident by abnormal diurnal salivary cortisol levels, increased cortisol
      and/or catecholamine excretion in 24 hours urine measurements, and dysregulation of autonomic
      nervous system activity We also hypothesize that many of these responses will not normalize
      with time and that there will be a correlation between these responses and growth and
      behavioral disorders. In addition, we will examine nutritional intake and sleep patterns to
      determine their effect on growth and developmental outcome.
    
  