
    
      The global cancer burden is estimated to have risen to 18.1 million new cases and 9.6 million
      deaths in 2018. Patients with cancer have deficient cellular immunity and are potentially
      susceptible to opportunistic infections including Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii). Few reports
      are available about toxoplasmosis in this group of patients. In recent years, it has emerged
      as an important life-threatening opportunistic pathogen in immunocompromised patients.

      T. gondii is a ubiquitous obligate intracellular protozoan parasite that can infect virtually
      any nucleated vertebrate cell. T. gondii is one of the most successful parasites worldwide,
      with upwards of 30% of the human population infected.

      While T. gondii infection in immunocompetent individuals is usually asymptomatic, it is more
      detrimental in immunocompromised individuals, such as those with HIV, patients receiving
      organ transplants or undergoing cancer treatment. A variety of malignancies, including
      lymphoma, leukemia, and myeloma, can reactivate toxoplasmosis. Moreover, T. gondii is
      incriminated to be responsible for the progression of malignant diseases.

      Screening of toxoplasmosis in cancer patients is mandatory to guard against life-threatening
      disseminated disease. Diagnosis rely mainly on serology. A study in 2018 was performed to
      assess the prevalence of anti-T. gondii antibody among cancer patients in Cairo-Egypt. Among
      180 cancer patients, a total of 110 patients (61.1%) were positive for anti-T. gondii
      antibodies. Till now there is no screening program in Egypt for toxoplasmosis in cancer
      patients although recently demonstrated to be at high risk for acquiring the infection with
      life-threatening sequelae.

      Despite the significant improvements in serological methods, there are still unresolvable
      limitations such as inability of these methods to confirm the presence of parasite in
      immunocompromised patients. To overcome these limitations, different molecular methods
      including conventional PCR (cn PCR), nested PCR, real-time PCR (qPCR) and also loop-mediated
      isothermal amplification (LAMP) techniques have been developed to detect T. gondii DNA in
      biological samples.

      As molecular diagnosis is not depending on the immunological condition of the host, it would
      be ideal for cancer patients. The ability of molecular methods to detect low amounts of
      parasites in fluids or tissues is a key issue, as Toxoplasma can circulate at low
      concentrations, or inconstantly.

      T. gondii has been considered a single species in the genus Toxoplasma. Early studies on the
      parasite strains from North America and Europe identified limited genetic diversity, which
      were classified into three clonal lineages I, II, and III.

      Genotyping of isolates from all continents revealed a complex population structure. Recent
      research supports the notion that T. gondii genotype may be associated with disease severity.
      The outcome of toxoplasmosis is related primarily to host and parasite genetics.

      The first PCR technique for T. gondii detection was established by Burg and colleagues in
      which the 35-repeat B1 gene of T. gondii genome was amplified. Following it, several
      multi-copy targeting genes including 18S rRNA-, P30-,529-bp repeat fragment or the AF146527
      element have been used for the detection of T. gondii in different biological samples.

      In spite of the growing data concerning T. gondii genotypes and its role in epidemiological
      and biological studies,very few studies have been reported in Egypt until now. It is
      essential to genetically define and characterize T. gondii strains isolated from cancer
      patients to understand the population genetic structure, population biology, and pathogenesis
      of this important pathogen in our locality using the highly sensitive molecular techniques.

      To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study in Egypt to reveal the population
      structure of T. gondii in patients with cancer.
    
  