
    
      This is a single arm, single agent, open label, exploratory translational research study in
      patients with unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma being treated with Pembrolizumab.
      Suitable patients will undergo serial surgical core biopsies (nonradiological) of
      subcutaneous or lymph node metastases (as judged by an Oncological Surgical Consultant). As a
      primary endpoint, the investigators will assess the safety and feasibility of undergoing
      these biopsies within the patient cohort. A total of forty patients will be recruited over a
      period of two years.

      Patients who have provided consent and satisfied the eligibility criteria will undergo
      baseline CT scanning and peripheral blood sampling. At baseline, biopsies of suitable
      metastatic lesions will be undertaken and samples sent for histopathological assessment and
      analysis of molecular and immune parameters. Participants will be treated with Pembrolizumab,
      200mg, intravenously, every 3 weeks. At 6 weeks following commencement of Pembrolizumab
      therapy, a further biopsy or excision of metastatic disease will be performed, unless
      considered no longer possible on the basis of a near or complete response to treatment. Blood
      sampling will be performed prior to each cycle and repeat CT scanning will occur every 9
      weeks. Response evaluations will be performed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. Pembrolizumab
      will be continued as long as study participants are deriving benefit and further biopsies of
      progressing lesions will be performed where possible.

      The investigators aim to evaluate the safety and feasibility of obtaining serial tumour
      biopsies or excisions of metastatic disease during treatment with Pembrolizumab with
      exploration of the i) mechanistic activity of Pembrolizumab, ii) identification of
      intratumoural and peripheral factors limiting response, iii) identification of candidate
      predictive biomarker panels based on (i) and (ii) and iii) use of circulating free DNA
      (cfDNA) as a surrogate marker of response and guide to duration of therapy.
    
  