
    
      There has been a rapid increase in marijuana use during the 1990s, with the most recent
      generation often smoking marijuana in the form of 'blunts' as opposed to more traditional
      routes such as in pipes or in cigarette paper. A blunt is made by removing the tobacco from a
      cigar and replacing it with marijuana (Golub and Johnson, 1999). The cigar wrapper contains
      tobacco and nicotine, which may interact with the cardiovascular and subjective effects of
      the marijuana to produce a different set of effects and risks than cigarette paper.
      Anecdotally, marijuana smokers report that blunts are more potent than joints, yet there have
      been no controlled studies addressing whether blunts enhance the subjective-effects and
      health-related consequences of marijuana use. We are proposing to do a within-subject,
      placebo-controlled study directly comparing the cardiovascular, subjective and
      pharmacokinetic effects of marijuana smoked in blunts compared to identical quantities of
      marijuana smoked in cigarette paper. Research volunteers will be current blunt smokers. Each
      will participate in six, 4-hour outpatient sessions. After baseline data have been collected
      (heart rate, blood pressure, mood scales, exhaled carbon monoxide, plasma THC and nicotine
      levels), participants will take 3 puffs, 5 seconds in duration, from a NIDA marijuana
      cigarette containing 0.0, 1.8 and 3.6% THC or from a blunt containing an equivalent quantity
      and strength of marijuana. Participants will be blind to the type of marijuana cigarette
      smoked. We will measure plasma THC and nicotine, subjective mood ratings, and heart rate and
      blood pressure repeatedly over the course of 180 minutes following smoking. This study is the
      first controlled investigation of the consequences of this new method of marijuana smoking;
      the data obtained may be useful in guiding future development of marijuana pharmacotherapy.
    
  