
    
      Anxious patients treated with even the best currently available anti-anxiety drugs continue
      to experience significant symptoms.

      A variety of basic science, animal studies, and human studies support the idea that the
      neuropeptide oxytocin may be effective against anxiety in humans. For example, plasma
      oxytocin levels may function as an index of central serotonin (5-HT) function in human
      subjects, and serotonin is well-known to be involved in clinical anxiety disorders. Since
      oxytocin is released directly from limbic-hypothalamic cells, this response presumably
      represents a direct central assessment of 5-HT response in limbic-hypothalamus (Lee 2003). In
      animal models, Ring 2006 examined the effects of oxytocin on both behavioral and autonomic
      parameters of the anxiety response in male mice using three pharmacologically validated
      preclinical models of anxiety: the four-plate test (FPT), elevated zero maze (EZM), and
      stress-induced hyperthermia (SIH). The results from this study provide specific behavioral
      and autonomic evidence of anxiolytic-like effects for oxytocin. In primates, Emiliano et al
      2007 found support for the idea that that SSRIs' therapeutic effects on social affiliation
      and anxiety may be mediated in part through components of the oxytocin system. Human studies
      include Kosfeld et al (2005), who demonstrated that oxytocin administered intranasally to
      healthy human subjects in a double-blind, placebo controlled study increased levels of trust.
      As well, Kirsch et al (2005) showed that intranasal oxytocin reduced activation of brain
      circuits involved in fear in human subjects. Finally, Scantamburlo (2007) showed a
      significant negative correlation between oxytocin and the scored symptoms depression and
      anxiety. These studies clearly suggest the potential utility of OTR agonism as a
      therapeutically relevant mechanism of action for novel anxiolytics in both sexes.

      Each subject will be enrolled for 6 week treatment period after a screening phase. Study
      procedures involve weekly clinic visits as an outpatient. Forty patients will be randomly
      assigned to either 40 International Units (IU) oxytocin twice daily or vehicle placebo. After
      3 weeks, treatments will be crossed over such that subjects that received oxytocin will
      receive placebo and vice versa. The study ratio is 1:1. Dose of oxytocin is based upon
      previous studies in humans showing improvement in psychiatric populations related changes in
      behavior and brain function (Kosfeld et al, 2005; Kirsch 2005; Heinrich M 2003).

      The total study duration for each individual subject will be approximately 7 weeks, which
      includes up to 21-day screening/wash-out period, a baseline (randomization) visit, three week
      treatment period, 1 week washout, baseline, and three weeks cross over treatment.
    
  