
    
      Assess the effects of combining regular, generous intakes of high quality protein (primarily
      from lean pork and other animal source proteins) with calorie restriction on functional
      status and lean muscle mass in frail, obese, women who participate in a 6 month intervention
      and 9 month intervention.

      For 6 month intervention: Participants will be randomized into one of two study arms: Weight
      Loss Control (n = 20) subjects follow a calorie-reduced diet for a weight loss or ≥10%; or
      Weight Loss-High Protein: (n = 40) subjects follow a calorie-reduction diet for a weight loss
      of ≥10%, with a high proportion of high quality protein at each meal. Intakes of > 30g of
      high quality protein will be achieved three times a day by subjects in this group,
      predominantly all from animal sources and 60-70% of animal protein from pork. Subject
      criteria will include obese (>30 kg/m2) women (≥ 45 yrs.) with mild to moderate functional
      impairment (by 6 minute walk).

      For 9 month intervention: Participants will be randomized into one of two study arms: Weight
      Loss Control (n = 10) subjects follow a calorie-reduced diet for a weight loss or ≥10%; or
      Weight Loss-High Protein: (n = 10) subjects follow a calorie-reduction diet for a weight loss
      of ≥10%, with a high proportion of high quality protein at each meal. Intakes of > 30g of
      high quality protein will be achieved three times a day by subjects in this group,
      predominantly all from animal sources and 60-70% of animal protein from pork. Subject
      criteria will include obese (≥ 30 kg/m2) women (≥ 60 yrs.) with mild to moderate functional
      impairment (by 6 minute walk).

      This is a randomized clinical trial with repeated measurements, with the purpose of assessing
      change over time for the overall sample and the difference in the High Protein group relative
      to the Control group with regards to primary outcomes (function and lean body mass). The
      statistical analyses will proceed chronologically in 3 phases: 1) descriptive analyses that
      will summarize the distribution of the covariates and dependent variables, 2) bivariate
      analyses of the association between group membership and the outcome measures, and 3)
      controlled multivariable analyses, which assess the association between experimental group
      and the outcomes, controlling for the important covariates.
    
  