
    
      Up to 50 sites are proposed in Japan and the United States to enroll 286 subjects (271
      evaluable) in each of 2 arms, for a total sample size of 572 subjects (542 evaluable) who are
      admitted to the hospital for a planned (elective and urgent) percutaneous coronary artery
      intervention procedure.

      After stent implantation, subjects will be contacted for follow-up at 30 days; 6 months; and
      1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years. At 12 months a clinical evaluation will be completed before cardiac
      catheterization and angiographic assessment.

      Rationale: This study is intended to demonstrate that the Combo stent platform shows
      superiority to an imputed Bare Metal Stent (BMS) performance goal, noninferior effectiveness
      and safety vs best-in-class second-generation everolimus-eluting stent (EES) (Xience V,
      Xience Prime, Xience Xpedition stents; [Abbott Vascular/Abbott Vascular Japan]), and evidence
      of mechanistic activity of the anti-CD34-Ab endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) capture
      technology with healthy level of intimal tissue coverage superior to that of the
      best-in-class EES.

      To ensure the robustness and interpretability of results, the current proposal includes a
      number of unique design features:

        -  Largest randomized Drug-Eluting Stent (DES) study ever performed in Japan

        -  Enriched population, including stabilized Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction
           (NSTEMI) subjects with greater likelihood of plaque rupture associated with their
           clinical syndromes

        -  Collaboration between with Japan and the United States as a "Proof of Concept" program
           under the auspices of the Harmonization by Doing Initiative, Working Group 1 (WG 1),
           including concomitant enrollment in U.S.A. sites as an FDA-approved Investigational
           Device Exemption (IDE) study

        -  Head-to-head randomization against state-of-the-art EES platform control, analyzed for
           clinical noninferiority

        -  Statistical analysis vs imputed BMS analyzed for clinical superiority

        -  Fractional flow reserve (FFR) follow-up of 100% of subjects enrolled, providing
           clinically relevant physiologic assessment of all subjects for 1 year ischemia-driven
           Target Vessel Revascularization (TVR) analysis

        -  Mechanistic Optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging observations in 140 subjects
           using 6 French catheters as follows:

             -  Cohort A (30 subjects, 1:1 Combo and EES): Mechanistic imaging observations to
                provide serial 6 month and 1 year OCT evaluation of healthy intimal tissue
                coverage, intracoronary thrombosis, and stent malapposition and quantitative
                coronary angiographic (QCA) analysis to assess 1 year late loss.

             -  Cohort B (110 subjects, 1:1 Combo and EES): Mechanistic imaging observations to
                assess 1 year OCT evaluation of healthy intimal tissue coverage, intracoronary
                thrombosis, and stent malapposition, and QCA analysis to assess 1 year late loss.
                Combined with the 12 month imaging of Cohort A, this study will provide OCT and QCA
                observations at 1 year in 140 patients, half with Combo and half with EES.

             -  Cohort C: 432 subjects (216 subjects per arm) will undergo all clinical follow-up
                assessments with FFR and angiographic assessments at 12 months. Cohort C will be
                the last cohort to enroll.

        -  In the 110 subjects in Cohort B, 30 day and 1 year human antimurine antibody (HAMA)
           titers will also be collected.
    
  