
    
      This protocol will test a humanized monoclonal antibody known as Campath-1H for its ability
      to induce a state of permanent allograft acceptance, or tolerance, when administered in
      combination with a brief course of the immunosuppressive drug deoxyspergualin (DSG) at the
      time of human renal allotransplantation. Campath-1H is specific for the common lymphocyte and
      monocyte antigen CD52. Its administration temporarily depletes mature lymphocytes and some
      monocytes without altering neutrophils or hematopoietic stem cells. Deoxyspergualin inhibits
      the Rel-B/ NFkB pathway thus preventing monocyte and macrophage activation. Extensive
      preliminary data have been accumulated in humans using Campath-1H and its non-humanized
      predecessors. Additionally, data have been generated using a similar depleting scheme with
      and without DSG in non-human primates. Both the human and non-human primate data suggest that
      profound mature mononuclear cell depletion establishes a window of opportunity during which
      foreign tissue can be transplanted without the need for additional immunosuppression.
      Regulatory events occuring during mature cell repopulation in the presence of allografted
      tissue created a state in which the graft may not be rejected even in the absence of chronic
      immunosuppression.

      Recipients of living or cadaveric donor kidneys will be treated with one dose of Campath-1H
      prior to transplantation to insure that peripheral depletion is achieved at the time of graft
      reperfusion. Three subsequent doses of Campath-1H will be administered on the first, third
      and fifth days after the transplant to deplete passenger donor leukocytes and residual
      recipient cells that mobilize in response to the allograft. In addition, patients will be
      treated with DSG 4mg/kg/d x 1 beginning on day 12 and then 2.5 mg/kg/d for an additional 13
      days. This trial expands on pilot studies at the NIH of 17 patients in which Campath was
      dosed both prior to and after transplantation with and without DSG. In those studies,
      excellent peripheral depletion occured after just one dose of Campath though central
      depletion required additional dosing. Thus, the goal of pre-reperfusion depletion can be
      achieved with a single pre-operative dose but thorough depletion requires additional
      post-operative dosing. Lasting rejection-free survival was not realized without the addition
      of some, albeit reduced immunosuppression. This is thought to be due to residual
      post-operative monocytes that infiltrated the allograft causing modest reversible allograft
      dysfunction. The current dosing regimen with DSG is thus designed to accomplish both
      pre-operative depletion, and more thorough post operative elimination of donor and recipient
      cells mobilizing as a result of reperfusion, combined with therapy aimed at preventing the
      activation of monocytes that escape depletion. The timing of the DSG is meant to correspond
      with the peripheral repopulation of monocytes seen in previous patients.

      Patients will be followed closely in the post transplant period for evidence of a detrimental
      immune response to the allograft. In the previous patients experiencing graft directed
      immunity the graft dysfunction was preceded by a rise in activated monocytes in the
      peripheral blood and augmented transcription of the cytokine Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha
      (TNF-a) in the allograft. This syndrome has been resistant to treatment with the TNF-a
      sequestrant Infliximab and is now thought to require more comprehensive monocyte directed
      therapy. If patients progress and graft dysfunction occurs, patients will be treated with
      methylprednisolone and have immunosuppression added using sirolimus as the predominant
      immunosuppressive agent. This maneuver has in all cases been successful in returning the
      allograft to normal function. Sirolimus has been chosen since it does not act by interfering
      with specific T cell receptor function, and thus, provides immunosuppressive coverage during
      cell repopulation without interfering with the antigen specific T cell events important for
      tolerance induction. Non-human primate and human clinical data support both of these
      approaches.

      In addition to evaluating graft and patient outcome following transplantation, this protocol
      will also characterize and evaluate the function of the immune system and the composition of
      the T cell repertoire following the administration of Campath-1H and DSG, and during immune
      system recovery after transplantation.
    
  