
    
      In the US, men who have sex with men (MSM) comprise the largest proportion of new HIV
      infections, with black MSM being infected at significantly higher rates. Differences in
      sexual-risk behaviors and substance use do not explain the disproportionate HIV rates by race
      among MSM. The most likely explanations are low frequency of HIV testing, high HIV prevalence
      within sexual networks, high prevalence of other sexual transmitted infections (STIs), and
      barriers to health care access and HIV/STI treatment. These result in later diagnoses of
      HIV-infected men, more frequent STIs, and fewer HIV-infected men having access to care.

      The purpose of this study is to gather information on the achievability and acceptability of
      the following interventions:

      A.) Referral of up to five sexual partners by index participants for enrollment into the
      study B.) Counseling and testing for HIV C.) Counseling and testing for other STIs D.)
      Counseling and referral for care offered to participants for issues such as substance use and
      mental health.

      E.) Engagement with peer health care system navigators (PHNs) to facilitate uptake of health
      care and other services.

      These interventions are designed to impact several factors related to the HIV epidemic among
      black MSM. At the individual level, the interventions will address personal risk factors for
      either acquiring or transmitting HIV, including identifying undiagnosed HIV or STI
      infections, and helping participants to reduce risk-behaviors, such as those influenced by
      drugs and alcohol. The interventions are also designed to have an impact at the population
      level. If successful, they will lower the viral load in HIV-infected men by identifying those
      who qualify for HIV treatment and intervening to increase treatment and access to healthcare.
      Overall, the study investigators propose that by lowering both the proportion of men with
      undiagnosed HIV infection and those with chronic, untreated infection, the rates of HIV
      transmission will be reduced among the black MSM population. This is a feasibility study,
      designed to provide estimates about the potential effectiveness of these interventions. These
      estimates will then be used to determine whether a large-scale trial of the interventions
      would be successful.

      Approximately 2418 total participants will be enrolled into the study at six different sites.
      Participants will be enrolled in one of two ways: either directly from the community, or
      referred by other participants (sexual network partners). The total duration of the study
      will be two years. This includes 12 months for participant accrual and 12 months of follow-up
      for each participant. All participants will have an enrollment visit, during which he will
      complete a questionnaire covering topics such as sexual risk behaviors, drug and/or alcohol
      use, current and prior engagement with the health care system, barriers to HIV care, unmet
      service needs, frequented venues, attitudes about race, sexual history, research, and health
      care. Participants will also be asked to enumerate 5 social and 10 sexual network members
      (age, race, HIV status), information which will be used to better understand the
      characteristics of black MSM social and sexual networks.

      Participants will be offered HIV and STI testing and counseling. Those with reactive HIV
      rapid test results will have HIV infection confirmed by Western blot and will have a CD4 cell
      count and viral load test performed. Counselors will provide post-test HIV participants
      counseling to those who have had HIV rapid test performed and will schedule all participants
      to return to the clinic approximately two weeks later to receive additional test results. The
      counselor will also discuss the participant's engagement in health care, and will determine
      the participant's health and other service needs. The counselor will also inquire about
      homophobic or partner violence and provide any care referrals if needed. Additionally, risk
      reduction counseling will be provided.

      Study participation will end after the initial visit for three groups of participants. These
      groups include those who have: A.) an HIV-positive diagnosis prior to screening for this
      study and are either in care (have seen a health care provider for HIV-related care in the
      last six months)or who have unprotected sex only with HIV-infected partners. B.)
      HIV-uninfected participants enrolled after the site's 200 person cap for this category, and
      C.) participants who refuse HIV testing after the site's fist 20 participants in this
      category have been enrolled. Participants who fall into the categories listed above will
      provide only baseline cross-sectional data.

      All other participants will then have the counselor explain about peer health care system
      navigation and introduce the participant to the PHN. The PHN will meet with the participant
      and schedule an initial discussion, unless the participant does not have any need for the
      navigation, in which case the PHN will plan to call after a few weeks to check for any
      emerging needs. The PHN will interact with the participant on a schedule that is independent
      of the study visit schedule and is determined by the participant's needs. The PHN's role will
      be to help the participant overcome his barriers to health care through a number of
      activities.

      Follow-up visits are scheduled infrequently, so participants may be contacted periodically
      between visits to stay in touch and provide updated locator information. Visits will include
      the completion of a questionnaire, HIV testing for those who were not infected at the prior
      visit, with confirmation and follow-up tests if necessary. A viral load test will be
      performed for HIV-infected participants at the time of diagnosis and again at 52 weeks. All
      participants will receive STI counseling and testing at 26 and 52 weeks. Participants will
      receive counseling to include risk reduction counseling and pre- and post- test counseling,
      as needed. Participants will also be counseled for issues such as mental health and substance
      use and referred for care as appropriate. Participants will be asked to report any STI or HIV
      diagnoses they receive between visits and to provide documentation of diagnoses. Plasma
      specimens for testing will also be collected from all participants at all visits.

      In order to collect additional information on the black MSM population, interviews and focus
      groups will also be a component in this study. Focus group meetings will be approximately 1.5
      to 2 hours long and will be conducted at locations that allow for privacy and
      confidentiality. Interviews will last for between 60 to 90 minutes and will be conducted with
      individual participants. Interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed.
    
  