
    
      In the evaluation of patients with possible acute coronary syndrome, serum troponin
      measurement is a critical determinant of myocardial necrosis. The recent implementation of
      high-sensitivity troponin assays allows detection of lower levels of serum troponin than
      possible with less sensitive predecessors. As a result, 30% more patients are diagnosed with
      myocardial injury but the optimal management of these patients is unclear. Guidelines from
      the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology recommend an invasive
      management strategy (Class 1a) but acknowledge that data supporting an invasive strategy were
      based on less sensitive troponin assays than those available today. Clinical trials of an
      invasive strategy in patients with detectable to minimally elevated troponin values
      demonstrate conflicting results. Observational data suggest aggressive medical therapy rather
      than increased use of revascularization drives improved outcomes in these patients.
      Meanwhile, these patients with minimally elevated serum troponin values have experienced a
      near doubling in the rate of invasive angiography. In short, it is uncertain whether patients
      with detectable to minimally elevated troponin results benefit from current invasive-based
      care strategies. As an alternative, cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is highly
      accurate for detecting significant coronary disease and the need for coronary
      revascularization.

      Objectives: The broad, long-term objective is to improve outcomes by optimizing healthcare
      delivery processes for patients with detectable to elevated serum troponin. To achieve this
      goal, we propose a clinical trial (n=312) involving emergency department patients with
      intermediate to high-risk chest pain and detectable to minimally elevated serum troponin
      within 6 hours of evaluation.

      Methods: Participants will be randomized to one of two care strategies: a) invasive-based
      guideline-adherent strategy, or b) CMR-guided. Outcomes will be assessed over an average of
      2.3 years. The specific aims of this proposal are 1) Test whether a CMR-guided strategy
      (versus invasive-based guideline-adherent strategy) reduces the composite of death, nonfatal
      myocardial infarction, and cardiac-related hospital readmission over the study duration, and
      2) Test whether a CMR-guided strategy (versus invasive-based guideline-adherent strategy)
      reduces invasive angiography, coronary revascularization, recurrent cardiac testing, and
      cardiac-related emergency department visits.
    
  