
    
      Richter's Syndrome (RS) is a high-grade transformation that occurs in 5-15% of patients with
      B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). RS is a complication of B-CLL in which the
      leukemia changes into a fast-growing diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The pathogenesis
      (mechanism by which the disease is caused) of RS is poorly understood and predictors of
      transformation and response to treatment are unknown. Management of RS remains
      unsatisfactory; the mean overall survival of patients treated with conventional
      chemo-immunotherapy such as CHOP-R is 8 months from the end of treatment.

      CHOP is the acronym for a chemotherapy regimen, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin
      (doxorubicin), Oncovin (vincristine), and prednisone/prednisolone) and the R stands for the
      monoclonal antibody, Rituximab. Ofatumumab, a next generation monoclonal anti CD20 antibody,
      has proven single agent activity in relapsed/refractory B-CLL and other non-Hodgkin
      lymphomas. In addition, it has shown a favourable safety profile in the maintenance setting.

      Therefore, we propose to evaluate Ofatumumab in combination with CHOP in induction and
      maintenance treatment of patients with RS.

      The primary objective of the study will be to evaluate overall response rate (ORR) to CHOP-O
      (CHOP chemotherapy plus Ofatumumab) according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant
      Lymphoma (Cheson).

      Secondary objectives will be feasibility of recruitment, progression free survival and
      overall survival, the clinical benefit and changes in patient reported outcome measures,
      safety and tolerability.

      This is a multi-centre non-randomised Phase II National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI)
      feasibility study in 35 patients with newly diagnosed Richter's Syndrome in the UK. CHOP-O
      will be given for six cycles followed by six cycles of Ofatumumab maintenance treatment every
      eight weeks and a three months follow-up period. The total duration of recruitment will be 24
      months starting from the opening of the first site.
    
  