
    
      As use of inotropes is highly variable between anesthesiologists, the investigators want to
      study if the choice of the inotropic drugs have an impact on morbid-mortality in paediatric
      cardiac surgery.

      The investigators will retrospectively review the files from patients operated from january
      2008 to December 2018. The investigators will concentrate on high risk patients defined as
      age ≤ 1 year, RACHS score ≥ 3 and complex heart surgery (Switch procedure, atrioventricular
      canal defect, aortic coarctation or aortic arch interruption, truncus arteriosus, mitral
      valvuloplasty). The investigators aim for a study population of about 250 patients. Primary
      outcome will be MODS score defined by death or 2 organ dysfunction (circulatory, respiratory
      or renal failure).

      Statistical analysis:

      One propensity score will be performed on two groups: Dobu and Milri. After 15 multiple
      imputations of the datasets using the mice R package, the CBPS R package will be used to
      perform the propensity score, estimating an Average Treatment Effect (ATE), using covariate
      balancing and requesting an exact match, which has been showed to be superior to traditional
      logistic regression approaches and boosted classification and regression trees . An absolute
      standardized difference less than 10-15% will be considered to support the assumption of
      balance between the groups because it is not affected by the sample size, unlike P-values,
      and it may be used to compare the relative balance of variables measured in different units.
      The mean and standard deviation obtained after matching for continuous variables, and the
      percentage for categorical variables will be presented. After the propensity score, the
      investigators will use the survey R package to perform logistic regressions for binary
      outcome variables and linear regressions for continuous outcomes, which will include the
      treatment group effect, the weight resulting from the matching and variables present in the
      propensity score in order to obtain a doubly-robust estimator which will correct the last
      remaining possible imbalance between the covariates and produces an unbiased treatment
      effect. The survey R package includes the Huber-White corrected standard errors, which
      maintains the standard errors unbiased even under heterogeneity of the residuals. Last, the
      advantage of a doubly-robust estimator is that it needs only one of the two models
      (propensity score and logistic regression after the propensity score) to be correctly
      specified. The so-called 'within approach', that is averaging the treatment effects on the 15
      logistic and linear regressions has been showed to produce less biased estimates than the
      'Across approach' - that is, performing linear or logistic regressions on averaged imputed
      matched datasets - especially when missing data is related to the treatment group. The R
      software (R Core Team, 2019), version 3.6.2. will be used to produce the results.
    
  