
    
      Methodology summary: Single-arm, longitudinal, retrospective, multi-centre cohort study. A
      collaboration of Australian Interventional Neuroradiologists will create a data bank of
      existing clinical and angiographic data extracted from medical records review. The data
      collection variables are pre-specified using grading scales and clinical assessment with the
      greatest reliability or significant to to accurately represent patient cohorts receiving
      treatment within all indications of use. The study will establish a minimum dataset to
      collect patient socio-demographics, aneurysm characteristics, device characteristics, and
      clinical outcomes for up to 500 procedures completed using Pipeline™ Flex Embolization Device
      with Shield Technology™. A framework for data ab The prevalence, severity and outcomes of
      neurological adverse events of interest and bleeding events will be reported . Independent
      physician assessments of complete aneurysm occlusion from completed computed tomography scans
      (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans and Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA)
      procedures will be determined according to the Raymond Roy Occlusion Classification (MRRC),
      O'Kelly Marotta scale (OKM) for aneurysm occlusion using flow diverting devices and the
      Consensus grading scale for endovascular aneurysm occlusion up to 12 months post procedure.
      Assessments of wall apposition and in-stent stenosis (ISS) will also be completed.

      Quality Assurance plan includes - Framework data abstraction - manual of procedures, data
      dictionary, data abstraction manual, desired inter-rater reliability +0.80; intrarater
      reliability, intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) 0.75 - 0.9;

      Medical imaging review assessed by assess aneurysm occlusion by an independent interventional
      neuroradiologist or a local physician operator that did not complete the primary procedure.
      Physician level of agreement - interrater reliability to be reported;

      Independent physician review of all post-op strokes (ischaemic, haemorrhagic) cases to
      determine aetiology/mechanism;

      Study personnel training; Site visits; remote data monitoring, data audits.

      Statistical analysis plan include descriptive statistics and regression models to report
      prevalence, mortality, time-to-event analyses and estimations of risk; Counts of medical
      records with insufficient data for analysis or where the patient is identified as 'lost
      follow-up', this will be reported.
    
  