
    
      The treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection has dramatically advanced in recent
      years, with the availability of multiple interferon-free treatment regimens that result in
      cure in over 95% of treatment naïve individuals with 8 -12 weeks of therapy. Despite these
      advances, however, the natural history and treatment of HCV remains undefined in several
      populations, including pregnancy. In particular, rates of vertical (mother to child)
      transmission, perinatal and neonatal morbidity, assessment of disease severity (fibrosis) in
      pregnancy and timing of treatment are not well understood.

      At least 2.3 million people in the United States and 185 million people worldwide are
      believed to have chronic HCV infection, although as it is frequently asymptomatic until the
      development of end-stage liver disease (ESLD), this may be a significant underestimate.
      Between 2012 and 2014 the HCV detection rate among women of childbearing age increased by 22%
      nationally and over 200% in Kentucky, while the proportion of children born to HCV infected
      women increased 68% nationally and 128% in Kentucky.

      Currently, in the United States, the overall rate of children born to HCV infected women is
      3.4 per 1,000 live births, with the highest rate in West Virginia, with 22.4 per 1,000 live
      births occurring to HCV-infected women. Overall, the number of HCV infected reproductive age
      women has doubled from 2006 to 2014, with an estimated 29,000 HCV infected women giving birth
      and 1,700 infants vertically infected each year, according to previous estimates of vertical
      transmission.The true incidence of vertical transmission of HCV is unknown, although the most
      commonly cited meta-analysis reported a mean transmission rate of 5.8% in HIV-negative women
      and 10.8% in HIV-positive women.

      The timing of vertical transmission is also not well characterized. There is limited data
      regarding the course of chronic hepatitis C during pregnancy, HCV viral loads appear to peak
      during third trimester. Both utero and peripartum transmission appear possible, while
      breastfeeding does not appear to be a risk factor. It appears that between 80 and 90% of
      children who acquire hepatitis C via vertical transmission will develop chronic infection.
      However, as sequelae of infection are not commonly observed in childhood, and appropriate
      testing of exposed children is poor, this may not be a true reflection of actual prevalence.

      The current AASLD/IDSA HCV Guidelines recommend all children born to HCV infected women be
      tested, but they do not specify when or in what manner.

      Maternal HCV infection has been shown to contribute to worsened perinatal and neonatal
      outcomes in the absence of vertical transmission. It is associated with increased rates of
      intrauterine fetal death, preterm delivery, low birth rate, increased risk for adverse
      neonatal neurological outcomes, increased infant feeding difficulties and subsequent maternal
      infertility.

      Although there is sufficient time between the end of the first trimester and delivery to
      provide curative therapy during pregnancy, no safety studies in pregnancy have been done.
      Therefore, this study will offer curative DAA therapy to HCV infected Moms with the fixed
      dose combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir (SOF/VEL) after the cessation of breastfeeding.
      This combination of sofosbuvir, a nucleotide inhibitor of the NS5B RNA-dependent RNA
      polymerase, and velpatasvir, an inhibitor of the NS5A transcriptional activator, is approved
      for the treatment of chronic HCV infection due to genotypes 1 through 6.

      Given the gaps in the investigator's understanding of HCV vertical transmission rates,
      HCV-associated perinatal complications, and marked increases in both the number of women with
      chronic HCV infection giving birth and the number of children under two years old testing
      positive for HCV, this study will help to both better characterize the natural history of HCV
      in pregnancy and ultimately, to facilitate its elimination when women are screened for
      chronic HCV as part of routine gynecologic care and are offered curative therapy prior to
      conception (or as part of prenatal care and when dosing during pregnancy can be safely
      undertaken).

      All participants will be offered curative therapy with sofosbuvir/velpatasvir (Epclusa ®)
      after delivery and the cessation of breastfeeding. Subjects may be enrolled at any time after
      conception up through 36 weeks gestation. The management of subjects in pregnancy will be in
      accordance with ACOG guidelines and individual clinical judgment, however testing will
      include, but not be limited to, testing for HCV infection, HIV infection, HBV infection, HSV
      infection, group B Streptococcal colonization, HCV genotype, HCV viral load, as well as
      assessment of hepatic and renal function. Staging of hepatic fibrosis must be performed
      within 12 months prior to initiation of SOF/VEL. Acceptable methods of staging include
      transient elastography or liver biopsy. If elastography is performed, it must be performed
      either prior to pregnancy or at least 12 weeks following delivery, due to pregnancy-related
      changes in hepatic stiffness. Subjects will be followed on a schedule that is determined by
      their obstetric care providers throughout their pregnancy. Data from clinical and laboratory
      records regarding the participants pregnancy and delivery, and their infant's medical record
      from the infant's pediatrician from birth to 12 months of age will be collected. Following
      delivery, infants will be evaluated at 12, 24 and 48 weeks of age, with testing for HCV RNA
      to be obtained at each evaluation. Vertical transmission is defined as two positive HCV RNA
      PCR tests, at least one before the 48 week visit, and again at the 12-month follow-up infant
      visit.At 24 weeks following delivery, participants will begin therapy with
      sofosbuvir/velpatasvir (SOF/VEL) once daily for 12 weeks. Therapy will not be initiated until
      cessation of breastfeeding. Participants will be evaluated at the initiation of SOF/VEL
      therapy, at 4 and 8 weeks after starting therapy, as well as 12 weeks following completion of
      therapy for determination of SVR-12. Quantitative measurement of HCV RNA will be obtained at
      each visit, as well as evaluation of renal and hepatic function.
    
  