
    
      Development of pulmonary hypertension (PH) in chronic lung diseases has both functional and
      prognostic implications .

      PH in Lung diseases is usually mild to moderate with preserved cardiac output, and evolves
      slowly alongside the progression of lung disease and hypoxemia .

      However, a minority of patients develop severe PH with elevations in pulmonary artery
      pressure that have been described as ''out of proportion'' to the underlying disease .

      Hypotheses for the etiology of this phenotype include greater susceptibility to alveolar
      hypoxia and/or tobacco smoke , destruction of the capillary vascular bed , inflammatory
      factors initiating remodeling of the pulmonary vascular bed or the coexistence of idiopathic
      pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) in patients with lung disease .

      Severe PH-lung disease has been arbitrarily defined by a resting mean pulmonary artery
      pressure (PAP) ≥35 mmHg by RHC . The high and increasing prevalence of chronic lung diseases
      and the substantial consequences of developing severe PH have generated increasing interest
      in PH-lung diseases.

      Pulmonary vascular research unit at Chest department at Kasr-Alani school of Medicine
      delivers regional, adult PH service to a population with a chronic lung disease.

      The aim of this study is to compare the characteristics and outcomes of consecutive patients
      with PH-due to lung diseases diagnosed at our specialist referral center over a 1-year
      period.

      Patients diagnosed as chronic lung diseases( COPD,ILD,OSA,Sarcoidosis) will be recruited from
      out-patient's clinics & inpatients wards of Internal medicine & Chest departments, Kasr
      Al-ainy hospital (from June 2016 to May 2015) A written informed consent matching with
      Helsinki declaration will be taken from all patients.

      2.2 Study methods:

      All the enrolled patients will go through the following basically:

        1. Detailed standard Demographic & clinical parameters.

        2. Assessment of exercise tolerance (6 MWD & WHO functional capacity)

        3. Assessment of pulmonary function by PFTs.

        4. ECG: (Right ventricular strain,Right axis deviation,Right bundle branch block,& Left
           side changes 0

        5. Echocardiographic evaluation for PAH: ( Right atrial area ,Right ventricular area
           ,Tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity (TR) ,Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion)

        6. Radiography: including chest X-ray, HRCT chest, V/Q scan& CT angiography if needed

      10. RT sided heart catheterization:

        -  mPAP

        -  PCWP

        -  PVR

        -  CARDIAC INDEX 11. Statistical analysis: ……..

      The subjects will be classified according to RHC into either

        -  Non PAH groups mPAP ≤ 21mmHG

        -  PAH mPAP≥ 25 mmHG:

             -  Severe PH-lung diseases mPAP ≥ 35 mmgh
    
  