
    
      Sudden cardiac death accounts for approximately 400,000 deaths each year in the United States
      and remains a health problem of epidemic proportions. Most sudden cardiac deaths are caused
      by fatal ventricular arrhythmias. An effort aimed at the primary prevention of sudden cardiac
      death requires efficient identification of patients who are at high enough risk for having
      these arrhythmias to warrant aggressive prophylactic therapy. A number of recently completed,
      randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that an implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD)
      can prevent sudden cardiac death in a highly selected group of high-risk patients. When these
      trials are viewed together, the only patients in whom the prophylactic implantation of an ICD
      has proven benefit are those patients identified by documented, spontaneous or inducible,
      sustained ventricular arrhythmias.

      Two randomized treatment trials (MADIT II, SCD-HEFT) tested the hypothesis that implantation
      of an ICD would reduce mortality in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and left
      ventricular dysfunction without any further risk tratification. However, the implications of
      these two trials-implantation of an ICD in every patient with CHF-were unlikely to be
      accepted either by the medical community or by health care payers. More efficient methods of
      risk stratification were necessary to identify those patients with CHF who were most likely
      to benefit from prophylactic treatment with an ICD.

      T Wave Alternans is a subtle every-other-beat variation in electrocardiographic T waves that
      is prognostic of patients at high risk for life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias and sudden
      cardiac death. It has recently been shown that T Wave Alternans (TWA) measured during
      exercise is strongly associated with inducible monomorphic CVT and with subsequent
      spontaneous arrhythmic events. This preliminary data suggest that TWA may be an efficient and
      non-invasive surrogate for electrophysiologic testing to screen patients who may be at
      high-risk for sudden cardiac death.
    
  