
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Dry Needling (DN) is an invasive technique widely used in the Physiotherapy field, on which
      numerous studies have recently been published. The vast majority of these studies focus on
      the action of DN on the muscular element: the well-known myofascial trigger points. According
      to what Dunning proposed in 2014, it should not ignore and/or underestimate its action on the
      connective-fascial tissue, the other aspect of a single, unique and indivisible functional
      whole: the myofascia.

      In the field of acupuncture, numerous studies have been conducted to determine the role
      played by the fascia in the therapeutic phenomenon that begins when working with a needle.
      Among these, mention in particular the studies of Dr. H. M. Langevin, pioneers in the
      contribution of scientific evidence to the phenomenon known as "needlegrasp". When the
      acupuncture needle (the same as the one used in DN) is rotated, the fascial connective tissue
      winds around to the point where it is fastened and trapped.

      With the intention of demonstrating the benefit of treatment with DN on connective-fascial
      tissue, the investigators present this research project. In the same, it is proposed to apply
      DN in a pathology such as carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), in which surgical treatment is
      currently considered principally.

      There are previous studies that describe the benefits of physiotherapy treatment in the CTS,
      but none on the treatment of DN. Recently, it has been validated using ultrasound image how
      DN needles, applied following the original model proposed and described as "four-pole carpal
      dry needling" (FCDN), reach the transverse carpal ligament (TCL) in 93.1%. In turn, if these
      needles are manipulated in the form of unidirectional rotation, named in this work as
      "fascial winding technique" (FWT), a traction-stretching of this ligament can be observed via
      ultrasound. It was possible to observe in 80.6% of the occasions. The results obtained
      indicate that DN with FWT in the carpal tunnel (CT), following the FCDN model, is valid to
      reach and traction the TCL. Similarly, the same study also shows this treatment as safe in
      terms of not injuring the median nerve and/or the ulnar artery. The level of pain and/or
      superficial bleeding produced is very slight and only at the time of performing the
      technique, without causing painful discomfort or residual bruising.

      In affected patients with CTS there is a decrease in the sliding movement of the median nerve
      with respect to the TCL, located just above it. If, as has already been verified, a
      traction-stretching of the TCL can be performed using the DN technique with FWT applied
      according to the FCDN model, a relaxation of the tension and flexibility in this same
      ligament can also be achieved . It is logical to think that this decrease in the tension of
      the TCL leads to an improvement in the sliding movement of the median nerve, restricted in
      patients with CTS. On the other hand, this relaxation of the TCL (one of the walls of the
      case that forms the CT) could also lead to a decrease in the pressure existing inside the
      tunnel, thus decreasing the compression on the median nerve, established as one of the main
      causes of the symptoms of sensory and motor disturbance in these patients.

      If it is possible to demonstrate the clinical efficacy of DN treatment with FWT in patients
      with CTS, important benefits will be achieved. In the first place, a new therapeutic tool
      would be provided, full of competence for the physiotherapist, in the treatment of this
      pathology. In addition, the combination of this treatment with other medical and
      physiotherapeutic types already existing could increase the therapeutic benefits for patients
      with CTS. It is even contemplated that it is shown to be effective enough to be considered as
      an alternative to surgery in cases of mild or moderate medium nerve involvement, thus
      avoiding all the risks and possible complications that this entails. For all this, the
      economic burden derived from the current treatment in these patients, as well as the time of
      convalescence and/or sick leave, would be significantly reduced.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      Dry needling with fascial winding technique applied in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome
      in a level of mild or moderate median nerve involvement, avoids surgery, at this level, to a
      significant proportion of patients with indication of it.

      OBJECTIVES:

      PRINCIPAL:

      o To determine the proportion of patients with carpal tunnel syndrome and level of mild or
      moderate median nerve involvement in which the application of dry needling with a fascial
      winding technique avoids surgery at this level.

      ESPECIFIC:

        -  To determine the improvement in the clinic related to pain, strength and functionality
           of the hand and the median nerve, in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome treated with
           dry needling with fascial winding technique.

        -  Determine if there are adverse or undesirable effects when applying dry needling with
           fascial winding technique in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome and, if so, specify
           what they are and how often they occur. In this same line, the intensity of pain
           associated with the application of the "four-pole carpal dry neeling" approach will be
           determined.

      METHODOLOGY:

      The study is a randomized single-blind clinical trial (RCT).

      Sample. The individuals of the sample will be recruited by sampling of consecutive cases of
      the Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology Service of Hospital de Bellvitge, once the carpal
      tunnel surgery is considered indicated.

      Sample size:

      The calculation of the number of individuals required has been made taking into account that
      currently the percentage of success of open surgery ranges between 70-98%, so it is expected
      to avoid such surgery at a percentage of 84 ± 12.5%. Setting a power of 80% and a level of
      significance of 5% in the ratio comparison formula for cases of bioequivalence, we obtain
      that the sample size is 34 individuals per group. Assuming a maximum loss percentage of 20%
      it will be necessary to recruit 43 individuals per group.

      Assignment to groups. To the extent that the sample is recruited, subjects will be randomly
      distributed into two groups (intervention and control) using a software-generated
      randomization system. Each subject will be assigned a numbered, sealed and opaque envelope
      where their inclusion in the intervention or control group will be specified. The evaluating
      staff will be blinded to the assignment to the groups.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS OF THE DATA:

      First, a descriptive analysis of the sociodemographic characteristics (age, sex and
      profession) and anthropometric characteristics (BMI, wrist perimeter, dominant hand) for each
      of the groups and for all response variables (EMG, CSA-M , WF-R, pain intensity, BCTQ, muscle
      strength of grip, and intensity of pain that causes the FCDN approach model) for each of the
      groups and for each of the assessments. For this, the percentage for the qualitative
      variables and the mean and standard deviation for the quantitative ones will be calculated.

      Secondly, the evolution of each one of the response variables will be evaluated and they will
      be compared between both groups with a two-factor ANOVA test and with repeated measures. The
      level of significance set is 5%. The statistical analysis will be carried out with the SPSS
      21.0 software.

      ETHICAL ASPECTS:

      Note that this project complies with the principles established in the Declaration of
      Helsinki, and will be submitted for approval to the Clinical Research and Ethics Committee of
      Bellvitge Hospital.

      All participating subjects will sign an informed consent, with free and voluntary acceptance
      of participation in the study.
    
  