
    
      Feeding problems in children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has been found to
      vary from 46-89%, with significant variability in feeding patterns. Feeding problems can lead
      to failure to thrive, nutritional deficiencies, growth retardation, social deficits and poor
      academic achievements. Common feeding problems are typified by limited food repertoire, food
      refusal and high frequency single food intake. The etiology of feeding problems in children
      with ASD is multifactorial and includes sensory issues, perseveration, avoidance of novel
      stimuli and food intolerance. No single aetiology has been assigned to limited food
      repertoire in children diagnosed with ASD. A recent meta-analysis of feeding problems and
      nutritional intake in children diagnosed with ASD reveals that children with ASD had more
      feeding problems when compared to peers (odds ratio 5.11, 95% Confidence interval (CI)
      3.74-6.97). There was significantly lower intake of calcium and protein. Children diagnosed
      with ASD have limited food repertoire compared to typically developing children (19.0 (5.0)
      foods eaten vs. 22.5 (4.6) foods eaten, p value 0.0003) and they have evidence of nutritional
      inadequacies and poor bone growth. The impact of feeding problems extends to the home
      environment and may contribute to parental stress and affect bonding/ attachment of child to
      caregiver during mealtimes. This phenomena has not been explored in depth in current
      research.

      Behavioural intervention using an interdisciplinary team model is the hallmark intervention
      for the treatment of feeding problems in children diagnosed with ASD. However there is
      limited research data available in this field. Behavioural intervention approaches described
      in the literature include stimulus control, positive reinforcement, negative reinforcement,
      discrimination training, extinction, punishment and desensitization. Positive
      reinforcement-based intervention, physical guidance, and non-removal of the spoon are
      techniques which have found to be useful based on case reports. These interventions require
      highly structured environments, are costly and at times parents are not involved in the
      management plan, thus limiting generalizability. There is no consensus regarding which
      technique is superior and more effective.

      There are three published interventional studies which directly address feeding problems in
      ASD. These span from intensive inpatient management to behavioural patient based curriculum.
      A retrospective chart review of 37 children over a 2 year period seen in group intervention
      sessions using the Sequential Oral Sensory (SOS) approach showed some promise in increasing
      food variability and intake. The Sequential Oral Sensory (SOS) approach is a
      multidisciplinary program for assessing and treating children with feeding and weight
      problems. This program uses a systematic desensitization hierarchy of skills necessary for
      children to progress with eating various food textures. The technique is patient controlled,
      where the patient is "allowed to move away" from the exposure. The goal of the therapy is to
      maintain a competing response in the face of increasing incremental exposures. The SOS
      approach if effective presents a more affordable treatment option, in a natural outpatient
      setting and utilizes parental participation under supervision which may translate to
      generalizability to the home environment. Given the prevalence of feeding challenges in ASD
      exploring this option should be undertaken given its suggested implications.
    
  