
    
      It is estimated that the infertility affects 8-12% of all couples in reproductive age across
      the world. Various alternative methods were implemented for years for alleviating the stress
      which was felt by infertile women. The women in the process of infertility treatment make
      more efforts to be impregnated, their fertility preparedness is negatively affected and they
      need more psychosocial support. Upon the review of the relevant literature, it is discerned
      that there was a limited number of studies in which mind-body programs, namely,
      hypnofertility methods, were applied to the cases of infertility. In this research, in the
      first meeting with infertile women who would be assigned to the experimental group, the
      research objective was explained, and their consent to partake in the research was received
      in written and verbal format and pretest data were obtained. Later during in vitro
      fertilization, VR-supported hypnofertility treatment initiative which applied to the
      experimental group was implemented in four stages, namely, 'Stage 1 (the first folliculometry
      day)', 'Stage 2 (the second folliculometry day)', 'Stage 3 (oocyte retrieval stage)' and
      'Stage 4 (embryo transfer stage)'. And posttest data were obtained at the end of last stage.
      Each process took 20 minutes on average. Meetings with infertile women who were assigned to
      the control group were held twice. In the first meeting, pretest data were collected.
      VR-supported hypnofertility treatment initiative was not applied to the control group, and
      posttest data were collected from the control group via the second meeting held on the same
      date as the fourth stage of treatment, namely, the day of embryo transfer. It is considered
      that the stress levels of women who are in the process of having IVF treatment will fall down
      and hence the fertility preparedness and the ability to cope with infertility stress will be
      positively affected by virtue of the effective use of hypnofertility method, which is still a
      new method in Turkey, by midwives and other health professionals.
    
  