
    
      Prader-Willi Syndrome and Obesity:

      Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genetic disorder occurring in 1/10,000 to 1/15,000 live
      births. Clinical characteristics include neonatal and infantile central hypotonia with
      feeding problems and poor weight gain followed after 1-3 years by hyperphagia and excessive
      weight gain. Patients also have characteristic facial features, short stature (possibly due
      to growth hormone [GH] deficiency of hypothalamic origin), hypogonadism, increased pain
      threshold, global developmental delay and variable mental retardation.

      Obesity is clearly one of the cardinal features of PWS. It can result in tremendous distress
      for both the parents and the affected child and is a significant health problem with
      complications that include hypertension, sleep apneas and diabetes. More than 1/3 of patients
      with PWS weigh more than 200% of their ideal body weight. Obesity is thought to result mainly
      from hyperphagia, persistent hunger with increased caloric intake, decreased perception of
      satiety and obsessive and compulsive behaviours that are primarily food related. Decreased
      physical activity associated with hypotonia and/or decreased energy expenditure is also
      thought to play a role in the pathophysiology of obesity.

      The treatment of obesity in PWS is very difficult and requires constant involvement of the
      parents or caregivers with establishment of rigid structures around the young patient:
      increased physical activity, hiding food, locking fridges etc. Recently, studies on the
      effects of growth hormone (GH) treatment (now an approved indication in most patients with
      PWS in the US irrespective of their GH status) on body composition in PWS have been
      performed. While GH, among other favourable effects, significantly improves body composition
      (increased lean mass and decreased fat mass), the long-term effects on body mass index are
      modest and variable.

      Thus, obesity is clearly one of the greatest challenges faced by parents of patients with PWS
      and treatment modalities are presently not successful.

      Ghrelin:

      Ghrelin is a recently discovered peptide that stimulates appetite and GH secretion. Ghrelin
      increases with fasting and decreases following a meal, and is thought to play a role in meal
      initiation in humans. In obese adult and young patients (without PWS), ghrelin is decreased
      compared to control, lean subjects suggesting that it does not play a causal role in the
      development of obesity. In contrast, PWS patients are characterized by extremely high
      circulating ghrelin levels (3 to 10 times higher compared to controls). The mechanisms
      underlying ghrelin increase in PWS are unclear. The gene encoding ghrelin is located on
      chromosome 3 in humans while PWS is associated with the functional loss of paternally
      expressed genes located on chromosome 15 (most patients affected with PWS present with a
      deletion in the area of 15q11-13 [70%] or a uniparental disomy for maternal chromosome 15
      [30%]). A logical hypothesis is that these missing genes may be part of a pathway regulating
      ghrelin expression.

      Thus, the elevated ghrelin concentrations observed in PWS at the very least raise the
      possibility that ghrelin may play an etiological role in the food-seeking behaviour reported
      in these patients. In support of this hypothesis, a significant correlation between hunger
      sensation and ghrelin concentrations has recently been reported in a combined group of 6 lean
      controls and 7 patients with PWS.

      Somatostatin and Somatostatin Analogues:

      Somatostatin is a hormone that circulates under 2 main forms: a 14 amino acid peptide
      (SST-14, mainly in the brain, including the hypothalamus) and a 28 amino acid peptide
      (SST-28, mainly in the gastrointestinal tract). Somatostatin inhibits GH and insulin
      secretion. Somatostatin is also a powerful regulator of gastric activity that decreases
      gastrin release, acid output and gastric motility.

      The somatostatin analogue octreotide (Sandostatin®, Novartis) contains 8 amino acids and is
      very similar to SST-14. It is an effective treatment of neonatal hyperinsulinism (a condition
      characterized by excessive and inappropriate secretion of insulin that causes severe
      hypoglycemia in infants) and acromegaly (a condition characterized by excessive GH production
      by the pituitary). Sandostatin LAR® is a recent long-acting analogue of somatostatin that is
      used for the treatment of acromegaly and less often in children's hyperinsulinism.

      Sandostatin LAR® therapy may be associated with significant side-effects):

        -  Reduction of bile production and gallbladder contractility and increased risk of
           cholesterol gallstones. However, these tend to resolve either spontaneously when therapy
           is discontinued or with ursodiol despite remaining on therapy. Therefore, gallbladder
           ultrasound is part of the routine follow-up of all patients receiving octreotide for
           prolonged periods.

        -  Decreased height velocity secondary to inhibition of GH secretion. This effect is
           variable in intensity but present and will need to be taken into account in case of
           prolonged octreotide treatment. In the proposed study, 12 weeks of octreotide treatment
           are not expected to have a significant long-term effect on longitudinal growth.
           Octreotide should not interfere with GH action in PWS subjects receiving concomitant
           exogenous human GH.

        -  Glucose intolerance. Prolonged octreotide treatment has been associated with impaired
           glucose tolerance secondary to a decrease in insulin secretion. However, when octreotide
           treatment results in weight loss, an improvement in glucose tolerance is observed.
           Therefore, parameters reflecting glucose tolerance must be followed as part of
           Sandostatin LAR® therapy.

      Other side effects include nausea, abdominal cramps, diarrhea and flatulence that usually
      subside after 2 weeks of treatment.

      Effect of Somatostatin Analogues on Ghrelin and Weight Gain:

      Somatostatin has been shown to decrease ghrelin concentrations in normal subjects as well as
      in patients with PWS and with acromegaly. In nine lean young men, continuous SC infusion of
      octreotide (600 microg/24 hours) caused a 50% decrease in ghrelin concentrations. In patients
      with PWS, using the dose of 5 microg Sandostatin/kg body weight, SC, three times a day, Hacqq
      et al observed a 67% drop in ghrelin concentrations. The study was of short duration (1 week)
      but the results suggest that somatostatin may indeed be helpful in decreasing ghrelin
      concentrations in patients with PWS. There were no complications. In adults with acromegaly
      (aged 25-59 years, mean BMI 28.9 kg/m2), fasting ghrelin concentrations decreased in all
      patients (mean 54%, range 30-74) following treatment with Sandostatin LAR® (10 to 30 mg/4-6
      weeks) for 3-29 months. Finally, Lustig et al reported the effects of daily injections of
      octreotide for 6 months in a group of children with severe hypothalamic obesity due to brain
      tumor treatment and/or cranial irradiation. They observed that the weight gain in
      octreotide-treated patients was minimal (+ 1.2 kg/6 mo) compared to the placebo group (+ 9.2
      kg/6 mo). Bile sludging and/or gallstones were observed in 44% of the patients but resolved
      with ursodiol therapy. Ghrelin concentrations were not measured in that study.

      Thus, somatostatin analogues cause a marked decrease in ghrelin concentrations in control
      subjects as well as in patients with PWS. Whether they are associated with a sustained
      decrease in ghrelin concentrations and whether the decrease in ghrelin is associated with a
      decrease in appetite is unknown and will be studied in the present project.
    
  