
    
      Purpose:

      To assess the time to tracheal intubation (TTI) and first-pass success rate for attending
      anesthesiologists intubating with COVID-related modifications with or without the use of a
      COVID barrier box.

      Hypothesis:

      Using a COVID barrier box for tracheal intubation with COVID-related modifications for
      attending anesthesiologists would be prolonged compared to not using one.

      Justification:

      Tracheal intubation is a high-risk time point for attending anesthesiologists to contract
      COVID. This risk can be minimized by using a proprietary barrier enclosure, COVID barrier box
      covering a patient's head and neck during intubation. It is crucial to estimate the
      intubation time and first-pass success rate of using a COVID barrier box for introducing it
      to intubate critically ill COVID patients. The finding of this study can lead to a
      ground-breaking measure to minimize viral transmission to healthcare workers during the
      pandemic.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of the study is to determine the TTI as measured by an observer. The
      secondary objectives are to assess the first-pass success rate, the total time of airway
      manipulation, as well as anesthesiologists' perception of intubation difficulty, and
      patients' satisfaction.

      Research Design:

      This study will be a prospective, open-label, randomized controlled trial. Consented eligible
      patients will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to intervention or control groups. A
      computer-generated sequence of random numbers will be used to randomize patients between
      groups. Consented eligible attending anesthesiologists will use COVID barrier box for
      intubating the intervention group but not for the control group. Each anesthesiologist will
      perform one practice intubation on manikins with the COVID barrier box before initiation of
      the study. The locally instituted COVID-related modifications will be in place during the
      practice intubation and intubations during surgery for both groups. A third party observer
      will monitor intubation time. All attending anesthesiologists and intervention group patients
      will undertake a post-survey.

      Statistical Analysis:

      A total of 100 patients with 50 in each group will be included in the study to ensure 99%
      power to detect a clinically significant TTI difference. Data distribution will be assessed
      using the Shapiro-Wilk and D'Agostino tests. Time outcomes will be analyzed using t-test or
      Mann-Whitney test. The first-pass success rate and categorical data about intubation
      difficulty and patient satisfaction will be analyzed using Fisher's Exact test.
    
  