
    
      The 130 subjects will be randomized into 3 groups: Experimental group 1 will receive a
      supplement of vitamin C (ascorbic complex) of the Bonusan brand, a daily dose of 1000mg
      should be consumed along with the usual practice of manual therapy and TENS. This group will
      maintain the daily intake of vitamin C for the 6 weeks that the treatment lasts, they will be
      informed of the possible side effects of adaptation to the supplement, such as, for example,
      diarrhea since excess vitamin C, in the case if there is, it lodges in the large intestine,
      which attracts fluid and produces osmotic diarrhea. This group will have direct communication
      with the doctor who collaborates in this investigation for any situation, query or unwanted
      symptom. Vitamin C has been used in other degenerative-type pathologies of collagen tissue
      such as Achilles tendinopathies and supraspinatus musculature. The investigators have also
      found references to the effect of vitamin C as pain treatment. Group 2 will undergo
      high-speed vertebral manipulations along with manual therapy and TENS. Vertebral
      manipulations would seek a reflexogenic effect through the sympathetic nerve pathway of the
      lower cervical ganglion. The transcutaneous TENS-type stimulation is evidenced to have an
      analgesic effect using self-adhesive patches placed longitudinally at the myo-junction.
      tendon with a size of 50X50 mm, a frequency of 100 Hz and a pulse duration of 200μs for 25
      minutes. Both the vertebral manipulation intervention and the TENS placement will be
      performed by a professional health physiotherapist with 27 years of clinical experience in
      the application of the aforementioned techniques.

      In group 3 or control, manual therapy and transcutaneous electrotherapy (TENS) will be
      applied. All groups will receive the same manual therapy program and TENS, one session per
      week for 6 consecutive weeks.

      All the aforementioned interventions will be included in a 45 minute session for the 3 groups
      alike. They will be in charge of a highly qualified physiotherapist for all the therapies
      when carrying out which expresses his consent for the study in. Said professional uses all
      these therapies in consultation daily.

      8 The aforementioned therapies can generate some adverse effects that the participants should
      be aware of and that is reflected in the informed consent that they must complete before the
      start of the evaluation and the interventions. In the first place, in the TENS, no
      bibliography has been found that warns of any unwanted effect, which it can refer to is an
      increase in skin tone under the patch due to the local effect and heat conduction of the
      same. which should disappear within 30 minutes after application.

      In high-speed vertebral manipulation in the cervical region, in 6% of cases,
      post-manipulation dizziness may occur due to the local vascular change that occurs . The
      vitamin C supplement can produce some type of heartburn diarrhea, especially in the first
      days of taking, since this vitamin is absorbed in the intestine .

      Alterations at the elbow can cause pain and functional limitation. To quantify these effects,
      there are different measurement scales. The evaluation to quantify the pain will be carried
      out with the numerical pain scale (0-10). The Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand
      (DASH) questionnaire will be used to determine the functionality of the upper limb, the
      Shoulder Pain and Disability Index SPADI will be used to assess shoulder function, Global
      perception of change will also be evaluated, Global Rating of Change Scale (GROC) a 15-point
      scale where -7 indicates much worse than before, 0 the same as before and +7 much better than
      before . Finally, the pressure pain threshold (PDU) will be evaluated using a digital
      algometer .

      Measurement variables will be analyzed before treatment, after it, and at 3 and 6 months
      after the last treatment session.
    
  