
    
      Background: Nursing home (NH) patients have complex mental health problems, disabilities and
      social needs, compounded by widespread prescription of psychotropic drugs. To preserve their
      dignity and quality of life is an important goal of our society. This can only be achieved
      within NHs that offer high competent conditions of treatment and care.

      Research questions and hypotheses:

        1. Will the implementation of a communication and end-of-life decision making process have
           impact on interactions between patients, staff and family? We hypothesize that ACP will
           improve the interactions between patients, staff and family, and satisfaction in
           relatives and thereby improve the quality of life NH patients.

        2. Is the KOSMOS capable to affect agitation and aggression and reduce medication e.g.
           psychotropics in NH patient? We hypothesize that KOSMOS will significantly reduce
           agitation and aggression, the total amount of medication, and psychotropic drug use.

        3. What combination of interventions will give the broadest benefit, and could be delivered
           as a routine intervention as part of NH practice? We hypothesize that the comprehensive
           KOSMOS approach improves QoL and makes positive changes in NH practice.

        4. What other types of advantages are expected? We hypothesize that KOSMOS is a
           cost-effective approach, with potential to increase the safety and reduce mortality in
           NH patients.

      Method: The KOSMOS intervention combines the most effective research results to improve staff
      competence, and patients' mental health, safety, QoL, and to reduce psychotropic drug use and
      costs. The efficacy testing of KOSMOS includes systematic literature review, a pilot study, a
      9-month randomized control trial (RCT), and a dissemination plan. Data collection will take
      place at baseline, months 4, and 9. The intervention entails provision of staff training,
      study guidelines and manuals. NHs will be randomized to either KOSMOS or current best
      practice. We will include 38 NH long-term-care (LTC) wards (normally just one ward per NH) in
      Bergen, Stavanger, Oslo/Bærum, Sarpsborg and Sogn and Fjordane. In total 310 patients ≥65
      years will be recruited from these wards

      Primary and secondary outcome measures: Quality of life in late stage dementia (QUALID),
      QUALIDEM, EQ-5-D; Neuropsychiatric Inventory - NH edition (NPI-NH); Activities of Daily
      Living (ADL); Cornell; Mobilization - Observation - Behaviour - Intensity - Dementia 2
      (MOBID-2); drug use; drug-related problems, START; STOP; cost-utility analysis (RUD-FOCA);
      hospital admission; and mortality, ActiWatch; Log registration of NH activities; Relatives
      satisfaction with conducted KOSMOS elements

      Statistical analyses: include characteristics between 2 groups (Chi square, Mann-Whitney U),
      ANCOVA, ICC and p-values for each time-point and outcomes.

      National and international collaboration: National collaboration between researchers at the
      Universities of Bergen, Oslo, and Stavanger is established. Internationally, colleagues from
      the EU COST-Action TD1005, Karolinska University, Stockholm and Kings College, London are
      engaged in this RCT.

      Funding: The employment of two PhD-candidates (100%) and one post-doctoral fellow (50%)
      received funding by the Norwegian Research Council (Sponsor's Protocol Code: 222113) in 2012.
    
  