
    
      Chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a leading cause of death in adults in
      sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Each year, about 61,000 people are estimated to die of
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or cirrhosis secondary to chronic infection with HBV. Prior to
      the introduction of the hepatitis B vaccine, main modes of transmission in SSA were perinatal
      transmission from mother-to-child (MTCT) (10%) and horizontal transmission during early
      childhood (90%). MTCT occurs through contact with maternal fluids during passage through the
      birth cana; transplacental transmission and transmission through breastfeeding are rare.

      Despite a relatively low frequency of perinatal transmission in SSA, prevention of this type
      of transmission is important, because this mode of transmission results in higher risk of
      becoming chronic HBV carriers, and developing chronic liver disease, including HCC, than
      horizontal transmission.

      In 2009, WHO recommended the administration of hepatitis B vaccination to all newborns within
      24 hours of birth to prevent perinatal and early transmissions. In Senegal, the government
      introduced the monovalent vaccine that can be used within 24 hours after birth in the
      Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) in March 2016.

      It is in this context that the NeoVac study started in 2016 in Senegal, Burkina Faso and
      Madagascar. The general objective is to develop a long-term strategy adapted to the local
      context to vaccinate newborns against hepatitis B in the first 24 hours of life.

      The NeoVac 1, a population-based epidemiological survey to estimate the coverage of this
      newly introduced monovalent hepatitis B vaccine started in Senegal in 2018. Here, we present
      a study protocol for a sero-epidemiological study of pairs of children aged 9 to 12 months
      and their mothers, identified through the demographic study, to assess the impact of
      monovalent vaccine introduced by the national program for prevention of mother-to-child
      transmission in Senegal. We will also assess the diagnostic performance of loop-mediated
      isothermal amplification assay (LAMP) to identify people with high viral replication (HBV DNA
      ≥200,000 IU/ml), compared to a conventional reference test (PCR).
    
  