
    
      Primary objective:

      Our objective is to establish whether a strategy based on beta-d-glucan (BG) assessment could
      achieve reduced antifungal consumption in patients with severe abdominal condition developing
      severe sepsis and septic shock without any impact on the outcome Secondary objectives i)
      Assess the accuracy of BG in the diagnosis of invasive candidiasis (IC) in in critically ill
      patients with a severe abdominal condition who develop severe sepsis or septic shock.

      ii) Describe the changes over the time of BG value according with colonization status,
      infection or none the aforementioned events.

      Material and Methods Study design: a multicenter, open label, randomized trial Population:
      all the patients with a severe abdominal condition who develop a severe sepsis or septic
      shock.

        1. Inclusion Criteria:

             1. adult (≥ 18 year) patients;

             2. signed informed consent before surgical procedure;

             3. severe sepsis or septic shock;

             4. at least one of the following conditions: i) post-operative peritonitis, ii)
                recurrent gastrointestinal perforation, iii) post-operative hepatobiliary and/or
                pancreatic disorders including necrotizing pancreatitis, iv) post-operative
                intra-abdominal abscess, and v) anastomotic leak.

        2. Exclusion criteria a. diagnosis of candidiasis before the enrollment b. exposure in the
           past 30 days to any antifungal treatment or diagnosis of invasive fungal infection; c.
           pregnancy or lactation; d. history of allergy to any of the antifungal drugs; e. major
           immunosuppression conditions including: i. neutropenia (<0.5 × 109 neutrophils/L [<500
           neutrophils/mm3] for >10 days), ii. receipt of an allogeneic stem cell transplant or
           solid organ transplantation, iii. inherited severe immunodeficiency (such as chronic
           granulomatous disease or severe combined immunodeficiency), iv. HIV infection with
           lymphocyte T CD4+ cell count < 200/mmc. f. patients with poor prognosis or unable to
           sign informed consent.

      Procedures Pre-randomization procedures

      At the time of patient enrollment (within 24 h from onset of severe sepsis/septic shock), a
      standardized diagnostic work-up must be performed including at least:

      i) two sets of blood cultures; ii) 5 surveillance cultures (rectal swab, urine culture,
      pharyngeal swab, axillary swab, groin swab).

      iii) in case of re-intervention or percutaneous drainage: Gram stain and culture of
      intra-abdominal samples; iv) serum BG determination. Antibiotic and antifungal empirical
      therapy should be started immediately after collection of microbiological samples according
      with a predefined standard of care (see appendix 1). Once completed this procedures patients
      will proceed to randomization.

      Randomization Patient eligible for the study after the beginning of antifungal therapy will
      be randomized 1:1 to receive (Group A) a BG driven de-escalation strategy or (Group B) a
      course of antifungal treatment based on the care provider's decision.

      In both groups, if cultures yield invasive candidiasis (see below) the patient will be
      managed in according with guidelines and excluded from the per-protocol analysis.

      In both groups, BG determination will be repeated at day +3, +6 and +10 after starting
      antifungal therapy.

      Randomization will be carried out providing closed envelopes to the participating centers
      immediately before the study onset.
    
  