
    
      This is a Phase III, multi-center, open-label study designed to evaluate the long-term safety
      of droxidopa in subjects with neurogenic orthostatic hypotension (NOH) associated with
      Primary Autonomic Failure, Dopamine Beta Hydroxylase Deficiency or Non-Diabetic Autonomic
      Neuropathy.

      Patients will be initially treated with droxidopa at their individualized dose identified
      during the titration phase in Protocol 301. Patients will not require adjustment of their
      dose, unless their physician feels a dose change will benefit their symptoms, or side
      effects. At any point in the study a patient's physician may elect to titrate the subject to
      a higher or lower dose if they feel additional benefit can be safely derived or to deal with
      any unwanted side-effect.

      Patients will return to the clinic for study visits at 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months (± 1 week
      allowed for 1 month visit, ± 2 weeks allowed for subsequent study visits). Patients who
      prematurely withdraw from the study will be asked to attend the study center for a final
      assessment At the conclusion of the 12 month treatment period, all patients who benefit from
      treatment with droxidopa will be offered the option to continue to receive open-label
      droxidopa through a separate access program.

      At any time during the study, patients can schedule a visit with their study physician if
      they experience a worsening of symptoms and wish to have their dose adjusted or to remove
      themselves from the trial.

      Patients who decide to terminate their participation in the study will receive a phone call 1
      month after leaving the trial to follow-up on any new or ongoing adverse events (AEs).

      It is a recognized best practice that patients with neurogenic orthostatic hypotension are
      advised not to lay fully supine because of the associated increased risk of supine
      hypertension inherent with their condition. Patients participating in this study should be
      advised to sleep in a semi-recumbent position. .

      Patients will attend the study center as out-patients. Patients will be identified using the
      unique identification number assigned during Protocol 301.
    
  