
    
      In this study, we will utilize single-dose pre-operative administration of Lyrica
      (pregabalin) compared to patients who will be administered a pre-operative single-dose
      placebo. Pregabalin is a non-narcotic GABA analogue that has been shown to be effective for
      the treatment of pain associated with a variety of medical conditions. Prior studies have
      investigated the use of single-dose pre-operative pregabalin for analgesia in acute dental,
      gynecologic, endoscopic thyroidectomy, and nasal septoplasty surgical pain with encouraging
      results demonstrating improved overall pain scores and decreased post-operative use of
      narcotics. Pregabalin's use for peri-operative analgesia in head and neck cancer surgery has
      not been evaluated.

      Patients who enroll in the study will be randomly assigned by chance to receive either a
      single pre-operative 150 milligram dose of pregabalin (Lyrica) or placebo in the
      pre-operative holding area prior to proceeding with surgery. Lyrica is a non-narcotic pain
      medication that has been shown to promote good control of nerve-related pain in patients.
      Patients who agree to enroll in the study will be asked to fill out separate questionnaires
      to evaluate pain and quality of life preoperatively and post-operatively.

      Participants will be asked to fill out four separate questionnaires to evaluate pain and
      quality of life pre-operatively. Patients will be administered their respective medication,
      either placebo or single-dose 150 milligram concealed capsule of pregabalin, by mouth in the
      pre-operative holding area prior to surgery. While in the hospital after surgery, patients
      will be given a regimen of scheduled acetaminophen 650 milligrams every 6 hours. Planned
      treatment of pain will include the option of requesting oxycodone on an as-needed basis every
      four hours and IV morphine for breakthrough pain. Surveys will be administered and collected
      on a daily basis while patients are in the hospital. If patients are already utilizing other
      non-opioid pain medications like muscle relaxers (Flexeril, baclofen, etc.), or neuropathic
      pain medications (Neurontin), they will be allowed to continue these medications while
      inpatient provided there are no changes in dosing.

      Patients will be discharged home on a seven-day course of acetaminophen with as-needed
      oxycodone. Outcomes surveys will then be collected at each subsequent post-operative follow
      up. Follow up visits will occur one week after discharge, four weeks after discharge, and
      then every three months until completion of the two year study period.
    
  