
    
      Patients presenting for acute suicidality have few immediate treatment options to alleviate
      their suffering aside from psychiatric hospitalization for safety assurance. Therapy and
      psychiatry medication may decrease depression over time, but this does little to improve
      depression and suicidal thinking in the short term. Preliminary data from a recent study by
      Larkin et al at Yale University showed evidence to support a promising novel treatment
      modality with rapid effects on suicidal ideation for up to 10 days post infusion through the
      use of a single sub-anesthetic rapid intravenous bolus dose of ketamine (0.2-mg/kg)
      administered in the acute Emergency Department setting. This study showed favorable evidence
      to support further investigation into the use of a single sub-anesthetic bolus dose of
      ketamine in acutely depressed and/or suicidal patients in the emergency room setting. Based
      on the success of this study, Naval Medical Center San Diego (NMCSD) started the previously
      mentioned, small, unfunded randomized, placebo-controlled trial of this ketamine protocol for
      patients who were pending psychiatric hospitalization because of suicidal thinking. Data
      collection was highly flawed, but unpublished, preliminary results show that the ketamine
      treatment resulted in significant decreased in suicidal thinking.

      Of note, there were no adverse events associated with the ketamine administration. Although
      the infusion was done in an Emergency Department (ED) setting, the patients were seated in
      clinic chairs, and required no additional monitoring or intervention beyond what could be
      provided in any clinic our psychiatric hospital setting. It is the intent of the project to
      expand on our unfunded trial, allowing us to treat a wider range of participants who come in
      to the psychiatric ward because of suicidal thinking. This study is being pursued in the
      context that existing therapies for major depression have a lag of onset of action of several
      weeks, resulting in an increased risk of possible and considerable morbidity and possibly
      mortality through suicide. This study would explore the efficacy of Ketamine's (a
      N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist) rapid and potentially long-lasting
      antidepressant effects in a suicidal population. The Investigators hope to gather data that
      could potentially impact treatment practices in the military setting for acutely depressed
      patients. This may potentially shorten, delay, or even forgo admissions to the psychiatric
      ward in the future, as well as potentially reducing the long term suicidality.
    
  