
    
      Cardiac surgery is widely used to solve valvular or coronary problems and often requires the
      use of cardiopulmonary bypass or extracorporeal circulation (EC).

      The EC itself produces a series of changes in the macro- and microcirculation hemodynamic and
      physiological consequences in the hours following surgery that can be difficult to analyze.

      During postoperatively management, different monitoring methods are used to optimize
      different hemodynamic and analytical variables.

      Sometimes, monitored variables are corrected but the patient still develops complications
      such as kidney failure, prolonged mechanical ventilation or even death. In fact, it is not
      well known either if it is sufficient to correct the variables called "macrodynamics " such
      as mean arterial pressure (MAP) , stroke volume (SV), pulmonary artery occlusion pressure
      (PCWP) and cardiac index (CI) or if it is necessary to correct other "micro-dynamics"
      variables like lactate, to achieve a certain central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) or
      arteriovenous CO2 difference(ΔvapCO2).

      In tissue hypoxia, damping of excess protons by bicarbonate increase CO2 production;
      therefore the relationship between CO2 production and oxygen consumption (VCO2/VO2 ratio or
      respiratory quotient) increases. This ratio can be simplified relating ΔvapCO2 and O2 content
      arteriovenous difference (ΔvapCO2 / Cav02 ratio). In shock, anaerobic metabolism is one of
      the primary energy source. In this situation, ΔvapCO2 / Cav02 is > 1.

      The evolution of the ΔvapCO2 / Cav02 ratio and its association with prognosis have nnot been
      studied yet after cardiac surgery.

      The study's objectives are:

        -  to describe ΔvapCO2 / Cav02 ratios kinetics compared to lactate and other biochemical
           markers (troponin I, BE) in the first 12 hours after cardiac surgery.

        -  define if ΔvapCO2 / Cav02 ratio> 1 after 6 hours of adequate postsurgical resuscitation
           correlates with worse prognosis in patients after cardiac surgery.

        -  develop a new prognostic score for postoperative complication that includes ΔvapCO2 /
           Cav02 ratio.

      Blood gases and drawn from a central venous and arterial lines. pCO2, O2 content, lactate are
      analyzed at 0, 2, 6 and 12 hs. Macrodynamic variables are also collected, as well as, the
      need of extracorporeal support techniques.

      Patients would be followed for the next 28 days after surgery.
    
  