
    
      Objectives: Recombinant human interferon beta-1a (IFN-Beta1a) is an FDA approved treatment
      for patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, in whom the safety profile is well
      characterized. The actions of IFN-Beta1a to inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokines and prevent
      blood brain barrier disruption suggest a therapeutic potential in ischemic stroke, and recent
      experimental evidence supports that effect. This study will be the first clinical trial
      exposure of patients with acute stroke to IFN-Beta1a. The purpose of this study is to
      investigate the safety of IFN-Beta1a (Rebif(Registered Trademark)) in patients with acute
      ischemic stroke.

      Study Population: Patients age 18-85 years with probable or definite acute ischemic
      cerebrovascular syndrome within 24 hours of onset will be studied.

      Design: This is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled sequential dose escalation,
      phase 1 trial. Five dose cohorts of 5 patients (4:1 active: placebo) will be studied at 11
      mcg, 22 mcg, 44 mcg, 66 mcg and 88 mcg administered daily for 7 days. The first dose will be
      administered intravenously and subsequent doses will be administered subcutaneously. Patients
      will be pre-medicated to prevent fevers, a common complication of interferon treatment, since
      fever may worsen stroke outcome. Patients will be monitored for adverse events and
      neurological outcomes up to 28 days from onset of treatment. Data will be reviewed in an
      ongoing fashion by a data safety monitoring board (DSMB). Dose escalation will be continuous
      unless drug-related toxicity reaches a predetermined level of one dose-limiting adverse event
      (1 of 4 treated) within a dose cohort, in which case a second cohort of 5 patients (4:1) will
      be treated at that dose. The study will be terminated at a dose level at which 2 of 4 or 3 of
      8 patients on active treatment have a severe dose limiting toxicity or when all planned dose
      cohorts have been completed.

      Outcome Measures: Expected, common toxicities with IFN-Beta1a treatment are flu-like symptoms
      (e.g., fevers, myalgias, headaches, fatigue) and injection site reactions. With long term
      administration liver function abnormalities and leukopenia may occur and these will also be
      monitored. Toxicity will be graded according to the NCI criteria as well as study specific
      criteria defined in section 7a. Dose limiting toxicities will be considered any serious
      adverse event or grade 3 toxicity judged to be probably or definitely related to study
      medication or grade 4 or 5 toxicity judged to be possibly, probably or definitely related to
      study medication or any of the predefined study specific criteria. Serum levels of IFN-Beta1a
      and serum markers of IFN-Beta1a activity will be measured to characterize the
      pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of IFN-Beta 1a in acute stroke patients.
    
  