
    
      The investigators planned a RCT in which the unit of randomization is the abstract. The
      planning, implementation, analysis and writing of this study followed the CONSORT
      Statement12.

      Two types of abstracts were evaluated: abstracts with and without "spin". Randomization
      characteristics

      The randomization list was established in blocks of 30. So, each participant could evaluate 1
      abstract with spin or 1 abstract with no spin.

      The list and the block size were not disclosed to investigators. Allocation concealment was
      obtained by use of a computerized randomization system.

      If a participant logged on the system but did not evaluate any abstract, the assessments were
      excluded and the abstracts were automatically allocated to the next participant.

      Participants

      Eligibility criteria

      Evaluators participating in this study were as follows:

        1. The "corresponding authors" of published RCTs in the field of cancer. The investigators
           systematically searched Medline via PubMed to identify all publications of RCTs in 2012
           and if needed 2011, 2010. The investigators collected all e-mails of "corresponding
           authors" of these items.

        2. Experts of a French national grant in the field of cancer All potential participants
           were invited by e-mail to participate in a study on the interpretation of results of
           abstracts of clinical trials. If they agreed to participate, they used an Internet link
           that gave them access to abstracts to assess.

        3. Investigators of trials registered in clinicaltrials.gov

      Intervention and comparators

      Selection of abstracts with spin We selected from previous work and personnel
      collection13-16, 30 abstracts of 2 parallel arms negative RCTs (ie, non-statistically
      significant primary outcome) evaluating treatment in the field of cancer and having spin in
      the abstract conclusion according to a classification developed previously13. We excluded
      abstract with very unusual type of spin such as a focus on another study objective, with spin
      related only to safety, or study comparing the same treatment but with different dosage or
      different mode of administration or different duration of treatment. We also excluded
      abstract of RCTs with small sample size (<100). Abstract were numbered from 1 to 30 and were
      classified in two categories: 10 abstracts (numbers 11/12/14/16/20/22/24/27/28/30) with high
      level of spin (i.e., no acknowledgment of the non statistically significant primary outcome
      in the conclusion) and 20 with low level of spin.

      Development of abstracts without spin The abstracts with spin were systematically rewritten
      without spin. One researcher rewrote each abstract according to specific guidelines described
      in the box. All abstracts had the same number of words +/-25. All abstracts without spin were
      evaluated independently by another researcher any disagreement were discussed and the
      abstract was modified according to the consensus reached.

      Thus, for each study, the investigators had 2 versions of the abstract: 1 with spin and 1
      without spin.

      Abstracts with and without spin were presented in the format of the original abstract with
      the same typography. The names of authors, references, journal name, registration number,
      trial name or acronym, and article title were deleted, and the treatment names and
      description were systematically masked with generic terms (e.g., treatment A and comparator
      B). If needed some information that could help identifying the treatment were deleted.

      Outcomes

      Primary outcome The primary endpoint was participants' interpretation of the abstracts. All
      study participants evaluated each abstract. They answered the following question on a
      numerical scale graded from 0 (not at all likely) to 10 (very likely)

      • Based on this abstract, do you think treatment A would be beneficial to patients? (answer:
      numerical scale from 0-10)

      Secondary outcomes

      The secondary endpoints were the assessment of the study quality, the study importance, the
      interest in reading the full text and the probability of being published. For each abstract,
      the participants answered the following:

        -  Rate the overall rigor of the study methodology? (scale 0-10)

        -  Rate the importance of the study (scale 0-10)

        -  Are you interested in reading the full article for the study described in this abstract?
           (scale 0-10)

        -  Do you think it would be interesting to run another trial evaluating this treatment?
           (scale 0-10)

      Blinding

      The primary endpoint is the interpretation of the abstract by participants. This outcome is
      very subjective. A recent study has shown that lack of blinding is responsible for an
      overestimation of treatment effect in randomized trials with subjective primary endpoints17.
      To minimize bias, the investigators proposed to have participants blinded to the study
      hypothesis. All participants were informed that they were participating in a survey on the
      interpretation of abstracts of clinical trials. They were not informed of the objectives and
      assumptions of the study before the end of the study when reporting the results.

      Other data collected The investigators also collected the changes to abstracts in terms of
      words deleted and words added to each abstract.

      Sample size

      Each participant will read 1 abstract with or 1 abstract without spin. A sample of 266
      assessments of abstracts is needed to show an effect size of 0.4 with primary outcome
      assuming a mean difference of 1 point and a common standard deviation based on a pilot study
      of 2.5 with a power of 90% and an alpha risk equal to 5%. Thirty abstracts with spin and 30
      abstracts without spin are available. Theoretically, each abstract must be read the same
      number of times according to randomization group. Considering all these elements, it will be
      necessary to include 300 participants (150 in each arm). Each abstract will be read 5 times
      in each group (abstract with low level of spin will be read 200 times (100 in each group) and
      abstract with high level of spin will be read 100 times (50 in each group)).

      Statistical analysis

      Statistical analysis will be undertaken independently and blindly with use of SAS v9.3 by a
      statistician of the Centre for Clinical Epidemiology. A statistical analytic plan will be
      developed and validated before searching the database. The statistical analysis plan will be
      revised during the study to take into account any amendments to the protocol or any other
      change having an impact on the statistical analysis originally planned. All versions will be
      kept on file for review. A T test will be used for analysis of primary and secondary
      outcomes. This statistical plan can be modified according to available data. For instance, if
      the number of readings for a particular vignette is unbalanced in groups, a multi-level model
      (a mixed model for clustered data) will be used to compare adjusted means for the primary
      outcome measures between the 2 arms. This means that statistical analysis will be adjusted
      for unbalanced repartition of abstracts in each group. The same model will be applied to
      secondary outcomes and to the subgroup abstracts with high level of spin.

      A secondary analysis will compare the ICC between readers of abstracts with spin and
      abstracts without spin by computing the 95% confidence interval of the difference between
      ICCs (by a bootstrap method).
    
  