
    
      Background

      Adults with congenital heart disease have long been recommended to refrain from physical
      exercise. Therefore, they often have significant reduction in exercise capacity. Only
      recently, regular exercise has been shown to be safe and is nowadays recommended for patients
      with congenital heart disease. As a result, exercise based rehabilitation programs have been
      implemented in order to improve exercise capacity and avoid adverse effects associated with
      inactive lifestyle.

      Several studies have shown that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is more effective
      than moderate-intensity continuous exercise training (MICE) at improving functional capacity
      and quality of life in stable cardiac patients and can be performed safely. It has therefore
      emerged as a new and important exercise modality in cardiac rehabilitation centers all over
      Europe for stable cardiac patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. However, its
      safety and efficacy has not yet been tested in adults with congenital heart disease and to
      date there are no studies who have evaluated whether short term peaks of pulmonary artery or
      systemic pressure during bouts of 4 min of high-intensity exercise negatively affects the
      subpulmonary or systemic ventricle in GUCH patients. The investigators hypothesized that the
      positive effects of HIIT on exercise capacity and vascular function found in patients with
      ischemic cardiomyopathy can be transferred to the population of GUCH patients, and that
      short-term bouts of high-intensity exercise will not negatively affect cardiac morphology and
      function.

      Objective

      To test the superiority of a 9-week high-intensity interval training (HIIT) over a standard
      rehabilitation training based on moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICE) on exercise
      capacity in patients with grown-up congenital heart disease (GUCH) with a residual pathology
      involving the right and/or left ventricle (RV/LV).

      Methods

      Measurements will be performed before and after a 12 week intervention with either HIIT or
      MICE training. Patients will undergo cardiopulmonary exercise testing on a cycle ergometer to
      determine exercise capacity and VO2 peak. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging will be
      performed for ventricular volumes, mass and function. Vascular function will be assessed by
      arterial stiffness measurement. Physical exercise, quality of life will be evaluated by
      questionnaires.

      During the 4th and the 12th week of the rehabilitation training, heart rate variability will
      be measured in the morning following a training, and blood samples will be taken after a
      training session to analyse markers of myocardial stress (hs Troponin and N-terminal of the
      prohormone brain natriuretic peptide, NT pro-BNP). Compliance and acceptance of training will
      be assessed by questionnaires.
    
  