
    
      Background:

        -  Neuroendocrine neoplasm (NENs) are divided into neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and
           neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs). These are rare malignancies occurring for example in
           the gastrointestinal tract, islets of the pancreas, lung, adrenal medulla, thyroid
           C-cells, etc. and are heterogeneous group of neoplasms with unique tumor biology,
           natural history, and clinical management issues.

        -  Their incidence has increased over the last decade, with an incidence of 6 per 100,000
           persons a year and they represent 0.46% of all malignancies.

        -  Most NETs are sporadic, but they can be part of familial cancer syndromes such as
           multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1), neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) or Von
           Hippel- Lindau (VHL) syndrome. Whereas poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas
           (NECs) are all high-grade carcinomas that resemble small cell carcinoma or large cell
           carcinoma of the lung.

        -  Treatment for localized NETs is surgical resection, however, a variety of therapeutic
           options are available for patients with advanced NETs. When to apply a given option,
           what combination therapeutic approach should be used, how long treatment should be
           continued should be used is unclear and controversial.

      Objective:

      -Characterize the natural history of neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs). Data will include
      clinical presentation, patterns of disease progression, response or lack of response to
      therapeutic interventions, disease recurrence and overall survival.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects with confirmed or suspicion of NENs.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 3 years old

      Design:

        -  This protocol is a subprotocol of protocol 19C0016 Natural History and Biospecimen
           Accrual Study for Children and Adults with Rare Solid Tumors . After enrollment on the
           master protocol and undergoing evaluations detailed in the master protocol, patients
           will be enrolled on this subprotocol specific for NENs.

        -  Medical histories will be documented, and patients followed throughout the course of
           their illnesses, with particular attention to patterns of disease recurrence and
           progression, response to therapies, duration of responses and hormone production in
           patients with hormone production as a manifestation of their disease. Tumor growth rates
           will also be calculated throughout the course of the disease.
    
  