
    
      1. Overall Study Design and Plan: Description

           This is a phase II, open-label, single-arm, multi-center Study conducted in Canada, the
           United States and internationally. Patients with NMIBC CIS with or without resected
           papillary disease (Ta, T1) that are considered BCG-Unresponsive or are intolerant to BCG
           therapy that meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled and treated. The
           Study will consist of 100 patients who will receive PDT employing 0. 70 mg/cm^2
           (Therapeutic Dose).

        2. Screening Period

           Patients will be qualified for Study entry by review of inclusion and exclusion criteria
           during the Screening Period, which will last up to 28 days.

        3. Follow-Up Phase

           All patients enrolled and treated by the treatment procedure will be followed until the
           End of Study defined as completion of all required assessments after 12 months of
           follow-up post treatment or earlier due to early discontinuation or withdrawal of
           informed consent.

           During the Follow-Up Phase, information on efficacy and safety will be collected.
           Assessments will be conducted at Day 0, 7, 30, 60, 90, 180, 187, 210, 240, 270 and 360.

        4. Study Drug and PDT Administration

      TLD-1433 for intravesical administration is supplied as a lyophilisate for suspension in
      Sterile Water for Injection into the bladder and is packaged in the dark in amber USP Type
      III glass vials which can be stored at room temperature. Up to 24 hours before
      administration, it is reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection to obtain the final
      clinical dilution.

      TLD-1433 will be supplied to each Study site by Theralase. Instillations cannot be done
      immediately following biopsy taken by TURBT. Investigators must wait a minimum of 7 days
      before dosing patients after a TURBT/biopsy, and/or until any bladder wall integrity issues
      have resolved. Dose/volume reductions are not allowed during this Study.

      Upon determination of the bladder volume (during the screening period) through a voiding
      diary or measuring instilled water volume, TLD-1433 to be instilled will be diluted to the
      proper concentration. On day 0 (treatment day), patients will be asked to restrict fluid
      intake 12 hours before Study Drug instillation. Study drug must be instilled into the
      patient's empty bladder. Before instillation, a regular transurethral catheter should be
      inserted and the bladder drained. A single instillation of TLD-1433 will be infused
      intravesically for approximately 60 minutes, followed by 3 washes with sterile water. The
      bladder will be distended using a fourth instillation of sterile water to prevent folds that
      may prevent uniform light illumination. The laser technician worksheet must be completed
      during the procedure and data must be promptly transferred to the corresponding electronic
      Case Report Form ("eCRF") page.

      Insertion of the optical fiber with spherical diffuser into the bladder will be monitored
      under ultrasonic guidance. The optical fiber with spherical diffuser will be positioned in
      the geometric center of the bladder with the aid of TLC-3200 and will be locked into place
      using an endoscope holder for continuous irradiation for the total exposure time. Exposure
      time will be calculated based on power emitted from the end of the optic fiber. The optic
      fiber is inserted through a liquid-tight lock via a catheter into the urethra. The optical
      power and treatment time will be determined to provide the correct dose of laser light to the
      bladder surface area. Green laser light (wavelength = 532 nm, energy = 90 J/cm2) will be
      irradiated from the emitter optical fiber via the spherical diffuser. The bladder volume may
      be monitored during the procedure and water instilled or drained, as required, to keep the
      bladder volume as consistent as possible.

      4.1 Dosing Schedule

      A single whole bladder intravesical PDT with TLD-1433 and the TLC-3200 System is planned. Two
      treatment procedures will be performed, a primary treatment at Day 0 and a secondary
      treatment at Day 180 post primary treatment.

      4.2 PDT Disruption

      Patients with NMIBC CIS with or without resected papillary disease (Ta, T1) that are
      considered BCG-Unresponsive or who are intolerant to BCG therapy will be treated with this
      Protocol. If one or more papillary tumours are seen at the time of cystoscopy for laser light
      application (maximum 8 weeks after TURBT), a patient will be rescheduled for a TURBT
      procedure to resect the papillary tumour(s) and a new treatment procedure date will be set,
      even though previously instilled with TLD-1433.
    
  