
    
      Part of the mission of the Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center is to enhance the
      quality of life for cancer patients and their families. Treatments and therapies specifically
      designed to address changes in the cognitive, emotional and spiritual realm experienced by
      patients as they attempt to cope with cancer are now routinely offered in addition to
      standard and experimental medical therapies and fall into the realm of complementary and
      alternative medicine (CAM) and support. Our patients may participate in support groups; work
      with a social worker, psychologist or psychiatrist privately; learn about diet in seminars or
      meet with a dietician; participate in art or music therapy; or participate in the many
      programs offered by the Leonard P. Zakim Center, which include Reiki therapy, acupuncture,
      acupressure, massage and therapeutic touch. All of these services are provided with the hope
      that the participants derive some benefit, however intangible. That cancer patients
      experience significant short- and long-term psychological distress associated with their
      cancer diagnosis and treatment is well documented.1-4 Most feel a strong sense of lost
      self-control and experience disturbances in appetite, sleep, concentration, and stamina.5-9
      Anxiety and depression appear to be almost ubiquitous with a cancer diagnosis, including
      those men diagnosed with prostate cancer.8,10-12 This may explain the prevalence of prostate
      cancer support groups, internet sites and self-help books. However, we have little precise
      information on our own prostate cancer population with regards to the choices they make
      regarding CAM and no information on how CAM therapies affect them.

      There are some data on the use of CAM in other prostate cancer populations.13-16 In a study
      of 1,099 men, the prostate cancer diagnosis prompted 23.5% of the sample to start using some
      form of CAM for health, and 67% of the group reported having used some form of CAM for
      prostate health before being diagnosed.17 The study included 14 herbal or dietary therapies
      and 16 mind-body therapies. There were demographic differences between patients who opted for
      CAM use and those who did not. Patients choosing CAM were more likely to be white versus not,
      and more likely to be college-educated versus not. The latter variable was particularly
      significant in this analysis. A second study of patients living in and around San Francisco
      reported on 543 prostate cancer patients who completed a 30-minute telephone interview
      regarding complementary and alternative medicines.14 Overall, 30% of the participants used at
      least one type of complementary or alternative medicine. CAM users were younger than
      non-users and likely to be college graduates. In this group, herbal remedies and mental
      health approaches were the most commonly utilized, followed by dietary changes. Twelve
      percent of the population used two or more CAM approaches.11

      For our own study, we chose to look at two forms of CAM, Reiki and relaxation response
      therapy (RRT). These two were chosen as we had some evidence of utilization within our own
      cancer population. Reiki treatment is given at the Zakim Center. In the four years since the
      Zakim Center opened, there have been approximately 300 patient visits for Reiki therapy.
      Reiki is an energy healing method discovered in the late 1800s in Japan. The word Reiki is
      made up of two Japanese words: Rei, an unlimited universal power of force that acts in all
      created matter; and Ki, a living spirit energy that applies to the physical principle of
      life. Licensed Reiki Masters perform Reiki. All of the Reiki Masters at the Zakim Center are
      also registered nurses. Subjects often express an enhanced sense of well-being and relaxation
      after a Reiki session, according to the Reiki practitioners, and most return for at least one
      more session. Led by Susan DeCristofaro, the Reiki experience at the Zakim Center has been
      standardized. Here, Reiki is given for acute and chronic pain, headache, depression, anxiety,
      nausea, vomiting and insomnia. The fee for a Reiki session is $55.00. However, the effects of
      receiving Reiki have not been subjected to rigorous scientific study. In a review of energy
      healing, eleven studies looking at Reiki were reviewed. Of these, seven showed a beneficial
      effect,18-22 three showed no effect21,23,24 and one had a negative effect.25 We believe,
      after review of this data, that there are many unanswered questions about this treatment.

      The second CAM of interest to us was relaxation response therapy (RRT), described and
      pioneered at the Mind/Body Medical Institute, directed by Herbert Benson, MD. The Mind/Body
      Medical Institute is an independent, nonprofit organization dedicated to the study of
      mind/body interactions, including RRT. Three to four hundred cancer patients per year
      participate in programs at the Mind/Body Medical Institute. Interventions using RRT in
      combination with cognitive restructuring (CR) counseling are commonly employed and are felt
      to be 'successful' in cancer patients by the practitioners who deliver them.

      The term "relaxation response" was first coined in 1974.26,27 This technique has two
      characteristics: repetition of a word or phrase and a disregard of everyday thoughts. The
      elicitation of the RR down-regulates the sympathetic nervous system. It is characterized by
      reductions in oxygen consumption, respiratory rate, blood pressure, heart rate and arterial
      blood lactate. The mind/body state achieved with RR is consistent with a wakeful,
      hypometabolic physiological state.28 EEG studies clearly differentiate the RR from sleep.29
      PET30 and fMRI31 studies have correlated specific regional changes in brain activity with the
      elicitation of the RR. When the patient is in a relaxed state, the therapist focuses on
      helping him to identify emotions, negative thoughts or anxieties and assisting him to deal
      with these thoughts in a more constructive way. This is called "cognitive restructuring" and
      it is an integral part of RT.

      RRT is believed to be a useful therapeutic intervention in numerous conditions including:
      headache;32-34 premature ventricular contractions in stable ischemic heart disease or
      hypertension;35-38 anxiety;39,40 stress symptoms;41 cardiac surgery;37 pain relief and
      anxiety reduction in femoral arteriography;42 premenstrual syndrome;43 infertility;44
      psychosomatic complaints;45 chronic pain;46-48 and insomnia.29 Other investigators have also
      found that RRT techniques were effective in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The fee
      for RT with cognitive restructuring is $100.00 per hour, paid for privately or through
      insurance.

      Thus, we identified two reasonably mature CAM therapies offered and apparently utilized by
      our own patients, paid for by the patients and their insurance providers, believed by the
      practitioners to be beneficial to patients but without much solid evidence to support their
      use. We also know that prostate cancer patients have a high level of interest in CAM. With
      this in mind, we applied for and received a grant from the Advanced Medical Research
      Foundation and submitted a protocol to the Dana-Farber/ Harvard Cancer Center Internal Review
      Board with the primary aim of assessing the feasibility of recruiting and maintaining
      enrollment in CAM therapy during an 8-week course of RT and a 2-month follow-up period. Our
      protocol was accepted, #05-005, and is now accruing patients.
    
  