
    
      The Genous Stent (the EPC Capture R-stent, OrbusNeich Medical Inc., Fort Lauderdale, FL) is
      commercially available and has been used extensively in standard coronary intervention in the
      treatment of more than 200 patients with critical coronary stenoses at Queen Mary Hospital.
      The COMBO Stent (OrbusNeich Medical Inc., Fort Lauderdale, FL) is an improved version of the
      Genous Stent and is now widely available for clinical use in all Hong Kong hospitals. To
      date, more than 300 patients in Queen Mary Hospital have received the COMBO stent as
      treatment for their coronary artery disease, and all of them remained stable clinically.

      The Genous Stent is a bio-engineered 316L stainless steel coronary stent with a biocompatible
      coating having specific CD34 antibody on the inner surface. CD34 is a surface antigen present
      on circulating endothelial progenitor cell (EPC). It will be bonded to the CD34 antibody,
      resulting in capturing of the EPC onto the stent surface and differentiation into endothelial
      layer. Animal model has demonstrated that a functional endothelial layer could be formed as
      soon as 24 to 48 hours after Genous stent implantation (1). The HEALING-FIM registry has
      shown that Genous stent is clinically safe and effective in the treatment of coronary
      stenosis (2). Recent reports have further confirmed its efficacy in patients with acute
      coronary syndrome requiring urgent revascularization (3,4).

      The COMBO Stent is an improved version of the Genous Stent. The stent delivers a drug called
      sirolimus to the treated coronary blood vessel. This stent also incorporates a CD34 antibody
      coating that is designed to promote the healing of the treated coronary artery by catching
      endothelial progenitor cells from circulating blood as they pass through the stent. These
      cells are pro-healing and will help the blood vessel wall to heal over the stent more quickly
      and restore normal tissue function in the stented area. The combination of these two
      technologies in this new Combo stent is expected to produce even better clinical results,
      which are published in the REMEDEE Study.

      Pre-clinical animal study has already shown the Combo Stent promoted endothelialization and
      reduced neointima formation, as assessed by both optical coherence tomography (OCT) and
      histopathology (5). However, such beneficial endothelial coverage as assessed by OCT has
      never been documented in human subjects, and has been addressed by previous study protocol:
      the EGO Study (IRB: UW 10-256), EGO-COMBO Pilot Study (UW 10-342) and EGO-COMBO angiographic
      extension study (UW 12-472). Queen Mary Hospital is currently the single cardiac centre
      worldwide with such vast experience in using the COMBO stent for percutaneous coronary
      intervention, together with intracoronary OCT to profile the stent's healing progress and
      subsequent neo-intimal growth and behaviour.

      This current study protocol serves as an extension study to evaluate the long term clinical
      safety and efficacy of COMBO stent beyond 36 months post-implantation.

      This is a single centre observational study to assess the safety and effectiveness clinical
      endpoints of COMBO TM stent beyond 36 months. Clinical notes for all subjects that previously
      participated in EGO-COMBO Pilot Study (UW 10-342) will be reviewed for clinical end points
      according to the definition of Academic Research Consortium and angina symptoms will be
      classified with Canadian Cardiovascular Society Angina Classification.
    
  