
    
      Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids for Treatment of Refractory Epilepsy

      ABSTRACT

      Objective: The primary objective of the study is to determine whether polyunsaturated fatty
      acids (PUFA) can be used safely and effectively as a treatment for epilepsy.

      Background: Patients with intractable epilepsy are often on more than one medication and
      experience intolerable side effects. Fatty acids have been shown to be protective against
      seizures in animal models, but there is little human data. Recently, however, a small case
      series of patients with intractable epilepsy provided evidence of an anti-seizure effect
      without major side effects. There are no controlled trials of PUFA in humans.

      Design/Methods: Patients with uncontrolled partial or generalized epilepsy characterized by
      at least 4 seizures/month will be randomized to placebo vs. PUFA in a double-blind fashion.
      Subjects will remain on their current drug(s) while a 4-week baseline seizure count occurs.
      Dosage will then be titrated over 1 week to 1.1 grams twice daily, and will be followed by a
      15-week treatment phase with monthly visits, seizure counts, pill counts, AED levels, adverse
      event reporting, and neurological examinations. Quality of life will be measured before and
      after the study using the SF-36 and the QOLIE (Quality of Life in Epilepsy) -31. If subjects
      wish to continue treatment, they will be given the opportunity at the end of the 20-week
      period, and those randomized to placebo will have the opportunity to begin treatment with
      PUFA.

      Analysis: The number of subjects achieving a 50% reduction in seizure frequency during the
      15-week treatment period relative to the 4-week prospective baseline will be compared for
      treated vs. control groups using Fisher's exact test. Secondary endpoints will include
      percent seizure reduction, which will be analyzed using the Mann-Whitney test, and quality of
      life data, as measured by the SF-36 and QOLIE 31.

      Conclusion: There is sufficient preliminary data to suggest that PUFA can be an effective and
      well-tolerated treatment for epilepsy. If efficacy, safety, and tolerability of PUFA are
      confirmed, the proposed study will provide the foundation for a larger multi-center trial.
    
  