
    
      Vascular bypass grafting is a commonly performed procedure in vascular and cardiovascular
      surgery and the preferred bypass grafts are autogenous vein. Creation of a vascular
      anastomosis (AVA) is required at 2 sites (proximal and distal anastomoses) for every
      synthetic bypass graft. It is estimated that 50% of vascular bypass failures are due to
      anastomotic intimal hyperplasia (AIH). Intimal thickening of the artery wall is a normal
      response to healing at an anastomosis. Progression of intimal thickening leads to a
      pathological, hyperplastic, occlusive lesion - AIH, which in turn results in myocardial
      infarction, stroke, limb loss, death, graft failure, repeat operative procedures, and
      increased medical costs.

      Our laboratory demonstrated in a rabbit model of AIH that: 1) there is a significant decrease
      in the delivery of oxygen to the peri-anastomotic artery wall following creation of a
      prosthetic vascular graft to artery anastomosis, 2) the oxygen gradient across the artery
      wall in the area of a prosthetic vascular graft anastomosis normalizes over a period of 6
      weeks as healing occurs, 3) the gradient can be normalized immediately following an
      anastomosis by the administration of supplemental oxygen, and 4) the amount of AIH and smooth
      muscle cell proliferation can be reduced by immediately administering supplemental oxygen
      following creation of the anastomosis.

      The long-range goal of our program is to understand the role of oxygen in blood vessel wall
      pathology. The specific objective of this project, which is the next step in the pursuit of
      our long-range program goal, is to determine if supplemental oxygen can inhibit AIH in a
      human graft model.

      METHODS: Following review of inclusion and exclusion criteria suitable patients undergo
      surgical placement of a graft for hemodialysis. Following surgery, patients randomized to
      oxygen will breathe 5L supplemental oxygen during waking hours for 42 days. Periodic
      ultrasounds will be taken to assess graft function and patency and to measure intimal
      thickness. Patients will be followed for two years or until their graft fails.
    
  