
    
      This combined cross-sectional and prospective single center clinical and translational study
      involves a collaborative multidisciplinary team composed of gastroenterologists, surgeons,
      radiologists, and basic scientists. Eligible patients with solitary or multiple pancreatic
      cysts referred for diagnostic evaluation and/or surgical treatment will undergo initial
      radiographic imaging with high-resolution CT, MRI/MRCP, and EUS/FNA as part of standard
      medical care at Johns Hopkins Hospital. This is a three-phase study.

      In Phase I, eligible patients with pancreatic cysts will undergo initial radiographic imaging
      (high-resolution CT, MRI/MRCP, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) with fine needle aspiration
      (FNA)) as part of standard care at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Patients will be categorized
      according to the presence of symptoms referable to the cyst or imaging features concerning
      for malignancy based on the initial radiographic assessment. Symptomatic patients, or those
      with concerning features, will be referred for surgical resection. The pathologic features
      and final diagnosis of resected pancreatic cysts will be compared with preoperative clinical,
      radiologic, and cyst fluid test results.

      Asymptomatic patients with low-risk features at baseline radiographic and endoscopic imaging
      will enter Phase II. Patients will be followed on a prospective periodic surveillance
      schedule according the consensus clinical guidelines with either CT or MRI to monitor for new
      or metachronous cystic neoplasms. Those who develop symptoms or concerning features will have
      a repeat EUS/FNA as well as imaging with the opposite axial imaging modality, and will be
      referred for surgery if a suspicious lesion is detected.

      Patients who have surgery either during Phase I or Phase II, will enter post-surgical
      surveillance (Phase III). Patients will be followed using a prospective periodic surveillance
      schedule according the consensus clinical guidelines with either CT or MRI to monitor for new
      or metachronous cystic neoplasms. Those who undergo surgery after surveillance in Phase II
      will continue with the imaging modality they were originally evaluated with prior to
      surgery.. Patients who develop symptoms or high-risk features on imaging will have a repeat
      EUS/FNA as well as imaging with the opposite axial imaging modality and will be referred for
      surgery if a suspicious lesion is detected. Samples will be collected prospectively for
      biomarker analysis. Cyst fluid, pancreatic juice and blood will be collected during EUS and
      blood will be collected yearly during the outpatient clinic visit. Patients will be followed
      for three years.
    
  