
    
      In December 2019, a group of patients with the acute respiratory disease was detected in
      Wuhan, Hubei Province of China. A month later, a new beta-coronavirus was identified as the
      cause of the 2019 coronavirus infection. Despite China's efforts to contain the disease, it
      spread rapidly outside the continent. Currently, Mexico is one of the countries that is
      facing this world health problem with a dynamic and exponential increase in the number of
      confirmed cases.

      SARS-CoV-2 is a coronavirus that belongs to the group of β-coronaviruses of the subgenus
      Coronaviridae. The SARS-CoV-2 is the third known zoonotic coronavirus disease after severe
      acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (MERS). The
      diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 recommended by the WHO, CDC is the collection of a sample from the
      upper respiratory tract (nasal and oropharyngeal exudate) or from the lower respiratory tract
      such as expectoration of endotracheal aspirate and bronchioloalveolar lavage and its analysis
      using the test of real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).

      The clinical manifestations of the patients are heterogeneous presenting asymptomatic
      symptoms, mild respiratory disease, severe pneumonia, acute respiratory failure syndrome
      (ARDS), and even death. According to the Berlin definition, ARDS is an acute lung injury that
      occurs within 7 days after the triggering event and is characterized by bilateral lung
      infiltrates and severe progressive hypoxemia, as well as non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema. The
      mortality associated with ARDS depends on its severity: mild 27%, moderate 32%, and severe
      45%. In patients with SARS and SARS-CoV-2, the average duration of mechanical ventilation was
      reported in 10 (7-12) days, achieving extubation in 6/18 (33%) of which their meantime under
      mechanical ventilation was 11 (7-12) days. Of these patients, none received treatment with
      tocilizumab, only 1 patient received hydroxychloroquine, and another patient was treated with
      lopinavir-ritonavir. Therefore, the present study proposes that the use of Tocilizamab will
      shorten the time to improve, so an evaluation of the ARDS will be carried out at 7 days.

      Initial reports suggest that SARS-CoV-2 is associated with a severe illness that requires the
      intensive care unit in approximately 5% of confirmed infections. In the CDC report from
      China, the clinical manifestations of the disease were divided into:

      Mild: Mild respiratory symptoms (cough, malaise, temperature> 37.5, runny nose) with or
      without pneumonia data by an imaging study (up to 81% cases) Severe: dyspnea, increase in
      respiratory rate ≥ 30 breaths / min, oxygen saturation ≤ 93%, PaO2 / FiO2 <300 mmHg, and
      image lung infiltrates> 50% within 24 to 48 hours of symptom onset (up to 14 % of the cases)
      Critical: respiratory failure, septic shock and/or multiple organ failure (up to 5% of cases)

      China's mortality rate from SARS-CoV-2 was 2.84%, with a ratio of male to female deaths of
      3.25: 1. The average age of death was 75 years, and the average time from the first symptom
      to death was 14 days. For people age 70 and older, the average time from first symptoms to
      death was shorter than for people younger than age 70. In another retrospective study of 99
      cases, 17% of patients developed Acute Respiratory Failure Syndrome (ARDS), and 11% worsened
      in a few days and died. Critical case mortality has been documented to reach 60.5%, however,
      Mexico still does not exist epidemiological data because is not yet reached the zenith of the
      pandemic.

      The SARS-CoV-2 infection causes dysregulation of the immune response mediated by cytokines
      and chemokines. An increase in inflammation-related cytokines including IL-2, IL-7, and
      IL-10, colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), protein 10 inducible interferon g (IP10), protein,
      was reported in plasma samples from patients. monocyte chemoattractant (MCP1), macrophage
      inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP1A), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a), especially in
      severe patients. This suggests that SARS-CoV-2 patients have a large infiltrate of
      inflammatory immune cells and severe lung inflammation. IL-6 and IL-10 expression levels
      increase the risk of progression to a critical condition.

      Cytokine storm syndrome is a phenomenon during which there is an immune dysregulation due to
      the increase of proinflammatory cytokines in response to stimulation by microorganisms or
      drugs.

      Under homeostasis conditions, the body's pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine
      concentrations remain relatively balanced. Before infection, there may be abnormal and
      dysregulated activation of dendritic cells, macrophages, lymphocytes, and NK cells. The
      release and action of a large number of proinflammatory cytokines facilitate a positive
      feedback loop. After a certain threshold, there may be a cytokine storm. Patients will
      present with fever, diffuse intravascular coagulation (DIC), shock, and organ failure. The
      transition from mild to severe disease in COVID-19 patients may be caused by a cytokine
      storm.

      Manifestations of a dysregulated inflammatory response have been identified in patients with
      COVID-19. The cardinal features of this syndrome include constant fever, cytopenias, and
      hyperferritinemia. Pulmonary involvement, including ARDS, occurs in approximately 50% of
      patients. A cytokine profile that resembles LHHS has been associated with COVID-19 disease
      severity.

      At the time of infection, immune mechanisms are activated, including specific and
      non-specific immune responses. Endogenous viral protein synthesized within infected cells can
      activate virus-specific CD8 + T cells through the major pathway of the histocompatibility
      complex-I (MHC-I). There is then proliferation, differentiation, and effector responses of
      CD8 + T cells (24). Increased IL-2, IL-7, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, interferon-γ
      inducible protein 10, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, macrophage inflammatory protein
      1-α, and necrosis factor have been observed in severe cases tumor-α. Continuous and
      dysregulated amplification exacerbates the manifestations associated with infection, while
      hypoxia and necrosis eventually lead to an uncontrolled inflammatory response and will
      trigger cytokine storms. There is a probability that immunosuppression is beneficial in a
      hyper-inflammatory state.

      Therapeutic options include steroids, intravenous immunoglobulin, selective cytokine blockade
      (eg, Anakinra or Tocilizumab), JAK inhibition, vaccines, reinfusion of serum from recovered
      patients, progenitor therapy, elimination of immune cells (eg. , Alendizumab, Rituximab),
      among others.

      All patients with severe COVID - 19 should undergo tests for hyper inflammation using
      laboratory tests such as ferritin levels, platelet count, globulin sedimentation rate, and H
      score measurement in order to determine the subgroup of patients to whom the
      immunosuppression may improve the risk of mortality.

      A study carried out to identify the immune characteristics of those infected with SARS-CoV-2
      showed that patients in the intensive care unit had a significant decrease in hemoglobin and
      albumin, with an increase in concentrations of the c-reactive protein (PCR), alanine
      aminotransfer (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (DHL). The
      total number of leukocytes did not show significant differences, while the number of
      lymphocytes decreased significantly. Furthermore, they found an increase in the number of
      G-CSF and in IL-6, suggesting a high risk of monocyte-mediated release of inflammatory
      cytokines that can migrate to the lung and produce severe clinical manifestations and even
      death.

      The management of the critically ill adult patient with SARS-CoV-2 is not standardizing,
      however, the panel of experts from the "Surviving Sepsis Campaign" has published 54
      recommendations for the management of the patient with severe SARS-CoV-2 and ARDS. The
      recommendations focus on hemodynamic support, fluid therapy, use of vasoactive agents,
      invasive mechanical ventilation, as well as management of the "cytokine storm" syndrome.

      One of the proposals for the treatment of cytokine storm and macrophage activation in severe
      or critical stages of SARS-CoV-2 is the use of drugs that inhibit the interaction of IL-6
      with its receptor. Tocilizumab (TCZ) is a humanized recombinant monoclonal antibody of the
      IgG1 immunoglobulin subclass, is directed against soluble or membrane IL-6 receptors (IL-6R).
      TCZ inhibits the binding of IL-6 to its receptor by reducing pro-inflammatory activity.

      The use of TCZ in patients with severe/critical SARS-CoV-2 was first reported in China.
      Patients received TCZ treatment at an initial dose of 400 mg with an additional dose in the
      patient with persistent fever (maximum of two doses). The patients presented a rapid
      reduction in fever and in the supplemental oxygen requirement in the days after receiving the
      medication. Despite the promising results of this study, there is currently no solid evidence
      demonstrating the safety and efficacy of TCZ for the clinical treatment of SARS-CoV-2
      pneumonia. The FDA recently approved a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III
      clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TCZ (ActemraMR) added to standard care
      in hospitalized adult patients with severe SARS-CoV-2 disease, which will be held in the
      United States of America (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04320615). Likewise, Italy is
      recruiting patients for a phase II study with a single TCZ treatment arm in critically ill
      patients (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04317092, NCT04315480). China is conducting a
      study with Tocilizumab vs. renal replacement therapy for the management of cytokine release
      syndrome (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04306705). In patients with mild-moderate
      SARS-CoV-2, the US will initiate a phase 2 study in 50 patients to assess its efficacy
      (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04331795). As well as its comparison with other
      medications (hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04332094)
      and combinations (Favipiravir + Tocilizumab vs Favipiravir and Tocilizumab ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT04310228).
    
  