
    
      Introduction: In less than four months, an outbreak of severe pneumonia, initially identified
      in Wuhan (China), has spread to more than 185 countries and territories, leaving more than
      1,835,000 people compromised and 113,362 deaths, according to statistics provided by Johns
      Hopkins University (1). Additionally, this outbreak has collapsed health systems in some
      countries and has begun to have a huge impact on the global economy.

      The etiological agent, an RNA virus of the Coronaviridae family called SARS COV-2, is
      characterized by having a high contagion index (R0 = 1, 4 - 5, 5) (2), high virulence and
      lethality rates that can go up to 10% in some populations. The contagion of health workers
      has led to the loss of subjects with high social value to face the pandemic further weakening
      health systems. Because it is necessary to wait several months for the development, testing,
      approval and commercialization of a SARS COV-2 vaccine, there has been an urgent need to
      identify drugs that can offer a prophylactic effect for health workers who have high risk of
      being infected with the virus.

      Recently, the in vitro antiviral effect of ivermectin was described to inhibit the invasive
      cellular action of SARS COV-2 (3), an effect explained by the HTA (Host Target Antivirals)
      model. Given the known safety and effectiveness of ivermectin in the treatment of parasitic
      infections in humans, this drug could be used prophylactically in health workers if the
      effects described on in-vitro studies are also present on in-vivo scenarios. However, so far,
      no study has shown the antiviral effects that ivermectin could have against SARS COV-2 or its
      effectiveness in reducing health complications caused by this virus in humans.

      Objective: To determine the effectiveness and safety of the administration of ivermectin at a
      dose of 200 mcg/kg once a week for 7 weeks in a prophylactic treatment against SARS COV-2
      infection in Colombian health workers during the COVID-19 pandemic.

      Methods: It will be performed a randomized, multicenter, triple-masked, placebo-controlled
      clinical experiment to determine the relative risk of SARS COV-2 infection, seroconversion,
      and clinically presenting disease. In addition, the relative risk of requiring
      hospitalization or entering the intensive care unit was evaluated in doctors, nurses,
      respiratory therapists and assistants who have direct contact with patients with COVID-19.
      After being exposed to ivermectin prophylaxis or placebo for seven weeks, the results will be
      measured at eight weeks, with interim analyses to monitor the safety of the participating
      subjects.

      Keywords: Coronavirus 2019, COVID-19, SARS-CoV2, ivermectin, prophylaxis, treatment, health
      workers.
    
  