
    
      Summary of the study programme

      Background

      During Radiation therapy to the mouth, throat or trachea can fibrosis often occur in the
      chewing muscles round the jaw causing a development of trismus (a limited jaw mobility).
      Trismus can cause pain, difficulty in eating, swallowing, speech and difficulty with general
      mouth hygiene. Despite the fact that this condition has been documented in older literature,
      there is limited research in the incidence of trismus. There is need of randomised studies to
      investigate the prevention of trismus both under and during Radiation Therapy.

      Aims

      The specific aims of this study are to investigate the effectiveness of Prophylactic training
      with a muscle warm-up programme and a mechanical device (TheraBite) to prevent trismus during
      Radiation Therapy and one year after completed therapy. The study also aims to investigate
      the incidence of radiotherapy-induced trismus in patients who receive radiotherapy to the
      masseter, temporalis, pterygoid muscles. Finally the study investigates whether trismus
      affects quality of life.

      Methods

      Patients

      Sixty consecutive patients, from two different radiation clinics in Sweden, are randomised
      into the two different groups using a computer programme.

      Treatment procedures

        1. Intervention group: Daily training with a programme for TheraBite that trains passive
           movement, preceded by a warm-up programme. Mouth opening measurements are made once a
           week during treatment at the end of radiotherapy,three, six and 12 months after
           treatment.

        2. Control group: Receiving traditional radiation therapy with nursing care, measuring the
           patients mouth opening once a week during treatment, at the end of radiation
           therapy,three, six, and 12 months after treatment. The same training programme as group
           one is offered to this group as soon as evidence of trismus develops.

      This training is recorded by the patient in a log book. Weight, height, Mucositis analysis
      and quality of life are made before the commencement of radiation therapy, at the end of
      radiation therapy, three, six, and 12 months after treatment. The patient's weight is
      measured every week.

      Results

      The results of this study will give new and vital information that can give a basis to
      develop a clinical method of identifying and treating cancer patients who suffer from
      trismus. Thus giving new knowledge which can be used to formulate clinical practices.
    
  