
    
      There is a deficit in literature assessing the risk associated with these repurposed
      medications in COVID-19 patients. The investigators propose to evaluate if the use of
      repurposed drugs including hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine is associated with an increased
      risk of mortality in COVID-19 infected patients treated with such medications.

      PrescribeWellness, a Tabula Rasa HealthCare solution, a leading patient relationship
      management service provider in U.S., facilitates collaboration between more than 15,000
      pharmacies and payers, providers, and patients for better health. PrescribeWellness empowers
      community pharmacies with innovative technological solutions that advance a pharmacist's
      ability to identify, manage, and drive patient care interventions. On average, 2,000 patients
      receive their services per each pharmacy. PrescribeWellness expands the medication risk
      mitigation program of Tabula Rasa HealthCare in community pharmacies and ambulatory patients.
      The investigators propose to perform a retrospective analysis of data from infected COVID-19
      patients served by PrescribeWellness pharmacies for assessing mortality and risk/benefit
      associated with the use of repurposed COVID-19 drugs.

      An approach to reduce and predict adverse drug events is the use of predictive risk scores.
      Tabula Rasa HealthCare's proprietary MedWise Risk Score™ (MRS) is based on five aggregated
      medication risk mitigation factors: FAERS (FDA adverse events reporting system) risk score,
      anticholinergic burden, sedative burden, drug-induced long QT syndrome, and CYP450 drug
      interaction burden. The MRS™ is a predictive tool used by health care providers to determine
      which factors, including prescription drugs, can contribute the most to a patient's
      likelihood of an adverse drug event (ADE) occurring. In order to calculate the MRS™, patient
      data is first de-identified, and then comprised by various physiological, pharmacological and
      biochemical variables. Once a patient is analyzed, his/her MRS™ is defined as Very Low, Low,
      Moderate, High, or Very High Risk for the likelihood of ADE. The investigators propose to
      retrospectively calculate the MRSTM and assess the predictive value of MRS™ in patients
      tested positive for COVID-19 and who were treated with repurposed drugs. The investigators
      hypothesize that an increase rate of mortality is associated with high risk MRS in patients
      receiving repurposed drugs against COVID-19.
    
  