
    
      Objective

      The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy of divalproex sodium in reduction
      of epileptiform EEG discharges in children with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD). ASDs are
      neurodevelopmental disorders that result in abnormalities of social and language development
      and are associated with rigid and repetitive behaviors. ASD prevalence may be as common as 1
      in 110 and as many as 1/3 of these individuals have seizures. Abnormal electroencephalograms
      (EEGs) (without seizure activity) are even more prevalent (Spence & Schneider, 2009). In an
      ongoing study at the NIMH, approximately 50% of children without epilepsy had epileptiform
      discharges present on overnight EEG. The relationship between this abnormal activity and
      autism symptoms has not yet been studied; however, data from other epilepsy syndromes suggest
      that these epileptiform discharges contribute to behavioral and cognitive deficits. It is
      also unknown whether or not reduction of the epileptiform discharges will result in improved
      behavior and more rapid intellectual and social development in children with ASD. This pilot
      study is designed to address that question.

      Study Population

      100 children with ASDs including Autistic Disorder, Asperger's or PDD-NOS ages 3-10 will be
      screened to find up to 40 children with frequent epileptiform discharges noted on overnight
      EEG. Allowing for up to 20% drop out, we expect at least 32 to complete the study.

      Design

      The proposed investigation is a 9 month long trial with a 6 month double-blind placebo
      controlled trial of divalproex sodium (Depakote) and a 3 month open label extension phase.
      Prior to study entry, potential subjects will be evaluated with the standard PDN
      diagnostic/behavioral assessment (06-M-0065). Children meeting eligibility criteria will
      undergo an overnight EEG and those with frequent epileptiform discharges will be randomly
      assigned to receive divalproex sodium or placebo. Study drugs will be administered in a
      blinded fashion for 24 weeks with overnight EEG at 12 and 24 weeks. Biweekly then monthly
      visits with laboratory studies will monitor for behavioral improvement and for potential
      adverse effects. A 3 month open label extension phase follows.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure will be EEG changes; tolerability and changes in behavioral
      symptoms will be exploratory secondary outcome assessments. It is hypothesized that
      divalproex will be superior to placebo in reducing epileptiform discharges on the EEG. In
      addition, exploratory analyses will investigate whether children who demonstrate improvements
      and even normalization of the EEG pattern will have more associated behavioral improvements
      than those for whom the EEG does not improve.
    
  