
    
      Chronic non-communicable diseases (NCDs) account for 63% of deaths worldwide, of which 80%
      occur in low- and middle-income countries In Colombia, 71% of all deaths are related to NCDs
      . This pandemic can be prevented by controlling the risk factors, seeking to create
      interventions that impact more than one risk factor at a time, including body weight, blood
      glucose levels, blood pressure, cardiorespiratory fitness and other relatively minor risk
      factors.

      On the other hand, diabetes mellitus is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide .
      In its natural history, diabetes is preceded by factors that confer risk of diabetes and for
      a group of disorders known as "prediabetes" term comprising intolerance carbohydrates and
      impaired fasting glycaemia . Although people at risk of diabetes or prediabetes are often
      asymptomatic; lesions develop in micro and macrovascular beds and result in long-term kidney
      dysfunction, retinal damage and affectation of peripheral nerves and arteries. Vascular
      damage leads to an increased risk of retinopathy renal insufficiency , painful or autonomic
      neuropathy and atherosclerotic cardiovascular threatening diseases such as acute myocardial
      infarction.

      The above situation has prompted an intense search for non-pharmacological interventions to
      intervene in patients at risk of diabetes and prevent negative consequences on the body in
      the short, medium and long term. One of the most promising areas of research is the
      nutraceuticals field. Colombian Team Foods S.A has developed a supplement of vegetable oils,
      that for their composition could have the ability to improve pathophysiological phenomena
      associated with the development of diabetes and its complications.

      The main objective of this trial is to assess the impact of the consumption of a vegetable
      oils-based designed jointly by Team Foods and university of los Andes, on several indicators
      metabolic health in people at risk of diabetes. The specific objectives are:

        -  To enroll a sample of patients who are at risk of diabetes but have not receive drugs to
           control plasma glucose, cholesterol or triglycerides, and have not developed
           complications like kidney or eye dysfunction.

        -  To evaluate the effect of daily consumption of the study supplement on fasting blood
           glucose, the area under the glucose curve in an oral glucose tolerance test, and
           glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c-an indicator of blood glucose levels over the last 3 months).

        -  To evaluate the effect of the supplement on indexes and biomarkers of insulin
           resistance.

        -  To evaluate the effect of the supplement on other cardiovascular risk factors including
           lipid profile, blood pressure, body weight and body composition.
    
  