
    
      Hypothesis:

      Patients who receive intravenous lignocaine infusion as a multimodal analgesic technique will
      require less morphine postoperatively with lower pain scores on the visual analogue scale
      (VAS).

      Methodology The main clinical study is a randomized double blinded control trial that will
      start after ethics approval from UMREC and registration at Clinical Trial Registry. All
      adults undergoing elective laparoscopic donor nephrectomy will be recruited in this
      double-blinded randomised controlled trial. After obtaining their informed consent, patients
      will be shown the visual analogue score (VAS) as the post-operative pain assessment and their
      baseline pain scores obtained. Instructions are also given for patient controlled analgesic
      (PCA) device using morphine for post-operative pain control.

      Randomisation and blinding:

      There will be two groups - lignocaine and control. Randomization will be based on a computer
      generated random number and sealed in opaque envelopes. On the day of surgery, one of the
      investigators who must not be involved in the care of the case, opens the envelope to follow
      the allocated group number and prepare either lignocaine or normal saline solutions. Both
      syringes are labelled with the assigned number only and handed to the attending
      anaesthesiologist in charge of the surgery. The patient as well as the attending anaesthetic
      team is blinded to the allocated group. Similarly, post-operative observers who collect the
      required data will be blinded.

      Sample size:

      Sample size is calculated based on a pilot study. A power analysis revealed that 15 patients
      in each group is required to detect a difference of 6 mg between the morphine consumption of
      the two groups for a power of 80% and and a level of statistical significance at 5%. To
      provide adequate power for additional analysis, we planned to enrol 20 patients in each group
      with further allowance for 10% drop out for the per protocol analysis.

      Conduct of anaesthesia All patients are administered general anaesthesia with 2mcg/kg of
      fentanyl, 2-3mg/kg of propofol and 0.6mg/kg of rocuronium for induction, intubated and
      maintained with desflurane in oxygen-air mixture to MAC of 1.0-1.3. Haemodynamic parameters
      are measured with standard monitoring and kept within 10% of baseline. All management of
      ventilation, temperature control and fluids will be done according to institutional protocol
      for renal transplant.

      Study drug protocol 2 groups - Control OR Lignocaine group. Lignocaine group: After
      induction, securing airway and intravenous lines, patients are turned lateral into the
      lateral decubitus nephrectomy position. Once the correct position is achieved and
      haemodynamic status is stable, a slow bolus of 1.5mg/kg of 1% lignocaine is given over 15 min
      before the start of surgery, followed by an infusion at 1.5mg/kg/hr for the lignocaine group.
      If the patient's BMI is >30, the ideal body weight (IBW) is used to calculate the bolus and
      infusion dose at a maximal rate of 100mg/hr for a wide margin of safety.

      Control group: An equivalent volume of normal saline is given.

      Multimodal analgesia All patients will receive

        -  0.05-0.1 mg/kg of intravenous morphine intra-operatively.

        -  One gram of intravenous paracetamol and 40mg of intravenous parecoxib (30min before end
           of surgery) unless contraindicated.

        -  Anti-emetics - dexamethasone 4mg and IV ondansetron 4mg

        -  20-30 mls of plain bupivacaine 0.5% (not exceeding 2mg/kg) will be infiltrated
           subcutaneously

      In the recovery room, the PCA device is set to deliver 1mg bolus of morphine without a
      baseline infusion, lockout period of 5 min and maximum of 30mg morphine in 4 hours.

        -  The time to first PCA use is noted.

        -  Pain scores using VAS will be recorded at 30 min, 1 hour, 6 hours, 12 hours and 24 hours
           post-operatively.

        -  Other symptoms such as sedation, nausea, vomiting, light headedness, perioral numbness,
           and pruritus are reported if it occurs during the first postoperative day.

      In the ward, oral paracetamol 1g 6hourly and oral celecoxib 200mg 12hourly will be prescribed
      for administration in the ward. Total IV morphine consumption at the end of the 24 hours are
      recorded.

      Demographic data, medical history, physical examination, pre- and postoperative laboratory
      results for renal function (eGFR and creatinine clearance) will be collected prospectively.
      All post-operative pain scores/ satisfaction scores/ complications will be reviewed and
      recorded by a blinded observer.

      4 blood samples will be taken from every recruited patient - baseline pre-op, before
      nephrectomy, after nephrectomy and 24 hours post-op.
    
  