
    
      Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) infection (CDI) is one of the most frequent causes of
      healthcare associated infections and its rates are also growing in the community. The
      efficacy of standard antibiotics especially for recurrent CDI is limited as oral vancomycin
      and metronidazole also suppress the growth of anaerobic bacteria such as Bacteroides fragilis
      group which protect against proliferation of C. difficile. In contrast, in vitro study has
      shown that fidaxomicin has negligible activity against B. fragilis. The persistent disruption
      of healthy colonic flora may be the reason for recurrences following a course of treatment
      with metronidazole or vancomycin. Fidaxomicin has shown to reduce recurrences by
      approximately 50% when compared to oral vancomycin for primary or 1st episode of recurrent
      CDI.

      Determining the efficacy and safety of 30-day duration of fidaxomicin for recurrent CDI
      through an open label clinical trial has important implications for policy making related to
      the drug reimbursement programs. In addition, the results of this study will be instrumental
      in demonstrating to the scientific and healthcare communities there may be a role for the
      30-day course of fidaxomicin as a treatment modality for recurrent CDI. Curing CDI will
      restore the health and quality of life not just at the individual patient level but to the
      healthcare communities as well. Patients with refractory CDI require prolonged hospital
      admission, which increases the organism burden within the healthcare facilities. This in turn
      leads to the spread of the infection to other vulnerable patients. If a 30-day course of
      fidaxomicin proves to be safe and effective in curing patients with recurrent CDI, it will
      reduce the risk of severe complications in each patient and reduce transmission of CDI to
      other susceptible patients.
    
  