
    
      Adolescent depression is a severe disorder affecting 5-8% of adolescents. It is a major risk
      factor for adolescent suicide-one of the 3 most common reasons for death in this age group.
      It carries with it a heavy burden of harsh comorbidities such as substance abuse, and
      behavioral problems[1, 2].

      The first line treatment of moderate or severe illness includes pharmacotherapy with
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine, in combination with psychotherapy.
      However, more than 30% of the patients do not achieve remission (defined as minimal or no
      symptoms) despite treatment with a combined intervention [3]. In adolescents there is some
      evidence that as a second line, switching to another SSRI combined with cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) can be useful [4]. There is no evidence to what should be the third line in
      therapy. Early intervention in the course of a disease is expected to protect from the grave
      long term sequelae[9], but in treating adolescent depression our therapeutic tools are
      extremely limited[10].

      There is a necessity to advance our evidence based interventions to treat treatments
      resistant adolescent depression.

      Hypoactivity in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPC) is a key finding in brain
      imaging of depression[11]. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a
      therapeutic procedure in which a magnetic coil that generates recurrent pulsatile magnetic
      fields from a rapidly oscillating electrical current is placed on the scalp, to induce
      recurrent electrical currents in the brain. High frequency rTMS causes activation of the
      affected brain regions and networks. This is the suggested mechanism of the antidepressant
      effect of high frequency rTMS to the left DLPC in depression[12]. Recent advances in custom
      coil technology led to the development of H coils that support stimulation of deeper, limbic
      structures[13]. Due to the accumulating knowledge on safety and efficacy in adult depression
      both the custom rTMS and the "deep" H coil TMS are approved (FDA and Israeli ministry of
      health), for clinical (not just research) use [12, 14-16]. In a large multicenter study of
      the H1 coil to treat adult depression there were minimal side effects and a large effect size
      of 0.78 was reported, strengthening the promise of this mode of therapy [5].

      The field of brain stimulation and specifically TMS is based on the concept of
      neuroplasticity, the ability of repeated stimulations to cause a longer lasting neuronal
      change. In this respect the adolescent developing brain is a period of opportunity for such
      changes[17, 18] To date, there are no randomized placebo controlled studies on rTMS to treat
      adolescents suffering from depression, although reports support the safety of rTMS in
      treating adolescents. Recently, there was a report of a self-limited convulsion in an
      adolescent treated with deep rTMS at 120% motor threshold-strengthening the necessity for
      well-structured studies in the field[23].

      Studying biomarkers holds the promise for translating neuroscientific understandings to the
      clinical practice of adolescent depression[24]. In order to be useful a biomarker has to be
      discriminative (between responder vs non responder for example), to reflect a
      pathophysiological process, but last and not least it is important that it will be accessible
      for use[25, 26]. This explains the evolving interest in using electroencephalography (EEG)
      findings to study depression and monitor the course of therapy[27, 28]. Imaging and
      electrophysiological studies support the importance of the interplay between the attentional
      and default networks as a marker of the disease course[29, 30]. In a recent study our group
      cooperated in a study of a new simple EEG technique, that by using repeated simple
      attentional EEG measures was able to predict treatment response in a heterogeneous group of
      adult depressed patients[31]. These safe and simple markers were never studied in adolescent
      depression.

      The present research is a randomized double blind placebo controlled EEG monitored study of
      deep rTMS treatment to treat adolescent depression.

      Research goals and expected significance:

        1. To study the efficacy and safety of deep rTMS to treat treatments resistant adolescent
           depression. As there are no well controlled studies of rTMS to treat adolescent
           depression, the possibility to evaluate a new therapeutic tool for this severe, life
           threatening disease has immense clinical value. Since this technique is based on
           evolving neuroscientific understandings, it holds promise for advancing our
           understanding of adolescent depression.

        2. To evaluate a potential pragmatic EEG measure to predict and monitor therapeutic
           outcome. Since the effect of deep rTMS on the developing brain of the depressed
           adolescent has a potential for both therapy and side effects, early prediction of the
           effect is crucial. The potential of having biomarkers to complement clinical and
           subjective evaluations is of paramount importance for personalizing, objectively
           monitoring therapy to treat adolescent depression.

      Methods:

      Subjects: Fifty-two adolescents (age: 14-18y) suffering from treatment resistant depression
      will be recruited from "Shalvata mental health center" in patient ward, and outpatient
      facilities. Sample size calculation was based on the effect size of 0.78 found in the adult
      depression study[5]. The Shalvata Mental Health Center serves a large catchment area, and the
      investigators are experienced in recruiting depressed adolescent patients to rTMS studies
      [20, 21, 33]. Participation will be based on the following criteria:

      Devices:

      Deep TMS Brainsway's H coil, and deep TMS are registered in Israel for clinical use to treat
      depression in adults. Our center has gained years of experience in studies with this
      system[5, 16, 32, 37]. Deep TMS treatments will be carried out by a technician (trained and
      approved by the manufacturer) that will remain in the treatment room during the entire
      procedure. In addition, a physician will be available on-call within the hospital grounds.

      At the beginning of the trial individual motor threshold (MT) will be measured by placing the
      assigned coil above the hand area of the motor cortex. Patients will receive stimulations
      over the prefrontal cortex, 6 cms anterior to the 'hot spot' for stimulation of the abductor
      policies brevis in the hand area. Each deep TMS treatment will be conducted as follows:
      Before starting each treatment, patients will be instructed to insert earplugs to lessen any
      possible adverse effect on hearing. Twice a week, the MT will be measured by delivering
      single stimulations to the motor cortex. The MT is measured by gradually increasing the
      intensity. This is done by using the single pulse mode and applying one pulse every 5 secs,
      i.e. 0.2 Hertz. The electrical activity in abductor pollicis brevis is then recorded using
      surface electrodes. Threshold is defined as the lowest intensity of stimulation able to
      produce motor evoked potentials of at least 50µV in 5 of 10 trials. After defining the motor
      threshold, the same intensity will be used in following treatments until the next threshold
      examination. The coil will be positioned 6 cm anterior to the hot spot (according to clinical
      judgment of the physician in charge, The reference point could move 5 anterior to the hot
      spot) and an dTMS session will be performed at 100% of the motor threshold, for safety the
      investigatores lowered the 120% threshold used with adult depressed subjects.

      During the treatment trial period all subjects will receive the following dose of TMS: 18 Hz,
      at 100% RMT, 2 sec pulse train, 20 second inter-train interval, 80 trains, for a total of
      57,600 pulses over the complete treatment course. In the placebo group a state of the art
      sham procedure will be used- the coil is programed to produce the noise and local sensation
      but with no activation[38].

      MindWave of NeuroSky LTD This is an simple and approved EEG system, that enables us to
      produce off line with the technology of Brain marc a valuable marker related to
      attention[39]. The recording will be performed by a trained technician and carries no danger
      and minimal inconvenience. Recording is done with and without an acoustic oddball trigger, in
      order to have both resting state and event related recordings. The evaluation takes
      approximately 5 minutes. The data are transported as anonymous signals to a secured cloud.
      Our group has had fruitful experience with working with this system with depressed
      patients[31].

      Cognitive assessment:

      Computerized Neuropsychological Battery (Penn CNP) In studying innovative treatments for
      adolescent depression cognitive and affective assessments are extremely important. Depression
      has state and trait effects on cognitive abilities including attention and working memory[40,
      41]. Since possible effect on memory is a central concern with the use of electroconvulsive
      therapy considered by some the prototype of brain stimulation techniques monitoring cognitive
      functions especially in an adolescent brain stimulation (TMS) study is crucial[42, 43]. The
      web-based Computerized Neuropsychological Battery (Penn CNP) of the Brain Behavior Laboratory
      at the University of Pennsylvania offers a range of probes of human neuropsychological
      functioning (www. penncnp.med.upenn.edu). It was designed for neuropsychological measurement
      of major cognitive domains. PennCNP has granted us permission to use the WenCNP battery after
      assurance that our study is held in research institutions with IRB support, under the
      direction of accredited research faculty members or students. The WebCNP is administered
      using clickable icons on desktop or laptop computers, in a fixed order. An Applescript®
      routine is used to collect participant IDs and basic demographic information and to present
      the tests in a prescribed order. The test administrator reads instructions for each test and
      observes as the participant performs the tests. Administrating the tests in a standard
      fashion fostering optimal performance without aiding the participant is required. The test
      administrator provides a status code and comments regarding the validity of collected data.
      The results are uploaded to a data repository using an automated script, and scored using a
      program written in the Python programming language. For each domain, accuracy (number of
      correct responses) and speed (response time for correct answers) are computed. Full battery
      completion takes approximately 1 hour. Each test begins with a practice module, to assure
      understanding of the instructions. The tasks in the battery include the following: Motor
      Praxis Test, The Penn Face Memory Test, Short Visual Object Learning Test, Short Penn
      continuous performance task (CPT), Short Letter N-Back Task, Penn Facial Memory Test-
      Delayed, Memory Short Visual Object Learning Test - Delay, Penn Emotion Recognition Faces 40,
      The Penn Conditional Exclusion Test, The Penn Word Memory Test, Penn Emotion Discrimination
      Task, Short Penn Computerized Tapping Task, Penn Matrix Analysis Test, Penn Facial Age
      discrimination, Variable Short Penn Line Orientation Test (34).

      Clinical Questionnaires:

      The development and well-being assessment (DAWBA). Is a commonly used structured interview
      intended to improve diagnostic reliability [34].

      CGI - Clinical Global Impression: CGI is a commonly used tool for assessing the severity of
      the patient's depression. It uses 7 levels, ranging from normal to severely ill[36]. It is
      important to note that this is a course but extremely relevant measure used in some of the
      most influential studies on treating adolescent depression[3].

      Child depression rating scale (CDRS) Is a well validated structured assessment of adolescent
      depression, using questions relevant to this age group[35].

      Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (QIDS-SR). This is self-report commonly used in
      studying and monitoring depression in different age groups[44].

      Suicidal ideation questionnaire (SIQ). This evaluation tool has shown reliability and
      validity in assessing and monitoring the severity of suicidal ideation[45].

      The screen for child anxiety and related emotional disorders (SCARED). This is a brief and
      well established questionnaire that helps evaluate anxiety, highly relevant measure in
      depressed adolescents[46].

      Experimental design:

      After a brief presentation and screen eligible patients and their guardians will be invited
      to complete the informed consent process.

      Visit 1-pretreatment evaluation:

      Will include a physical and psychiatric evaluation completed with the DAWBA[34] interview,
      the CDRS[35] to evaluate depression severity, the suicidal ideation questionnaire (SIQ)[45]
      and the CGI[36]. Patients will complete a demographic questionnaire, QIDS [44], the screen
      for child anxiety and related emotional disorders SCARED[46]. In addition patients will go
      through a cognitive evaluation using the Penn Web-Based Computerized Neurocognitive Battery
      (WebCNP)[47]. On this visit the first EEG evaluation will be performed[31].

      After the pretreatment visit patients will be blindly randomized to active or sham procedure.

      Visit 2-21 On visit 2 treatment threshold will be determined. For the next 4 weeks patients
      will have a daily treatment (sham or active) session on each working day (5 days a week).
      Before and after each treatment patients will be asked about their general condition, mood,
      suicidal thoughts and side effects from the treatment. Before each therapy day an EEG
      monitoring will be performed.

      On visits 2, 7, 12, 17 and 21 (the first visit of every week, and the last session), patients
      will complete the clinical evaluation using the questionnaires detailed in the screen, and
      repeat the EEG assessment after therapy.

      Follow up visits, visits 22-24:

      After a week (visit 22), a month (visit 23) and two months (visit 24) patients will repeat
      the more detailed evaluation as on the weekly visits. On visit 22 the cognitive evaluation
      done in the screen will be repeated.

      Study Duration The anticipated enrollment rate is 2-3 per month. Therefore, approximately 20
      months will be required to enroll 52 subjects. The protocol duration for each subject is 4
      weeks, followed by 8 weeks for the 2 follow-up visits; therefore the total study duration
      including data processing is expected to be approximately 24 months. After an ethical
      consultation it has been decided that patients who were in the sham group, at the end of the
      blinding will be able to receive active therapy.

      Monitoring of Subjects and Criteria for Withdrawal During the entire study, the subjects will
      be under the direct monitoring of the principal investigator. Any adverse effect or
      subjective disturbance will be immediately recorded and responded to. If subjects are not
      cooperative, they may be withdrawn by the investigators. Subjects or parents wishing to
      withdraw at any time would be able to do so without prejudice. Subjects whose condition is
      deteriorating as expressed by a 15% rise or more in the clinical questionnaires during the
      study period with no known emotional trigger (such as a family or romantic crisis) will
      discontinue therapy.

      Subject that completed 16 treatments or more, within 6 weeks, will be considered as a subject
      who completed the study trail.
    
  