
    
      1. Purpose:

           To study the effects of phthalates on airway immunology, lung function and nasal
           allergic responses.

        2. Hypotheses:

           Phthalate inhalation increases recruitment of immune cells to the upper airways and
           affects the functionality of immune and epithelial cells.

           Hypothesis 2: Phthalate inhalation alters the cellular response to an inhalation
           allergen challenge.

        3. Justification:

           Phthalates are plasticizers or softeners, used in PVC and other plastics and a range of
           consumer products. Since phthalates are not chemically bound to the plastic they leak
           out from these products, causing routine human exposure through air, dust and food.
           Exposure to phthalates has been linked to worsening or development of airway diseases in
           epidemiological studies, but the effects of phthalates on our airways and immune
           responses are largely unknown. In this study we would like to investigate how one
           particular phthalate, dibutyl phthalate (DBP), can affect the human respiratory and
           immune systems. The investigators are not expecting that the responses will be
           noticeable to the subjects; they are expecting that any responses that may occur will
           only be detectable through careful examination of cells and tissues (e.g. nasal lavage
           and brushes (fluid from the nose), bronchial samples, blood, urine). Nasal samples will
           be used for measurement of nasal inflammatory responses in terms of cell recruitment and
           levels of inflammatory mediators. Bronchial samples will allow for a refined examination
           of an inflammatory responses in the lung and thus provide a much more detailed
           information concerning the phthalate-induced responses due to allergen challenge.
           Understanding these subtle changes will help us prevent health problems associated with
           phthalate exposure in the future.

        4. Objectives:

           To establish that phthalates alter the cellular immune response in the upper airways.

        5. Research Method:

           This is a blinded crossover experiment between two conditions (dibutyl phthalate, DBP,
           or filtered air, FA), randomized and counter-balanced to order.

           After each exposure of DBP or FA, we will deliver an inhaled allergen challenge. Data
           collection for each condition will be separated by a 2-week washout period.

           To evaluate the effects of the exposure on the immune response and lung function, the
           investigators will collect and perform the following on the day of the exposure or the
           following day:

             -  Before each exposure, 3h and 24h post-exposure, we will collect urine and blood
                samples, perform NAL, and measure forced expiratory volume (FEV1) by spirometry and
                FeNO.

             -  Methacholine challenge will be performed 24h after exposure.

             -  Nasal brushing (NAB) will be performed at 3h pre-exposure on the left nostril and
                3h post-exposure in the right nostril.

             -  A fraction of the subjects enrolled will have a bronchoscopy performed 24h
                post-exposure, where bronchoalveolar samples and endobronchial biopsies will be
                collected.

           The literature provides conflicting data for phthalates with regard to some of the
           analytical endpoints. Therefore, to facilitate the choice of endpoints for the principal
           study, as well as to validate some study procedures, a 'Method optimization sub-study'
           will be performed prior to the start of the principal study. A maximum of 25 healthy
           subjects will be recruited for this sub-study, who will sign a modified consent that
           reflects their limited participation. These subjects will not be exposed to DBP or CA,
           but will only be recruited for collection of blood, nasal lavage, and nasal brushing, or
           a subset of these samples. They will only attend one visit to the Vancouver General
           Hospital, dedicating 1 - 3 hours of their time when participating in the sub-study.
           Moreover, prior starting the principal study (above), up to four healthy subjects may be
           recruited for a 'Pilot study' to optimize the logistics of the exposures and the
           experimental procedures of the principal study. These subjects will be subjected to CA
           exposure only and have all procedures and samples collected as described for the actual
           study with the exception of the bronchoscopy.

           Samples collected during the Method optimization sub-study and the Pilot study, will be
           used to establish analytical methods to measure immune cellular responses such as white
           blood or nasal epithelial cell responses to bacterial components (Toll Like Receptor
           (TLR) agonists) and phagocytosis assays after in vitro phthalate exposure (as described
           under study procedures).

        6. Statistical Analysis:

      A mixed effects model will be used to estimate all effects and pertinent contrasts will be
      used to test the hypotheses. Specifically, models will include exposure (CA or DBP), order
      (CA before DBP or DBP before CA) and gene variant status (e.g., GSTM1 present or GSTM1 null)
      as fixed effects and subject identifying number as a random effect. The inhalation allergen
      challenge is given during both DBP and CA exposures and will therefore not be included in the
      statistical analyses.

      The influence of the general phthalate exposure level for 6 commonly measured phthalates,
      assessed in urine samples Day 1 and 2 on FeNO/blood/lung function will be analyzed by mixed
      effects model including exposure (DBP, CA), sampling period (Day 1, Day 2) and phthalate
      level (Day 1, Day 2). A one-way ANOVA will be used to compare pre- and post-exposure urinary
      MnBP levels for various time-points to verify phthalate exposure.
    
  