
    
      Hemorrhagic shock remains a leading cause of death on the battlefield as well in civilian
      communities. Early detection of ongoing hemorrhage before progression to frank shock would
      allow early intervention. It is widely appreciated that the classic medical vital signs
      perform poorly until late in the progression to shock after traumatic injury. Currently
      available techniques, including intermittent vital sign monitoring, laboratory analysis, and
      single measurement devices have poor performance before clinically obvious physiologic
      distress.

      The overall goal of this project is to develop a multi-technology noninvasive system for
      early detection of ongoing hemorrhage. The underlying hypothesis is that deep learning
      developed algorithms obtaining diagnostic signals from multiple sources will outperform
      single technology solutions.

      While the promise of innovative noninvasive testing has received wide attention, development
      of effective bedside technologies has thus far been limited and their performance
      disappointing. In 2014, Kim et al stated that "The results from this meta-analysis found that
      inaccuracy and imprecision of continuous noninvasive arterial pressure monitoring devices are
      larger than what was defined as acceptable" and noninvasive blood pressure measurement is
      among the most fully developed of these technologies. The failure of noninvasive technologies
      in the detection or diagnosis of complex disease states has been essentially complete. The
      investigators believe that this failure reflects the limitations of uniplex systems (a single
      sensor in a single-location) and patient-to-patient variation in physiologic response.
      Uniplex systems sacrifice the entire diagnostic signal in anatomic-temporal patterns, which
      likely has significant discriminant power.

      To date, technological innovation in early detection of ongoing hemorrhage has been of two
      broad categories: 1) a search to discover a single new measurement of tissue or organ status
      or 2) application of more sophisticated mathematical techniques based on machine learning and
      signal processing.

      The investigators propose to develop a system that combines state-of-the-art noninvasive
      sensing technologies and advanced multivariable statistical algorithms. This system will be
      developed from its inception to be inexpensive and easily applied, even in austere settings.

      To avoid the unnecessary use of blood products, hepatectomies are performed with low central
      venous pressure (CVP). This is accomplished through restrictive use of intravenous fluids and
      at times medications to lower the central venous pressure. Low central venous pressure during
      hepatectomy is an excellent model for development of technologies such as ours and has not
      been previously used for this purpose.

      During each procedure, the investigators will obtain a full ensemble of noninvasive optical,
      electromagnetic and impedance physiological signals during the LCVPLR procedure. The work
      proposed herein will evaluate these technologies during standard low central venous pressure
      liver resections (LCVPLR). These data will be utilized for further machine learning-based
      algorithm development. The proposed study will be low risk since the measured data will not
      be available to the clinicians.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Evaluate the performance of existing non-invasive sensing technologies and multivariable
           algorithms in LCVPLR.

        2. Obtain human model training and validation data sets during LCVPLR for further
           refinement of the algorithms.

      Power and Sample Size: The investigators anticipate acquiring data from every enrolled
      subject. The data obtained before onset of parenchymal transection will be utilized as the
      "no hemorrhage" control. Power and sample size calculations indicate that a sample size of 48
      subjects should be sufficient to: 1) further identify the minimal subset of noninvasive
      measurement technologies necessary for the desired diagnostic performance, 2) validate the
      existing algorithms, and 3) initially train a human clinical iteration of the algorithms,
      with a sufficient degree of accuracy (p < 0.05 for ROC-AUC).

      As a minimal risk study, there will be no change from standard of care for patients
      undergoing surgery. The surgical procedures and pharmacotherapies will proceed as per
      standard clinical management. Enrolled patients will undergo standard preoperative,
      anesthetic, and postoperative physiological monitoring.
    
  