
    
      The definition of central auditory processing CAP is based on auditory functions . Central
      auditory processing CAP involves a large number of skills which are highly dependent on a set
      integrity of the auditory pathways, from the outer ear to the auditory cortex. These skills
      include auditory selective attention, sound detection, and localization, discrimination of
      isolated and sequential sounds, as well as speech recognition, auditory comprehension and
      memory .

      central auditory processing CAP is an indispensable tool for the investigation of the
      function of the central nervous system . The impairment of auditory processing could cause
      difficulties in complex listening situations, such as understanding speech in back-ground
      noise, rapid or degraded speech, and problems with comprehending verbal instructions.

      Central auditory perception (CAP) can be assessed by Behavioral tests, which demonstrate good
      correlations with electrophysiological measures . Recording of event-related potentials
      (ERPs), because of its objectivity and noninvasive characteristics, presents one of the most
      useful tools in investigating neural substrates and cerebral regions involved in specific
      cognitive function. It implies recording of brain activity during a cognitive task .

      Among the components of ERPs, theP300 is undoubtedly the most studied cerebral wave in
      evaluating cerebral information processing during the course of various neurological diseases
      because of its easy recording and reliability . The P300 develops if the subject is actively
      engaged in the task of detecting the targets.

      Amplitude of the wave varies with the improbability of the targets and latency with the
      difficulty of discriminating the target stimulus from the standard stimuli . Typical peak
      latency P300 latency reflects timing of mental processes and the increase of latency
      represents prolongation of the processing time
    
  