
    
      The Sonicision device offers the ability to achieve hemostasis and vessel dissection with a
      cordless system. The ultrasonic device yields coagulation and transection of vessels by
      conversion of electrical energy into ultrasonic vibration through a piezoelectric or magnetic
      transducer, which is the causation of heat induction at the jaws of the instrument through
      friction. The Sonicision device is able to seal vessels up to 5 mm and transection division
      of 10 cm segments. The Sonicision device features the following:

        1. Cordless design to improve freedom and movement;

        2. Simplified set up that may possibly increase operating room efficiency;

        3. Dual-mode energy control to increase procedure focus;

        4. Improved mobility secondary to cordless system.

      Currently all devices are connected to a generator by a cable, which can lead to the cable
      wrapping around the device, tangle with other instruments and become inadvertently
      contaminated. There are several advantages with regards to utilization of a cordless device
      to include: improved intra-operative storage, avoidance of bundling multiple cords from
      various instruments that may limit instrument mobility and portability which may lead to the
      ability to operate with advanced surgical equipment in third world settings, trauma and
      surgery centers.

      The study group will consist of 150 patients, male and female adults, who present with the
      need for general surgery in which an ultrasonic dissection device and/or a vessel sealing
      device will be utilized. Patients will be identified prospectively via consultation with the
      general surgeon. Data will be collected addressing the following variables: versatility,
      dissection time, vessel diameter, reliability, efficiency, tissue response, steam production,
      blood loss, tissue response, thermal spread, desiccation and sealing time. A tentative total
      of ten individual tissue specimens will be obtained by the surgeon during surgery and after
      the utilization of the Sonicision Cordless Ultrasonic Dissection System. The patient's
      histologic sample will be followed after surgery in order to determine efficacy of the vessel
      seal. Subsequently, the patient's information will be deidentified and the patient assigned a
      study number to which all further analysis will be tied. Patient participation will include
      time of surgery through discharge from the hospital. Study data will be collected and managed
      utilizing an electronic database.
    
  