
    
      Clinical Hypothesis:

      The rate of bothersome visual symptom items (defined as a very or extremely bothersome visual
      symptom that impacts daily living under overall condition) for the patients who are
      post-refractive who receive a PanOptix Trifocal IOL at the time of cataract surgery will be
      assessed. The bothersome visual symptom items of interest are halos, glare, and starbursts.
      Patients will also be assessed on level of glasses independence with an assessment of both
      corrected and uncorrected distance, intermediate, and near vision. Lastly patient
      satisfaction score will also be determined.

      OVERALL STUDY DESIGN This is a prospective, single center, bilateral, non-randomized,
      open-label, observational clinical study. All patients will have had prior myopic Lasik and
      will receive a PanOptix Trifocal IOL in both eyes at the time of cataract surgery. These
      patients will then be followed for up to 6-months to assess their refractive predictability,
      quality of vision, spectacle independence, and overall patient satisfaction.

      Duration:

      6 months; however, any subject that undergoes a lens repositioning procedure due to IOL
      misalignment, or reports "very" or "extreme" overall bother that impacts daily living for any
      of the 3 defined bothersome visual symptoms (halos, glare, or starbursts) at 6 months, will
      be followed through 1 year postoperatively.

      Administration:

      Surgeons will perform routine small-incision, femtosecond laser assisted, cataract surgery
      and use the Alcon-recommended implantation systems for lens implantation. Refractive target
      outcomes will be emmetropia for both eyes.

      Visit Schedule:

      Subjects will be bilaterally implanted; the second eye is to be implanted within
      approximately one month after the first-eye surgery.

      All subjects will undergo a minimum of 10 visits:

        1. Preoperative for both eyes

        2. Surgical Procedure for each individual eye

        3. 1-day and 1-week visits for each eye

        4. 1-month, 3-month, and 6-month visits for both eyes together

        5. In addition, a 1-year postoperative visit will be required for subjects who undergo a
           lens repositioning procedure due to IOL misalignment at any time during the study, and
           for subjects who report "very" or "extreme" overall bother that impacts daily living for
           any of the 3 defined bothersome visual symptoms (halos, glare, or starbursts) at 6
           months.
    
  