
    
      1. Transplant course

             -  BMT from an HLA-matched sibling or a suitably matched (up to 2-allele mismatched)
                family or unrelated donor will be performed according to the policies of the
                institute.

             -  A preparative regimen will be started 6 days before the day of stem cell infusion

                  1. Myeloablative-intensity conditioning regimen: FB4+ATG

                  2. Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen; FB2+ATG

                  3. Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis

             -  Sibling transplant: Cyclosporine and short-course Methotrexate

             -  Unrelated transplant: Tacrolimus and short-course Methotrexate

             -  The dose of calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporine and tacrolimus) will be gradually
                tapered from day 60 (for all sibling transplants) or day 90 (for all unrelated
                transplants) and discontinued within 2 or 3 months after SCT in the absence of
                graft-versus-host disease.

        2. Decitabine maintenance course

             -  For the patients who finish the above transplant procedure and meet the enrollment
                criteria, decitabine will be given at a dose of 5mg/m2/day ~ 15mg/m2/day iv over 1
                hour for 5 consecutive days. The drug will be repeated every 4 weeks for up to 12
                cycles.

             -  Dose escalation strategy between cohorts and between cycles in the same cohort
                patients will be based upon the quantitatively measured hematological toxicity
                (e.g., ANC or platelet count at nadir). In other words, a mechanism-based
                pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic model developed using sparsely sampled patients'
                PK data and toxicity response will be used to titrate next cycle doses for the
                patients and initial doses for new cohort patients. In other words, a
                mechanism-based pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic model developed using sparsely
                sampled patients' PK data and toxicity response will be used to titrate next cycle
                doses for the patients and initial doses for new cohort patients.
    
  