
    
      Suicide is the second leading cause of death among women of reproductive age, and female
      suicide attempts occur most frequently around menses (perimenstrually), when estradiol (E2)
      and progesterone (P4) fall rapidly. A recent prospective study demonstrated that suicidal
      ideation (SI) and attempts peak perimenstrually in natural cycles, and that this
      perimenstrual worsening of SI can be prevented by administering stabilizing doses of E2+P4
      (relative to placebo). Therefore, while E2+P4 withdrawal is a viable model of proximal
      suicide risk in females with SI, mechanisms are unclear. GABAergic neuroactive steroid
      metabolites of ovarian hormones (e.g., allopregnanolone), exert potent sedative and
      antidepressant effects; we hypothesize that acute perimenstrual withdrawal from these hormone
      metabolites may increase suicide risk by increasing hyperarousal and hopelessness. The
      long-term objectives of this research are to (1) use the menstrual cycle as a model to probe
      the proximal mechanisms of suicide, and (2) develop long-term treatments that eliminate
      hormonal contributions to suicide. The objective of the current work is to use a crossover
      placebo-controlled trial of E2+P4 stabilization (vs. natural E2+P4 withdrawal under placebo)
      in the perimenstrual weeks to probe behavioral (hopelessness, hyperarousal) and
      molecular/genetic (neuroactive steroid levels, mRNA expression for enzymes critical for
      synthesizing neuroactive steroids) mediators of perimenstrual suicide risk. Design: In this
      mechanistic trial, 90 female outpatients with past-month SI will complete two counterbalanced
      conditions: (1) two weeks of placebo during natural perimenstrual E2+P4 withdrawal, and (2)
      two weeks of perimenstrual E2+P4 stabilization (.1mg/day transdermal estradiol + 200mg/day
      oral micronized progesterone) to prevent withdrawal. Five labs per condition will capture
      changes in gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) quantified neuroactive steroids,
      messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression for enzymes critical for synthesizing
      neuroactive steroids, and physiological arousal. Our app (BiAffect) will collect ecological
      momentary assessments (EMA; 4x/day) of behavioral constructs and SI, and will passively track
      arousal via movement and typing speed instability. Specific Aims. Aim 1 is to evaluate
      hyperarousal and hopelessness as interacting mechanisms by which perimenstrual E2+P4
      withdrawal (vs. experimental E2+P4 stabilization) increases proximal suicide risk. Aim 2 is
      to evaluate neuroactive steroid withdrawal as a mechanism by which perimenstrual E2+P4
      withdrawal (vs. stabilization) increases proximal suicide risk. If appropriate, a multilevel
      path model will test a path in which E2+P4 withdrawal (vs. stabilization) causes neuroactive
      steroid withdrawal, which increases in hopelessness and hyperarousal, which in turn increases
      proximal suicide risk. Relevance. By conducting a mechanistic experiment to probe the
      mediators of a known cause of proximal suicide risk, the proposed research responds to public
      calls from the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH)-sponsored Suicide Research
      Prioritization Agenda to identify modifiable causes of proximal suicide risk.
    
  