
    
      This is a randomized, double blind (evaluator and patient), parallel control trial in three
      groups (synchronous telemonitoring group, asynchronous telemonitoring group, and control
      group). The allocation of the participants will be done by an external member, through a
      masked draw, the name of each participant will be in numbered opaque envelopes, which will
      only be opened after the initial evaluation, to blind the evaluating therapist, a second
      therapist will be responsible for the application of the interventions. The protocol for the
      intervention groups will last 6 weeks, and the exercises will basically consist of active
      stretching, mobilization and scapular stabilization, and active shoulder exercises with
      gradual range of motion. The intervention was based on previous studies that used standard
      kinesiotherapy in their outcomes.

      The sessions for the synchronous telemonitoring group will be supervised and conducted via
      video call using the WhatsApp® application, lasting 50 minutes, 3 times a week.

      For the asynchronous telemonitoring group, an explanatory schedule with the exercises to be
      performed during the week will be delivered weekly via e-mail and WhatsApp®. The exercises
      will be the same as those performed by the previous group, and the participant will be free
      to ask any questions about the protocol with the therapist at any time via text message or
      e-mail. The control group will receive only the usual orientation booklet for post-breast
      cancer women. The participants who agree to participate in the research will sign the
      Informed Consent Form, and may withdraw from the research at any stage of the study.
      Assessment and intervention collection will take place via video call. The personal
      identification data of the participants will be preserved in accordance with the resolution
      of the national health council, taking into account the possibility of scientific
      dissemination of the results obtained. The selection method adopted will be non-probability
      sampling, convenience sampling. The participants of the study will be recruited in the
      reference hospital for oncologic care in Florianópolis- State of Santa Catarina/Brazil, the
      Oncology Research Center, through a retrospective and active search in the medical records,
      in order to recover clinical data and contact of the participants with up to 24 months after
      the curative surgical intervention. There will also be recruitment through dissemination of
      the study via media and social networks, folders and messages, so that women voluntarily
      apply for the research. The sample will consist of women diagnosed with breast cancer and
      undergoing surgical treatment, with up to 24 months postoperatively, present functional
      disability and impaired quality of life, able to understand and access mobile applications or
      live with someone who helps them, have access to the internet and telephone for contact.
    
  