
    
      Cardiac CT angiography (CCTA) has emerged to a powerful and commonly used diagnostic tool for
      the evaluation of coronary artery disease. Advantages of CCTA are its non-invasive approach,
      widespread availability and high negative predictive value to rule out coronary artery
      disease. However, radiation exposure during CCTA needs to be considered, due to the potential
      risk of malignancy induction.

      A decade ago, the multicentre observational PROTECTION I study has revealed that the
      dose-length-product of CCTA ranges between 568-1259 mGy x cm with a median of 885 mGy x cm.
      This corresponds to an estimated effective dose of approximately 12 mSv. Furthermore,
      PROTECTION I demonstrated an up to 7-fold variation of radiation dose between different study
      sites implicating the large potential for dose reduction. Finally, significant differences
      have been detected in the radiation exposures between CT systems from different vendors and
      application of dose-saving algorithms, implying that approaches for dose reduction with
      respect to hardware and software have also been of relevance in 2007.

      Since then a variety of techniques have been developed and enhanced in order to reduce
      radiation exposure during CCTA. Earlier, ECG-controlled tube current modulation has been
      accepted to reduce radiation dose and was therefore used in ECG-gated retrospective cardiac
      spiral scanning.

      Another dose-saving technique is the reduction of tube potential from conventionally 120 kVp
      to 100 kVp in non-obese patients. In the PROTECTION II trial we demonstrated that diagnostic
      image quality is being maintained with a reduction of tube potential to 100 kVp while
      radiation exposure was significantly reduced by 31%.

      Development of prospective ECG-gated axial (sequential) scanning allowed further dose
      reduction, due to administration of radiation only at the end of diastole. In the PROTECTION
      III trial we could demonstrate that diagnostic image quality is being maintained with
      prospective ECG-gated axial scanning in patients with stable and low heart rates while
      radiation exposure was reduced by 69% when compared to conventional spiral scanning with
      retrospective ECG gating. Using prospectively ECG-triggered high-pitch spiral CCTA with image
      acquisition during only one cardiac cycle, additional dosage may be saved when used in
      selected patients with low and stable heart rates. However, a scan strategy with an attempt
      of high-pitch scanning first is vulnerable to motion artefacts and bears the risk of repeated
      scanning.

      In the PROTECTION IV trial we compared a scan strategy of high-pitch helical scanning first
      with a conventional scan first strategy. We could demonstrate maintenance of image quality
      using the strategy of high-pitch helical scanning first, while radiation exposure was reduced
      by 57 %, when compared to the conventional scan first strategy.

      The introduction of iterative image reconstruction technique with advanced raw data
      processing let to improvement of image quality compared to traditional filtered back
      projection. This allowed additional dose saving during image acquisition. In the PROTECTION V
      trial we demonstrated the feasibility of combining iterative image reconstruction techniques
      with a reduction of tube currents by 30% leading to maintenance of diagnostic image quality
      while saving radiation dose linearly to tube current.

      In summary, the four randomized clinical trials PROTECTION II-V demonstrated that different
      techniques for reducing radiation exposure during CCTA can be applied in clinical practice
      without compromising diagnostic image quality. The studies show that the different approaches
      can also be applied in combination and that these approaches can be used with different CT
      platforms from different CT vendors.

      Recent studies demonstrated that the effective radiation dose for one CCTA scan may be
      reduced to 0,3 mSv15 or even below 0,1 mSv in a small amount of carefully selected patients.
      However, it remains unclear if such dramatically low dosages are being achieved and if
      diagnostic image quality is being maintained in clinical routine. In order to analyze the
      magnitude of radiation dose exposure during CCTA in today's clinical practice, we designed
      the international and multicentric PROTECTION VI study. We will assess the variation of
      radiation dose with respect to vendors, CT systems and study sites. Furthermore, we will
      evaluate the usage of dose saving strategies including the above-mentioned in daily practice
      and analyze their effect on diagnostic image quality. On the basis of the collected data, we
      will evaluate the potential use of additional dose savings for each site individually.
    
  