
    
      ERAS® (Enhanced Recovery After Surgery) protocols are evidence-based best practices bundled
      together to revolutionize pre-, intra-, and postoperative care resulting in better patient
      outcomes, increased patient postoperative satisfaction, and decreased healthcare costs. ERAS®
      protocols in breast reconstruction and gynecologic oncology have been developed by surgeons
      from the Tom Baker Cancer Centre and have the sanction of the international ERAS® Society for
      implementation globally.

      As of 2015, the majority of Canadians owned a cell phone. Technological advances in these
      forms of communications have been shown to positively impact patient experience and reduce
      healthcare system burdens. Telemedicine delivered healthcare via smartphone apps now include
      platforms for encouraging healthy behaviors, monitoring chronic healthcare conditions,
      organizing personal healthcare records, and monitoring postsurgical wounds.

      The proposed study would marry these two advances, ERAS® protocols and smartphone technology,
      to consider how the combination of these two approaches to postsurgical care might enhance
      patient satisfaction and convenience and minimize financial burden while providing high
      quality care and monitoring. Additionally, the combination of these approaches has the
      potential to benefit the healthcare system in a number of ways. By lessening surgery-related
      length of stay and reducing the number of postsurgical visits, an opportunity for
      cost-savings is evident. In addition, in a system that is troubled by long wait-times for
      some procedures, reducing lengths of stay and surgeons' postoperative clinical burden means
      more patients can be seen and treated in a timely fashion. This is a win-win for the
      healthcare system and patients. It provides structure for more efficiently caring for
      post-operative patients in a patient first manner that supports physicians, transforms care,
      and engages in responsible stewardship of healthcare resources according to the Foundational
      Strategies developed by Alberta Health Services.

      The current study would assess the patient, physician, and healthcare system impact of
      combining ERAS® protocol-guided oncological surgery with postsurgical patient monitoring via
      a smartphone app that would lessen patients' postoperative burden when postoperative recovery
      is uneventful and would alert physicians earlier when things are not going well.
    
  