
    
      Background:

      It has long been recognized that not all neutropenic patients have the same risk of
      developing serious infections and/or complications.

      Fever and infection represent the most important complications of myeloablative cytotoxic
      therapy that results in severe mucositis and prolonged neutropenia .

      One of the most important concepts in the approach to infections in the febrile neutropenic
      patient is the recognition of risk. Risk can be defined in two ways. First, risk may be
      defined in terms of the probability for developing a febrile neutropenic infection; and
      second, it may be defined in terms of the likelihood for significantly poor outcomes due to
      that infection.

      An understanding of the risks in the latter case may be used to define the approaches to
      management; for instance, in-patient versus out-patient treatment strategies and
      administration of intravenous versus oral formulations of antimicrobial therapy. These
      considerations have significant economic and quality of life ramifications.

      Many institutions have developed simple clinical criteria to identify low-risk patients
      without having to calculate a risk-index score. This might be a more practical method in busy
      clinical settings, or as a tool in setting of low resource country.

      Patients & Methods:

      The study will include children, either referred from the pediatric oncology clinic, or who
      have been previously admitted to the pediatric oncology department, those who have been
      documented with episodes of fever and neutropenia at South Egypt Cancer Institute (SECI), and
      fulfilling all criteria for enrollment in this study.

      All the patients at the time of initial evaluation will be subjected to complete clinical
      history and full clinical examination.

      The enrolled patients will be followed for either developing clinically evident infection
      e.g., pneumonia, gastroenteritis, meningitis, septicemia, etc.), or until resolution of fever
      and/ or neutropenia. The risk for either developing clinically evident infection, or not,
      will be assessed according to clinical and laboratory parameters, present at the time of
      initial evaluation to identify those patients who would be more prone to develop infection
      and/ or complications Fever is defined as a temperature greater than or equal to 38.3 C
      occurring once or a temperature greater than or equal to 38 C occurring twice during a
      24-hour period.

      Patients with an absolute neutrophilic count (ANC) of less than 500/mm3 and those with an ANC
      of less than 1,000/mm3 and decreasing will be considered neutropenic.

      Complete blood count & other diagnostic studies, including laboratory studies and imaging
      procedures will be obtained if needed to further evaluate and determine the source of fever
      and/or infection.
    
  