
    
      Proper nutrition and physical activity are essential for a healthy life. Time spent in nature
      has also been proven beneficial. Systematic reviews have shown that nature-related activities
      enhance general well-being as reflected in increased physical activity, a healthier diet,
      reduced stress and better sleep. However, existing programmes promoting healthy lifestyles in
      children focus almost exclusively on diet and physical activity. None, to the inestigators's
      awareness, taken into consideration interactions, or connectedness with nature. Connectedness
      to nature/nature relatedness is a relatively new concept that, to date, has been investigated
      primarily in adults.The concept suggests, for example, that engaging in activities in a
      natural environment can induce a feeling of connectedness to nature. Exposing preschool
      children to nature and to thinking about nature in different ways could stimulate nature
      relatedness as a measurable construct. When children are placed in a natural setting, they
      are more likely to be physically active. Natuxral products such as fruits and vegetables are
      widely acknowledged to improve health. As noted above, parents are children's role models,
      and the investigators therefore believe that connecting parents with nature will have
      benefits for their children. Many habits and attitudes are developed early in life, and those
      related to the natural world are no exception. In fact, children are inherently interested in
      their environment and in nature in general. The hypothesis is that both indoor and outdoor
      nature-related activities may induce connectedness and bring about positive changes in both
      eating and activity habits (short-term outcomes) in preschool children, in turn leading to a
      healthier lifestyle (long-term outcomes).The aim of P&G is to encourage healthy eating habits
      and active play in children from an early age, and to bring about healthy behavioural changes
      in families. The programme also includes a CN element designed to equip parents with
      environmental knowledge and skills. The generated re- and post-test comparison data indicated
      the effectiveness of the programme (not presented here). A detailed manual and full resource
      kit were created, and each session consisted of: (i) a 15-minute theoretical education
      component (food, activity, CN), and (ii) a 30-minute component on indoor and outdoor
      nature-related activities, such as playing with nature objects and searching for natural
      treasures. Some nature activities were food-related (e.g. growing plants, creating miniature
      indoor gardens, and healthy cooking). The control group received an information folder
      containing government-recommended physical activity and dietary guidelines for children. To
      enhance participation, the sessions were scheduled for weekends. The outcome data was
      collected using a number of scales and questionnaires addressed eating, active play and
      nature-related habits before and after the program, and focus group discussions were held at
      the beginning and end of the programme. The programme proved popular amongst participants and
      the results demonstrated significant positive changes on number of health-related outcomes,
      such as food habits and caregiver physical activity levels.
    
  