
    
      A varicocele is an abnormal dilation of the pampiniform plexus caused by incompetence of the
      valves in the internal spermatic vein. Varicocele has a prevalence of 10-15 % in the general
      population and is a common cause of male infertility, being present in 30-35% of men with
      primary, and 69-81% of men with secondary infertility. There is more than one approach to the
      treatment of varicocele associated MFI One common approach is to treat by assisted
      reproductive techniques (ART). Patients with a total motile sperm count of <10 million sperm
      are usually treated by IVF with or without ICSI. Fertilization of oocytes may be accomplished
      by isolating even a single adequate spermatozoa in the laboratory bypassing the majority of
      semen quality inadequacies in male factor infertility. The results of this treatment using
      fresh embryos with a maternal age of<35 are 46% pregnancies and 40% live births per cycle.

      Alternatively, varicocele associated MFI can be treated by repairing the varicocele to
      improve sperm quality. Occlusion of the spermatic veins by surgical and radiological methods
      is commonly performed in these circumstances to improve fertility. A large body of literature
      exists demonstrating post-treatment improvements in semen parameters and sperm DNA quality as
      well as improved spontaneous pregnancy rates compared to no treatment. There are also studies
      demonstrating improved results of ART after varicocele repair.

      Both approaches have their advocates. ART often provide a relatively quick result and have a
      known excellent track record for both pregnancy and live birth rates. Unfortunately, these
      techniques are not without risks such as ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome and procedural
      complications. Multiple pregnancies are common with increased risk of premature labour and
      low birth weight. In addition the treatments are expensive and multiple treatments increase
      the financial burden on the health care system.

      Varicocele occlusion is a minor procedure. If performed radiologically, there is often
      immediate return to normal activity. The complication rate is very low, mostly due to
      radiological contrast medium allergy. Modern equipment and careful technique enable the
      procedure to be completed with very low radiation doses that are well below the level proven
      to have any adverse biological effect.

      If varicocele repair can be demonstrated to improve pregnancy outcomes in varicocele related
      MFI by spontaneous pregnancies or by improving pregnancy and live birth rates per ART
      implantation, then there are compelling health care and economic reasons for incorporating it
      as an initial treatment.

      At present there have been no well constructed randomized trials to compare the outcomes of
      these two approaches.
    
  