
    
      METHODS Pilot Studies

      One of our foci was on whether certain external events (prompts or cues) increase the
      probability of a quit attempt. We could not locate validated measures of possible external
      cues or planning activities for a quit attempt; thus, in Pilot Study 1, we recruited 28
      daily, adult smokers of who had stopped smoking for at least 24 hours in the past month
      (including Hispanics, African-Americans, smokers whose income was below 1.5x poverty level,
      who were under age 24, and both men and women) to respond to a semi-structured telephone
      interview to identify possible causes of and preparations for their recent quit attempt. We
      used these responses to produce a list of 13 possible prompting events and two possible
      planning activities. In Pilot Study 2, we tested the ease of use of our IVR system and the
      clarity of our prompts. We will recruited smokers in the protocol described below including
      some who had a high school education or less and some who were 60 years or older. The only
      differences between this pilot study and the main study were that: a) IVR response options
      included a "don't know/unclear" option, and b) we will conduct a qualitative interview two
      weeks into the pilot 2 study to determine problems with IVR usage and understanding of the
      cue items. The pilot studies and the main study were approved by the University of Vermont
      Committees on the Use of Human Subjects.

      Overview of Main Study

      We will conduct a prospective cohort study of 200 adult daily smokers who were interested in
      quitting smoking in the next two months. Participants will call an interactive voice response
      (IVR) system daily for 3 months to report daily smoking, prompts to quit, planning events,
      and intentions to quit. In addition, they will complete more lengthy monthly questionnaires
      via mail or internet and, if they attempted to quit, a post-quit qualitative interview. We
      provided no intervention. The main aim was to determine which, if any, external cues to stop
      smoking or preparations for quitting prospectively increased the probability of a quit
      attempt. A secondary aim is to compare the predictive power of certain cessation-related
      internal cognitive variables versus external cues on quit attempts.

      Participants

      Participants will be recruited via newspaper and radio advertisements and via internet ads
      that will have messages such as "Daily cigarette smokers who plan to quit wanted for
      University of Vermont research study. Reimbursement for completing phone questions and mailed
      surveys. No need to leave home. This study does not offer treatment."

      We chose a sample size of 200 because we believed about 50% of our sample would attempt to
      quit during the study period. This would provide 100 quit attempts which should be sufficient
      for prediction analyses. Plus a sample size of 200 produces a 95% confidence interval (CI) of
      no wider than + 7% with dichotomous outcomes.

      Measures Participants will be given the option of completing baseline and monthly
      questionnaires either via return of mailed questionnaires or via a password-protected
      internet site. The baseline questionnaire will collect demographic and smoking information
      including past quit attempts, plans for quitting, and the Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine
      Dependence. It will ask the Mental Health Inventory (MHI), to indicate psychiatric problems
      and asked questions on recent alcohol and marijuana use and abuse.

      Participants will complete the IVR questions nightly for 3 months. The IVR is a system in
      which participants call a number which directs them to enter data using the phone keypad. IVR
      has many of the assets of computer-assisted telephone interviewing; e.g., automatic skips,
      branching options, prohibition of illogical responses and outliers, standardized questioning,
      and direct data entry. IVR's major assets are the increased confidentiality, the ability to
      prompt participants to call, and the ability of participants to determine when to call. Drug
      use outcomes are more validly reported in IVR studies compared to in-person phone interviews,
      computer assessments, written questionnaires or in-person interviews. After brief training in
      the use of the IVR, participants will be instructed to call the IVR within 2 hours of their
      usual bedtime. If no call iss received during that window, the IVR telephoned the participant
      reminding them to call. The IVR questions include an assessment of current smoking status and
      whether the smoker plans to smoke tomorrow. If the participant reports smoking or being
      abstinent for only 1 day, the IVR asks whether each of 13 possible quit attempt cues and two
      planning activities (see Table 1) occurred on that day. If the participant reports abstinence
      for 2 or more days, the IVR will ask 12 questions about withdrawal symptoms and relapse cues,
      and whether abstinence was due to an attempt to stop smoking. If it was a quit attempt, a
      semi-structured interview will be scheduled to gain further details about the quit attempt
      and it's precipitants. To detect quit attempts that may not have lasted a full day, once each
      week the IVR will ask whether participants made a quit attempt that lasted less than a day in
      the past week.

      At baseline and monthly, participants will complete questionnaires that ask about several
      cognitive variables related to stopping smoking; i.e., self-efficacy, perceived risks and
      benefits of smoking and abstinence and smoking expectancies.

      Our major dependent variables are the events and cognitions and our major independent
      variable was the incidence of a quit attempt, defined as 24 hrs of abstinence due to an
      attempt to stop smoking.
    
  