
    
      Subjects will have a through physical exam with evolution of the pelvis support using the
      POP-Q (pelvic organ prolapse quantification) system. All subjects will need to sign informed
      consent pre-approved by the IRB. The subjects, surgeons, and anesthesiologist will all be
      blinded to the injected material. The OR Scrub nurse will given the envelope at the start of
      each case and asked to draw the material into a syringe. All subjects will receive general
      anesthesia. Subjects will be randomized to receive preemptive pudendal nerve blockade with 10
      ml of 0 .5 % Bupivacaine with epinephrine or normal saline to each side. The allocation
      schedule is computer generated using random-numbers table concealed in opaque envelops. Once
      the patient receives general anesthesia she will be positioned appropriately in dorsal
      lithotomy with padded Allan stir ups. 10 ml of Bupivacaine will be injected on either side
      using the Iowa trumpet pudendal needle drive to direct and guide appropriate position.
      Aspiration was attempted for every injection to decrease the chance of intravascular
      infusion.

      At the completion of the surgery the subjects will be brought to the PACU for care. Patients
      are assessed immediately upon arrival to the PACU. The patients are asked their pain level
      using the VAS pain scale/ modified surgical pain scale at hours 1 and 2 post op. All patients
      are given a prescription for Vicoprofen 7.5/200mg at their pre-op visit and asked to have it
      filled prior to their surgery. Patients have the option to go home the same day of surgery as
      long as their pain is well controlled and they are clinically stable for discharge. Continued
      pain management and pain scale assessment will be done at 4 hours, and post op day 1 and 2. A
      medication log will be kept for 2 weeks post op, detailing the number of pain medications
      taken during that period.
    
  