
    
      Fifty patients with fibromyalgia and 30 healthy, age - matched controls will participate in
      the study.

      The classification of fibromyalgia will be performed by applying the 1990 ACR criteria.

      After signing informed consent, all subjects will be vaccinated with the inactivated split
      virion vaccine, recommended by the WHO this fall.

      Patients will be evaluated at weeks 0 and 6 weeks later. Clinical evaluation will be based on
      the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire and the 2010 Fibromyalgia Severity Scale.

      ESR and CRP Blood will be collected on the day of vaccination and 6 weeks later.

      The immunogenicity of the vaccine will be tested by Haemagglutination inhibition (HI) test.

      Influenza virus has two important surface glycoproteins: the haemagglutinin (HA) and the
      neuraminidase (NA). Antigenic classification and subtyping of influenza viruses is based on
      these two glycoproteins. HA plays a key role in virus cell entry by binding to cell surface
      receptors, which are found also on red blood cells of certain species. Binding to red cells
      results in haemagglutination, which can be observed as a carpet of agglutinated red cells at
      the bottom of a tube or microtitre well. In the HI test, antibody directed against the viral
      haemagglutinins block the virus from binding to the blood cells and thus inhibits the
      haemagglutination reaction.

      The pre- and post immunization HI antibodies were tested at the Central Virology Laboratory
      of the Israeli Ministry of Health using the HI test according to a standard WHO procedure 16.
      Sera will be separated, code labeled, and stored at -20°C until tested. Sera will be treated
      with receptor destroying enzyme cholera filtrate to remove non-specific inhibitors, and with
      Turkey red blood cells to remove non-specific agglutinins. The treated sera will be tested by
      HI test against the three antigens included in the vaccine: A/California (CAL), A/Wisconsin
      and B/Malaysia. The working dilution (test dose) of each antigen contained four
      haemagglutinin units in 25 µl of antigen. Test doses will be diluted in phosphate buffered
      saline (PBS) and added to serial dilution of antiserum. The haemagglutinin inhibition titer
      will be determined as the highest dilution of serum that completely inhibits
      haemagglutination of red blood cells.

      The titer of an antiserum not showing any inhibition will be recorded as <10. Humoral
      response will be defined as either a fourfold or more rise in titer, or a rise from a
      non-protective baseline level of <1/40 to 1/40 in HI antibodies four weeks after vaccination
      17,18. Geometric mean titers of antibody will be calculated to assess the immunity of the
      whole group.
    
  