
    
      Research summary (NRES, UK):

      Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women and the leading cause of
      cancer-related death among women worldwide.

      However, despite advances in treatment of the early-stage disease, about 25-40% of patients
      will develop recurrence or spread to other parts of the body that is largely incurable. The
      average survival of patients with breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body
      (metastasis) is 2 to 3 years after diagnosis, and although a number of treatment options are
      available, including various chemotherapy agents, no single standard of care exists.

      The study drug (Sorafenib) works by inhibiting certain pathways in the body that contribute
      to tumour growth and the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis). Angiogenesis plays an
      important role in the development, transformation and spread of breast cancer. Capecitabine
      is an approved chemotherapy drug for patients whose breast cancer has spread to other parts
      of the body (metastatic) and is not responsive to other classes of chemotherapy drugs.

      Data from a Phase IIb clinical study suggests that there is a role for the combination of
      Sorafenib and Capecitabine to treat locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

      Patients in this confirmatory Phase III study will be randomly assigned to receive either:

        -  Capecitabine + Sorafenib

        -  Capecitabine + placebo ("dummy medication" with no active drug)

      Participants will continue to receive treatments until there is radiographic or clinical
      progression of disease, side effects which require them to withdraw, pregnancy, protocol
      non-compliance or withdrawal of consent. Therefore length of participation will vary for
      individuals. This study is expected to close 31 March 2013.

      This is a multicentre study which will take place across Europe, North and South America,
      Asia, Australia and South Africa. It is anticipated that approximately 519 participants will
      be recruited worldwide.
    
  