
    
      In recent years, there has been a rapid rise in the use of outcome and feedback measures in
      the counselling and psychotherapy field. In part, this is because evidence suggests that the
      systematic collection and integration of client feedback improves outcome across client
      populations, professional discipline, and model used. In a meta-analysis of five trials
      comparing use of a routine feedback protocol with treatment as usual (TAU) for adults
      receiving individual psychotherapy, there were significant gains for feedback groups over
      TAU, especially for clients identified as at risk for premature dropout or negative outcomes
      (Lambert, 2010). In a review of studies using the Partners for Change Outcome Monitoring
      system, clients using brief outcome measures at each session were 3.5 times more likely to
      experience reliable change and had half the odds of deterioration than those in TAU (Duncan,
      2010, 2011; Lambert & Shimokawa, 2011; Murphy & Duncan, 2010). Currently, three randomized,
      controlled trials indicate improved outcomes using this system (Anker, Duncan, & Sparks,
      2009; Reese, Norsworthy, & Rowlands, 2009; Reese, Toland, Slone, & Norsworthy, 2010). Based
      on the overall strength of current evidence, Lambert and Shimokawa (2011, p. 72) recommended
      that 'clinicians seriously consider making formal methods of collecting client feedback a
      routine part of their daily practice'.

      At present, most psychological measurement is conducted using nomothetic scales. These are
      based on questions chosen by professional experts and consisting of checklists of symptoms
      (e.g., CORE-OM, PHQ-9). These questions are selected to be acceptable to large populations.
      However, given the diversity of problems presenting to mental health care services, a more
      personalised approach to psychological measurement might seem appropriate. Such an approach
      would shift the emphasis of measurement away from predefined, professionally-driven criteria,
      replacing it with a focus on those criteria given importance by the individual client.
      Individualised measures are questionnaires that include questions which can be generated by
      clients alone or in collaboration with the practitioner. This results in clients creating
      their own tailor-made questionnaire which only contains items that have meaning for them.
      Items are rated for intensity in a similar procedure to that of standardised measures.

      The advantages of using individualised measures have been highlighted in a number of studies
      (e.g., Ashworth et al., 2005). Client-generated measures are evidenced to be user-friendly as
      individuals themselves identify areas of personal concern. Clinical improvement therefore, is
      evaluated according to topics of relevance to the individuals concerned. Research indicates
      that the fact that people themselves identify their own personal problems or goals which are
      meaningful to them and which reflect their individual needs, leads to more engagement in
      therapy (Turner-Stokes, 2011). Also, individualised measures are flexible and take into
      account the client's idiosyncratic variables such as personality, socioeconomic status and
      cultural background (Sales & Alves, 2012).

      However, to date, the most commonly used personalised measures, such as the Personal
      Questionnaire (Elliott et al., 2015) and the PSYCHLOPS (Ashworth et al., 2005), focus on
      clients' difficulties rather than their goals. Research suggests that this may be
      problematic: there is evidence to suggest that focusing on positive goals to approach, rather
      than negative problems to avoid, may be associated with better psychological health and
      attainment of goals (Elliot & Church, 2002; Elliot & Friedman, 2007).

      Hence, the aim of this study is to evaluate the benefits, to both the process and outcomes of
      therapy, of using a personalised goal form: the Goals Form. The Goals Form (Appendix 2.1) is
      an individualised outcome measure used to assess attainment of personal objectives for
      therapy. It was used as part of an initial open-label trial of pluralistic therapy (Cooper et
      al., 2015), and invites clients, in collaboration with their therapist, to identify up to
      seven goals for therapy typically at a first assessment session and then to rate them on a 1
      7 Likert scale, with 1 being not at all achieved and 7 being completely achieved (Cooper,
      2014). The agreed goals are then typed onto a digital copy of the form and printed off, such
      that the client is able to rate the same goals at regular intervals, ideally every session.
      Over the course of therapy, clients may choose to delete, add or modify goals, and the
      electronic copy of the Goals Form is revised accordingly. The Goals Form has shown
      satisfactory levels of internal reliability, and convergent validity against CORE-10, GAD-7
      and PHQ-9. It is also sensitive to change in clinical populations (Cooper, 2014; Michael,
      Cooper, & Fugard, 2015).

      In terms of user acceptability, clients' gave the Goals Form a mean rating of 4.2 on a
      5-point helpfulness scale (SD = 1.2, n = 17), with a median and modal rating of 5 (very
      helpful). Ten of the 17 respondents (58.8%) gave it this highest rating. By contrast, the
      mean rating of the PHQ-9 was 3.7 (SD = 1.0, n = 17), with a median and modal rating of 4
      (helpful). Intro to change interview (Cooper et al., 2015). In terms of why the Goals Form
      was helpful, five interviewees in Cooper et al.'s (2015) study said that it gave them a sense
      of progress, both from session to session and over the course of therapy. Interviewee 1, for
      instance, said: 'It kind of gave me a barometer on what I was doing'. Five of the
      participants said that it gave focus and structure to the therapy, reminding them of what
      they had come to work on and 'where you want to be at the end' (Interviewee 10). Interviewee
      6, for instance, said: 'I'm a very scatty mind…because I was very depressed I couldn't
      concentrate and then it's helpful to have something in black and white on paper because then
      you knew this is what you were working at.' Two of the interviewees said the Goals Form was
      helpful because it encouraged them to reflect on how they had gone about achieving their
      objectives, and one said that they had felt challenged by it. In terms of negative aspects of
      the Goals Form, two participants said that they did not feel that they were good at naming
      goals, particular at the start of their therapy. Two of the interviewees said that they had
      been confused by the constant changes in goals, and one said that they felt the form needed
      to be explained more clearly.

      Aims:

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of identifying and monitoring goals in
      therapy on clinical outcomes.

      Hypothesis:

      Client allocated to a goals-oriented condition will show significantly greater clinical
      improvement than clients in a standard counselling condition.

      Procedure:

      Clients will be allocated to counsellors as per standard clinic protocols. Clients allocated
      to the experimental condition will be asked to complete a Goals Form at the start of every
      session. This may then form the basis for the evolving clinical dialogue.

      Clients allocated to the control condition will begin each session as they would normally do.

      At the start of each session, clients in both conditions will be asked to complete the
      CORE-10.

      At the end of therapy, all participants will fill a service satisfaction survey.

      Participants in the experimental arm will also take a short quantitative questionnaire to
      assess the helpfulness of the CORE-10 and the Goals Form.

      In addition, a random selection of participants in the experimental arm of the study will be
      invited back to meet with a researcher to participate in a Qualitative Interview. This will
      focus on their experience of using the Goals Form, and the ways in which it may, or may not,
      have been helpful in their therapeutic work.
    
  