
    
      Participants enrolled into this study may be asked to do the following:

        -  Come to the investigators' testing office at the Johns Hopkins Hospital where the tDCS
           equipment is located for 10 study visits.

        -  Grant permission for the researchers to view medical records associated with the
           participant's diagnosis of multiple sclerosis or encephalitis (if applicable) and
           general state of health.

        -  Complete a questionnaire and provide a health history in order to verify eligibility to
           participate and be able to safely undergo the experimental procedures.

        -  Complete several computerized, written, and/or aural tasks (i.e., saying words out loud)
           that assess different cognitive functions such as attention, memory, language, or
           processing speed.

        -  Wear electrodes that will be placed on the scalp with a large rubberized band. These
           electrodes will administer very weak electrical current (tDCS) for 30 minutes.

        -  Participate in several study conditions. The exact conditions and the order will be
           randomized. That is, the conditions and order will vary by chance (like the flip of a
           coin). Under some conditions, the participant might receive active stimulation (tDCS)
           and under other conditions, the participant might receive placebo (or sham) stimulation.
           Placebo stimulation is similar to active tDCS but lasts only a few seconds. However, all
           groups will wear the electrodes for the same length of time to prevent the participant
           from knowing whether participants are receiving active tDCS or sham stimulation. The
           study doctor and research staff will know which group the participant is in.

        -  Permission to audio and/or video-tape test sessions for later scoring and observation.
           These tapes will not be viewed by anyone not affiliated with the study without the
           participant's consent.

        -  Have structural, resting-state and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging scans as a part
           of the study.
    
  