
    
      After due approval from ethical review board and written consent, 40 patients who is
      scheduled for an elective eye procedure in which direct arterial blood pressure monitoring is
      appropriate will be recruited into this study. End tidal carbon dioxide will be sampled via
      SentriTM ETCO2 adult nasal cannula (Intersurgical ® code 1144002) during preoperative and
      intraoperative period. ETCO2 is measured by infrared spectroscopy (Datex-Ohmeda GE Healthcare
      S5, Compact monitor, Switzerland) with a side stream aspirator which has a flow rate of
      150mL/min.

      Standard monitoring with continuous electrography (ECG), non-invasive blood pressure(NIBP)
      monitoring and pulse oximetry will be used for all patients. A baseline blood pressure, heart
      rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation (SaO2) and ETCO2 will be recorded. During
      preoperative period, a 20-gauge, radial artery catheter was inserted under aseptic technique.
      It is used to obtain arterial blood gas measurement of partial pressure oxygen and carbon
      dioxide (PaO2, PaCO2) Blood gas will be analyzed by using ABL 800 flex blood gas analyzer
      (Radiometer Medical ApS, Denmark) with calibrations recommended by the manufacturer. No
      sedation will be given during preoperative period.

      Following the placement of indwelling radial artery catheter, Sentri nasal cannula will be
      placed into the nostril of the patients Subjects will be asked to breath normally for a
      period of five minutes . Nasal breathing will be confirmed by presence of an acceptable CO2
      tracing.Blood is drawn from indwelling arterial catheter for blood gas determination 5
      minutes after the modified nasal cannulae is in place. At the same time as the arterial blood
      gas sample is taken, an ETCO2 sample is also obtained. A baseline (without oxygen flow)
      ETCO2, PaO2, SPO2, respiratory rate and PaCO2 will be recorded. The respiratory rate will be
      determined by counting the respiration for 15 seconds and multiplying by four. Subjects will
      not be asked to keep their mouth close when using the nasal cannula as it might alter the
      variability inherent in patients who mouth breathe during conscious sedation. After a
      baseline ETCO2 is established, oxygen will be administered at 2,4, and 6 liters per minute
      for a period of five minutes. At each level of oxygen administration, an average ETC02
      reading will be recorded after achieving stable recordings. Simultaneously, PaO2 and PaCO2
      will be obtained by drawing arterial blood from arterial indwelling catheter. Heart rate,
      respiratory rate, blood pressure will also be routinely recorded.

      Sedation will be given to the patients intraoperatively. Riker Sedation-Agitation Scale (SAS)
      will be used to assess the level of sedation during intraoperative period. Titrated dose of
      midazolam will be given to the patient with the target of SAS score of 3 (difficult to arouse
      but awakens to verbal stimuli or gentle shaking, follow simple commands but drifts off
      again). During intraoperative period, oxygen will be administered at 2 and 4 liters per
      minutes for a period of five minutes. ETCO2, PaCO2 and PaO2 level will be recorded during
      each level of oxygen administration.
    
  