
    
      Each collaborating investigator is responsible for an essential element of the network: Eric
      Boerwinkle for genotyping and linkage analyses, Robert Ferrell for genotyping, Craig Hanis
      for recruiting Mexican-Americans, Richard Hutchinson for recruiting African-Americans, Sharon
      Kardia for cladistic and prediction analyses and data management, and Stephen Turner for
      recruiting Non-Hispanic whites and measuring physiologic variables. Between 1995 and 2000,
      the network carried out five specific aims to localize and characterize the genetic
      determinants of high blood pressure. Aim 1 used robust sibling pair linkage methods in 500
      hypertensive sibling pairs in each racial group (a total of 1,500 sibling pairs) to localize
      genes influencing interindividual differences in the occurrence of essential hypertension.
      Aims 2 and 3 took advantage of previously collected blood pressure and intermediate predictor
      trait data from 1,488 normotensive sibling pairs from the Rochester Family Heart Study to
      localize genes contributing to essential hypertension. The linkage analyses (Aims 1-3) used
      both an extensive array of candidate genes and a large number of anonymous markers throughout
      the genome. Aim 4 used multiple diallelic sequence polymorphisms and cladistic analyses
      within a linked gene to identify haplotypes for further DNA sequencing in order to identify
      candidate functional DNA sequence variation contributing to interindividual differences in BP
      levels and essential hypertension status. Aim 5 evaluated the ability of candidate functional
      DNA sequence variation to predict essential hypertension status in the three racial groups.

      The study was renewed in September 2000 to pursue two lines of investigation. The first is to
      identify and characterize genes contributing to atherosclerotic coronary heart disease using
      electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) to quantify coronary artery calcification as a
      measure of preclinical disease. Robust sibling-pair linkage methods will be used to determine
      whether any of the more than 375 highly polymorphic tandem repeat marker loci spanning the
      genome are linked to genes influencing EBCT measures of coronary artery calcification in at
      least 500 GENOA sibships from Rochester, Minnesota. Association analysis will be used to
      determine whether biallelic markers of DNA sequence variation in candidate genes identified
      by GENOA or others to influence blood pressure level or diagnostic category also influence
      EBCT measures of coronary artery calcification in at least 500 GENOA participants from
      Rochester, Minnesota. The second line of investigation extends analytical methods (linkage
      disequilibrium regression and combinatorial partitioning) to more finely localize positional
      candidate genes and loci, and to identify gene-gene and gene-environment interaction effects
      influencing the measured Family Blood Pressure Program and GENOA phenotypes.
    
  