
    
      Potent antiretroviral therapies that suppress HIV replication have permitted mathematical
      modeling of the dynamics of HIV infection and clearance by measurement of the decay of viral
      load in plasma. When de nova infection is blocked by antiretroviral therapy, the viral load
      decreases exponentially after a short initial lag time ("shoulder"). This rapid decline is
      followed by a slower second-phase decay. The intent of this study is to utilize four
      antiretroviral agents (zidovudine, lamivudine, nevirapine, indinavir) and very frequent
      measures of viral load to explore the drug-specific kinetics of the "shoulder". The decay of
      long-lived HIV-infected tissue macrophages is thought to be the major determinant of the slow
      second phase. Further, the study intends to use immune modulating agents with the potential
      to increase the turnover of infected macrophages, GM-CSF or IL-12, to accelerate the second
      phase of viral decay.

      Patients are assigned to Group A (16 patients) or to Group B (8 patients). Patients in Group
      A are randomized to 1 of the following 4 initial treatment arms:

      ARM A: Final dose combination (FDC) Zidovudine (ZDV)/Lamivudine (3TC). ARM B: Nevirapine
      (NVP). ARM C: Indinavir (IDV). ARM D: FDC ZDV/3TC plus NVP plus IDV. The initial regimen is
      maintained over the first 72 hours and blood for viral dynamic evaluations collected while
      patients are maintained as inpatients. Then, patients in Arms A, B, and C initiate FDC
      ZDV/3TC plus NVP plus IDV.

      Patients assigned to Group B begin the following 4-drug regimen on Day 0:

      ARM E: FDC ZDV/3TC plus NVP plus IDV.

      On Day 7, patients in both Groups A and B are randomized to receive one of the following
      therapies in addition to their 4-drug regimen:

      ARM F: GM-CSF daily for 2 weeks, then thrice weekly (MWF). ARM G: IL-12 twice weekly. ARM H:
      No immune modulation. Patients may be hospitalized to initiate immune modulation or may be
      treated as outpatients. Immune modulation is discontinued after Week 14. Patients maintain
      their 4-drug regimen through Week 48. [AS PER AMENDMENT 6/11/99: The study duration has been
      extended to 96 weeks.] Hepatitis A vaccine (inactivated) is administered on Weeks 16 and 40
      [AS PER AMENDMENT 2/13/98: to patients whose baseline hepatitis A serology was negative].
    
  