
    
      Researchers at MCW have discovered a new pathway that links the type of bacteria present in
      the intestines to the severity of heart attacks. This discovery of a relationship between
      intestinal bacteria, bacterial metabolites, and severity of heart attacks means that for the
      first time, we may be able to determine a person's probability of having a heart attack via
      non-conventional risk factors. This may provide opportunities for novel diagnostic tests as
      well as a potential for therapeutic intervention. The link between gut microbiota and the
      severity of heart attacks may also lead to novel therapeutic approaches (probiotics,
      non-absorbable antibiotics) to prevent heart attacks from happening. Our pilot study has
      demonstrated that supplementation of Lactobacillus plantarum 299v (Lp299v) for 6 weeks to
      adults with a history of coronary artery disease showed improvement in endothelial function.
      Whether acute ingestion of a single drink containing Lp299v supplementation favorably impacts
      vascular endothelial function is not known. The study proposed will test the hypothesis that
      supplementation of Lp299v favorably impacts vascular endothelial function after ingestion of
      a single supplement containing Lp299v.

      Specific Aim 1 will determine the acute impact of probiotic supplementation on endothelial
      cell function as measured by brachial artery flow mediated dilation (FMD)

      Specific Aim 2 will determine the impact of acute probiotic supplementation on blood
      biomarkers for inflammation.

      Specific Aim 3 will be to determine the impact of baseline constitution of intestinal
      microbiota (assessed by stool microbiome) on change in FMD as a result of acute response to
      probiotic supplementation.

      Specific Aim 4 will be to determine the impact of baseline constitution of intestinal
      microbiota (assessed by stool microbiome) on change in levels of blood markers for
      inflammation as a result of acute response probiotic supplementation.
    
  