
    
      Although genetic disorders of muscle that present at birth are rare, RYR1-related myopathies
      comprise the most common non-dystrophic congenital myopathy in the United States, with a
      prevalence of approximately 1/90,000 people (Amburgey et al, 2011). Causative mutations in
      the ryanodine receptor gene of skeletal muscle, RYR1, have been found in several myopathy
      subtypes, including central core disease and centronuclear myopathy. These mutations result
      in defective excitation-contraction coupling and increased mitochondrial oxidative stress.
      Most patients present in childhood with delayed motor milestones, extremity muscle weakness,
      impaired ambulation, joint contractures, progressive scoliosis, and in some cases eye
      movement paralysis, respiratory failure, or susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia, an
      allelic condition. Despite these important morbidities and the risk of early mortality, no
      treatments exist to date.

      RYR1 encodes a homotetrameric transmembrane ion channel, RyR1, which resides on the terminal
      sarcoplasmic reticulum in close proximity to the T-tubule. By releasing calcium from the
      sarcoplasmic reticulum into the cytosol in response to muscle fiber stimulation by the motor
      neuron at the neuromuscular junction, it mediates excitation-contraction coupling and
      functions as a regulator of cellular calcium concentrations and redox homeostasis. Dowling et
      al. (2012) recently elucidated the latter mechanism in zebrafish and patient myotubes,
      showing that RYR1 mutations result in increased oxidative stress and that this is rescued in
      both models by treatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a known anti-oxidant. NAC functions as
      a precursor of glutathione, an endogenous antioxidant that becomes deficient during oxidative
      stress. This was substantiated by a cystic fibrosis clinical trial in which low glutathione
      levels in neutrophils undergoing oxidative stress significantly increased with NAC
      administration.

      Dowling et al. (2012) found significant changes post NAC treatment including increased travel
      distance (endurance) in zebrafish and complete protection from cell death induced by
      experimentally increasing oxidative stress in myotubes. Thus NAC was a successful treatment
      in both ex vivo and in vivo model systems. Based on these results, we plan to perform a
      randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled clinical trial of NAC in a subgroup of
      RYR1-related myopathy patients as the first pathophysiologically based treatment for this
      devastating disorder.

      The objectives of the study are to determine if NAC reduces oxidative stress, fatigability,
      and fatigue in a study population of patients with RYR1-RM. The study population includes
      both males and females 7 years of age and older. The study design has two phases. The first
      6-month phase will be used to validate the selected outcome measures in RYR1 congenital
      myopathy. The second 6-month phase is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled drug
      intervention trial. The primary outcome measures are blood glutathione for oxidative stress
      and six minute walk test for fatigability. Healthy volunteers will be evaluated to determine
      normal values of biomarkers, muscle ultrasound, and near infrared spectroscopy in this rare
      disease, in order to develop a comparison between healthy and RYR1-RM individuals.
    
  