
    
      Introduction Optic Nerve Sheath Meningiomas (ONSMs) are rare tumours. They represent
      approximately the 2% of all orbital tumours, 1-2% of intracranial meningiomas and one third
      of the optic nerve lesions (23, 32, 42, 43). Usually these tumour are monolateral but 5% have
      a bilateral development (33) On the base of the growth pattern these tumours can be
      classified in primary and secondary forms. The former type arise from the arachnoid cap cell
      of the fibrous dural capsule of the optic nerve and they usually growth circumferentially
      along the nerve. Primary ONSMs can be further subdivided in orbital and intracanalicular
      forms.

      Secondary ONSMs usually arise from the sphenoid ridge or the tuberculum sellae and
      subsequently spread into the optic canal and the orbit (14, 42).

      Often the pathological studies show meningotheliomatous or transitional histology.

      Middle aged woman are the most often affected (4, 36, 44). The most frequent presentation
      symptom is a visual loss, both in acuity or visual field. This is nearly an expression of an
      optic nerve direct compression and of the vascular rearrangement.

      Optic nerve atrophy is common. Optociliary shunts are a late and rare sign but they are the
      direct expression of compressive optic neuropathy and it can be pathognomonic for the
      diagnosis of ONSM (35, 43).

      Traditionally treatment options include observation, surgery and radiotherapy but, until now,
      any of these had assumed as the treatment of choice.

      Nevertheless, the development of the new technology improved the interest in radiotherapy
      application.

      Conservative treatment can be considered due to the benign nature of the meningiomas and
      their slow growth pattern. Nevertheless this unavoidably leads to a visual deterioration or
      complete blindness (18, 33, 43, 44).

      Surgery is advocate for tumour administration, particularly in case of a progressive visual
      loss or complete blindness, tumour progression and intracranial involvement. Anyway because
      of their intimate relationship to the optic nerve, ophthalmic artery and central retina
      artery ONSMs complete removal is extremely challenging. Moreover post-operative course is
      often characterized by symptoms worsening (4, 8, 9, 15).

      In the recent past, the role of the radiotherapy remained uncertain: many author reported a
      positive experience, but the concern about complication and secondary effects strongly
      limited its acceptance (4, 5, 16, 21, 22, 26, 29, 31, 32). Radiation optic neuropathy has
      been described following conventional radiotherapy treatments (45 Gy, 2 Gy per fraction)
      (40).

      More recently two large series of patients treated with a fractionated stereotactic
      radiotherapy confirmed these positive experiences in tumour control and greatly reduced the
      concern about the treatment related toxicity (6, 27).

      Under the light of successful meningiomas treatment, radiosurgery had proposed as a treatment
      option. Single session, high conformality, frame based radiosurgery systems are seldom if
      ever proposed as ONSMs treatment due to the known dose tolerance of the optic nerve (22).

      The development of the radiosurgery technology, starting in 1994, introduced a new and
      effective therapeutic option (3, 11, 12).

      In this way it is possible to exploit the different recovery speed of normal and pathological
      tissues to optimize the tumour control and at the same time to spare the surrounding
      structure avoiding damage to the visual pathways.

      In fact, the comparison between various fractionation regimens resulting in roughly
      equivalent biologically equivalent dose (BED) for tumour control and normal tissue late
      effects (assuming that tumour and normal tissue late effect have a similar α/β ratio). In
      this way the acute (early) reactions would be reduced with larger fractions size (19).

      The first experience in ONSMs treatment with multisession radiosurgery treatment was quite
      promising (32).

      The aim of the present study is to prospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      multisession radiosurgery in ONSMs treatment.

      The treatment will be evaluated both in terms of tumour growth control and sparing for
      vision.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS Patient's population. XX patients affected by an Optic Nerve Sheath
      Meningioma (ONSM), both orbital and intra-canalicular will be considered for a multisession
      radiosurgery.

      Eligibility:

      Inclusions criteria are a significant visual impairment at presentation, progression of
      visual dysfunction during the observation period, disease progression.

      Due to the histological diagnosis imply an invasive and hazardous procedure, no biopsies will
      be performed and the diagnosis will be exclusively radiological.

      Pre-treatment evaluation. All patients, before treatment, will be collectively evaluated by
      Neurosurgeon, Radiation Oncologist and Neuro-Ophthalmologist.

      Clinical investigation includes a full neurological examination. Particularly the I, III, IV,
      V and VI pair of cranial nerve will be investigated.

      Visual acuity, visual field will be also investigated by the same Neuro-ophthalmologist.
      Visual acuity will be investigated using best correct Snellen visual acuity. A standardized
      automated perimetry by humphrey Visual 30-2 field testing will be performed in order to
      define the presence of visual field deficits Dose selection and radiobiology considerations.
      The dose selection is based on previous experience with Radiosurgery and Stereotactical
      Radiotherapy (1, 2, 23, 28, 30), but also on the previous studies concerning the dose
      tolerance of the anterior visual pathways (38).

      Assumed these considerations we plan multisession radiosurgery: all patients will be treated
      with a maximum dose of 25 Gy (5 Gy/fraction; 5 fractions).

      The total dose plans in this study is comparable to the doses delivered with the conventional
      fractionated regimens (50,4 - 56 Gy). In fact, assumed that the meningioma's α/β ratio is
      approximately 3,7-3,8 Gy (34, 41).

      According to the equivalent dose formula:

      EQD2 = D * [(d + α/β)/(2 + α/β) = 38,2 Gy where D is the altered schedule total dose, d is
      the altered daily dose. Then, considering the differences between the overall treatment time
      between conventional fractionated and hypofractionated treatment (28 fractions, 5 fractions
      per week, 38 total days and 5 fractions, 5 days respectively), assumed Dprolif = 0,7 as for
      the most of the tumours (7, 17), where Dprolif is the dose recovered daily owning to
      proliferation: EQD2,T = EQD2,t - [(T - t) * Dprolif ] = 61 Gy Treatment planning. Patients
      will have a 1.25 mm thickness MRI, including fat suppression sequence, T1with Gadolinium
      sequence and a contrast-enhanced CT scans. The images will then merged in order to optimize
      the definition of the target volume and the intra-extraorbital segment of the optic nerve,
      and the organ at risk (i.e. retina) An inverse planning software will be adopted to optimize
      the target coverage and at the same time to achieve the maximum of conformality and
      homogeneity of the prescription dose. The treatment plan used for each treatment will be
      based on an analysis of the volumetric dose including dose-volume histogram (DVH) analyses of
      the PTV and critical normal structures. The number of paths and beams used for each patient
      will vary and will be determined by the selected individual treatment plan.

      Target Volumes The target volume will consist of the tumor outlined in the treatment planning
      software seen on planning CT and/or MRI.

      The planning target volume (PTV) is planned to encompasses the 75-85% isodose line. All
      organs at risk will be defined.

      Follow-up. Following multisession radiosurgery, patients will be evaluated for tumour
      progression and visual function by a multidisciplinary team (Radiation Oncologist,
      Neurosurgeon; Neuro-Ophthalmologist). The patients will be evaluated 3 months after
      treatment, every 6 months during the first two years and then once per years.

      Every follow-up includes Neurological, Radiological and neuro-ophthalmological evaluation.

      Neuro-Ophthalmologic assessment includes a comprehensive evaluation of the visual acuity,
      visual field, extrinsic eyes movements, and proptosis. Visual acuity will be investigated by
      using the same tests at base line.

      Post-treatment radiographic evaluation includes an MRI scan every 6 months. Primary end point
      Primary end points are local growth control and maintenance or improvement of visual acuity
      at base line Response criteria The partial response is defined as a tumour reduction more
      than 20 %. Progression disease is defined as any increase in the tumour dimensions.

      Toxicity Ocular toxicity will be described with reference to CTCAE 3 version criteria. DATA
      COLLECTION Patients will be allocated a number and their data will be collected on a Case
      Report Forms. Data will include information from each protocol visit and will be completed on
      a timely manner.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS Analysis will be conducted to check if tumor control is correlated
      to clinical symptoms improvement by using short course radiotherapy treatment in relation to
      previous described radiobiological considerations.

      Clinical improvement will be measured specific ophthalmological tests.
    
  