
    
      A previous retrospective study documented a 12-fold increase of the risk of AFF in patients
      with primary aldosteronism (PA) as compared to subjects with primary (essential) hypertension
      (Milliez 2005). However, being retrospective this investigation could involve a selection
      bias and therefore is to be regarded as hypothesis-generating rather than a proof-of-concept
      study.

      Hence, based on results of experimental studies, we hypothesize that in a proportion of
      hypertensive patients presenting with 'lone' PA could be the underlying cause of hypertension
      leading to AFF. If proven, this hypothesis would imply that an early diagnosis of PA might
      not only cure PA and hypertension but also prevent AFF in a non negligible number of
      hypertensive patients.

      Primary objective is to establish the prevalence of PA in consecutive hypertensive patients
      referred for 'lone' paroxysmal, persistent or permanent AFF.

      Study design: Prospective multicenter cohort study.

      Sample size:

      Based on the PAPY study experience and on available data from the literature concerning
      prevalence studies, we anticipated that the enrolment of at least 1000 consecutive patients
      will give conclusive evidence on PA prevalence in AFF patients.

      Nothwithstanding a long enrolment period (from 2015 to 2018), we were unable to reach the
      calculated sample size and, therefore, the study was smaller than the size calculated when
      the PAPPHY study was conceived. In order not to introduce a time-dependent bias associated
      with an unduly long recruitment with associated changes in practice, it was decided to stop
      the study upon screening of 411 patients.

      Data analysis. Data collection in a specific software, with the database securely stored and
      analyzed at the core laboratory of the Arterial Hypertension Unit at the University of
      Padova, Italy.

      Experimental Procedures.

      Baseline visit

        -  Clinic evaluation of the patient;

        -  Collection of demographic data and history;

        -  Measurement of blood pressure and heart rate;

        -  Scanning and storage of ECG documenting AFF;

        -  Echocardiography for measurement of left atrial and aortic diameters, left ventricular
           thickness and diameters, systolic and diastolic and transmitral Doppler flow velocity
           indexes;

        -  Clinical chemistry including serum ions, s-Creatinine, eGFR, HbA1c, microalbuminuria,
           TSH;

        -  Measurement of PRA and plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC), under baseline and after
           captopril challenge, if the patient is not assuming drugs interfering with the renin
           angiotensin system and eventually after correction of hypokalemia;

        -  Cardioversion if needed.

      Diagnosis of PA in patients with a florid PA phenotype, i.e. a high aldosterone to renin
      ratio (ARR), e.g. > 100 (in [ng *dl-1 ] * [ng *ml-1 * h-1]) with no further tests, following
      the Endocrine Society guidelines (Funder J. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2016) and based on
      compelling evidence that in these patients the specificity approaches 100%, and the false
      negative rate 0% (Maiolino G. J Am Heart Assoc 2017).

      Exclusion of PA when ARR < 26 and plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) < 15 ng *dl-1 at the
      first or a repeated test. In all PA patients presenting with an ARR value in a grey area
      (i.e. between 26 and 100, and a PAC > 15 ng *dl-1) at the first and a repeated test after
      further 1 month wash-out, a confirmatory (captopril challenge) test to rule out false
      positive results (Funder J. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2016).

      At the end of this work-up, computed tomography and adrenal vein sampling in patients with
      biochemically confirmed PA for PA subtyping.

      Diagnosis of aldosterone producing adenoma (APA) confirmed by biochemical cure, e.g.
      normalization of plasma renin activity (PRA) and aldosterone, after adrenalectomy.

      The protocol of the study was revised in 2013 and then in 2015. Herein is reported the last
      approved version.
    
  