
    
      In the last decades, the increase in life expectancy highlights the world population aging as
      an irreversible process. The oxidative stress hypothesis of aging suggests that accumulation
      of oxidative damage during lifespan may be related to loss of cellular functions, a process
      normally associated with senescence. However, it has been proposed that individuals who live
      longer in a successful manner tend to be more adapted against aging physiological changes.
      Sleep is essential in maintaining health and well-being. Growing evidence suggests
      interrelationships between oxidative stress and sleep, while the latter is an important
      mechanism involved in redox balance maintenance. Therefore, the present study proposes the
      characterization of sleep patterns of healthy young adults, elderly individuals and
      individuals above 85 years old, using polysomnographic recordings, in order to clarify the
      importance of sleep in longevity. Furthermore, this study intends to analyze the oxidative
      stress-related gene expression in peripheral blood of the three studied groups, using the
      Superarray - RT2 Profiler" PCR Array System. After the identification of genes whose
      expression pattern among groups suggest a more specific role in longevity, the mechanisms of
      gene expression regulation, including DNA methylation patterns and microRNA expression, as
      well as the possible genomic sources of variation in these genes will be investigated. In
      addition, the oldest individual (105 years-old) will have his whole genome sequenced using
      next-generation sequencing technology, in order to identify rare variants associated with
      longevity. Subsequently, the effect of the polymorphisms and rare variants identified will be
      confirmed in an expanded sample constituted of individuals with various age-ranges. The study
      will provide a better characterization of molecular and physiological mechanisms involved in
      longevity, hoping to contribute to the development of more advanced clinical tools, capable
      to offer a better quality of life for the elderly.
    
  