
    
      Blue light in the 460-480 nm range is known to suppress melatonin onset and signal alerting
      mechanisms in the brain. Patients with ADHD often report staying up late on the computer,
      watching TV, or using other electronic devices, all strong emitters of blue light which may
      be contributing to the delayed sleep onset times seen in these patients. (Ramelteon for
      insomnia due to ADHD, R Fargason, K Gamble, K Avis, R Besing, R May, Psychopharmacology
      Bulletin, submitted March 2011). Dr. Fargason is using polarized glasses to treat patients
      who do not want to take sleep medications to facilitate earlier sleep onset.

      At the screen visit, following the informed consent procedure, ADHD + Delayed CRSD
      participants will fill out the demographic sheet and will be interviewed by the investigator
      regarding their history of sleep medications. If they are currently taking sleep medications
      and wish to stop taking them in order to participate in the study, they will be instructed
      how to safely do this. Following a two week washout period, participants will be given 7 wake
      up and bedtime diaries to complete. If the participant has not been on sleep medications for
      the last two weeks, they will receive the 7 sets of diaries at the screen visit and
      instructed to complete them twice daily.

      At the baseline visit, the diaries will be retrieved. The participants will complete a
      baseline Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), and will be given 14 sets of wake up and
      bedtime diaries. Participants will also be given polarized glasses which filter out blue
      light to wear only from sundown until bedtime for two weeks. They will be instructed to turn
      off fluorescent lights and only use household lamps for evening activities. They will be
      instructed not to drive while wearing the glasses. In addition to the oral instructions, they
      will also be given a written "Instruction Sheet." Any oral insomnia agent will be held
      throughout the study, otherwise they are to follow their usual evening routines. This is an
      alternative treatment already in use in Dr. Fargason's practice for those patients who don't
      want to take sleep medications. This research focuses on the effectiveness of this treatment
      and involves questionnaires to do so.

      The diaries will then be filled out daily for 2 weeks; days with extenuating circumstances
      (i.e. nighttime trip to ER) will be noted; the PSQI will be filled out again at the 2 week
      termination visit. All forms will be collected with the glasses at the 2 week visit. This
      data is being gathered in patients who have remained in clinical treatment with Dr. Fargason
      and view this as an opportunity to have a free trial of the polarizing glasses before
      purchasing them for their own use to advance their sleep phase. This idea was prompted by the
      patients' eagerness to try the glasses clinically and hence avoid need for sleep medication.
    
  