
    
      Intestinal drug absorption appears to be a very complex process characterized by
      gastrointestinal transit, disintegration of dosage forms, drug dissolution within the
      intestinal lumen, active and passive uptake processes, mucosal metabolism (e.g. by cytochrome
      P450 (CYP), UGT, sulfotransferase (SULT) enzymes) and efflux transport by several adenosine
      triphosphate binding cassette (ABC) transporters as P-glycoprotein, multidrug resistance
      associated protein (MRP) 2 or breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Along the
      gastrointestinal tract, the upper small intestine (i.e. duodenum, proximal jejunum)
      represents the main site for absorption of nutrients and drugs offering an appropriately
      large absorption area of nearly 200 m². Within this bowel segment, there is a high expression
      of several physiological relevant uptake carriers for nutrients as carbohydrates (e.g.
      GLUTs), fatty acids (MCTs, FATs), peptides (PEPTs), sterols (NPC1L1) and bile acids (ASBT)
      which are exclusively located in the small intestine. Furthermore, it is now well established
      that there is a high intestinal expression of phase I & II metabolizing enzymes as well as
      drug efflux transporters being responsible for the high first-pass metabolism of many
      compounds like cyclosporine, nifedipine, midazolam or statins. Apparently, there is a
      distinct expression gradient along the small intestine (e.g. decreasing levels of P-gp and
      CYP3A4 but increasing for MRP2). On the other side, the colon features only negligible
      amounts of enzymes and active uptake and elimination carriers. Therefore, the extent of drug
      absorption from the bowel is mainly dependent on the intestinal site of drug liberation and,
      thus, dependent on the administered dosage form, the physicochemical properties of the drug
      and the individual physiological conditions.

      Due to the fact, that under physiological circumstances there is only a low expression of
      P-gp in the upper parts of the gut (i.e. duodenum and jejunum), a functional "absorption
      window" is created which enables the preferable absorption of drugs in these proximal region
      of the small intestine. This is also supported by the markedly higher surface area of the
      upper small intestine compared to distal segments. It was shown that cyclosporine and
      talinolol were increasingly less absorbed when delivered into deeper regions of the human
      intestine. Since both compounds are well established P-gp substrates, this site-dependent
      absorption phenomenon seems to be caused by the decreasing expression levels of intestinal
      P-gp counteracting drug uptake into enterocytes. Additionally, it was reported that the
      effective permeability of atenolol, metoprolol, cimetidine and furosemide was markedly lower
      in the ileum compared to the jejunum in healthy subjects. These data verified that drug
      absorption in the lower intestine is less effective than in upper parts which seems to be of
      outstanding relevance for compounds with predominately duodenal and jejunal absorption (fast
      release dosage form) and P-gp substrates as ß-lactam antibiotics, furosemide, cyclosporine,
      talinolol and digoxin.

      Consequently, in subjects after massive dissection of the proximal small intestine or after
      Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery, absence of this main intestinal absorption area leads to
      malabsorption of nutrients (e.g. protein, fat soluble vitamins, minerals and trace elements
      as iron) and is expected to affect the oral bioavailability of drugs with "absorption window"
      in the proximal small intestine.

      Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery, by which the stomach, the duodenum and parts of the jejunum
      are dislocated from the continuous intestinal passage of the chyme, is the surgical gold
      standard option to treat morbid adipositas. The method was shown to reduce significantly body
      weight and obesity-related co-morbidity. Today, this surgical intervention is the most
      frequently used bariatric surgery (USA: approximately 150.000/year) and its application is
      still increasing.

      Despite its widely use and the well documented risk of nutrient deficiencies, only very
      little is known about the pharmacokinetic consequences and intestinal adaptation mechanisms
      in these patients who are often subjected to multiple drug therapy. It was assumed that the
      reduced intestinal surface area and the reduced time to drug disintegration and dissolution
      caused by accelerated intestinal transit in these patients are associated with lowered
      intestinal drug absorption. Additionally, this could be affected by the reduced production of
      gastric hydrochloric acid by lowering the solubility in case of alkaline drugs. However, it
      is possible that compensatory processes by other bowel segments could improve drug absorption
      which could mean that drugs are still adequately absorbed.

      From patients with resection of lower intestinal segments (i.e. distal jejunum, ileum, colon)
      in consequence of Crohn´s disease or ulcerative colitis, the so-called small bowel syndrome,
      it is known that the pharmacokinetics of drugs as digoxin, cyclosporine, cimetidine and
      levothyroxine is markedly influenced in form of distinctly reduced intestinal absorption.
      Furthermore, it was assessed that time-dependent adaptation processes occur in these patients
      to compensate for the lost of function of the dissected tissue. Therefore, the dependency on
      parenteral nutrition is decreasing or even full intestinal autonomy will occur. The variety
      of changes is complex and dependent on the status of the underlying disease, the existing
      surface area and its functional integrity. These complex adaptation processes are caused by
      many growth factors, cytokines and hormones (e.g. peptide tyrosine tyrosine (YY), insulin
      like growth factor (IGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), glucagon-like peptide (GLP-2), NT).

      Most data on adaptive processes in the gastrointestinal tract after dissection of intestinal
      segments are obtained in animal experiments. These data, however, are not predictive for the
      situation in man. With regard to the situation after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery, there
      is no information on how drugs are absorbed after bypassing the stomach, duodenum and parts
      of the jejunum.

      Therefore, pharmacokinetics of three probe drugs (talinolol, paracetamol and amoxicillin) and
      intestinal expression of intestinal drug metabolizing enzymes (eg. CYP3A4, UGTs) and drug
      transport proteins (eg. P-gp, MRP2, OATPB, PEPT) before, shortly after (7 days) and one year
      after the gastric and intestinal bypass surgery in patients with morbid adipositas will be
      measured. Paracetamol (acetaminophen) was chosen because it is rapidly and completely
      absorbed from all parts of the gut. Appearance in blood describes the site of drug
      dissolution within the intestine. Talinolol represents a well established P-gp substrate
      which absorption is limited by this multidrug transporting protein. Finally, amoxicillin acts
      as a probe drug for active uptake which is mediated by the peptide transporter PEPT which is
      predominately expressed in the small intestine and responsible for active H+-coupled uptake
      of ß-lactam antibiotics and ACE inhibitors.

      It is hypothesized that bioavailability of talinolol and amoxicillin will be significantly
      decreased after the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery compared to the situation before
      surgery. One year after the surgical intervention, adaptation processes in expression of drug
      metabolizing enzymes and drug transporters are expected which at least in part compensate for
      the decrease in bioavailability of the probe drugs.
    
  