
    
      The most commonly used illicit stimulant in HIV-infected individuals is methamphetamine (MA),
      and prior studies demonstrate strong evidence that MA promotes increased HIV transcription as
      well as immune dysregulation. HIV cure has emerged as an important clinical and research
      priority given evidence of ongoing immune dysfunction in HIV-infected individuals despite
      effective antiretroviral therapy (ART). A challenge in achieving worldwide HIV eradication is
      targeting specific vulnerable populations who are most likely to benefit from an HIV cure but
      possess poorer immune responses as a result of residual viral replication due to suboptimal
      ART adherence and/or direct immune dysfunction from illicit substance use. Prior non-human
      studies demonstrate that MA directly induces HIV production and promotes immune activation
      and inflammation. These preclinical findings suggest that HIV+ individuals who use MA may
      experience greater immune dysfunction and face additional challenges for future HIV
      eradication. This study will investigate the effects of short-term MA exposure in HIV+
      ART-suppressed individuals without a prior history of MA use. Participants will be enrolled
      in an interventional study where they will be administered oral methamphetamine (the maximum
      FDA approved daily dose for the treatment of childhood obesity) to determine the effects of
      short-term MA exposure on residual virus production, gene expression, inflammation, and trace
      amine-associated 1 (TAAR1, a promising drug target for psychostimulant addiction) signaling.
      MA exposure will be quantified with multiple serum samples collected over a 24-hour
      monitoring period and associated with residual viral transcription, host gene and cell
      surface protein expression, and inflammation (plasma inflammatory cytokine levels)
      quantification. The proposed study will be the first human genetic study to directly evaluate
      the effect of MA exposure on residual viral transcription during effective ART. The overall
      goals of the study are to integrate a rigorous clinical study designs with high throughput
      'omics data to identify novel targets for reversing HIV latency, reducing inflammation, and
      personalizing future therapeutic strategies specific to HIV+ ART-suppressed individuals who
      use MA.
    
  