
    
      People with diabetes sometimes consider that they are subjected to unfair discrimination in
      the occupational or work environment. These include safety-critical activities such as
      operating machinery and driving. Some occupations preclude the use of medications that lower
      blood glucose, particularly insulin. Safety regulators, occupational health physicians and
      national organisations frequently have to balance the competing priorities of individual
      rights against public safety.

      Modern treatment, with advances in insulin therapy and glucose monitoring, combined with
      rigorous clinical assessment and review, has allowed stereotypical attitudes to be
      challenged, and advocated individual assessment with respect to safety criteria. Several
      national authorities (Australia, Canada, UK, and USA) have, over recent years, allowed
      private pilots to fly for recreation while receiving treatment with insulin Canada (in 2002)
      was the first country to allow commercial pilots, treated with insulin, to fly commercially
      and have granted licences to a small number of insulin-treated pilots on a case-by-case basis
      and subject to close supervision.

      In 2010 the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) convened an expert committee to review current
      scientific knowledge and international policies concerning flying. The committee advised that
      a protocol for safe flying could be developed and produced the first iteration with
      subsequent refinement. In 2012 the UK CAA started issuing Class 1 medical certificates for
      commercial flying to pilots with insulin-treated diabetes, having published a rigorous
      protocol and started collecting data systematically. Ireland and Austria have subsequently
      joined the protocol. The protocol has been shown to be feasible, practical and to date no
      safety concerns have arisen. The results from the first 26 pilots have been presented at the
      annual EASD conference and published in The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology .
    
  