
    
      Rare incidence of pleuropulmonary and retroperitoneal fibrosis are known complications during
      the long-time therapy of Parkinson's disease (PD) with ergot-drug derivatives including some
      ergot dopamine agonists. Particularly the appearance of fibrotic valvular heart disease of
      Parkinson patients under Pergolide therapy caused an intense discussion about the safety of
      dopamine agonists at all. Single case reports of similar heart valve changes under the
      therapy of Bromocriptin and probably Cabergoline pointed to an effect of the whole substance
      class of the ergot-dopamine agonists.

      Cross-Sectional Study (part I):

      Within this study an initial cross-sectional analysis of the prevalence of fibrotic heart
      valvular disease will be done. Patients with Parkinson's disease with different exposition
      status will be recruited. An transthoracal echocardiographic examination (TTE) of the heart
      will be performed.

      Exposition status:

        -  patients with ergot-derived dopamine agonists

        -  patients with non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists

        -  After the TTE-report the study population is divided in affected (= pathological
           TTE-report: fibrotic valvular heart diseases) and healthy persons (= non-pathological
           TTE-report: no fibrotic valvular heart diseases). The therapy with dopamine agonist will
           be stopped in patients with a pathological TTE-report. Instead these patients will be
           treated with an equivalent dose of L-Dopa with or without COMT-inhibitors. The existing
           therapy regime will remain in patients without pathological findings.

      Longitudinal Section (part II and III):

      The cross-sectional study (part I) is followed by a two year follow-up study.

      Cohort I:

        -  patients with pathological TTE-report: fibrotic valvular heart disease

        -  patients without pathological TTE-report: no fibrotic valvular heart disease

      Part II: Within cohort I the reversibility of fibrotic valvular heart disease will be
      analysed with regard to the previously taken cumulative dose of dopamine agonists.

      Part III: Within cohort II there will be a prospective analysis of the (cumulative) incidence
      of fibrotic valvular heart disease in PD patients with different exposition status. If
      fibrotic valvular heart disease occurs, a patient will be changed from cohort II to cohort I.

      Primary Outcome:

      Cross-sectional study (part I):

        -  What is the prevalence of fibrotic valvular heart disease in PD patients under therapy
           with ergot-derived dopamine agonists and non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists?

        -  Is there an influence to the cumulative dose of dopamine agonists?

      Longitudinal study (prospective cohort study):

        -  (Part II) Is fibrotic valvular heart disease under therapy of ergot-derived dopamine
           agonists and non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists reversible?

        -  (Part III) What is the (cumulative) incidence of fibrotic valvular heart disease under
           the therapy of ergot-derived dopamine agonists and non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists?
    
  