
    
      Patients discharged from the Ex-DHF trial were recruited from June 2013 to December 2015 and
      offered participation in a controlled add-on pilot study. The treatment group (n=19) received
      5 sessions of MI, each lasting 15-30 min over 6 months to enhance physical activity.

      For the first two and the last sessions participants met with the psychologist-counsellor
      face-to-face for about 45 minutes. The remaining three sessions could be conducted via
      telephone or face-to-face, depending on participants' preferences, and typically lasted 15-30
      minutes. Per study protocol, counsellors (physicians and psychologists trained in
      motivational interviewing) assisted the participants in: (1) Setting goals for their physical
      activity; (2) developing a plan to increase physical activities; (3) setting specific plans
      for the implementation of the plan; and (4) overcoming possible barriers. Participants were
      also asked to keep track of their daily physical activity in a diary, which counsellors then
      discussed with them during the sessions.

      After patients had given their written informed consent, counsellors assessed all
      participants via structured interview and self-rating scales. At baseline only,
      sociodemographic information was recorded.

      At baseline and at the final 6-month visit participants' motivation to be physically active
      in the upcoming weeks was assessed using the SSK-scale ("Sportbezogene Selbstkonkord" =
      sports-related self-concordance, Seelig and Fuchs 2006) to assess the self concordance of
      sport- and exercise-related goals.

      The kind and extent of patients' daily physical activity was recorded using patient diaries.
      At baseline and 6 months we also conducted a symptom-limited cardiopulmonary exercise test on
      a bicycle ergometer, in order to assess changes in maximum rate of oxygen consumption during
      the last 30 seconds before the termination of the exercise (peak oxygen consumption (VO2
      [ml/min/kg])) as measure of maximal exercise capacity. Participants also completed the
      6-minute walk test on flat surface (6-MWT) as an additional parameter to assess submaximal
      exercise capacity.

      Additionally, at the 6-month assessment, intervention participants filled out a questionnaire
      about their subjective evaluation of the counseling program.

      The control group (n=20) received usual care.
    
  