
    
      There is a strong positive association between cigarette smoking and alcohol use both at the
      epidemiologic and behavioral levels. This co-use can create substantial impediments in
      smoking cessation. Approximately 25% of current smokers are heavy drinkers. Alcohol use is a
      risk factor for relapse during smoking cessation and is associated with lower odds of
      quitting smoking. Smokers are five times as likely to experience a smoking lapse during
      drinking episodes than at other times. Further, heavy drinking smokers experience more health
      consequences than individuals who are either only smokers or heavy drinkers, such as
      impairments in brain morphology and function and greater risk for various cancers. Given the
      high co-occurrence of smoking and drinking and the health risks associated with the co-use of
      these substances, it has been convincingly argued that heavy drinking smokers constitute a
      distinct sub-population of smokers with a unique clinical profile and treatment needs. Yet,
      there are no available pharmacological treatments or guidelines tailored to heavy drinking
      smokers, despite the evidence that this is a treatment-resistant sub-group. Thus, treatment
      development for heavy drinking smokers represents a highly significant and understudied
      research area. Varenicline is a first-line treatment for nicotine dependence that may also be
      effective in reducing alcohol use. Recent studies have indicated that varenicline reduces the
      pleasurable effects of alcohol and its self-administration in the laboratory, as well as
      alcohol craving and consumption in clinical trials. These findings suggest that varenicline
      is a promising medication for smoking cessation in heavy drinking smokers, as reducing
      alcohol craving and consumption may be a key component to effectively reducing smoking and
      preventing relapse in this sub-group.

      In early abstinence, one of the most reliable predictors of relapse is the occurrence of a
      single smoking lapse, which is generally defined as smoking at least a puff of a cigarette.
      As much as 95% of smokers who experience a lapse will progress to relapse, which has led to
      the first lapse being theorized to represent the transition from abstinence to regular
      smoking. Alcohol consumption is one of the most consistently identified risk factors for a
      smoking lapse and, therefore, may contribute to the maintenance of nicotine dependence in
      heavy drinking smokers. Recent clinical trial and laboratory evidence suggests that
      varenicline is effective in reducing general smoking lapse behavior, although it is unknown
      whether this effect translates to alcohol-mediated smoking lapse behavior.

      To address this important gap in the literature, this human laboratory study will use two
      laboratory paradigms, namely alcohol administration and a smoking lapse task, to examine
      clinically-relevant effects of varenicline among heavy-drinking smokers (i.e., individuals
      who smoke ≥ 10 cigarettes/day and who meet National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
      (NIAAA) guidelines for heavy drinking). The investigators will enroll 22 non-treatment
      seeking heavy drinking smokers in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover
      laboratory study, testing the efficacy of varenicline in reducing smoking behavior after
      controlled alcohol administration among heavy drinking smokers. All participants will be
      daily smokers (≥ 10 cig/day) who are also heavy drinkers according to NIAAA guidelines.
      Interested individuals will come in to the laboratory for an in-person screening visit and
      physical exam. Eligible participants will then be randomized to a medication sequence,
      varenicline (1 mg twice daily) or placebo. Medication will be titrated over a 12-day period
      and within each medication condition participants will complete two laboratory sessions on
      days 9 and 12. The laboratory sessions will consist of placebo-controlled alcohol
      administration followed by the McKee smoking lapse task. After completing both laboratory
      sessions for the first medication condition, and after a seven-day wash-out period,
      participants will be begin the second medication condition and again complete laboratory
      sessions on days 9 and 12 of the titration period (i.e., each participant will complete four
      laboratory sessions and experience all four combinations of varenicline/placebo pill and
      alcohol/placebo beverage). In each laboratory session, participants will receive a dose of
      alcohol [target breath alcohol concentration (BrAC) = 0.08 g/dl] or placebo beverage, in a
      randomized and double-blind fashion, and will then complete a smoking lapse task. In this
      paradigm, participants are presented with their preferred brand of cigarettes, a lighter, and
      an ashtray. Participants are then informed that they can begin a cigarette
      self-administration session or delay smoking in exchange for a fixed amount of monetary
      reinforcement. If the participant decides to smoke, they then begin the self-administration
      session in which they are again given the choice to smoke their preferred brand of cigarettes
      or receive a fixed monetary reinforcement for each cigarette that is not smoked. In addition
      to these smoking outcomes, measures of craving, mood, and subjective effects will be
      administered at baseline, after alcohol administration, and during the lapse paradigm. The
      study design allows for a within-subjects comparison of the effects of varenicline (versus
      placebo), alcohol (versus placebo), and their interaction on smoking behavior in the
      laboratory.

      The Specific Aims of this project proposal are: Aim 1: To test whether varenicline is
      effective at reducing alcohol and cigarette craving, as well as reducing the acute subjective
      effects of alcohol and cigarettes; Aim 2: To test whether varenicline is effective at
      mitigating alcohol's effects on smoking lapse behavior; Aim 3: To test whether acute
      subjective response to alcohol is predictive of subsequent smoking lapse behavior and to
      examine if varenicline reduces this effect. The investigators hypothesize that varenicline,
      compared to placebo, will reduce cigarette and alcohol craving, attenuate subjective response
      to alcohol and cigarette smoking, and improve performance on the smoking lapse task by
      increasing the participant's ability to resist smoking. Furthermore, the investigators
      hypothesize that varenicline's ability to reduce alcohol craving and subjective response to
      an acute dose of alcohol will be directly predictive of performance on the smoking lapse
      task. Since heavy drinking smokers have been shown to be relatively treatment-resistant, the
      results of the current study could have sizable implications for supporting varenicline as a
      potential tailored treatment for this sizable and at-risk sub-group.
    
  