
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly evolving, fatal neurodegenerative disease
      resulting from the degeneration of cortical, bulbar and spinal motor neurons. The disease
      progresses inexorably to death, usually because by failure of respiratory function, with a
      median duration of 3 years.

      Recent clinical trials using various types of stem cells, including mesenchymal stromal
      cells, neural stem cells, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), represent promising
      strategies for stem cell-based treatment in ALS. It has been demonstrated that the
      inflammation and neuronal death were reduced in ALS patients after bone marrow
      transplantation. In addition, the incidence of immune response was decreased by autologous
      transplantation of bone marrow cells in ALS patients. PBMCs are multi-potent stem cells that
      are very attractive for a cell therapy approach in ALS because of their plasticity and
      ability to provide the host tissue with growth factors or modulate the host immune system.
      PBMCs were used clinically and few adverse effects were attributed to their administration.
      Early clinical investigations indicated that the transplantation of autologous PBMCs into the
      dura is feasible in ALS patients; however, one study was limited to three patients and the
      other recruited eight patients. There are still many questions regarding the intrathecal
      transplantation of PBMCs for ALS. Therefore, a retrospective study was performed to assess
      further the safety and efficacy of the procedure and to test the impact of a cell therapy
      approach in ALS patients.

      Statistical analysis Data, expressed as the mean ± SD, were analyzed using SPSS version 17.0
      for Windows (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Statistical analyses were performed by paired
      sample t-test. A value of P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  