
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in women of
      reproductive age. PCOS is associated with multiple co-morbidities including obesity, insulin
      resistance, subfertility, impaired quality of life (QoL) and increased risk of type 2
      diabetes. Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a common medical condition that is often
      undiagnosed, particularly in women. Obesity is a common risk factor for OSA and PCOS and OSA
      is associated with comorbidities similar to those observed in patients with PCOS such as
      insulin resistance, increased risk of type 2 diabetes, and impaired QoL. Hence it is not
      surprising that OSA and PCOS might co-exist.

      However, the impact of OSA in women with PCOS remains unclear and understudied. It is
      plausible that OSA may contribute to the subfertility and impaired QoL observed in women with
      PCOS by increasing insulin resistance, activation of the sympathetic nervous system,
      disturbing the hypothalamic/pituitary/ovarian axis, and contributing to excessive daytime
      sleepiness and reduced mood.

      38 women with PCOS will be recruited from the PCOS clinic, weight management clinic,
      reproductive endocrinology clinic and through posters displayed at University Hospital
      Coventry and an e-poster displayed at the hospital intranet. Women with increased risk of
      OSA, based on the Berlin questionnaire and the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), will have
      home-based sleep studies performed. They will also be referred to the Respiratory Physician,
      as part of routine NHS care.

      Study participants will be divided based on the results of the Berlin and ESS questionnaires
      and sleep studies into two groups: 1) PCOS low risk OSA: women with normal ESS and normal
      Berlin questionnaire (no sleep studies performed), or women with normal sleep studies; and 2)
      PCOS OSA: women with OSA proven by sleep studies.

      Clinical and biochemical features including reproductive history, depression and anxiety
      [using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression questionnaire (HAD)], and QoL [using the PCOS
      health-related quality of life questionnaire (PCOSQ) and the World Health Organisation
      QoL-BREF will be compared between the two groups.
    
  