
    
      The Enteryx procedure kit is indicated for endoscopic injection into the region of the lower
      esophageal sphincter (LES) for the treatment of symptoms due to gastroesophageal reflux
      disease (GERD) symptoms in patients responding to and requiring daily pharmacological therapy
      with proton pump inhibitors (PPI's).

      The study design consists of two parts, Part A and Part B. Part A will enroll patients who
      received Enteryx treatments after approval and Part B will enroll patients previously
      enrolled and treated in the IDE study #G000065. In total there will be at least 300 patients
      enrolled in Part A and Part B with 36 months of follow-up Part A: Approximately 150 to 200
      patients will be enrolled from 22 centers. After patients have determined with their
      physicians that Enteryx is an appropriate course of therapy for their GERD symptoms, they
      will be asked to participate in this trial. Patients will be followed for adverse events,
      medication use, and GERD-HRQL symptoms at baseline, day of treatment, one month, six months,
      twelve months, twenty-four months, and thirty-six months. The final study visit will be
      thirty-six months after the last Enteryx injection. In addition, all Part A patients will be
      contacted by the Site at least quarterly to obtain current adverse event information. This
      adverse event information will be solicited from the Site by the Sponsor at least quarterly.
      Part B: All US IDE patients (approximately 150 patients) will be asked to enroll. Patients
      will be followed for adverse events, medication use, and GERD-HRQL symptoms at two visits
      beyond the follow-up prescribed in the IDE study, namely 24 and 36 months after the last
      Enteryx injection received in the IDE study. Parts A and B: There will be a breakdown of
      adverse events based on retreatment status. Any subsequent procedures or interventions
      related to GERD or Enteryx, whether surgical (such as fundoplication) or non-surgical (such
      as an alternative endoscopic treatment for GERD), will be collected and reported.

      H0: (Null hypothesis): Proportion of patients exhibiting clinically significant improvement
      in reduction of PPI therapy ≤ 0.5

      Ha: (Alt. hypothesis): Proportion of patients exhibiting clinically significant improvement
      in reduction of PPI therapy > 0.5

      The Sponsor will examine the proportion of patients who have clinically significant reduction
      in PPI therapy at the 12, 24 and 36 month follow-ups, in an identical manner to that used for
      the patients in the IDE trial. The "clinically significant reduction" is defined as either
      elimination of medication use or reduction in dosage of ≥50%. The criterion for success is
      defined as more than half of patients demonstrating this degree of medication reduction. The
      hypothesis is tested by p-value and construction of the exact 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence
      intervals around the observed proportion of patients who meet the criterion for success. The
      longitudinal post-procedure follow-up data across time (repeated measures) will be analyzed
      to determine patterns and trends for all primary endpoints. The hypothesis stated above will
      also be evaluated in the subset of patients that underwent retreatment prior to amendment
      v.14Oct05.
    
  