
    
      Radiation therapy is an important component in the curative treatment of non-small cell lung
      cancer. Targeting of the gross tumor has been facilitated by the use of CT simulation
      allowing for more accurate delineation of the tumor. In addition multi-modality imaging
      combining functional and anatomical information have allowed for further refinement in the
      treatment planning process with significant impact on the planning target volume due to the
      addition of PET imaging information. PET using 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) allows for more
      precise detection of tumor since it is a functional image based on glucose metabolism rather
      than structural abnormalities. Biochemical changes often precede any gross anatomical
      abnormalities, therefore making PET a very powerful imaging modality. FDG PET has been shown
      to be more sensitive and specific than CT in the staging of NSCLC.Radical radiation therapy
      is indicated for early stage NSCLC when the patient is medically inoperable primarily due to
      co-morbidities. In contrast for locally advanced NSCLC, radical radiation is used as part of
      induction therapy or in the definitive treatment of NSCLC. In order to avoid a geographical
      miss with precision radiation therapy, the gross tumor volume (GTV) is outlined and a margin
      around the GTV is added to incorporate microscopic extension of disease, also known as the
      clinical target volume (CTV). Standard margins of 1.0 to 1.5 cm are used to encompass the
      gross tumor, microscopic extent and treatment setup uncertainties.There is surprisingly very
      little data on what constitutes an adequate margin to encompass the microscopic extent around
      the gross lung tumor. Studies involving conformal radiation therapy and dose escalation in
      NSCLC have primarily used an empirical margin to define the CTV. A literature review revealed
      only two studies evaluating the ability of CT to define the gross tumor and its microscopic
      extension correlated with histopathological measurements [P Giraud et al 2000, R Chan et al
      2001]. The two studies have produced conflicting results with recommended margins being from
      zero mm to 6-8 mm around the GTV. There have been no studies evaluating the ability of PET to
      define the size of the gross tumor and its microscopic extension.This is a companion study to
      the two OCOG PET trials in NSCLC. It will evaluate the ability of CT alone versus PET CT to
      define the gross tumor and its microscopic extension. The methodology will be based on
      contouring the GTV with imaging modalities of CT and PET CT and correlating the findings with
      histopathology.This proposed study will add new information on the ability of combined PET CT
      to determine the microscopic extension of tumor in NSCLC. While no imaging modality can
      detect microscopic extension, the newer technology of PET CT may give better resolution over
      CT alone in the detection of tumor. The strength of this proposal is the required correlation
      with pathological findings. If PET CT is able to accurately determine the extent of disease,
      this will have major implications on treatment volumes and subsequent targeting for radiation
      therapy using 3D conformal radiation therapy.
    
  