
    
      N=100 subjects will undergo a baseline challenge to peanut without exacerbating extrinsic
      factors. These initial baseline challenges will be performed when asthma is well controlled
      (validated by normal spirometry values), the subject is rested and there is no evidence of
      viral illness (clinical history and examination). A two-day double blind placebo controlled
      peanut challenge (DBPCPC) will be performed. Subjects receive either all placebo doses or all
      active doses on one of two days. Each day consists of all eight doses separated by 20 minute
      intervals (3microg to 1g). The active doses are hidden in a carrier which has been assessed
      for blinding efficacy. Subjective and objective dose threshold and severity score for
      challenge outcome will be recorded. Subjects will receive detailed written and verbal advice
      to avoid peanut until the next challenge. All subjects will be asked to carry oral
      antihistamines and injectable adrenaline.

      All participants who have a clinical reaction during the initial baseline DBPCFC will be
      randomized to one of 6 balanced cross over intervention sequences from a Latin square design.
      Each group rotates through three further challenges in a different order: control (no
      extrinsic factor), exercise and sleep restriction.

        1. Control challenge

           Subjects must not have had any accidental reaction to peanut in the previous three
           months. This challenge will be performed when asthma is well controlled (validated by
           spirometry normal values), the subjects are rested (sleep diary for preceding week will
           be examined) and there is no viral illness (clinical history and examination). A peanut
           challenge will be performed (identically to the initial baseline DBPCFC). Dose threshold
           and severity score for challenge outcome will be recorded.

        2. Exercise challenge Subjects undergo a repeat challenge to peanut with exercise as an
           extrinsic factor, a minimum of three months after the previous challenge. Subjects must
           not have had any accidental reaction to peanut in the previous three months. This
           challenge will be performed when asthma is well controlled (validated by spirometry
           normal values for the individual and clinical history), the subjects are rested, and
           there is no viral illness.

      The challenge will be double blind and placebo controlled. The challenge will take place on
      two occasions, on one day all four doses will contain placebo only, on the second all four
      doses will be active (peanut). The subjects will undergo an identical exercise protocol on
      both days.

      On each day the challenge will begin with 15 minutes of exercise using a standardised
      protocol. Following this the first challenge dose is given. This is followed by 20 minutes of
      rest (and observation) before a further exercise period followed by ingestion of the second
      dose and so on.

      The active doses will be…

        1. 1/100th of the threshold identified at the initial baseline challenge

        2. 1/10th of the threshold identified at the initial baseline challenge

        3. The threshold dose identified at the control challenge

        4. One dose increment higher than the dose identified at the control challenge.

      Subjective and objective dose thresholds and severity score for challenge outcome will be
      recorded.

      If there is no reaction to any dose on the active day then the active arm will be repeated on
      a separate day, starting at the lowest available challenge dose (3 micrograms). Dose
      increments up to at least 1/100th of the threshold identified at the control challenge will
      follow.

      3. Sleep restriction

      Participants will undergo a repeat double blind placebo controlled challenge to peanut
      including sleep restriction as an extrinsic factor, a minimum of three months from the last
      challenge. Subjects must not have had any accidental reaction to peanut in the previous three
      months. This challenge will be performed when asthma is well controlled (validated by
      spirometry normal values), and there is no viral illness (clinical history and examination).

      Subjects will be admitted to the research ward on the evening prior to the challenge.
      Overnight, sleep will be restricted to 3 hours (2300-0200). Subjects will undergo a peanut
      challenge, using the same dosing range and intervals as the initial baseline challenge.

      Subjective and objective dose thresholds and severity score for challenge outcome will be
      recorded on central online data store. The challenge will take place on two occasions, on one
      day all doses will contain placebo only, on the second all doses will be active (peanut). The
      subjects will undergo an identical sleep restriction protocol on each day.
    
  