
    
      The incidence of bone metastases in advanced cancer patients is substantial, representing 70%
      of all metastatic sites. Approximately 5-10% of all patients with bone metastases develop
      pathological fractures. Surgical reconstruction can be helpful following fracture or
      prophylactically in cases of an impending fracture. In these cases, post-operative radiation
      is the current clinical practice in North America and many countries around the world.
      Post-operative radiation has the potential to support bone healing and prevent tumor
      progression while also decreasing the need for subsequent orthopaedic surgeries to the same
      site. A recent systematic review, however, challenged the evidence on its efficacy and
      adoption as standard of care in this patient population. As well, post-operative radiation
      requires additional visits to the radiation centre (associated with added costs and efforts
      for both the patients and the healthcare system). There is also a "pain flare" phenomenon, in
      which up to 40% of patients receiving radiation for palliative bone metastases experience
      pain within 1-5 days following radiation. The pain can last for 10 days and may acutely mask
      potential clinical benefits of radiation.

      Given that there is potential negative impact to these patients who are palliative with a
      relatively short lifespan, it is important that the efficacy of post-operative radiation is
      rigorously evaluated.

      We propose a multicenter randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of post-operative
      radiation following orthopaedic surgery in patients with lower extremity bone metastases. 300
      patients with pending or established lower extremity pathological fracture will be recruited
      to a trial of surgery alone vs. surgery with post-operative radiation. The primary endpoint
      is a second surgery to the same site within 12 months. Secondary outcomes include quality of
      life, pain and functional outcome markers, radiation or re-irradiation as applicable, a
      second surgery within 24 months for those patients alive, overall survival and cost
      effectiveness.
    
  