
    
      Adhesive capsulitis, also known as frozen shoulder, is a common condition of the shoulder
      joint affecting 2-5% of the adult population and characterized by progressive, painful loss
      of both passive and active range of motion of shoulder [1,2]. Individuals affected by this
      condition find it increasingly difficult to perform activities of daily living that require
      overhead movement or rotation of the affected shoulder. The natural history of frozen
      shoulder follows a predictable progression of symptoms, lasting from 9-24 months before
      complete resolution, and results in significant loss of productivity and quality of life for
      those affected [3]. Despite the significant number of patients affected by adhesive
      capsulitis and the extensive literature focused on the progression and natural history of the
      condition, the true underlying etiology remains poorly understood. In light of this poor
      understanding of the condition, it is not surprising that a number of conservative and
      invasive modalities exist as accepted treatments. These include non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), oral steroids, intra-articular steroid injections, Physical
      Therapy (PT), and benign neglect as well as more invasive treatments such as hydroxylation,
      manipulation under anesthesia, and arthroscopic capsular release [2]. These treatments have
      all be shown to have short-term benefit in pain relief, but none have proven to be superior
      nor alter the long-term natural history of adhesive capsulitis.

      Over the past decade, however, there has been a growing body of literature suggesting that
      Propionibacterium acnes infection may play a significant role in a variety of pathological
      conditions affecting the native shoulder, most notably frozen shoulder [4,5]. Our goal is to
      employ a treatment strategy focused on eradicating P acnes infection as a conservative
      treatment of adhesive capsulitis. Through this project, we aim to complete a prospective
      randomized pilot study to examine the hypothesis that administration of intra-articular
      antibiotics effective against P acnes will prove to be a superior treatment of adhesive
      capsulitis as compared to current gold standard of intraarticular steroid injection.
    
  