
    
      Heart disease is the second leading cause of death in Taiwan. Coronary artery disease (CAD)
      is the majority, and coronary artery disease is the most common cardiovascular disease. There
      is an increase, and it is no longer just that the elderly is the predominant group. There is
      a tendency to gradually become younger. In foreign countries, coronary heart disease is also
      one of the main causes of patient death and disability, resulting in huge medical burdens and
      costs. Coronary heart disease also includes acute myocardial infarction, which causes
      myocardial cell death due to unstable myocardial ischemia. Sudden heart disease brings
      unexpected shock, fear, and despair to patients and their families. Therefore, patient
      self-management is very important. It also improves the patient's quality of life.

      Post-acute myocardial infarction patients are susceptible to piecemeal information and lack
      the motivation to change their life style, continue to maintain smoking behavior and do not
      engage in exercise, leading to the recurrence of major coronary artery problems. In order to
      reduce secondary cardiovascular problems, it is necessary to rely on the patient's own
      knowledge of the disease, self-care behavior and self-efficacy, including diet, exercise,
      etc., so that the disease can be controlled and treated, and also need to monitor and adjust
      the physical and mental state to reduce subsequent problems caused by anxiety. Therefore, in
      order to provide multi-party support for patients' self-health care, mobile health care such
      as mobile phone text messages, applications, and remote monitoring are gradually emerging.
      Therefore, it is expected that the use of mHealth can be used to develop two-way
      communication and interaction and a higher message reception rate to stimulate acuteness.
      After myocardial infarction, patients can change their motivations for self-health care
      behaviors to achieve more efficient disease perception, self-efficacy, anxiety and
      cardiopulmonary fitness, and have a longer-term influence ability.
    
  