
    
      One of the most common and serious complications in cardiovascular surgery is sternal wound
      infection. According to many authors, the incidence of infectious complications after
      sternotomy ranges from 0.4% to 15% . Superficial infection of the anterior chest wall after
      median sternotomy occurs in 0.4-15% . Typically, this complication is detected within the
      first two weeks (on average, about seven days). The most formidable wound infectious
      complication is mediastinitis. According to various authors, the incidence of mediastinitis
      varies from 1 to 3%. Mortality in this group of patients reaches 39% . Until now, the only
      effective and generally accepted method for treating patients with mediastinitis has been
      antibiotic therapy in combination with surgical intervention. The options for antibiotic
      therapy remain generally accepted and their effectiveness is not discussed, however, there
      are many options for various types of surgical treatment. Their main principle is to perform
      resternotomy, necrosectomy, followed by reosteosynthesis of the sternum and the installation
      of permanent irrigation and aspiration, flow-through drainage. Despite this, the mortality
      rate in this pathology remains invariably high. In this regard, issues related to the
      development of new medical technologies, methods for prevention and treatment of infectious
      wound complications do not lose their relevance at the present time.

      During the study, it is supposed to use an original method developed for the prevention, as
      well as for the treatment of wound infectious complications.

      The advantage of the investigator's proposed original method of treating mediastinitis is in
      the combined effect of thermal (air-plasma flow) and biochemical (effect of NO on wound
      surfaces) by stimulating the processes of regeneration and repair.

      Also, for obvious reasons, resistance cannot arise to it, which is relevant in the context of
      the widespread transmission of nosocomial infections, especially in large hospitals, such as
      modern cardiology dispensaries.

      As a result of the work, the cases of infectious wound complications in the early
      postoperative period, the total number of bed-days spent, the time spent in the ICU, the
      duration of mechanical ventilation, laboratory parameters: red blood cell count, coagulation
      system, markers of infection and inflammation, state of sepsis, determination of how fast the
      bone tissue reparation is, CT scan of the chest, sternum, examination of the bacterial flora
      and bacterial contamination of the postoperative wound will be assessed.
    
  