
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the how the brain responds to external stimulation.
      Patients with chronic pain can benefit from physical therapy treatments, such as
      manipulation, soft tissue massage, and exercise. This study is made up of three different
      phases.

      In the first phase to objective is to identify if there is a typical resting brain wave
      activity (measured with EEG) in asymptomatic subjects. In the second phase of the project the
      subjects will undergo physical therapy interventions and the brain wave response will be
      measured. The interventions are chosen based on the fact that they have been demonstrated in
      the literature to decrease pain.

      Joint manipulation is a manual therapy intervention used with patients that experience pain
      and decreased range of motion. When undergoing a manipulation, audible sounds often occurring
      with the manipulation and sometimes this does not occur. In the current literature there is a
      difference between the effects of spinal manipulation and manipulation of the joints in the
      extremities. For that reason, this study will evaluate the response in both. It is not clear
      in the current literature if the audible sound has a true therapeutic effect. It is possible
      that patient perception of this sound will create a specific brainwave response pattern. This
      might support the clinician's pursuit of the audible sound.

      Exercise has been shown to decrease pain, stiffness and increase ROM. Overall exercise
      contributes to wellbeing. There are different types of exercise such as strength exercise,
      aerobic exercise (aiming at increasing your heart rate) and body/ mind exercises (Yoga). In
      this phase of the study brainwave response on each of these types of exercises will be
      evaluated.

      Soft tissue massage is a modality that has been shown to increase blood flow and decrease
      pain. This change in pain perception should lead to an altered brain wave activity.

      As part of the phase the brain wave response on joint manipulation, exercise, and soft tissue
      massage on asymptomatic subjects will be measured and compared to each other. The hypothesis
      is that there will be a predictable pattern of brain response in each intervention.

      The third phase of this study is to repeat the measures and intervention in subjects that
      experience pain. The hypothesis is that there is an altered brainwave response compared to
      the asymptomatic group. Additionally, in this phase the investigators will measure the
      brainwave response of FGCU college athletes who sprained their ankle within three days of the
      injury.
    
  