
    
      II. Background and Significance

      MRI scans can be difficult for children due to the confined space inside the MRI scanner, the
      loud noises that MRI scanners produce, and the amount of time that it takes to complete the
      scan. These factors can lead to a significant amount of distress and anxiety, both for the
      child undergoing the MRI scan and his or her family. Several techniques have been developed
      to reduce distress and anxiety in children undergoing MRI scans. Child Life Specialists have
      been proven to help reduce anxiety in children and better prepare them for MRI scans. Having
      a Child Life Specialist integrated into the multidisciplinary team treating a pediatric
      patient ensures that the child's emotional needs are being met as much as his or her physical
      needs.

      Evaluation and intervention from a Child Life Specialist reduce anxiety and allows for
      children and families to be better prepared for their MRI, reducing distress of the child
      undergoing MRI, and reducing the need for anesthesia. Child life specialists are also able to
      utilize medical play using mock scanners and coach children in breathing exercises, such as
      blowing bubbles or pinwheels to help children comply with holding their breath during MRI
      scans, resulting in clearer images. Child Life specialists play a crucial role in effective
      communication with families and the rest of the medical team during and after examination.

      III. Preliminary Studies/Progress Report

      Another technique that has reduced distress in children during MRI is MRI compatible video
      goggles, which allow children to watch videos during the MRI scan. Giving children something
      to focus on while inside the MRI machine helps them to stay still and feel less anxious while
      still remaining awake. VR is a promising technology that has been used to reduce anxiety and
      serve as a pain distraction during intravenous placement required for MRI and CT scans as
      well as with children with sickle cell disease managing vaso-occlusive pain episodes. The
      inherent immersive and interactive properties of VR games make them effective for pain relief
      and distraction and also lends VR to countless potential applications in pediatric
      healthcare. KindVR is an independent VR firm that develops VR software specifically for the
      use of pediatric patients in a hospital setting. This software has been developed to minimize
      significant motion, mitigating risk of motion sickness or nausea, and providing targeted,
      age-appropriate content. There is not yet any published evidence that VR can be used to
      successfully prepare children for MRI scans, but there is strong evidence that this
      technology, especially paired with software specifically designed for use with pediatric
      patients in a hospital setting can impact important outcomes.
    
  