
    
      Currently, over 80% of the population is expected to die of chronic life-limiting illnesses,
      predominant among which are the various manifestations of cardiovascular disease, cancer,
      dementia, and chronic lung disease. Patients with high cholesterol and those potentially at
      risk for atherosclerotic heart disease and stroke are often treated preventively with HMG
      Co-A reductase inhibitors (a.k.a., statins). Clinical trial evidence supports the use of
      statins for patients with hyperlipidemia and established ischemic heart disease to reduce
      risk of future cardiovascular events and mortality, and to reduce risk of future
      cardiovascular events in patients with multiple cardiac risk factors. Beneficial outcomes are
      evident in these trials after 3-6 years of treatment. Hence, statins are among the most
      prescribed medications in the world. In the United States, over 25% of Medicare beneficiaries
      take a statin medication. Statin medications are frequently continued until the patient can
      no longer eat or swallow at the end of life, because there are no evidence-based guidelines
      regarding when or how to discontinue medications for co-morbidities. The risks and costs vs.
      benefits of statins for palliative care patients, for whom prognosis is limited, remains a
      genuine clinical uncertainty. Meanwhile, medications for symptoms and other concerns
      accumulate as illness progresses, and therefore polypharmacy and compounding medication side
      effects are troublesome problems in the setting of advanced life-limiting illness. While
      multiple studies have demonstrated the benefit of long-term preventive statin use for
      patients at cardiovascular risk, other studies have supported the discontinuation of
      medications (specifically statins) in end-stage disease. A rational approach to medication
      discontinuation, specifically statin discontinuation, therefore has the potential to reduce
      patient burden, polypharmacy, and side effects, while also preserving healthcare resources
      for more beneficial interventions.

      This study is a multi-site randomized controlled trial of discontinuing vs. continuing statin
      medications in patients with advanced life-limiting illness. Eligible participants are adults
      with advanced life-limiting illness with an estimated prognosis of 1-6 months who are on
      statins for primary or secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. The primary outcome is
      survival rate at 60 days; secondary outcomes address cardiovascular events, polypharmacy,
      medication adverse effects, quality of life (QOL), and measures of the patient's
      health-related experience. The primary hypothesis is that discontinuing statins will not
      influence survival. Secondary hypotheses are that discontinuation of statins will not
      adversely affect cardiovascular events or overall QOL, but will improve statin-related
      symptoms and decrease polypharmacy.
    
  