
    
      Due to the growing interest in tracking personal health and wellness information, the use of
      wearable fitness trackers is becoming a necessary tool in providing the tracking data.
      However, the potential benefits of the tool can be fully realized only if the adoption and
      use of the tracker is sustained.

      The decision to engage in physical activity (or not) is complex, and therefore, the
      investigators attempt to engage people in a physical activity program will consider adopting
      an individualized approach to barrier management which takes into account personal beliefs
      and perceptions regarding physical activity, setting goals in addition to using an
      "engagement engine" designed specifically for this study. The primary objective of the phase
      2 of this study is to test an "engagement engine" that will support successful and sustained
      engagement with health trackers thereby increasing physical activity.

      The study will be recruiting a total of 138 participants from the general public via
      Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) research broadcast e-serve list, the study website,
      flyers and study informational tables at MGH-affiliated health clinics. Participants can
      enroll in the study by consenting remotely where the screening and consenting will take place
      online through the study website.

      After the consenting process, enrolled participants will be instructed on how to download the
      FitBit smartphone application and provide the study staff authorization to collect step data
      from their tracker. The enrollment process will involve completing a set of enrollment
      questions related to general health, barriers to physical activity, exercise regulation,
      Prochaska's stage of change, demographics and technology use via a web link on the study
      website. Next a research analyst will mail a copy of the consent form, wearable activity
      tracker (Fitbit Charge) and device instructions via traceable mail to the research
      participants. For participants who enroll from the informational tables, the research analyst
      will provide them the FitBit in person. Once confirmed that participants have received their
      device, the participant will be contacted by the Partners Connected Health (PCH) study staff
      to conduct a brief phone interview to determine a personalized goal that can be used for
      targeted, personalized messages as needed.

      Participants will be enrolled in the study for (24 weeks) and for the first week the
      engagement engine will calculate the average step count and use data from the enrollment
      questionnaire to recommend a physical activity goal. During the study, the engagement engine
      will recommend a daily physical activity goal and will assess the user's levels of engagement
      with the activity tracker. At week 12, participants will be sent a midpoint questionnaire and
      at week 24 the closeout questionnaire will be sent to the participant.

      The investigators do not foresee any significant risks for study participants and
      participants may not directly benefit from this the study. It is hoped that data collected
      from this study will allow the investigators to assess the engagement engine that could
      potentially be used to help individuals remain engaged with their physical activity tracker
      thereby sustaining regular physical activity.

      The risk for potential inadvertent release of Protected Health Information is taken very
      seriously. Investigators have taken several steps to minimize this risk as much as possible.
      Data collected on paper will be stored in a locked cabinet at PCH, accessible only to
      research staff. For the purposes of this study, participants will be asked to authorize the
      PCH database to access and store activity data from the activity tracker server. This is done
      using a secure, OAUTH procedure in which participants will be asked to enter their account
      username and password. The OAUTH process does not store this information on the PCH/study
      website, making this a secure and confidential method for participants to enable the PCH
      study staff to have access to their activity data.

      Activity data retrieved from the FitBit app will be stored on password protected server
      maintained by PCH Information Systems. At the conclusion of the study participants can change
      their account user settings on the study website and revoke PCH study database access to
      their account and data. Participants will be instructed on this process at the close-out of
      the study.
    
  