
    
      Clopidogrel is a potent anti-platelet agent that, when combines with aspirin, is essential in
      treating acute myocardial infarction and preventing coronary stent thrombosis. However,
      adding clopidogrel to aspirin has been shown to substantially increase the risk of
      gastrointestinal bleeding by 70%. This increased bleeding risk is a particular concern for
      patients requiring colonoscopy. The latter is a gold standard for screening colorectal
      cancer. This endoscopic procedure is increasingly performed for patients on anti-platelet
      drugs because coronary artery disease is associated with increased risk of colorectal
      neoplasia. We have shown that over 30% of patients with coronary artery disease have
      colorectal neoplasia.

      Management of patients on clopidogrel who undergo colonoscopy is a clinical dilemma.
      Continuation of clopidogrel may increase the risk of bleeding associated with endoscopic
      resection of polyps (post-polypectomy bleeding). This is a potentially serious complication
      because post-polypectomy bleeding is often delayed, difficult to locate, and may provoke
      acute coronary syndrome. Conversely, prolonged discontinuation of clopidogrel increases the
      risk of recurrent myocardial infarction and coronary stent thrombosis.

      There is a lack of prospective data on the risk of post-polypectomy bleeding attributable to
      clopidogrel. Current American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and British Society of
      Gastroenterology Guidelines recommend withholding clopidogrel for 7 to 10 days in planned
      high risk endoscopic procedures such as colonoscopic polypectomy. However, this guideline is
      largely based on retrospective data and expert opinion. In fact, the anti-platelet effect of
      clopidogrel lasts for about 5 days only. Coronary stent thrombosis has been reported as early
      as 7 days after stopping clopidogrel. There remains a large gap in our knowledge on the risk
      of bleeding in patients taking clopidogrel who undergo gastrointestinal endoscopic
      procedures.

      No randomized trials have assessed whether clopidogrel should be discontinued before
      colonoscopy. This randomized trial aims to assess whether uninterrupted clopidogrel therapy
      during colonoscopy will increase the risk of post-polypectomy bleeding. Irrespective of the
      outcome, this trial will be the first to provide controlled data on the risk of
      post-polypectomy bleeding with uninterrupted clopidogrel during colonoscopy. Unfortunately,
      this important clinical question is not a priority of pharmaceutical companies because
      clopidogrel will be off patent soon. The outcome of this industry-independent clinical trial
      may encourage health authorities and international guideline committees to review their
      recommendations on the management of anti-platelet therapy for high-risk endoscopic
      procedures.

      Hypothesis Uninterrupted clopidogrel therapy increases the risk of post-polypectomy bleeding
      in patients undergoing elective colonoscopy

      Aim To investigate whether uninterrupted clopidogrel therapy before elective colonoscopy will
      increase the risk of post-polypectomy bleeding

      Study Design This is a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial in which patients receiving
      clopidogrel for coronary stents who require elective colonoscopy will be randomized to either
      clopidogrel or its placebo for one week prior to the endoscopic procedure

      Colonoscopic Procedures Experienced colonoscopists will perform colonoscopy under conscious
      sedation with midazolam and pethidine. Bowel preparation consists of polyethylene glycol
      taken orally the evening and the morning before procedure together with a minimum of 2 liters
      of clear fluids. The adequacy of bowel preparation will be documented (poor, fair, good, or
      excellent). Colonoscopists will be instructed to remove all polyps during the colonoscopic
      examination. The location and morphologic feature of each polyp will be recorded. The size is
      measured using an open biopsy forceps (6 mm apart). Each lesion will be fixed in formalin and
      sent to the pathologist for histologic evaluation. No prophylactic clips or detachable loops
      will be applied if immediate bleeding is not observed after polypectomy. Intervention for
      immediate post-polypectomy bleeding including injection therapy alone or in combination with
      endoclip application, if any, will be recorded.

      Follow-up assessment All patients will resume their usual prescriptions of clopidogrel after
      colonoscopy when oral intake is allowed. They will be monitored hourly for hemodynamic
      instability and any delayed post-polypectomy bleeding for 24 hours. After discharge, a
      designated research nurse will contact the patients by telephone on Day 2 and Day 7 for
      symptoms of bleeding. On Day 30, they will return for a full blood count and symptoms of
      delayed post-polypectomy bleeding. Emergency visits and hospital discharge summaries will be
      scanned for up to 6 months after colonoscopy for recurrent cardiothrombotic events. A 24-hour
      hotline will be provided for patients to report any adverse or serious events.
    
  