
    
      This is a proof of concept study that will evaluate the feasibility of a vapor nanobubble
      technology (MalariSense) for malaria diagnostics. The primary objective is to determine the
      sensitivity of MalariSense against microscopy in diagnosing malaria in malaria suspected
      cases attending a health facility in The Gambia. The secondary objectives include the
      following;

        1. To determine the sensitivity of MalariSense against PCR in diagnosing malaria in malaria
           suspected cases attending a health facility in The Gambia

        2. To determine the specificity of MalariSense in diagnosing malaria in malaria suspected
           cases attending a health facility in The Gambia.

        3. To identify factors influencing the diagnostic accuracy of MalariSense

        4. To validate the protocol for a blood vessel identification for the test and assess the
           safety of the prototype The study site will be Basse in the Eastern region of The
           Gambia. The study will be conducted during the malaria transmission season (August to
           December 2015). Participants will be patients with suspected uncomplicated malaria
           presenting to the outpatient department of Basse Health centre. At baseline, suspected
           malaria cases (clinical assessment) will be asked to provide informed consent and then
           transferred to the MRC Basse field station where a finger prick blood sample will be
           collected for a malaria rapid diagnostic test (RDT), microscopy and on filter paper for
           subsequent molecular studies. In addition, they will be tested using the Malarisense
           Technology. Measurements will be taken from the wrist, ear lobe and finger tips. The
           laboratory prototype of the device will include three major components: pulsed laser
           with the fiber output, integrated handheld probe with the fiber launch in the center and
           an ultrasound sensor with pre-amplifier, and the signal acquisition hardware with
           software.

      The study will enrol a total sample size of 50 patients with confirmed malaria. It is
      estimated that about 125 to 167 suspected cases will need to be screened/tested to get this
      sample size. The Sample size will be increased by 10% to allow for any missing values -
      therefore up to 185 suspected cases screened. In addition, a convenience sample of 30 malaria
      negative participants will be enrolled for comparisons between malaria positive and malaria
      negative populations. RDT positive patients will be provided with antimalarial treatment
      while the others will receive treatment according to their condition. Microscopy and
      species-specific PCR will be performed later. Microscopy results will be taken as the gold
      standard.

      There will not be any active follow up. Study participants will be asked to come back 2 days
      after the test, or earlier if they notice a problem.
    
  