
    
      Idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis（IRPF） is a rare fibro-inflammatory disease that develops
      around the abdominal aorta and the iliac arteries, and spreads into the adjacent
      retroperitoneum, where it frequently causes ureteral obstruction and renal failure. The
      clinical phenotype of RPF is complex, because it can be associated with fibro-inflammatory
      disorders involving other organs, and often arises in patients with other autoimmune
      conditions.

      This prospective cohort aims to study presentations of IRPF with laboratory findings and
      imagings throughout the disease course. Newly diagnosed IRPF patients will be recruited from
      all over the China.

      Inclusion criteria: patients with definite, possible IRPF will be recruited.Definite IRPF
      must have the following characteristics: (1) The typical finding of Imaging shows
      retroperitoneal mass, surrounding the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries, with encasement of
      ureters and/or organ dysfunction; (2) Exclusion of disease progression after standard
      glucocorticoid treatment; and (3) histopathological findings shows a ﬁbrous tissue with signs
      of chronic inﬂammation. The inﬂammatory component is comprised of lymphocytes, plasma cells
      and macrophages. Neutrophils and granulomas are rare ﬁndings. Possible IRPF required (1) and
      (2), but without histopathological examination.

      Exclusion criteria: patients with malignancy or other autoimmune diseases are excluded.
      Secondary forms of RPF related to drugs, infections, malignancies, Erdheim-Chester disease
      and IgG4-RD, need to be excluded.

      The data will be uploaded through the platform of Chinese Rheumatology Information Platform.
      Demographic data, initial symptoms, disease duration, and physical examination, organ
      involvements, laboratory findings, radiological and pathological results, as well as
      treatment, side effects will be recorded.

      This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of PUMCH (Beijing, China). All
      patients will sign informed consent.

      Statistical Analysis: All parameters are described in the standard summary statistics,
      including mean, standard deviation, minimum, and maximum. All statistical analyses will be
      performed by SPSS.

      Endpoints: The primary endpoint is to investigate the organ involvements of Chinese IRPF
      patients. The secondary endpoints including the demographic features,laboratory
      characteristics, immunological tests, imaging and pathological features, in addition, the
      treatment and prognosis of the disease.
    
  