
    
      A multicentre randomized controlled trial with a Sample size of 130 subjects.

      Primary Outcome is fracture healing at 3 months via x-ray and and clinical assessment.

      Radiographic healing will be defined as bridging of two or more cortices as seen on x-ray.
      Radiographic assessment will be centrally adjudicated by a committee of three study
      investigators.

      Clinical healing will be assessed using the Function Index for Trauma (FIX-IT). (Bhandari et
      al, data in press)

      Secondary outcome measurements will include patient-reported quality of life and CT
      quantification of fracture callus volume.

      Quality of life will be measured with the Short-Form 36 Version 2 (SF-36) instrument at all
      follow-up intervals.

      A CT scan of the fracture site will be performed at the 3 month follow-up. Using a
      quantitative protocol the volume of callus will be measured and the extent of cortical
      bridging will be assessed.

      Additional secondary outcomes include radiographic and patient-important complications. These
      will include adverse events, delayed union (>6 months), non union (failure for fracture
      healing to progress on serial x-rays between 6 and 9 months), malalignment (>5 degrees),
      hardware failure, infection, and reoperation. Information surrounding the type of
      complication, duration, management and/or treatment of all complications will be recorded

      A Data Safety Monitoring Board will be established to independently monitor trial data.

      Specific inclusion criteria:

        -  Men or women ages 18 years or older

        -  Displaced distal femur fracture (OTA 33A or 33C) as seen in radiographs

        -  Planned treatment using a distal femur locking plate

        -  Ability to read and speak English or availability of translator willing to assist with
           completion of study forms

        -  Fractures < 14 days post injury

        -  Provision of informed consent

      Specific exclusion criteria:

        -  Open distal femur fracture requiring flap or vascular repair (grade 3b or 3c)

        -  Planned fixation strategy includes interfragmentary lag fixation of non-articular
           fractures

        -  Active local infection

        -  Limited life expectancy due to significant medical co-morbidity or medical
           contraindication to surgery

        -  Inability to comply with rehabilitation or form completion

        -  Likely problems, in the judgment of the investigators, with maintaining follow-up (i.e.
           patients with no fixed address, patients not mentally competent to give consent, etc.)

        -  Non-ambulatory patients

        -  Lack of bone substance or poor bone quality which, in the surgeon's judgment, makes
           locked plate fixation impossible

        -  Periprosthetic fractures

        -  Any concomitant lower-extremity injury that requires non-weight-bearing beyond 6 weeks
           post-operative

        -  Addition of bone graft, bone graft substitute or BMP

        -  Pregnant women
    
  