
    
      This study is a pilot trial that will take place in a multi-center where participants will be
      randomly allocated to one of two groups (control and test group). Each participant in test
      group will attend 7 visits (screening, baseline, periodontal treatment visit (Visit 3a and
      3b), 2-month follow-up, second periodontal treatment and 6-months Follow-up visit). In the
      control group each participant will attend 6 visits (Screening, baseline, periodontal
      treatment visit, 2-months follow-up visit, second periodontal treatment visit and 6-months
      follow-up). The study will recruit 15 participants per group (30 participants total).
      Potential participants will be provided with an information sheet (if interested) will attend
      a screening visit to confirm eligibility for inclusion in the study. Written informed consent
      will be obtained and the baseline visit will be scheduled. Following enrollment, the study
      will require attendance at 6 visits for the control and 7 visits (visit 3a and 3b) for test
      groups. Participant would be asked at screening and blood would be collected on the same day
      of the Baseline Visit and Flow mediated dilatation (FMD) will also take place at the baseline
      visit. Below is a summary of measures and procedures that will take place at each visit:

      Visit 1 Screening Visit - Day 0 (30 minutes): Potential participants will have the
      opportunity to ask questions to the study staff. If they wish to take part, participants will
      be asked to sign three copies of the consent form. One copy will be kept by the research
      centre and the other copy, along with a copy of the information sheet, will be given to them
      and the third copy of the consent form will be kept in the medical records. Investigator will
      ask some questions about their medical history and examine their mouth to confirm eligibility
      for participation in this study. Any changes in their health history will be noted in each
      visit. Height, weight, and blood pressure will be measured. In visit 2 there will be a sample
      of their blood and saliva/plaque and will be collected in three of the visits OPG and OCT
      will be done in the 2nd visit. Following this, a score of the amount of plaque on their teeth
      and some measurements of their gum health will be recorded. Visit 3 (a and b) will be
      assigned only for the test group in which they will be provided with the Intensive
      periodontal treatment (IPT). Control group will also undergo through (Control periodontal
      treatment/CPT) in their visit 3. Visit 4 will be a two-month follow-up for the test and the
      control group in which they will undergo from periodontal assessment, flow mediated
      dilatation, collection of blood samples and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Visit 5 is
      for the control and test group in which they will undergo the second periodontal treatment
      (IPT and CPT). 6-months follow up will consist of Flow mediated dilatation, periodontal
      assessment collection of blood samples and Optical coherence tomography (OCT) for both the
      groups. Study completion will take place after 6 months of the trial.
    
  