
    
      Despite research establishing the relationship between sleep disturbances and alcohol use,
      there is no clear understanding or model for what occurs once individuals who seek inpatient
      alcoholism treatment are discharged from rehabilitation facilities and attempt to integrate
      back into their homes and communities. The purpose of this investigation will be to
      characterize sleep patterns, perceptions, and beliefs throughout the process of alcohol
      rehabilitation. The misuse of alcohol is a global public health concern that compromises both
      individual and societal wellbeing, resulting in an estimated 2.5 million deaths annually. The
      National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) distinguishes alcoholism by
      craving, loss of control, physical dependence, and tolerance (NIAAA, Alcohol Use Disorders).
      The relationship between alcohol use and sleep disturbances is complex and bidirectional, but
      sleep disturbances are common among alcoholics during phases of drinking, withdrawal, and
      abstinence. Outcome expectancies, behavioral capability, and self-efficacy beliefs are
      central constructs in the Social Cognitive Theory and will be measured directly in this study
      using both quantitative and qualitative methods. A mixed methods approach will be used to
      study the following aims: a) to assess individuals' perceptions of and experiences with sleep
      during alcohol rehabilitation, b) to describe sleep patterns, perceptions, and beliefs among
      alcohol-dependent individuals throughout the transition from a clinical research facility
      providing rehabilitation treatment back to the community, c) to assess whether sleep-related
      beliefs and/or behavior of individuals are predictive of sleep quality or relapse to
      drinking, and d) to assess whether sleep quality predicts relapse. Adult research
      participants admitted to the inpatient behavioral health unit and enrolled on to the NIAAA
      intramural study NCT 0010693: Assessment and Treatment of People with Alcohol Drinking
      Problems will be recruited for participation in this study (n=215). Sleep quality and
      duration will be quantitatively assessed approximately one week prior to discharge from the
      inpatient facility and again 4-6 weeks post-discharge. A sub-set of participants will be
      asked to wear actiwatches (accelerometers) to provide objective data on sleep throughout the
      transition from inpatient to outpatient. In addition to quantitative measures, qualitative
      semi-structured interviews will be conducted with a subset of 25 participants (to reach 25
      completed cases) within a week of the scheduled discharge date and again four to six weeks
      post-discharge to assess perceptions of sleep during recovery. The proposed study will fill a
      gap in the literature by characterizing sleep throughout the rehabilitation process and
      ongoing maintenance of abstinence.
    
  