
    
      ALS, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, is a rapidly progressive, degenerative disease of
      motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord that leads to muscle atrophy and spasticity in
      limb and bulbar muscles. Clinical presentations of this fatal disease include weakness, loss
      of ambulation, oropharyngeal dysfunction, weight loss, and ultimately respiratory failure.
      Average survival is approximately 3 years after symptom onset. The initial symptoms are
      similar to other neuropathies (e.g., motor neuropathy, progressive muscle atrophy, etc.) and
      include limb weakness leading to partial or total paralysis, and increasing difficulties in
      speech and breathing. ALS clinical diagnosis typically takes 12 months from symptom onset and
      relies on exclusion of other potential causes of the clinical symptoms. To date there are no
      FDA-approved diagnostic tests for ALS. Diagnostic tools for accurate and early diagnosis are
      under investigation. These tools would not only permit early intervention, but also would
      improve clinical trial design for new drug therapies.

      Axonal degeneration and inflammation are among proposed pathogenic mechanisms for ALS;
      therefore, proteins that function within these pathways are being evaluated as potential
      biomarkers. Iron Horse Diagnostics, Inc. (Iron Horse) has focused its ALS diagnostic efforts
      on studying the levels of cytoskeletal and inflammatory proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) of ALS patients.

      Cytoskeletal proteins, including neurofilament proteins and tau, have been shown to be
      elevated in the CSF of patients with various neurodegenerative diseases. Interestingly,
      levels of phosphorylated neurofilament heavy subunit (pNfH) have been found to be
      significantly increased in the CSF of ALS patients as compared with healthy subjects,
      Alzheimer's disease patients or disease mimics Numerous inflammatory proteins, including
      cytokines and complement proteins, have been shown to be altered in ALS; complement proteins,
      including complement c3 (C3), have been found to be increased in the CSF of ALS patients.

      Iron Horse has evaluated CSF samples from 106 subjects (45 ALS patients, 25 disease controls
      with a range of neurodegenerative conditions, and 36 healthy controls.CSF levels of pNfH,
      tau, C3, and C reactive protein (CRP) were measured. pNfH was significantly elevated in CSF
      from ALS subjects as compared with healthy and disease controls; there were no significant
      differences for CRP or tau. To further distinguish between ALS subjects and disease controls,
      data from cytoskeletal and inflammatory pathways were combined. A ratio of CSF levels of pNfH
      and C3 showed significant differences between ALS and both the disease and healthy control
      groups. Results were verified on a separate test set of CSF samples. Overall, the predictive
      pNfH/C3 ratio identified ALS with 87.3 % sensitivity and 94.6% specificity in a total of 71
      ALS subjects, 52 disease control subjects, and 40 healthy subjects.

      In the same study, it was observed that plasma levels of pNfH were significantly elevated in
      ALS subjects as compared with healthy controls; however there was no significant difference
      between ALS and disease controls. Comparison of pNfH levels between the CSF and plasma for
      each study subject revealed a weak correlation between plasma and CSF pNfH levels.

      The accuracy of pNfH and pNfH/C3 ratio as ALS predictors has also been tested by Iron Horse
      in a recent prospective, blinded study in collaboration with the Northeast ALS Consortium
      (NEALS) [unpublished data]. CSF (n=126) and plasma (n=220) samples were collected from
      subjects from 30 medical centers across the United States (US) who were undergoing diagnostic
      assessment for neurodegenerative conditions or who were recently diagnosed with ALS. Accuracy
      for predicting ALS diagnosis was 93% for CSF pNfH/C3 ratio and 82% for pNfH plasma levels.

      The prospective study proposed in this concept will test the sensitivity, specificity, and
      overall accuracy of pNfH and pNfH/C3 ratio as ALS predictors on a separate sample set. CSF
      and matching plasma samples will be collected at up to 6 neurodegenerative clinics from up to
      300 subjects who were recently diagnosed with ALS or another similar neurologic disease or
      who are currently undergoing diagnostic procedures.
    
  