
    
      Xerostomia, or dry mouth, is a common complication in patients treated with radiotherapy for
      cancer of the head and neck, having been cited as occurring to some degree in 60- 100% of
      patients. Radiation, either alone or in addition to surgery, is a mainstay in the treatment
      of head and neck cancer. The incidence and degree of xerostomia as a side-effect is
      proportional to both the dosage of radiation used, and the amount of salivary gland tissue
      included in the radiation field. The downstream effects of xerostomia are wide-ranging, and
      can include difficulty chewing, swallowing, impaired phonation, altered taste sensation,
      dental carries, oropharyngeal candidiasis, systemic malnutrition and weight loss. Several
      studies have demonstrated a significant negative impact of xerostomia on patient quality of
      life. With cancer of the head and neck being the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer
      worldwide, the burden of xerostomia on both the healthcare system and patient quality of life
      should not be underestimated.

      There is no single effective treatment for radiation-induced xerostomia. Current treatments
      are non-specific, and directed at alleviating symptoms. These include lifestyle modifications
      (such as discontinuation of smoking, dairy, and other dietary products that thicken saliva),
      artificial saliva preparations, and parasympathetic agents such as pilocarpine which
      stimulate saliva production. Artificial saliva preparations such as Biotene© oral lubricant
      are commonly used today. However many of these treatments have limited efficacy, are costly,
      and the use of pilocarpine in particular is associated with significant side-effects. Other
      therapies which have been studied but not definitively proven effective include acupuncture
      and hyperbaric oxygen. Submandibular gland transfer, first described in 2000 and subsequently
      demonstrated in 2001, has also been shown to be effective in preventing xerostomia, however
      is a highly specialized procedure which prolongs the length of surgery, with benefit in only
      a limited patient population. Of these potential treatments, certainly Biotene© is the most
      common method of alleviating xerostomia. Preliminary evidence in the form of a phase II study
      has demonstrated the efficacy of Biotene© in alleviating symptoms of xerostomia in patients
      who have undergone radiation for head and neck cancer. The use of Biotene© is common practice
      at our tertiary care hospital, The Ottawa Hospital (TOH) although it is not agreed upon as
      THE standard of care.

      Coconut oil, defined by Health Canada as a natural health / food product, has been
      anecdotally suggested to ameliorate the symptoms of xerostomia following radiation treatment
      for head and neck cancer. This anecdotal evidence has been derived from discussion with both
      patients and healthcare providers at The Ottawa Hospital. Both patients and allied health
      care providers involved in the care of patients following radiation treatment for head and
      neck cancer have attested to the beneficial effects of coconut oil. However, the effects of
      coconut oil in the management of radiation-induced xerostomia in patients previously treated
      for cancer of the head and neck have not been formally studied.
    
  