
    
      Study protocol: Safety and efficacy of fixed-low-dose amikacin for urinary tract infection on
      the elderly patient.

      Aminoglycosides are broad-spectrum, bactericidal antibiotics, effective against gram-negative
      bacteria. Of this group, gentamicin and amikacin are frequently used in our center (Rabin
      Medical Center, Beilinson campus). Amikacin, a semi-synthetic aminoglycoside, is highly
      effective against extended spectrum beta lactamase (ESBL) bacteria, and is the most effective
      against aminoglycoside modifying enzymes resistance.

      Aminoglycosides are water soluble and mainly eliminated through the kidney. Their urine
      concentration exceeds that of the plasma up to a hundred. Aminoglycosides have a narrow
      therapeutic range, and the correlation between administrated dose and blood drug levels is
      hard to predict. Aminoglycosides' efficacy is dependent on their level above minimal
      inhibitory concentration (MIC). Common clinical practice regarding amikacin today is to
      administer a weight adjusted first dose, later measuring the blood drug level and adjusting
      following doses according to a nomogram (such as the Barnes Jewish Hospital nomogram). The
      evidence base behind the usage of the nomogram is lacking at best.

      Our main concern with aminoglycosides is nephrotoxicity; amikacin was found to be less
      nephrotoxic than gentamycin. The nephrotoxic effect is dependent on the cumulative dose, and
      is documented mainly in association with high doses and long treatment courses.

      On the one hand, elderly patients suffer from more urinary tract infection (UTIs), and have a
      higher frequency of infection with resistant bacteria. This latter problem is on the rise
      especially among frail and elderly nursing home residents. On the other hand, elderly
      patients are more prone to nephrotoxicity from aminoglycosides, due to the age-related
      decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR), polypharmacy and comorbidities. There is a true
      and vast lack of clinical trials regarding amikacin use in elderly patients, especially those
      aged 75 years or older.

      Our goal is to prove that fixed low dose amikacin in the elderly patient in non-inferior to
      weight-adjusted treatment.

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of fixed dose, 500 mg of amikacin, in the elderly
      will cause less nephrotoxicity and less dose-adjusting, with no more clinical failures.

      Study participants will be 65 years or older, who were admitted to the medical ward due to a
      UTI.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, open label, non-inferiority trial, in which consenting patients will
      be randomly assigned to one of the following study arms:

        1. Intervention arm: in which patients will receive a fixed, single daily dose of amikacin,
           500 mg, a day.

        2. Comparator arm: in which patients will receive a weight adjusted loading dose of
           amikacin (15 mg/kg adjusted body weight) and continue in adjusted intervals according to
           the Barnes Jewish Hospital nomogram.

      All participants will be followed up with:

        1. Amikacin blood levels 6-14 hours following first administration after recruitment, used
           for dose adjustment according to the nomogram. Peak amikacin blood levels, 30- 60
           minutes following first or second administration.

        2. Urine analysis and urine culture upon admission to the emergency department (ER) (prior
           to recruitment). In patients with indwelling urinary catheters, cultures will be taken
           following replacement with a new catheter.

        3. Broad serum biochemistry, complete blood count, C-reactive protein and blood cultures
           will be taken upon admission to the ER, two days after recruitment and at least once
           every three days following that, as long as the patient is receiving amikacin.

      If in the intervention arm, serum amikacin levels will be found to be higher than that
      recommended for single daily dose (meaning toxic levels), the dosing intervals will also be
      adjusted according to the Barnes Jewish Hospital nomogram.

      Duration of amikacin treatment will be according to the attending physician's clinical
      judgment; however, it will not be shorter than 72 hours since first dose. Total duration of
      amikacin treatment will not exceed 10 days. Total treatment for UTI will not fall short of
      seven days of antibiotics (either amikacin or any suitable alterative according to blood
      and/or urine cultures).

      In both study arms, dosage or time interval adjustments and antibiotic type changes will be
      done only in the presence of lacking clinical improvement or according to blood and/or urine
      cultures.

      No. of patients to be recruited: 200. Ages: 65 years or older. Sex: male or female.
    
  