
    
      Study duration :

      Total study duration: 37 months Duration of recruitment: 24 months Duration of participation
      for each patient: 13 months

      Inclusion criteria:

      Retrospective study: Patient who underwent HSCT, in Saint-Antoine hospital, between
      2010-2015, treated by rituximab for high level EBV-DNAemia (above 3.3 log copies/mL).

      Prospective study: Patients who underwent HSCT, in Saint-Antoine hospital and la
      Pitié-Salpêtrière, in 2016-2017, treated by rituximab for high level EBV-DNAemia (above 10
      000c/mL), And/or having post-transplant lymphoproliferative diseases(PTLD) Concerned
      population Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) patients with a
      high Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) viral load

      Study endpoints:

      Primary endpoint (linked to the primary objective) Respective percentages of latent versus
      replicative EBV profiles, defined by the methylation level of specific sites of EBV genome,
      in a cohort of HSCT patients with a high EBV viral load (above 3.3 log copies/ml) before the
      initiation of treatment per rituximab. A methylation index will be calculated from the
      respective differences of the "Cycle thresholds" of the methyl-qPCR performed on patients
      blood samples Secondary endpoints (linked to the secondary objectives)

        1. Characteristics of the patients according to the EBV q-PCR results

        2. Patients' outcome according to the EBV profile defined by the methyl-qPCR :

             -  Response to Rituximab infusion (EBV DNA-emia < 3.3 log copies/mL) after a maximum
                of 4 infusions)

             -  Disease-free survival (DFS) at 12 months defined as survival without relapse

             -  Overall survival (OS) at 12 months

             -  Relapse incidence (RI) at 12 months

             -  Non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 12 months

             -  Number of post-HSCT infections within 12 months

      Statistical Analysis :

        1. Comparison between characteristics of latent and lytic genomes will be performed using
           parametric (Student t-test) or non-parametric (Mann Whitney test) when appropriate for
           continuous variables, Chi-Square test for qualitative variables.

           Multivariate analysis for determination of risk factors associated with "lytic EBV"
           profiles will be performed using logistic regression.

        2. Correlation between "latent versus lytic EBV" profiles" and response to rituximab
           infusion will be performed using logistic regression including in the model all other
           factors potentially associated to the response to rituximab. OS and DFS will be
           estimated by using the Kaplan-Meier method. Cumulative incidences of RI and NRM will be
           calculated from the date of inclusion to the date of relapse or death in remission,
           respectively, with the other event being the competing risk. Death or progression will
           be considered as a competing events for estimating the incidence of acute GVHD.
           Multivariate analyses for survival endpoints will be performed using the Cox
           proportional hazards model. The type I error rate is fixed at 0.05 for determination of
           factors associated with time to event outcomes. All statistical analyses will be
           performed with R software packages (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna,
           Austria)
    
  