
    
      This study aims at providing two interventions:

      In the first intervention, a brain computer interface able to non-invasively detect motor
      intention from the non-invasive measure of brain activity by using electroencephalography
      (BrainVision, V-amp) activates a robotic glove (Gloreha Sinfonia, Idrogenet Srl) that will
      assist-as-needed hand movements and paretic upper limb functional electric stimulation
      (RehaStim, Hasomed). The latter will activate upper limb muscles to perform motor
      rehabilitation exercises for the upper limb. The motor rehabilitation exercises include upper
      limb and hand mobilization and functional tasks, such as hand open/closing, wrist
      flexion/extension, and reach and grasp a cup, keep and release.

      In the second intervention, non-invasive brain stimulation (DC-Stimulator, NeuroConn) in the
      form of transcranial direct current stimulation will be provided in addition to the previous
      intervention.

      Each participant will perform a minimum of 11 rehabilitative sessions for the first
      intervention and a minimum of 11 rehabilitative sessions for the second intervention, for a
      total minimum of 22 rehabilitative sessions. If the participant recovers with the
      intervention, the relative rehabilitative session continues to be proposed until patients
      will reaches a "plateau". The intervention will switch from 1 to 2 if the participant does
      not improve anymore with the 1st intervention. If the patient does not improve anymore with
      the 2nd intervention the interventional part of the trial will be finished. The
      intervention(s) will terminate also if the participant continues to progress after 6 months
      of inclusion. As the study is especially designed for personalization of intervention for
      every patient, it is not possible to determine a priori the number of sessions for each
      participant, because they depend on the response of each participant to the intervention. The
      duration of each rehabilitative visit is about two and half hours.
    
  