
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy and nutritional impact of two drug
      treatments against intestinal helminths from a rural area of Guatemala. The helminths that
      will be analyzed in this study are Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, and hookworm.
      Because of the manifestations of these helminths infections, nutritional status can
      deteriorate in infected persons. According to the World Bank, these helminths are one of the
      top causes of childhood morbidity in many areas of the developing world (The World Bank,
      1993).

      This information will be gathered by collecting stool samples from schoolchildren, in order
      to determine the prevalence of infection in children living around Poptun, Guatemala. Height
      and weight measurements will also be taken, along with a visual exam of the skin for other
      parasitic skin infections. Children with an inadequate nutritional status are likely to be
      shorter in height and weigh less than children reared in an area with a low prevalence of
      helminths. After collecting this baseline information, we will split the children into two
      groups. One group will receive albendazole and the other group will receive
      albendazole/ivermectin. Both groups will be receiving is albendazole, the current standard of
      care treatment. Ivermectin is expected to improve efficacy and nutritional benefit as well as
      adding increased scope of treatment (Strongyloides, ectoparasites such as scabies and head
      lice). Both treatment regimens and the combination have been used millions of times in the
      developing world and are safe to use. Co-administration of drugs is thought to be a more
      efficient use of the opportunity to access schoolchildren and provide health improvements.
      Providing data to support expanded treatment options will provide public health officials
      with the data needed to make such decisions.
    
  