
    
      Physical inactivity is a main cause of childhood obesity which tracks into adulthood obesity,
      making it important to address early in life. Physical activity on prescription (PAP) is an
      evidence-based intervention developed in Sweden that has shown good effect on physical
      activity levels in adults, but has not been evaluated in children with obesity. This clinical
      study is nested in a larger research project aiming to assess the prerequisites,
      determinants, and feasibility of implementing PAP adapted to children with obesity in
      paediatric health care. Children's and parents' experiences of participating in the PAP
      intervention will also be explored.

      In a first, pre-clinical trial, phase, healthcare providers and managers from 26 paediatric
      clinics in Region Västra Götaland, Sweden, will participate in a web-based survey, and a
      subset of this sample in a focus group study. Findings from these two data collections will
      form the basis for further development and adaptation of PAP to the target group and context.

      In the project's second phase, this adapted PAP intervention will be evaluated in a clinical
      study in a sample of approximately 60 children with obesity, between 6 and 12 years of age,
      and one of their parents/legal guardians. Clinical and implementation outcomes will be
      assessed pre- and post-intervention, and at 8 and 12 months' follow-up. Clinical outcomes are
      physical activity level/pattern, BMI, health-related quality of life, self-efficacy and
      motivation for physical activity, and intervention satisfaction. Implementation outcomes are
      the four core constructs of the Normalization Process Theory; coherence, cognitive
      participation, collective action, and reflexive monitoring; appropriateness, acceptability
      and feasibility of the PAP intervention; barriers and facilitators for implementing PAP;
      recruitment and attrition rates, and intervention fidelity and adherence.

      The clinical study is nested in a larger research project employing a hybrid
      implementation-effectiveness design. Design and analysis of the included studies is guided by
      the Normalization Process Theory.
    
  