
    
      Despite prolonged antiretroviral therapy (ART), HIV-1 can persist as transcriptionally
      inactive proviruses in resting memory CD4+T cells. This latent reservoir has a long
      half-life, and is believed to be the largest impediment to a cure by ART alone. The latent
      reservoir may be established when activated CD4+ T cells become infected and subsequently
      revert back to a resting memory state. A major approach to eradicating HIV-1 involves
      reversing latency in patients on ART. Cells harboring induced proviruses could be lysed by
      HIV-1-specific cytolytic T lymphocytes, while ART blocks new rounds of infection. The
      descriptions of the Berlin patient and Mississippi baby suggest that a functional cure for
      HIV is possible. This has led to an expansion of research examining HIV latency in the
      context of sustained viral suppression with an eye towards developing a possible cure regimen
      that could be used on a large scale. However, it has recently been demonstrated that the
      latent HIV reservoir could be 60 times larger than previously believed. The recent report
      that two HIV patients receiving CCR5-competent bone marrow transplants had a reemergence of
      circulating HIV after fully suppressive therapy was discontinued suggests that a functional
      cure for large groups of individuals will continue to be an elusive goal.

      The vast majority of HIV-infected individuals currently live in sub-Saharan Africa where
      fully suppressive ART is expanding rapidly. Due to this expansion, a large number of Africans
      will be eligible candidates for cure treatment when one comes available. However, strategies
      needed to establish a functional cure may differ in African populations due to differences in
      endemic infectious disease load and in cellular immune activation among Africans as compared
      to Western populations. To date, there have been no systematic studies to quantify the latent
      reservoir in HIV-infected Africans. This is a longitudinal, descriptive study to measure the
      size of the latent HIV reservoir in virally suppressed HIV-infected individuals residing in
      Uganda and to examine the immunological and virologic correlates of the latent reservoir. The
      study will draw its participants from a National Institutes of Health (NIH) International
      Center for Excellence in Research (ICER) site, located at the Rakai Health Sciences Program
      (RHSP) in rural southwestern Uganda. One group of subjects will be comprised of 90
      HIV-infected patients who are on ART with suppressed viral loads <40 copies per ml over a
      period of 10-18 months, including 20 individuals with a known window of seroconversion (an
      HIV-negative test result no more than 18 months before the first HIV-positive test result). A
      second group will be comprised of 10 HIV-infected subjects with suppressed viral load <40
      copies per ml over a period of 10-18 months. Study participation will require a visit with a
      finger stick hemoglobin screening and a blood draw, once a year for a period of five years.
      Plasma and cells from the blood will be separated and processed for quantitative viral
      latency, circulating cytokine and chemokine analysis, co-culture, and flow cytometric and
      serologic assays for selected immunological parameters. Viral latency results will be
      compared within each individual for changes in the reservoir size that might occur over five
      years of continual viral suppression in order to calculate the T 1/2 or decay rate of the
      latent reservoir. Samples collected from individuals with known infection dates will be used
      to estimate the formation curve of the latent reservoir. Overall reservoir size and decay and
      formation rates will be interpreted in relation to values previously collected from
      HIV-infected individuals in the United States.
    
  