
    
      Background:

        -  The American College of Surgeons requires accredited cancer hospitals to screen for
           distress.

        -  Providers at the NIH CC do not uniformly screen for traumatic stress in oncology
           patients but have observed innumerable patients with deficits in social functioning,
           difficulty adhering to treatment, and trouble coping due to oncology related traumatic
           stress.

        -  A seminal distress study reported the prevalence of distress for 14 cancer diagnoses was
           as high as 43.4% with prevalence of distress in the 30% range for the diagnoses covered
           in this study.

        -  It has been shown that a cancer diagnosis represents a threat to life and bodily
           integrity and can create a sense of loss of social and occupational roles, causing one s
           adaptive capacity to become overwhelmed.

        -  In oncology patients, the literature reports that symptoms or traumatic stress range
           from 20% with early stage cancer to 80% in those with recurrent disease.

        -  The outcome of this study will provide information about traumatic stress, aid in the
           identification of it, and provide guidance on trauma informed care for this population.

      Objectives:

        -  A descriptive study to explore the relationships between levels of psychosocial distress
           and levels of traumatic stress symptoms (TSS) in patients with cancer (lymphoma,
           leukemia, prostate cancer, and mesothelioma) on clinical trials at the NIH Clinical
           Center.

        -  We will also describe the relationship between psychosocial distress and TSS in the
           context of the number of lifetime traumas experienced by patients enrolled on a clinical
           trial at the NIH for cancer treatment.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients receiving treatment at the NIH CC will be recruited from four diagnostic
           groups: leukemia, lymphoma, mesothelioma, and prostate.

        -  Inclusion criteria include: diagnosed and treated for one of four types of cancer
           (patients can have any stage of one of these four types of cancer and can be at any
           point in the treatment continuum); aged 18 and over; able to understand and willing to
           sign a written informed consent document to participate in this study; enrolled in a
           clinical trial and actively followed on at the NIH CC.

      Design:

        -  This study is an exploratory cross-sectional survey design.

        -  Data from the standardized measures (e.g. BSI-18, LEC-5, and the PCL-5) and demographic
           and medical history from the medical charts will describe the sample.

        -  Protocol participation is estimated to take approximately 10-15 minutes per patient.

        -  To address the primary objective, a backwards stepwise process will be used to identify
           covariate variables that will be used in the final model. This will allow for the data
           to present naturally occurring gaps in p-values to inform significance.

        -  Bi-variate analysis such as t-tests to compare means, time since diagnosis, time since
           clinical trials participation (e.g. treatment) and demographics, will be used to explore
           differences and relationships among the main variables and the demographic and
           illness-related variables.
    
  