
    
      Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)

        1. Preoperative evaluation Patients satisfied with inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
           informed to join in the clinical study and signature the inform consent.

        2. Randomization: Intraoperative evaluation found that R0, proximal gastrectomy can be
           performed, the case will entrance into the Randomization period. Random numbers are
           computer-generated, with the third party applications.

        3. Surgical procedures: The surgical treatments is adopted the proximal gastrectomy
           according to the Japanese Gastric Cancer treatments guidelines, 2010, Version 3. Group A
           take the gastric tube anastomosis and Group B take the double-track anastomosis (the
           reconstruction method is described in the intervention section of study groups). The two
           study will take the similar surgical procedures except for the digestive track
           reconstruction.

        4. Postoperative recovery: Postoperative recovery period need to collect those relevant
           parameters of all the patients. All the relevant parameters had definitely definition in
           the Case Report Form of this study which included the preoperative, intraoperative and
           postoperative clinicopathologic characteristics.

        5. Follow-up: The follow-up of this study divide into two parts, the postoperative quality
           of life and tumor characteristics outcomes. The information of the postoperative quality
           of life is collected by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
           (EORCT) QLQ-C30 and STO-22 questionnaires. At the postoperative 12 moths, the upper
           gastrointestinal scope is needed to examine the reflux esophagitis and the remnant
           gastritis according to Los Angeles Classification of esophagitis. The tumor related
           outcomes included long-term postoperative complications, recurrence type, relapse free
           survival (months) and the overall survival (months).
    
  