
    
      Cigarette smoking among African American women in Arkansas is nearly double the prevalence
      for African American women in the United States. Historical trends show increasing lung
      cancer mortality among African American Arkansan women. Further, secondhand (SHS) exposure is
      highest among African Americans and persons living in poverty. Declines in SHS exposure are
      much slower among these groups than their comparative groups. Smokefree policies in the home
      can reduce SHS exposure and increase quit attempts. To date, few trials have investigated how
      to increase the adoption and implementation of evidence-based strategies to reduce SHS
      exposure in the homes of women caregivers in rural disadvantaged communities. Our study will
      develop and test the feasibility and efficacy of brief motivational counseling and
      risk-communication messages delivered by community health workers (CHWs) on the
      implementation of comprehensive smokefree policies (e.g. ban on cigarettes, cigars,
      e-cigarettes, and safekeeping of tobacco products from children) in the home. The specific
      aims are to 1) conduct semi-structured interviews among African American women caregivers
      (WCGs) and CHWs to understand risk perceptions, knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and safety
      practices related to tobacco products and sociocultural and environmental influences on
      tobacco use and policy practices; 2) use the interview data to develop, adapt, and pilot test
      educational materials, motivational counseling, and tobacco exposure feedback using an
      iterative process of six focus groups of WCGs; and 3) assess the influence of the
      intervention on the primary outcome, implementation of comprehensive smokefree policies, and
      secondary outcomes, 7-day point prevalence abstinence and smoking reduction. H3:1 Compared to
      WCGs in the control group (n = 103), WCGs in the intervention group will be more likely to
      implement CS policies (n = 103); H3:2. will have higher 7-day point prevalence abstinence and
      smoke fewer cigarettes per day at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months; and H3:3. their attitudes will
      mediate the effects of tobacco exposure biofeedback on the outcomes. The data from this study
      could 1) greatly enhance the adoption of voluntary comprehensive smokefree policies in a
      state where the strength of state-level tobacco control policies is low and 2) reduce the
      risk for smoking-attributable mortality, including cancer, among socially disadvantaged women
      and children.
    
  