
    
      Transplant candidates with HLA alloantibodies are at high risk for antibody mediated
      rejection (AMR), graft failure, and acute rejection (1,2). In heart transplantation, these
      complications lead to death. The 50% calculated panel reactive antibody, CPRA, threshold is
      chosen from a consensus statement from the International Society of Heart and Lung
      Transplantation (3). This value is admittedly arbitrary but does represent a consensus of
      accepted opinion amongst experienced and reputable heart transplant centers.

      The alloantibodies that prevent these patients from being transplanted are a result of the
      adaptive immune system and immunologic memory. Immunologic memory is defined as the ability
      of the immune system to provide a faster, stronger and more specific response to a second
      exposure of an antigen, when the antigen was completely eliminated from the organism after
      the prior exposure.

      There are three major cell lines involved in immunologic memory: memory T cells, memory B
      cells and plasma cells, all of which can survive once antigen has been eliminated (4). B
      cells can mount responses to both small soluble antigens and large antigens (5). Once a B
      cell becomes activated, it can become a short lived plasma cell and produce immunoglobulin M,
      (IgM), antibodies or it can enter a germinal center where it can undergo somatic
      hypermutation with affinity maturation and isotype switching. The B cell can then
      differentiate into a long lived plasma cell and compete for a bone marrow niche or can become
      a memory B cell (4-8).

      Memory T cells can last a lifetime and can recirculate between the secondary lymphoid organs
      (SLO) as central memory T cells (TCM) or in the peripheral tissues as effector memory T cells
      (TEM) (4,9). Upon encountering their cognate antigen, they can rapidly proliferate and
      differentiate to effector T cells.

      Memory B cells slowly proliferate and recirculate in the SLOs, last there for decades and
      memory B cells to vaccinia (smallpox) have been noted to survive for more than 50 years (9).
      They are commonly identified by the presence of CD27 and upon a second antigenic challenge;
      the memory B cells can rapidly proliferate and then differentiate into new plasma cells (10).
      This phenomenon provides a redundant system or "array" to replenish plasma cells that produce
      antibody for a given antigen.

      Plasma cells are highly differentiated and specific cells that can actively produce
      alloantibody. There are two populations of plasma cells, short-lived and long-lived (8).
      Long-lived plasma cells can last for life and can appear within less than 1 week of antigenic
      stimulation (6,7). In core biopsies of kidney transplant recipients, B cells, memory B cells,
      plasmablasts and plasma cells have all been identified during acute rejections (11). The
      plasma cells are end differentiated and therefore cannot proliferate. In the bone marrow,
      there are a finite number of survival niches (109) dependent on the number of stromal cells
      present to support them. Plasma cells that don't find sanctuary in the marrow or lose
      sanctuary only last a few days, probably owing to the intense metabolic demands of a cell
      that can produce between 10,000 to 20,000 copies of antibody per second (12). Plasma cells
      are currently thought as being without a negative feedback loop to suppress their antibody
      synthesis. Plasma cells have been demonstrated to have an FcγRIIB receptor coupled to an
      immunoreceptor tyrosine based inhibitory motif (ITIM) (13). The FcγRIIB receptor is a low
      affinity receptor and cannot bind monomeric immunoglobulin G, (IgG). The homeostasis of
      immunoglobulin is thought to be mainly the responsibility of the endothelial cell (14). Once
      an antibody is produced, endothelial cells can eliminate circulating antibody by lysosomal
      degradation or recycling the antibody through an Fc receptor neonatal, (FcRn) dependent
      mechanism back into the plasma.

      A successful plan to eliminate the memory of a given antigenic encounter must address the
      three separate systems or "arrays." The elimination of immunologic memory such that
      deleterious antibodies could be removed and then new favorable antibodies created would be a
      significant advance in the fields of transplantation and autoimmunity. A review of the
      medications used in IND 110875 will elucidate why this protocol may be successful where all
      others have failed.

      Rabbit antithymocyte globulin, RATG, has anti-T-cell properties, and in particular, activity
      against memory T-cell surface antigens, thereby causing complement mediated T-cell death in
      peripheral blood and apoptosis in the spleen and lymph nodes (15). RATG has antibodies to
      CD27, CD38, HLA-DR and has demonstrated anti-memory B cell properties in vitro and in vivo
      (15-17). The combination of rATG and rituximab decreased CD27 positive B cells from the
      spleen in patients in a desensitization trial that was otherwise unsuccessful was a
      significant observation (16).

      Rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, has strong activity against B-cells and depletes
      B cells in the circulation for 5-7 months. But as B-cells differentiate into plasma cells,
      the CD20 surface marker is down regulated, with concomitant loss of sensitivity to rituximab
      (18). Rituximab has been used in a variety of autoimmune diseases (19,20). Many antibodies
      are not affected while others are decreased for a period of time. Short lived plasma cells
      may be decreased since there is not a ready supply of B cells to replace them after their
      short three day half-life. In a study in systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE) using rituximab;
      flow cytometry and autoantibody specificity studies revealed that antibodies to Ro52 and La44
      and measles were not decreased but antibodies to dsDNA and C1q did decrease (19). The overall
      amount of immunoglobulin did not change. Plasma cells are not affected by anti-CD20, so the
      antibody production from long lived plasma cells continues unabated. Memory B-cells are CD
      27+ and have a variable expression of CD20. A study in desensitizing kidney transplants
      candidates showed that rituximab did not decrease the number of CD27+ memory B cells or
      plasma cells in the spleen (16). In (SLE) patients treated with rituximab the cells returning
      after depletion were largely naïve B cells and the plasmablasts were 2.3 times higher than at
      baseline (19). While memory B cells circulating in the blood were lower after rituximab
      therapy, the memory B cells in the spleen appear to be unaffected and can then transform in
      to plasmablasts which can then secrete soluble antibody. This observation explains why some
      antibodies will disappear, at least temporarily with rituximab while others will not. If the
      antibody is coming primarily from short lived plasma cells or plasmablasts, rituximab will
      more likely have an effect; these antibodies are produced by cells with a short half-life and
      are dependent upon continuous proliferation of B cells. Antibodies produced by long-lived
      plasma cells are not affected by rituximab. Rituximab does not affect memory B cells in the
      spleen, so they can rapidly reform plasmablasts and plasma cells to reconstitute the cell
      lines producing certain clones of antibodies. Since memory B-cells can become antibody
      secreting plasma cells, it is advantageous to remove them before transplantation in the
      highly sensitized patient.

      The combination of rATG and rituximab was shown in the human to reduce memory B cells in the
      spleen (16). This finding has not yet been incorporated into a desensitization protocol or
      into a protocol for autoimmune therapies from our review of the literature. No other therapy
      effectively reduces memory B cells in the human and it represents a novel aspect of IND
      110875.

      No agents previously used in transplantation, including rATG and rituximab, have the ability
      to inhibit mature plasma cells once they find refuge in the bone marrow, and therefore have
      little effect on reducing antibody production. However, bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor
      used in treatment of multiple myeloma, does have the ability to deplete plasma cells via many
      mechanisms.

      Proteasome inhibition represents a novel treatment strategy because it provides a means for
      depleting plasma cells within the bone marrow (21,22). Bortezomib is approved for use in the
      treatment of multiple myeloma and the sensitivity of myeloma cells to proteasome inhibitors
      is proportional to their immunoglobulin synthesis rates (22). Plasma cells are known to have
      high immunoglobulin synthesis rates and treatment with bortezomib depleted both short and
      long-lived plasma cells by more than 60% in the spleen and 95% in the bone marrow after 48
      hours of treatment in the BALB/c mouse model. Bortezomib activated the unfolded protein
      response (UPR) documented by increases in the expression of the chaperones BiP and Chop which
      are markers for UPR. The authors also concluded that the late inhibition of the
      anti-apoptotic transcription factor NF-κB also contributed to cell death. In a lupus
      nephritis mouse model (NZB/W F1 mice) treated with bortezomib, dsDNA-specific antibodies
      decreased to the range of non-autoimmune mice. Total serum IgG, IgG2a, IgG3, IgM, and IgA
      concentrations were all strongly reduced but concentrations of IgG1 and IgG2 were not altered
      or only slightly altered (21). Total IgG concentrations were not reduced by more than 50%.
      The authors noted that newly formed plasma cells could return by 48 hours after bortezomib
      injection. These findings support the conclusion that bortezomib can kill plasma cells, and
      have a salutary clinical effect, but memory B cells are not depleted and plasma cells can
      quickly recover and produce unwanted antibody. The ability of bortezomib to kill
      non-malignant plasma cells represents a major finding with potential therapeutic efficacy in
      transplantation and autoimmune diseases, but by itself is incapable of long lasting
      reductions in antibody. The clinical finding of variable reductions in antibody levels with
      bortezomib can be explained from these findings in the basic science literature.

      Bortezomib has been used as a rescue strategy for the treatment of refractory antibody
      mediated rejection (23-25). An in vitro study revealed that bortezomib was able to induce
      apoptosis in plasma cells aspirated from renal transplant recipients whereas rATG, rituximab
      and IVIG all failed to cause apoptosis (25). Treatment with bortezomib at concentrations that
      blocked antibody production in vitro was shown to significantly decrease the 20S proteasome
      chymotrypsin-like peptidase activity. Two patients had bone marrow biopsies during acute
      humoral rejection, one week after bortezomib and one year later which revealed that the total
      number of plasma cell allospecificities decreased as did the total percentage of plasma cells
      (25). Not all antibodies were reduced by bortezomib in these two patients and the total IgG
      levels were unchanged, yet this study did show that bortezomib could decrease plasma cells in
      the bone marrow.

      Bortezomib is indicated for multiple myeloma wherein the malignant plasma cells are very
      aggressive in producing antibody. The more productive the myeloma cell line is to making
      antibody, the more susceptible to proteasome inhibition (22). The above literature in
      non-malignant plasma cells also reveals that they are susceptible to proteasome inhibition
      with bortezomib, but in a number of studies, certain immunoglobulin fractions did not
      decrease and the overall amounts of immunoglobulin were unchanged. Perhaps plasma cells are
      not as metabolically active as their malignant counterparts. There is some evidence that
      plasma cells may be able to decrease their immunoglobulin synthesis and this in turn would
      make them less susceptible to proteasomal inhibition (26). A reexamination of immunoglobulin
      homeostasis reveals a potential therapy to increase sensitivity to bortezomib.

      Immunoglobulin homeostasis is largely felt to be the result of plasma cell production and
      then FcRn mediated recycling in the endothelial cells. Antibody that does not combine with
      FcRn in the endosome of the endothelial cell is then degraded while antibody that does
      combine is recycled back to the interstitial space (27). The concept that IgG does not have a
      negative feedback loop to the plasma cell is supported by data in the experimental animal and
      humans (28,29). However, clinicians observe patients that "rebound" after plasmapheresis with
      levels of antibody that were just as high or higher than before plasmapheresis and this led
      to the conclusion that there was a negative feedback loop (30,31). The rebound phenomenon was
      explained away as the return of antibody from the periphery and increased recycling by FcRn
      receptors (28). The regulation of protein synthesis in the plasma cell has received new
      attention and is controlled by a complex system of feedback loops involving the endoplasmic
      reticulum stress and mTOR signaling (32).

      Recent investigations into the mechanism of intravenous immunoglobulin, IVIG, function offer
      further insight into possible explanation for a negative feedback loop to plasma cells. IVIG
      in the clinical literature is thought to work by a number of pathways including
      anti-idiotypic antibodies, inhibition of cytokine gene activation, anti-T cell receptor
      activity, anti CD4 activity, stimulation of cytokine receptor antagonists, inhibition of
      complement activity and Fc mediated interactions with antigen presenting cells to block T
      cell activation (33). Recent work reveals that these mechanisms are possibly erroneous.
      Studies in children with ITP in 1993 revealed that infusion of Fc fragments provided the
      anti-inflammatory properties (34). The anti-inflammatory properties of IVIG can now be
      attributed to Fc sialylation of IgG (35-37). Immunoglobulins are glycoproteins and a single
      N-linked glycan is found at Asn297 in the Fc domain. This covalently linked complex glycan is
      composed of a biantennary heptapolysaccharide containing N-acetylglucosamine and mannose and
      two terminal sialic acid residues (35). Further modifications of this carbohydrate structure
      are common and over 30 different glycans have been identified at this one site and
      glycosylation of IgG is mandatory for FcγR binding. The total anti-inflammatory activity of
      IVIG depends on the sialylation of the IgG Fc fragments and this represents only 5% of the
      IgG pool. The small amount of sialylated IgG in IVIG explains why large doses are required
      for its anti-inflammatory effects while much lower doses are required to treat
      hypogammaglobulinemia. Plasmapheresis, by decreasing sialylated IgG, may lead to the
      up-regulation of antibody synthesis in plasma cells and make them more susceptible to
      bortezomib.

      The index patient treated with a protocol similar to this one, the patient had effective
      deletion (< 5000MFI) of all of their antibodies detected by LABScreen, including the Class II
      antibodies that prior to this had been difficult to remove. Using the much more stringent
      criteria of < 1000 MFI, the index patient had only one remaining antibody over 1000 at the
      end of 3 cycles of the bortezomib treatment phase. The patient was unique amongst the case
      reports of therapies for antibody mediated rejection and desensitization therapy in that all
      of the patient's antibodies dramatically declined and the total amount of soluble antibody
      decreased to the point where the patient required IVIG for replacement therapy. If this
      result is reproducible and the protocol has sufficient safety, then these results could have
      important ramifications in the fields of transplantation and autoimmune disease. Autoantibody
      mediated diseases may now have the potential of cure if the immunologic memory of the
      inciting epitopes is erased.

      It is impossible to study these medications in the usual one-drug-at-a-time methodology given
      the redundant nature of immunologic memory. The potential risk of the protocol is only
      acceptable because of the need to develop an effective therapy for a life-threatening
      situation. This protocol is in line with the criteria elucidated by the FDA in the recent New
      England Journal of Medicine article, "Development of Novel Combination Therapies" (38). The
      article mainly describes combination therapies for cancer trials; however, the thematic
      components of the document apply to IND 110875.
    
  