
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      The main objective of this study is to describe and measure the effects of intraoperative
      hemodynamic management on postoperative outcomes in liver transplantation in Canada.

      The specific objectives are:

        1. To describe the overall incidence of postoperative complications and graft outcomes in
           adult liver transplant recipients in Canada and across different recipients'
           characteristics.

        2. To measure the effects of fluid balance, within an overall hemodynamic instability and
           management strategy, on the postoperative outcomes of liver transplant recipients in
           Canada.

      The central hypotheses of this study are that an intraoperative hemodynamic management based
      on a restrictive fluid administration may improve postoperative outcomes in this population.

      EXPOSURE VARIABLES;

      The exposures of interest will be the intraoperative fluid balance and the intraoperative
      doses and types of vasopressors used. Fluid balance will be defined as the sum of the volume
      of administered crystalloids, colloids and blood product transfusions minus drained ascites,
      intraoperative diuresis and bleeding. Doses of administered vasopressors will be converted
      into a time-weighted total norepinephrine equivalent dose calculated as the total equipotent
      units of norepinephrine administered as an infusion divided by the number of hours the
      infusion was given during the period between entrance in the operating room and ICU
      admission. Types of vasopressors used will also be collected. Since a restrictive fluid
      management strategy is associated with a higher use of vasopressors and vice versa, both
      variables may covary together. However, more difficult surgeries will be associated with
      higher blood loss, higher volume of administered fluid and higher doses of vasopressors. The
      combination of these two variables will help estimate the intraoperative hemodynamic
      management strategy used and delineate the effects of each component.

      OTHER DESCRIPTIVE VARIABLES:

      Other patients' characteristics and perioperative practices variables will be captured for
      descriptive purposes. Recipients' demographic characteristics (age, sex), anthropometric
      variables (body mass index (BMI)), the presence of any previous abdominal surgery, presence
      of hepatic encephalopathy, need for preoperative organ support or any preoperative hospital
      admission will be collected as well. Data on the perioperative use of invasive cardiac output
      monitoring (thermodilution catheter, transoesophageal echocardiography, etc.), as well as
      coagulation management (use of thromboelastometry, tranexamic acid, transfusion thresholds,
      etc.) will be collected. Other donor and graft variables, such as donor sex, donor's BMI, the
      type of vascular and biliary anastomoses, the use of extended-criteria donor graft, the use
      of ex vivo perfusion, ischemia time, the practice of donation after circulatory death (donor
      characteristics, heparin usage, etc.) and the perioperative use of liver biopsies will also
      be collected.

      DESCRIPTIVE AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Descriptive analyses and complications incidences across centers:

      The cumulative incidences of different complications will be described. The main descriptive
      analysis will be to report these incidences overall as well as across centers (anonymized). A
      chi-square test for each complication will be used to test if the variation across center is
      statistically significant. The survival up to 6 months over and across centers and will
      perform a log-rank test will also be reported. The alpha level will be set at 0.05. To better
      define the variability of complications across centers, the determination models will be fit
      to estimate the center effect as an independent variable, adjusted for age, sex, disease
      severity and the DRI. A Cox regression for biliary complications and a Poisson regression for
      the total number of complications up to 30 days per patient (count variable) will be used.
      The secondary analyses will be to report the cumulative incidence of each complications
      according to age categories (< 50, 50-60, >60), sex, nature and severity of liver disease
      (chronic liver disease (CLF), acute liver failure (ALF), retransplantation and MELD
      categories among CLD patients (< 20, 20-30, >30). Such incidences will be reported with 95%
      confidence intervals.

      Association between hemodynamic management and postoperative complications:

      The primary association analysis will be the association between fluid balance and time to a
      biliary complication using a multivariable Fine and Gray model, adjusted for the
      time-weighted dose of vasopressors and the aforementioned confounders, with retransplantation
      and death (not caused by the biliary complications) considered as competing risks. The
      intra-cluster correlation from centre effect will be addressed by estimating inter-centre
      variability using a frailty factor. The second transplantation of any patient performed
      during the observation period will be excluded to avoid intra-patient correlation and censor
      the first transplantation follow-up at retransplantation. The secondary analyses will be the
      association between fluid balance and other outcomes using similar adjusted survival models
      (with frailty factors) or generalized mixed effect models (with random intercepts).
      Statistical interaction will be explored between fluid balance and the vasopressors dose
      variable. Risk proportionality over time will be explored using the Harrel and Lee test and a
      visual inspection of the Schoenfeld residuals. The confounding effect of hypotension will be
      evaluated by removing it from the models and measure the observed change in estimate as well
      as measuring the effect in a restricted subgroup of patients without significant residual
      hypotension (< 150 mm*Hg). Sensitivity analyzes will be conducted to explore the robustness
      of the findings by alternatively excluding patients transplanted for amyloidosis or acute
      liver failure, those who received a living donor graft or cadaveric donor graft after
      cardiocirculatory arrest, and those with severe chronic renal failure (glomerular filtration
      rate < 15 mL/hour/1.73 m2 or on dialysis). The effect of vasopressor doses by type of
      vasopressors (instead of an overall dose equivalent) will also be explored.

      Economic analysis:

      An economic analysis to evaluate hospital costs associated with the observed incidences of
      postoperative complications will be conducted. The costs associated with our fluid balance
      exposure effect will be analyzed. Costs will be those associated with the actual procedures,
      as determined by every hospital using its account systems, and include both fixed and
      variable components previously identified as major cost drivers (mechanical ventilation days,
      LOS, reoperation and ICU readmission).

      SAMPLE SIZE

      Based on clinical trials in major surgery, a relative difference of 25% for all complications
      was considered minimally clinically significant. Assuming a proportion of biliary
      complications of 25% at one year, an absolute reduction of 6.25% of complications may be
      converted to a HR of 1.4. To be more conservative, a HR of 1.2 is selected (HR = 1.24 per
      liter of fluid balance for survival in previous work), which required a sample size of 427
      patients to be measurable (alpha = 0.05, power = 95%, proportion of events = 0.25, R2 = 0.1
      between exposure and the adjustment variables, fluid balance standard deviation = 2 L) (44).
      Since random effects have a minimal impact on the sample size when the intervention is not
      cluster randomized, it is not taken into account. To prevent potential seasonal variability
      in organ procurement, have enough power in case of missing data and ensure enough degree of
      freedom for our multivariable analyses, all eligible patients over a 1-year period are
      planned to be enrolled. The principal investigator anticipates an enrollment of 470
      consecutive liver transplant recipients over such period according to the annual volume in
      each centre (CHUM: 65, MUHC: 45, TGH: 200, LHSC: 60, UAH: 100). Sample size calculation was
      conducted using R software (R collaboration (version 3.6.2) and the powerSurvEpi package
      (version 0.1.0). Different sensitivity analyses for residual power were conducted based on
      different assumptions and a sample size of 470 patients.
    
  