
    
      In areas of high malaria endemicity, typical of much of sub-Saharan Africa, despite having
      achieved semi-immunity to malaria in adulthood, women become vulnerable to malaria infection
      during pregnancy, especially during their first or second pregnancy. They have increased
      rates of infection in the peripheral blood and high concentrations of parasites can be found
      in the placenta. On histological examination, mature asexual parasites, forms that are not
      usually detected in the peripheral blood, accumulate in the placenta. Pregnancy-specific
      variant surface antigens are responsible for the increased vulnerability of pregnant women to
      malaria because they are unrecognized by the immune systems of women who encounter them for
      the first time in their first pregnancy. In subsequent pregnancies, women develop immunity to
      these parasite surface antigens and the parasites are cleared by the host response.
      Plasmodium (P) falciparum infection during pregnancy has important health consequences for
      both pregnant women and their newborns. Adverse outcomes of pregnancy-associated malaria that
      have been documented in Malawi include maternal anemia, low birth weight (LBW), and increased
      infant mortality. The primary objective of the study is to compare weekly chloroquine
      prophylaxis and chloroquine intermittent preventative therapy (IPT) for malaria in pregnancy
      (IPTp) to the standard practice [IPTp with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP)] with respect to
      prevention of placental malaria. The secondary objectives are: to compare weekly chloroquine
      prophylaxis and chloroquine IPTp to the standard practice (IPTp with SP) with respect to
      prevention of malaria during pregnancy; to compare weekly chloroquine prophylaxis and
      chloroquine IPTp to the standard practice (IPTp with SP) with respect to prevention of the
      adverse maternal and newborn effects of pregnancy-associated malaria. The exploratory
      objective identify the vulnerable periods during pregnancy when malaria infection is more
      likely to cause placental infection, maternal anemia, and low infant birth weight. This is a
      randomized controlled trial to compare chloroquine as IPT or chloroquine as chemoprophylaxis
      to IPTp with SP. Women will be randomized after Screening and enrollment, and they begin the
      assigned treatment between Week 20 and Week 28 gestation. Specimens will be collected at
      every prenatal visit and any time the participant is ill to determine if malaria is present.
      Pregnant women will be monitored during pregnancy, and newborns will be assessed at birth and
      followed until they are approximately 14 weeks of age. Participants will be randomized to one
      of the following regimens: Chloroquine approximately 1,500 mg base over 3 days, twice during
      pregnancy (2 tablets on Day 0, 2 tablets on Day 1, 1 tablet on Day 2); Chloroquine base 600
      mg (2 tablets) loading dose followed by 300 mg (1 tablet) orally once per week until
      delivery; SP 1500 mg/75 mg twice during pregnancy.
    
  