
    
      The Stem Cell Spinal Cord Injury Exoskeleton and Virtual Reality (SciExVR) study is based on
      the progress that researchers have made treating spinal cord injury (SCI) with bone marrow
      derived stem cells (BMSC). While major improvements have remained elusive with other
      approaches, modest benefits have been achieved.

      The use of subarachnoid BMSC provided via intrathecal injection has resulted in improvements
      for certain sensory and bladder functions. Exoskeleton treatment has shown certain benefits
      in sensory, bowel and bladder function.

      Intravenous (IV) BMSC have benefited stroke and other central nervous system damage. In the
      sponsor's concomitant Neurologic Stem Cell Treatment (NEST) study for general neurologic
      disease, benefit has been shown by combining IV with intranasal BMSC.

      The SciExVR study uses paraspinal injections- meaning the BMSC are placed adjacent to the
      spinal nerves which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen of the
      vertebral bodies. The BMSC will be placed at the level of the injury on both sides of the
      spine as well as approximately two segments above and two segments below. The investigators
      believe this will allow entry into the spinal tissue at the injury site as well as to the
      injured upper motor neuron pathways; lower motor neurons which may be injured; sensory
      pathways; dorsal root ganglia at and below the site and autonomic ganglia. Placement in the
      paraspinal tissue may extend the time that BMSC have to proliferate at, above and below the
      vicinity of the spinal cord injury and interact with damaged cells in the spinal cord, spinal
      roots, spinal nerves and paravertebral ganglion. Potential benefits of these interactions
      include BMSC mitochondrial transfer to target cells, secretion of mRNA increasing target cell
      activity, secretion of nerve growth factor and other neurotrophic factors beneficial to nerve
      regrowth. Increased proliferation and contact time may increase neuronal transdifferentiation
      of BMSC to neurons and/or neuroglia. Following paraspinal injections the patient receives the
      remaining BMSC intravenously (IV) and also topically intranasally. BMSC given IV may enter
      the central nervous system through the paraventricular organs in the brain to potentially
      reach the ascending and descending pathways, thalamus, sensory cortex, motor cortex and
      circulate through the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). Intranasal provides access through the
      axons of the Trigeminal (V) cranial nerves and entry into the brain at the level of the pons
      with similar opportunity to move through the tissues.

      BMSC are separated from bone marrow obtained from the posterior iliac crest with a single
      aspiration on each side. The procedure is performed under general or MAC anesthesia at the
      fully licensed surgical center so there is no discomfort in performing the procedure. The
      BMSC are separated from the aspirate using an FDA cleared class II device.

      After BMSC treatment patients who are in Arm 1 simply follow up with their own neurologists
      at 1,3,6 and 12 months.

      Those in Arm 2 require similar follow up and pursue treatment at centers that can provide
      exoskeletal stimulation or physical therapy equivalent. Exoskeleton devices move the limbs of
      the patient to provide stimulation to the muscles in a self directed fashion but similar to
      physical therapy that is often performed for SCI. The investigators believe that Arm 2 may
      provide stimulation of the upper and lower motor neurons and sensory receptors such as
      exteroceptors and proprioceptors which may, in the presence of BMSC, assist in regeneration
      or reactivation of the spinal cord pathways.

      Patients in Arm 3 require similar follow up and may use Virtual Reality headsets or
      equivalent to increase visualization of movement of the lower extremities and/or sensory
      feedback. This may also help stimulate the upper and lower motor neurons and sensory
      receptors.
    
  