
    
      Objective:

      Functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging techniques have proven essential for
      noninvasive mapping of brain physiology and pathology. The primary objective of this protocol
      is to develop advanced magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy (MRI and MRS) techniques
      for neuroimaging studies related to addiction. These neuroimaging techniques will be used in
      other studies to better understand the underlying mechanism of drug addiction and to
      potentially develop strategies for more effective treatment.

      Study population:

      Healthy controls and drug users will participate in the study. Technical developments of
      MRI/MRS will be performed on healthy controls, while the evaluation of the applicability of
      these techniques to addiction related neuroimaging studies will be performed using drug users
      and healthy controls.

      Design:

      Based on the fundamental principle of the biophysical transduction of physiological signals
      to magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and spectroscopic signals, advanced techniques will be
      developed to measure the activity, metabolism, structure, and biochemistry of the brain. The
      development of these techniques typically includes the following steps: 1) proof-of-concept
      computer simulations, 2) implementation of the imaging concept with an MRI scanner and
      phantoms, 3) feasibility testing on control subjects, and 4) evaluation of the sensitivity
      and specificity of these techniques in detecting functional changes modulated by task
      performance, contrast agent injection, CO2 administration, CO2 administration, or
      transcranial magnetic stimulation evaluation of these techniques in detecting functional
      and/or structural alterations of the brain related to a specific disease.

      Outcome measures:

      Advanced neuroimaging techniques developed from this protocol will demonstrate the ability to
      distinguish between drug using and control populations. Successful techniques will then be
      incorporated into hypothesis driven studies in the Neuroimaging Research Branch at NIDA-IRP.
      These techniques will also be useful, through publications and technology transfer, to the
      entire neuroimaging society.
    
  