
    
      Squamous cell cancers of the head and neck (SCCHN) comprise 5% of all cancers, with 40,000
      new cases diagnosed annually. Surgery followed by irradiation or irradiation alone has been
      the standard of care for locally advanced Stage III and IV patients. With this approach,
      fewer than 30% of patients achieve long-term remission, and most recur locoregionally.
      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been administered prior to definitive therapy with response
      rates ranging from 60-90%, with pathologic CR rates documented in 30-70% of clinical
      responders. However, large randomized trials have shown no improvement in overall survival.
      Because induction chemotherapy alone does not appear to improve long-term disease free
      survival in advanced head and neck cancers, concomitant chemotherapy and radiation has been
      pursued in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancers. The concept of synergy
      between radiation and chemotherapy is well established in vitro. Various schedules of
      radiation and chemotherapy have been utilized including weekly chemotherapy during radiation,
      chemotherapy given every three weeks during radiation and alternating chemotherapy and
      radiation.

      One novel approach to capitalizes on the synergy between radiation and chemotherapy is the
      use of low doses fractionated radiation (LDFRT) as a chemotherapy enhancer. In vitro data
      suggests that LDFRT enhances the response of both p53 wild type and p53 mutant cancer cell
      lines to chemotherapy. Not only was the cell death fraction increased, but there was no
      development of radioresistance in the cell lines studies when low doses of radiation were
      utilized. This strategy was translated into a clinical trial using four 80-cGy fractions of
      radiation with Carboplatin and Paclitaxel. Preliminary results have produced an impressive
      85% response rate and this neoadjuvant regimen was safe and easy to deliver in patients with
      locally advanced SCCHN patients. In recently published work by Belani, a regimen using
      Carboplatin every four weeks combined with weekly Paclitaxel improved response rates in
      non-small cell lung cancer. The delivery of chemotherapy on a weekly schedule would be of
      particular benefit when adding LDFRT, because tumor cells could be exposed to LDFRT on
      multiple occasions per cycle of induction therapy, without the theoretic development of
      radioresistance. We propose to expand our understanding of LDFRT and chemotherapy by using
      two cycles of Paclitaxel and Carboplatin in a modification of the Belani regimen, plus LDFRT
      as induction therapy prior to definitive treatment (surgery or radiation). It is hoped that
      using LDFRT as a chemoenhancer will further increase the response rate seen with induction
      therapy in this population of patients.
    
  