
    
      BACKGROUND: The acute onset of Heavy Menstrual Bleeding (HMB) during menses results in women
      seeking care in the Emergency Department. The current management of HMB among our residents
      uses combination oral contraceptives or oral progestins. The residents in the Emergency
      Department often send women home without any therapeutic intervention. There is no Regulatory
      Agency approved therapy for acute HMB. The etiology of HMB is not well understood. Two
      potential causes are changes in endometrial prostaglandins and increased fibrinolytic
      activity in the endometrium.

      Specific Aim 1 is to investigate and compare the effect of oral estradiol compared to
      tranexamic acid in reducing blood loss and the duration of bleeding during an acute episode
      HMB.

      Specific Aim 2 is to evaluate the effect of estradiol and tranexamic acid on possible causes
      of the acute HMB by measuring prostaglandins and Plasminogen activator in menstrual effluent
      at the end of treatment.

      METHODS: This is a randomized, double-blind, controlled, parallel-group, non-inferiority
      trial, with participants between the ages 18 and 45 years, with acute cyclic heavy menstrual
      bleeding enrolled during an emergency room visit. Participants are randomized to receive 48
      hours' treatment with 1.3 mg oral tranexamic acid or 1.0 mg oral estradiol three times a day.
      The primary endpoint is reduction in the amount of menstrual effluent. Sample size was
      calculated based on detecting less than 30 ml difference between the mean menstrual blood
      loss of the two treatment groups. Amount of blood loss is quantified by alkaline hematin
      method on extraction of menstrual pads and tampons. Secondary outcome is the variation of
      hemostatic factors in the menstrual effluent in two treatment groups by collecting menstrual
      effluent and quantitating prostaglandins, Plasminogen activators, Plasminogen activator
      inhibitors, and vascular endothelial growth factor.

      ANTICIPATED OUTCOMES: The investigators anticipate a reduction in mean menstrual blood loss
      in both treatment groups. Compared with participants treated with estradiol, the group
      treated with tranexamic acid will not have statistically significant change in reduction of
      menstrual effluent. We also anticipate changes in different local hemostatic factors in
      menstrual effluent specific to the treatment arm.
    
  