
    
      Forty percent of children spontaneously clear in two years without treatment owing to natural
      immunity [ 2,3.]. However, warts can persist and increase in size and number [2] .

      Warts may reflect a localized or systemic cell-mediated immune (CMI) deficiency to HPV.
      Various reasons like lack of production of memory T cells to target HPV infection, failure of
      clonal expansion of lymphocytes to adequate stimulation, inability of T lymphocytes to
      traffic to sites of infection and weak effector response mechanism have been hypothesized.
      [4] .] Consequently, warts are particularly exuberant in patients with Hodgkin's disease,
      AIDS and those on immunosuppressant [ 5 ].

      The conventional modalities in treatment of warts include destructive therapies such as
      salicylic acid, trichloroacetic acid, cryotherapy, silver nitrate, phenol, canthiridin,
      electrocautary, surgical interventions and lasers; antiproliferative agents such as
      bleomycin, vitamin D analogs, podophyllin, and 5-fluro uracil; antiviral agents such as
      cidofovir and retinoids. Because of the cumbersome nature of these procedures and a high risk
      of recurrence, immunotherapy is becoming more and more popular, especially in the treatment
      of refractory cutaneous and genital warts [ 6 ] . It enhances recognition of the virus by the
      immune system. This allows not only clearing of the treated wart, and frequently warts at
      distant anatomic sites, but also may prevent future clinical infection [ 7 ] .

      Immunotherapy in warts can be administered by various methods. The first method is topical
      application of certain inorganic molecules that are capable of eliciting a contact
      hypersensitivity reaction with secondary activation of an immunological response [ 8 ] . A
      second modality is the use of oral immune modulators such as cimetidine and zinc(10mg/kg/day
      for 2months) [ 9 , 10 ] .

      A third method is Intralesional injection of immunotherapeutic agent that utilizes the
      ability of the immune system to mount a delayed type hypersensitivity response to various
      antigens and also the wart tissue leading to production of Th1 cytokines which activate
      cytotoxic and natural killer cells to eradicate HPV infection. This clears not only the local
      warts but also distant warts unlike traditional wart therapies [ 11 ] .

      There are a few side effects reported by most of the studies. The most common side effect was
      pain and discomfort during injection, however, serious side effects such as vitiligo-like
      depigmentation and painful purple digit have also been reported [ 12 ] .

      Zinc is important for immune regulation as it stimulates the leucocytes and natural killer
      cells. It has been shown that there is a deficiency of zinc in patients with multiple or
      recurrent warts [ 13 ,14 ].The use of zinc in treatment of warts was proven in many studies
      either in the topical form or systemic oral therapy [ 15 ].. However, Little studies have
      utilized intralesional injection of 2% zinc sulfate solution for the treatment of common wart
      one of them was of [16] .
    
  