
    
      The iPCD Cohort was set up under the framework of the European Union (EU) funded 7th
      Framework Programme (FP7) project Better Experimental Screening and Treatment for Primary
      Ciliary Dyskinesia (BESTCILIA). The iPCD Cohort is hosted at the Institute of Social and
      Preventive Medicine at the University of Bern, Switzerland. Research is performed in close
      collaboration with all data contributors.

      Aims:

      This combined international dataset allows investigation of PCD epidemiology in a large
      international study population in order to: 1) describe the spectrum of clinical phenotypes
      and disease severity in PCD patients by age, sex and time period of diagnosis; 2) describe
      short-term and long-term prognosis of PCD, looking at important outcomes such as growth, lung
      function and respiratory failure, bacterial colonisation, hearing loss, fertility, and
      mortality; and 3) identify predictors of long-term outcomes such as age at diagnosis,
      clinical phenotype, ultrastructural defects, genotype and clinical care.

      Study design:

      The iPCD Cohort is a retrospective international cohort, combining available data on PCD from
      national or local registries and clinical or diagnostic databases. All participating centres
      delivered retrospectively collected data; new centres joining the iPCD Cohort in the future
      can also participate with retrospectively collected data.

      What information is collected:

      The iPCD Cohort includes retrospectively collected patient data on the following 11 thematic
      categories: 1) general information, 2) results of diagnostic tests, 3) baseline
      characteristics, 4) growth and lung function, 5) clinical manifestations, 6) therapy, 7)
      microbiology, 8) imaging, 9) surgical interventions, 10) neonatal period, and 11) family
      history.

      Study database:

      The iPCD Cohort database is web-based, using the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap)
      platform developed at Vanderbilt University. REDCap is widely used in academic research and
      allows data entry and extraction in various formats.

      How to participate:

      Centres that wish to participate to the project and contribute data can contact the iPCD
      Cohort to sign a data delivery agreement. They then will receive a password to access the
      online software REDCap and they will be able to enter their data directly. They can also
      upload follow-up data or add additional patients at a later time point.

      For further details, contact: pcd@ispm.unibe.ch

      Funding:

      The setting up of the iPCD Cohort (salaries, consumables and equipment) was funded by the EU
      FP7 project BESTCILIA (http://bestcilia.eu) and several Swiss funding bodies, including the
      Lung Leagues of Bern, St Gallen, Vaud, Ticino and Valais and the Milena Carvajal
      Pro-Kartagener Foundation. Data collection and management at each site was funded according
      to local arrangements. Most participating researchers and data contributors participate in
      the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) Action "Better Evidence to Advance
      Therapeutic options for PCD" (BEAT-PCD) (BM 1407; www.beatpcd.org). Infrastructure is
      provided for free by the University of Bern, where the data are pooled and stored. The study
      is currently funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation (320030_173044 and
      320030B_192804).
    
  