
    
      Not sleeping long or soundly enough can lead to health problems in children, including more
      asthma symptoms and risk for obesity. Latino children might be especially at risk for poor
      sleep and worse asthma. Therefore, the goal of this study is to adapt an existing
      intervention called Sleep Smart for use with urban Latino middle school students. The new
      program will be called "Sleep Smart Latino" (SSL), the goal of which is to improve sleep
      quality among Latino, middle school-aged children in urban public schools. SSL will be
      administered by trained community members to a group of Latino middle school children who are
      at risk for poor sleep quality. The program will be tested in San Juan, Puerto Rico and
      Providence, Rhode Island.

      The first aim of this project is to refine the SS intervention and intervention procedures so
      that they eventually can be used in a larger study of the intervention's effectiveness.
      Refinement will involve a) translation and cultural tailoring for Latino middle school
      students, b) enhancement of the parent component, and c) ensuring applicability to the urban,
      middle school setting in both sites (PR and RI). In-depth interviews with caregivers
      (N=20-25), focus groups (middle school students [N = 5], caregivers [N =5], and school staff
      [N = 5]), and Investigators with expertise in culturally tailored interventions will provide
      input.

      The second aim of this application is to test the feasibility of the SSL intervention and
      training procedures through an Open Trial, to refine intervention modules and the training
      approach that will be used in the larger study. The Open Trial will include 15 adolescent
      participants at each study site.

      The third aim of this application is to test the SSL intervention through a Pilot Randomized
      Control Trial to provide estimates of effect size that will be used to inform the sample size
      for the larger study. The RCT will include 75 adolescent participants at each study site. We
      expect the participants in the SSL intervention will have improvement on the following
      primary sleep quality outcomes (improved sleep duration and sleep efficiency) as measured by
      actigraphy, relative to the control conditions. Secondarily, we expect participants in SSL
      will show a decrease in total daily caloric intake relative to the control conditions.

      This registration refers only to aims 2 and 3 of the project.
    
  