
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with germline BRCA1/2 mutations (gBRCAm) demonstrate repeated therapeutic
           susceptibility to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damaging agents, especially platinums,
           even if they have previously progressed on a similar (platinum-based) regimen.

        -  Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors (PARPi) have clinical activity in
           gBRCAm-associated malignancies, although patients eventually develop progressive
           disease.

        -  BMN 673 (talazoparib) is a novel PARPi, with excellent oral bioavailability and greater
           anti-tumor activity in vitro and in vivo at lower concentrations than first generation
           PARPi.

        -  It is unknown whether secondary BRCA mutations or other potential mechanisms of clinical
           resistance portend cross-resistance to a highly potent PARPi.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the objective response rate (complete response (CR)+partial response (PR)) of
      single agent BMN 673 (talazoparib) in ovarian cancer patients with gBRCAm who have progressed
      on prior PARPi therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Women with recurrent and/or metastatic gBRCAm-associated ovarian cancer, with
           progression on PARPi monotherapy within the immediate prior 2 months of the time of
           screening visit.

        -  Patients should have responded to their prior PARPi therapy (CR, PR or stable disease
           (SD)>4months).

        -  Patients cannot have received another therapy between stopping their first PARPi
           therapy\ and initiating therapy on this trial, but must be off the prior PARPi for at
           least 4 weeks.

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-2 and adequate organ and
           marrow function.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, single arm phase II trial to examine activity of BMN 673
           (talazoparib).

        -  Patients will receive BMN 673 (talazoparib) at the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
           1mg p.o. once daily on 28 day cycles.

        -  Research samples including whole blood, plasma, circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and
           tumor biopsies will be obtained for progressive disease (PD) endpoints at baseline,
           cycle 1 day 29 (prior to cycle 2 day 1), and/or at progression in all patients.

        -  Patients will be evaluated every two cycles for response using Response Evaluation
           Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)v1.1 criteria and every cycle for safety using Common
           Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events (CTCAE)v4.0.
    
  