
    
      Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a type of nosocomial pneumonia that occurs in
      patients who receive >48 h of mechanical ventilation (MV). Early onset VAP occurs during the
      first 4 days of MV and is usually caused by antibiotic-sensitive bacteria. The increased
      systemic inflammatory response in patients with a head trauma may predispose them to develop
      early-onset VAP1,2. Late-onset VAP develops 5 days after initiating MV and is caused by
      multidrug resistant (MDR) pathogens3,4.

      Patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) are at high risk of infection, particularly
      nosocomial infections, during treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) 5-7, where the
      incidence of VAP can be as high as 50%. The duration of MV usually influences the type of
      organism that causes VAP8. Early-onset VAP is caused by antibiotic-sensitive pathogens,
      whereas late-onset VAP is caused by MDR bacteria, which are more difficult to treat. The
      microbiological environment can have a marked influence on VAP isolates, particularly during
      late-onset VAP, but it also influences early-onset VAP9. Patients who acquire VAP have longer
      ICU stays, higher morbidity and mortality, and a greater number of infectious agents10,11.
      The risk factors for developing VAP are diverse, and the pathogenesis of intra-hospital
      infections is complex. Common VAP preventive measures such as early mobility, the daily
      interruption of sedation, and a readiness-to-extubate assessment may not be applicable
      because of associated injuries such as severe chest trauma, intra-abdominal bleeding, and
      other organ damage. Hence, VAP diagnosis can be difficult in a setting of multiple trauma,
      and significant variations in the diagnosis and management of VAP remain8.

      The upper respiratory tract of the majority of mechanically-ventilated patient is colonized
      with potentially pathogenic microorganisms. This was first established in a study in 1969
      that reported the presence of enteric gram-negative bacteria in the oropharynx of 75 percent
      of critically ill patients8. A proposed explanation is bacterial overgrowth of the upper
      gastrointestinal tract and retrograde movement. Aspiration of secretions containing these
      pathogens provides a means for infection of the sterile bronchial tree. Another study
      published in 2007 confirmed the presence of similar pathogenic microorganisms in the lower
      respiratory tract of intubated patients by comparing DNA samples from bacteria on the tongue
      and obtained from bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)12.

      Prevention of VAP:

      The use of Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation NPPV has been shown to significantly
      lower the risk of VAP and has also demonstrated a mortality benefit in randomized studies
      conducted using patients with a variety of illnesses10, daily weaning trials and sedation
      holidays have been repeatedly described and validated as strategies that limit the time of
      mechanical ventilation13,14.

      re-intubation is associated with a higher risk of VAP due to higher rates of aspiration15, It
      was previously thought that early tracheostomy might lead to better outcomes16.

      Antimicrobial-coated endotracheal tubes (ETT) have been studied as a means to decrease
      bacterial colonization and prevent biofilm production with the ultimate hope of reducing VAP
      rates.

      It is hypothesized that microorganisms reach the ETT either as a consequence of a
      contaminated oropharynx or reflux of gastric secretions29, selective digestive tract
      decontamination (SDD) and selective oropharyngeal decontamination (SoD) are measures in which
      antibiotic therapy is used to eradicate potentially pathogenic microorganisms in oral,
      gastric, and intestinal flora 17, 18.

      Subglottic suctioning endotracheal tubes: It has been postulated that intermittently or
      continuously removing the secretions that pool above the ETT cuff may reduce the risk for
      aspiration and subsequent development of VAP. ETTs have therefore, been designed to
      accomplish this task through application of negative pressure to a separate port that opens
      above the ETT cuff19 Oral decontamination: Chlorhexidine is the oral antiseptic most
      rigorously studied with regards to VAP20, Iseganan and povidone iodine have also been
      investigated for oral decontamination. Iseganan is a topical antimicrobial with activity
      against grampositive and gram-negative bacteria, and yeast21 Elevation of the head of the bed
      is attempted to reduce aspiration of gastric content. The basis for this intervention comes
      from studies using radiolabelled enteral feeding solutions which have shown that aspiration
      of gastric contents occurs to a greater extent in supine patients than in patients in a
      semirecumbent position22,23 The goal of infection control is to prevent cross transmission of
      pathogens, which has been shown to play an important role in the development of nosocomial
      infections including VAP. An effective strategy should target infection control from several
      vantage points: education of the medical team, universal hand hygiene, use of personal
      protective equipment and a protocol for microbiological surveillance24
    
  