
    
      This was a retrospective comparative study spanning January 2014 to December 2018. It was
      conducted at Jordan university hospital, a teaching referral hospital affiliated to the
      University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan. Pregnant patients, both primigravida and multipara who
      had a spontaneous singleton pregnancy with documented TSH level in the first 16 weeks'
      gestation were included. The investigators excluded all patients who had known thyroid
      dysfunction whether on treatment or not, molar pregnancies, multiple pregnancies, patients
      with hyperemesis gravidarum, all patients with anti-thyroid antibodies (Anti-TPO), patients
      with TSH ˃ 4.0 mIU/L or ˂ 0.1 mIU/L. This range was used as TSH ˂ 0.1 mIU/L indicated an
      undiagnosed subclinical hyperthyroidism and TSH ˃4.0 indicated undiagnosed hypothyroidism. In
      addition, there were wide variations in the TSH reference ranges. Participants' data were
      collected retrospectively from antenatal clinic notes, admission notes, labor ward and
      operative notes. Data included patients ID number, age, parity, body mass index (BMI) in
      kg/m2, TSH values in the first 16 weeks of pregnancy. The participants were divided into 2
      groups according to their TSH values. Group one with TSH values between 0.1-1.99 mIU/L. Group
      2 had TSH values between 2-4 mIU/L. Each group was then subdivided into 2 subgroups;
      primigravida and multipara. Group P1: Primigravida in group 1, Group P2: Primigravida in
      group 2, Group M1: Multiparous in group 1, Group M2: Multiparous in group 2.

      The investigators calculated the mean, median and range of TSH in each subgroup. The
      feto-maternal outcome was then compared between the 2 groups. The investigators studied
      miscarriage rate, ectopic pregnancy rate, maternal blood sugar values (Fasting blood sugar
      (FBS), glucose tolerance test (GTT), HbA1c or a combination) between 26 and 34 weeks,
      development of high blood pressure at delivery, duration of pregnancy (gestational age at
      delivery), preterm delivery rate, abruption placenta, mode of delivery, birth weight and
      APGAR score at 1 and 5 minutes. Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) was diagnosed as an FBS
      92-125 mg/dL or 1-hour plasma glucose levels of 180 or more following 75-gram oral glucose
      load or 2-hour plasma glucose 153-199 mg/dL. The study obtained the approval of the
      institutional review board (IRB) at Jordan University Hospital (JUH) number 179/2019 dated
      17/4/2019.

      The statistical analysis was performed with the Data Toolkit in Excel (Microsoft, Redmond,
      WA, USA) using descriptive analysis. Relative risk and 95% confidence intervals were also
      calculated to compare variables. P values were considered significant at ˂0.05. The obtained
      data were examined using a frequency table and are presented as frequency, percentage and
      mean
    
  