
    
      Intrauterine growth retardation and preeclampsia are major causes of neonatal mortality,
      morbidity and later neurological sequelae. The conditions are associated with an increased
      resistance to blood flow in the placenta, that can be detected by an increase in pulsatility
      index (PI) in the umbilical artery (1).

      When Doppler flow is assessed in the uterine arteries, increased resistance in the
      uteroplacental circuit is indicated both by an increase in PI and by a change in the flow
      velocity waveform, which can be seen as a "notch" in early diastole.

      In the 2nd trimester, the invasion of trophoblasts and the remodeling of the uterine spiral
      arteries are complete. Persistence of a bilateral notch beyond the 24th week of gestation is
      associated with an increased risk of intrauterine growth retardation and preeclampsia. Even
      though the risk persists, the notch usually disappears later in pregnancy (2).

      When the non-pregnant body is immersed in water, extracellular fluid is redistributed back
      into the circulation. Central blood volume, cardiac output, renal perfusion and urine output
      increase and the blood pressure falls (3-7).

      The same changes occur in the pregnant women. However the increased diuresis is strongly
      correlated with the degree of the pregnancy edema, which decreases substantially (8), and the
      amount of amniotic fluid increases (9). The changes all occur within minutes (8), but are
      transient and return to conditions before immersion within 1-2 hours after the pregnant woman
      has come out of the water.

      The changes in the above parameters are significant but less pronounced in pregnant women
      with preeclampsia than in pregnant women without the condition (11). None of the experiments
      showed changes in the fetal heart rate.

      Because of the physiological changes that take place when pregnant women are immersed in
      water, several authors have speculated whether immersion has a positive effect on the
      uteroplacental circuit (8,10,12).

      There are no published data on Doppler flow measurements in the umbilical artery and the
      uterine arteries during water immersion.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect of immersion on the fetoplacental and
      uteroplacental circuits in healthy pregnant women, using Doppler flow measurements in the
      umbilical artery and uterine arteries.

      Materials From the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hvidovre University Hospital,
      Denmark, we recruit 25 healthy women with an uncomplicated singleton pregnancy. Gestational
      age was between 26 and 38 weeks. All participants will have a normal first trimester combined
      screening and a normal second trimester ultrasound scan for fetal abnormalities. Within the
      last 2 weeks prior to participation, fetal weight will be estimated, and only woman with
      fetuses of normal weight (within the 95 percentile) will be included.

      Methods The study is performed at the labor ward at Hvidovre Hospital, Denmark. If fetal
      weight has not been estimated by an ultrasound examination within the last 2 weeks, fetal
      weight will be estimated on the day of the study. In order to exclude an on-going infection,
      the temperature is measured and the urine examined in all participants on the day of the
      study.

      The same experienced sonographer performs all examinations, and the same Bruel & Kjaer
      ultrasound scanner, suitable for scanning under water, is used in all participants.

      Each participant has five recordings of blood pressure, pulse, saturation, deepest vertical
      pocket (DVP) of amniotic fluid and Doppler flow in the umbilical artery and uterine arteries.
      All recordings are obtained during the same study session. Doppler ultrasound measurements of
      umbilical and uterine arteries are obtained by pulsed wave ultrasound using an insonating
      angle as close to 0 degrees as possible. The Doppler measurements on the uterine arteries are
      obtained approximately one centimeter from the crossing of the iliac arteries. The
      pulsatility index (PI) is calculated automatically by the machine using the formula (systolic
      velocity-diastolic velocity)/mean velocity. PI of the uterine artery is calculated as the
      mean PI of the left and the right uterine artery.

      For immersion, a regular bathtub is used. The tub is filled with thermo-neutral tap water
      (35.0 °C +/- 0.5 °C). The temperature of the water is measured every 10 minutes, and kept
      thermo-neutral during the period of immersion.

      The participants are placed in a supine position outside the bathtub and the first recordings
      are obtained (T0). Afterwards the participants are immersed in water, placed in a supine
      position, and measurements are repeated after 5 min (T5) and 25 min (T25) in water. All
      measurements are repeated with the participant in a supine position outside the bathtub 15
      min (T40) and 30 min (T55) after immersion.

      All recordings of Doppler flow curves and measurements of amniotic fluid (DVP) are saved on
      an USB stick. An experienced specialist in fetal medicine, who is not present at the
      investigation, validates each recording blindly. Any recording not eligible for approval is
      redefined as a missing value.

      Statistical analysis Because the measurements taken before, during and after immersion, are
      made in the same patient during the same study session, and with the same ultrasound
      apparatus, each participant act as their own control.

      Data are expressed as means +/- standard error of the mean (SEM). The first recording, T0,
      was defined as baseline. Comparisons between the respective recordings, T0-T55, are done
      using a two-tailed paired t-test on raw data. P-values < 0.05 are considered significant. For
      calculation, STATA 12.1 (13) is used.
    
  