
    
      This is a prospective, multi-centre, randomized (the study drug is assigned by chance),
      controlled, open-label (all people involved in the study know the identity of the assigned
      drug), parallel (each group of patients will be treated at the same time) group phase III
      study to determine the efficacy of the standard therapy of bortezomib and low dose
      dexamethasone in combination with or without continuous low dose oral cyclophosphamide for
      primary refractory or relapsed myeloma patients (1st - 3rd relapse). The study will consist
      of screening period, which may last from day -14 until day -1 before application of the first
      dose of bortezomib (on cycle 1, day 1), treatment phase begins on cycle 1 day 1 and continues
      until completion or discontinuation of all study drugs and follow-up phase. All patients will
      be followed up after end of treatment regardless of their response. Eligible patients will be
      randomized in 1:1 ratio to receive either treatment arms (Group A: receiving bortezomib plus
      dexamethasone or Group B receiving bortezomib plus dexamethasone plus cyclophosphamide).
      Patients will receive up to eight 3-weeks treatment cycles, unless they experience either
      unacceptable toxicity or if the patients request to withdraw from the study. The maximum
      number of cycles is dependent on patient response and investigator's discretion. It is
      recommended that patients with a confirmed complete response (CR) receive 2 additional cycles
      beyond a confirmation. Patients who do not achieve a CR but a partial response will receive a
      total of 8 cycles. For patients achieving stable disease it is within the investigator's
      discretion to continue study treatment beyond 6 cycles, after discussion with the sponsor.
      After completion of treatment the patients will be followed up every 12 weeks for up to 72
      weeks. If the study is still ongoing a further follow up period will be done every 26 weeks
      until study end, or until the patient reaches progressive disease or start of alternative
      anti-myeloma therapy, if earlier. In case progressive disease (PD) has already been
      established during the treatment phase the patients will not enter the follow-up phase. In
      case of PD or start of alternative anti-myeloma treatment before the end of study the
      follow-up phase will be discontinued for the patient but the date of death of the patient
      will be documented (if applicable) before the end of study.
    
  