
    
      METHODS STUDY DESIGN It will be a blinded- controlled-randomized clinical trial in
      parallel-group, with six months follow-up. The trial protocol will be performed in referral
      outpatient center that accompany patients with heart failure. This unit is part of the public
      health system in the city of Salvador - Bahia, the second largest city in Northeast of
      Brazil. The Brazilian health system is one of the largest public health systems in the world.
      Ensures full access, universal and free to the entire population of the country. Bolstered by
      a broader concept of health, the health system was created in 1988 by the Brazilian Federal
      Constitution, to be the health system of more than 180 million Brazilians.

      Run-in

      The run-in period will last 15 days. After the run-in, eligible patients will be part of the
      study, according the following criteria:

        1. To participate in a telenursing education program;

        2. To fill-in a diary of symptoms and signs, daily;

        3. To receive calls from the research team weekly;

        4. To have attendance at appointment between window of 15 days before or after the
           scheduled date;

        5. To be predisposed to performing spirometry testing, six-minute walk test, pulse
           oximetry, electrocardiography, and to respond questionnaires about quality of life and
           scales of dyspnoea.

      Wash out

      After beginning the project, patients who present the following criteria must be excluded:

        1. Pregnancy;

        2. Hospitalization for more than 30 days;

        3. Do not attend monthly visit inside the search window of 15 days before or after the
           scheduled date;

        4. To change of residence address among states that preclude attendance at scheduled
           visits;

        5. Death;

        6. To discharge outpatient clinic of the Hospital of study;

        7. Subsequent diagnostic of acute or chronic respiratory disease or other physical/mental
           condition that makes it impossible to participate in the study;

        8. To Cease to participate in telenursingprogram or that study.

      RANDOMIZATION

      The sample size calculation was performed in Sealed Envelope TM program. 156 patients will be
      needed (78 per group), using the following indicators: confidence level 95%, 5% maximum error
      permitted, statistical power of 90% for detecting elevation of the primary endpoint by 12% in
      the experimental group. After applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria, two groups will
      be sourced from the randomization and will be allocated into case group and control group
      without replacement. All subjects included will be assigned a three-digit sequential number
      (eg. 000-999). These numbers will be fed into groups of four patients with similar
      characteristics. After that, blok size randomization will be procedure in specific software
      (www.randomization.com).

      INTERVENTIONS The control group will receive standard treatment and monitoring for heart
      failure from the ambulatory staff where the study will be performed, including
      pharmacotherapy and health education, as recommended by the health team. The intervention
      group will receive the standard treatment and ongoing follow-up as well as monitoring by
      telenursing for a period of 6 months (24 weeks).

      The application of remote nursing monitoring program shall establish contact with the
      participants for six months, through weekly telephone contacts on days and times to be
      accorded between them. We expected duration of 5 to 10 minutes per call. The team that
      performs the intervention will explain the content of foreseen contacts with educational
      approach, allowing the participant a moment to comment and clarification of final questions.

      After conclusion of the study, the control group also will receive telenursing intervention
      if it is proven benefits through this study. The protocol for telenursing intervention
      deployed can continue in the specialized outpatient clinic and other chronic diseases
      programs, if proven their benefit.

      Implementation of the Program of Telenursing The program of telenursing will consist in
      weekly contact with patients with heart failure with functional class I, II and III. For the
      development of telenursing, it will be distributed to the study staff a protocol for remote
      monitoring practices in nursing and a form of individualized remote monitoring (appendix A
      and B). Intervention group will be receive educational and support materials (educational
      booklet and diary of signs and symptoms).

      The protocol for telenursing allows the realization of standardized professional contacts
      with the patient and educational approach It is possible through questions and answers coded,
      that indicate the need for educational intervention or reinforcement of appropriate health
      behavior.

      The telenursing program protocol is based on: 1) Contact the patient by telephone, weekly; 2)
      Distribution and explanation of the educational booklet; 3) Filling a diary of symptoms and
      signs; 4) Record, management and markdown visits in case of non-elective visits,
      hospitalization or fatal episodes. Also, the following aspects shall be observed: help
      requests associated with illness, adaptations for living with the disease, effects of drugs
      in daily life, availability of financial resources for disease management, self-image;
      emotional and social support.

      The protocol is individualized according to the needs identified in the monthly consultation
      and/or weekly contact for telenursing calls. The protocol addresses the themes: information
      of health education about the pathology; monitoring the signs and symptoms; adherence to
      treatment; healthy eating and weight control; breathing exercises; cardiovascular and
      pulmonary risk factors; physical, occupational and sexual activity; emotional and social
      support. It functions as a guiding instrument for telenursing, and it is useful in the
      clinical management of diseases, improvement of self-care, strengthening communication and
      humanization in relations between professionals and users of health services.

      These items will be addressed in alternate calls to avoid wear and loss of information over
      the phone. Before finalizing the calls, will be offered the individual a moment to express
      doubts or make other settings regarding the intervention. The nurse is expected to write a
      report at the end of the calls, by checking the form of individual remote monitoring. All
      calls will be recorded through Skype and MP3 Skype Recorder software.

      The educational booklet containing information about the heart failure and a diary of
      symptoms and signs will be distributed to the participants, being nurse attribution explain
      it to them. The booklet developed is a support material for conducting health education by
      telenursing, illustrated, aimed at answer typical questions, easy to handle and transport,
      simple visual communication, including to be accessible to individuals with limited
      understanding of written language. It is a suitable material for the use of the individual as
      well as the assistance of parents, family members, caregivers and other health professionals
      and students.

      Moreover, after the first contact, will be developed an intervention plan for each
      individual, according to the needs identified after analysis of medical records and for the
      nursing consultation. The plan may be modified according to the needs that are identified
      through the telenursing calls.

      Procedures BASELINE: First a baseline period will be held in which, for all individuals
      enrolled in the study. Following questionnaires will be applied: sociodemographic and
      clinical characterization formulary; quality of life (Minnesota Living with Heart Failure
      Questionnaire - MLHFQ); Baseline Dyspnoea Index by Mahler; and electrocardiogram will be
      performed. When all participants pass through the baseline period, will be preceded
      randomization and implementation of Visit 01.

      Also in this period, a pilot of the telenursing will be made, in which seven study
      participants will undergo intervention in order to identify necessary changes and
      adjustments.

      VISIT 01 (start of run-in):

      For both groups: Application of structured interviews for data collection of
      socio-demographic and clinical characterization formulary; Application of quality of life
      questionnaire (MLHFQ); The questionnaire of Baseline Dyspnea Index by Mahler; Conducting
      pulmonary function test spirometry by a technician certified by the Brazilian Society of
      Pulmonology; Achievement Test six-minute walk; Measurement of clinical data (pulse oximetry,
      electrocardiogram, measurement of anthropometric data).

      Intervention group: will be explained and distributed a educational booklet and a journal of
      signs and symptoms. Remote monitoring procedures with nursing continuing education will be
      explained, collecting best times of contact, collecting phones (personal, neighbors, to run
      errands, pay phone in the street of residence and mobile phone). On this same visit
      individuals will be informed of the weekly telephone monitoring and monthly outpatients seen
      for six months.

      Will be provided a standardized health Education for the control group and the intervention
      group.

      VISIT 02, 03, 04, 05:

      For both groups: in the days of their regular attendance in the ambulatory will be held:
      standardized education; reviewed medical clinic (the regular ambulatory); the questionnaires
      and scales (MLHFQ and Baseline Dyspnoea Index Mahler).

      Intervention group: The sessions once a month will be held during the six months of data
      collection. There will be continuity of telenursing directed to continuing education, weekly.

      VISIT 06: all related procedures will be carried out in other visits and additionally walk
      test six minutes, spirometry, electrocardiogram and pulse oximetry.

      ASSESSMENT

        1. Sphygmomanometer - Brand: Missouri.

        2. Electrocardiograph - Brand: EMAI - Model: 3-channel, 12 simultaneous leads, Graphic
           Display: LCD 12.8 x 6.4 cm, 12 Outlets EX03.

        3. Portable Spirometer for Lung Function Assessment, Brand: KOKO MOE FERRARIS USB.

        4. Stethoscope - Brand: Missouri

        5. Pulse Oximeter - Brand: Oxilife, Model: Plus Cmos Drake

        6. Notebook, Intel Core i5-3210M processor 2.5 GHz, 6GB Memory, 750GB HD, 14-inch LED
           screen.

        7. Headphone - Brand: Trust Model: Quasar 16904.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN Descriptive statistics will be used to characterize the individuals
      search. The analysis of continuous variables will be through measures of central tendency and
      dispersion; categorical variables will be analyzed using proportions. The difference between
      proportions will be calculated using the chi-square test. Association tests will be
      performed. For correlations, the Pearson or Spearman tests depending on the normality of
      information or number of empty cells are proceeded. Additionally, the risk factors are
      analyzed according to the cutoff score of quality of life. We will use multivariate linear
      regression to verify association between risk factors and QoL. FIT equations will be done.
      There will be also analysis by protocol and by intention to treat. Analyzes stratified by age
      also compose the statistical plan. The information collected will be fed into a database and
      analyzed using SPSS 20.0 software (Statistical Package for Social Sciences). Statistically
      significant values with an interval of confidence greater than or equal to 95% will be
      considered.
    
  