
    
      This study will be a single-center, randomized, controlled trial conducted in the Brooklyn
      Hospital Center's Emergency Department (ED)

      Intervention:

      Study participants will be randomized to receive one of the two study treatments below:

        1. Treatment A:

             1. Sufentanil 0.7 mcg/kg IN x 1dose (max of 1 mL administered per nostril)

             2. Normal saline 1ml IV push x 1dose

        2. Treatment B:

             1. Normal saline 0.3 mL IN x 1 dose

             2. Morphine 0.1 mg/kg IV push x 1dose

        3. Rescue protocol:

      Regardless of assignment to Treatment A or Treatment B, if severity of pain is ≥ 5 on the
      NRS, IV morphine dosed at 0.1 mg/kg IV push (max dose: 10 mg) may be administered at the
      discretion of the attending physician or medical resident assigned to the patient at
      designated intervals (5, 10, 20, and 30 minutes after administration of study treatment)

      Process

        1. Identification of patients with chief complaints or visit reasons of "acute pain",
           "musculoskeletal pain", "back pain", "abdominal pain", "fracture", "headache",
           "lacerations", and "sprains" via the Emergency Department's Status board by Research
           Associate (RA) or study investigators

        2. Screening of potentially eligible patients with inclusion/exclusion criteria checklist
           via chart review by RA or study investigators.

        3. If patient is eligible, the RA or study investigators will approach the medical resident
           or attending physician to confirm if the patient's visit reason is acute pain. If a
           medical decision is made by the attending or resident to treat the patient for acute
           pain, the RA (along with the medical resident, with approval from the attending
           physician) or study investigators will approach the patient to obtain informed consent
           and explain potential risks and benefits associated with receiving study interventions.
           Only study investigators will sign informed consent forms as per IRB protocol.

        4. Once informed consent is obtained, patients will be randomized to receive Treatment A
           (sufentanil 0.7 mcg/kg intranasally (IN) and normal saline 1ml IV push) OR Treatment B
           (Normal saline 0.6 mL IN and morphine 0.1 mg/kg IV push). It should be noted that during
           the study period, use of additional morphine or adjuvant analgesics outside of the
           designated time intervals is allowed. The decision to use adjuvant analgesics is the
           decision of the attending physician assigned to the patient in the Emergency Department
           (ED).

        5. Order will be placed in the electronic medical record (EMR) by the medical resident,
           attending physician, or pharmacist under the permission of the attending physician for a
           study intervention.

        6. Upon receiving the medication order in the EMR, the order will be verified by the
           pharmacy. The pharmacy will then prepare either a sufentanil IN syringe and placebo
           injection or morphine injection and placebo IN syringe based on the study number
           assigned to the patient. The study investigators or RA assigned to the study will obtain
           the medication preparations from the pharmacy. Medication preparations will only be
           labeled with patient number and study number. No other identifying markers will be
           placed on the labels.

        7. The nurse assigned to the patient or physician from the research team will administer
           the intervention medications. During administration of the intervention, the patient
           will be connected to a cardiac monitor for monitoring of possible cardiovascular adverse
           events.

        8. An RA or study investigator will approach the patient to assess and record primary
           outcomes and secondary outcomes at designated time intervals. The data will be recorded
           on paper data collection sheets (see attached forms). The primary study investigator
           will not take part in data collection or analyses. If additional analgesic medications
           are requested by the patient, the orders will be placed by the medical resident or
           attending physician assigned to the patient.

        9. All data collected on the paper data collection sheets will be transcribed into an
           encrypted and password protected electronic database by the RA. All patient identifiers
           will be de-identified in the database and all participants will be assigned a study
           participant number. This database will be stored on ED computers only and only RA's and
           study investigators will have access to it. The paper data collection sheets will be
           stored in a stationary, locked cabinet in the ED for safe keeping. At the end of the
           study, these records will be maintained according to the hospital's record-retention
           policy.

       10. At the conclusion of study enrollment, an independent biostatistician will analyze the
           data. Only data from patients with diagnoses relating to acute pain and completed the
           study protocol without use of rescue analgesia during the designated time will be
           included in the study. Once the initial data analysis is complete, the log which details
           whether study participants received sufentanil IN or morphine IV will be revealed to the
           biostatistician for final data analysis and compilation.

       11. At the conclusion of the study, final results and conclusions will be presented to the
           IRB. All data recorded on the paper data collection sheets will be destroyed and all
           data on the electronic databases will be deleted.
    
  