
    
      BACKGROUND

      Basal Ganglia dysfunction in Parkinson's Disease (PD) induces gait impairment such as shorter
      stride length, reduced gait speed, reduced arm swing and an increased randomness in stride
      duration variability of gait cycles. This increased randomness in gait variability is a
      typical symptom which can lead to falls, autonomy loss and reduced quality of life. Recently,
      the Long-Range Autocorrelations (LRA) assessment allowed to emphasize the deterioration of
      the temporal organization of PD patients' gait variability and demonstrated correlations with
      disease severity and balance status. These LRA involve a long-memory process which means that
      every stride depends on the duration of the previous near and far strides. Gait variability
      should be balanced and should stay in an optimal framework between randomness and
      over-regularity. This means that LRA should be balanced to keep the healthy adaptive
      capabilities of the system, to be in the "Optimal Movement Variability" which allows the
      person to move in a stable but still adaptive way. LRA measurement would therefore be the
      first quantitative biomarker of gait instability and risk of falling, which is of particular
      clinical interest.

      It is now well known that PD patients have a greater gait variability with a decrease of the
      LRA. That means that PD patients are more likely to fall which lowers the quality of life. It
      is also well known that gait disorders do not respond well to dopaminergic pharmacological
      treatments. Therefore, it seems important to develop non-pharmacological treatments to
      improve LRA. Rhythmic Auditory Stimulation (RAS), by mean of a metronome, has been studied
      for years to improve PD patients' gait. Authors showed that the use of a fixed-tempo
      isochronic RAS reduced the stride duration variability, acting like an external rhythm
      generator and bypassing the basal ganglia that act like an impaired internal rhythm generator
      in PD patients. It is then suggested that a broader use of a isochronic RAS, by the mean of a
      metronome, should be beneficial in gait rehabilitation for PD patients' gait parameters, such
      as gait speed, stride length, stride duration variability and quality of life.

      However, it has been demonstrated that the use of a isochronic RAS decreases LRA in healthy
      persons and also PD patient. Authors suggested that the cognitive load required by a
      isochronic RAS would be too elevated for PD patients, creating a dual tasking and diminishing
      its applicability in a cueing device. This RAS would compel patients to a stereotyped gait
      instead of an adaptive autocorrelated gait. Then the question is: Should clinicians continue
      to use an isochronic RAS by the mean of a metronome for PD patients' gait rehabilitation ? Or
      should clinicians use autocorrelated RAS to avoid loss of adaptivity but still get the
      beneficial effects of the metronome ? The objective of this study was to analyze the effects
      of 3 different RAS (isochronic metronome, autocorrelated metronome and random metronome) on
      PD patients' gait parameters and stride duration variability (magnitude and temporal
      organization).

      METHODS

      Patients

      This study was unicentric. Nine PD patients participated in the study and were recruited from
      the department of Neurology of Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc (Brussels, Belgium). The
      study was approved by the local ethics committee. All patients gave informed written consent
      to the study. Eligibility criteria will be described in another section.

      Procedure

      Patients were asked to walk around 4 times (1 time for each condition presented below) on an
      oval indoor track of 42 m during 10 minutes each time to get 512 consecutive strides
      necessary to measure the LRA. The indoor track was chosen in order to collect data in a
      standardized way and to avoid bias linked to environmental conditions that could potentially
      affect patients' balance, such as terrain and/or weather conditions. Two unidimensional
      accelerometers were taped on patients' both lateral malleoli in the antero-posterior
      direction. These accelerometers were connected to a recording device (Vitaport 3 - Temec
      Instruments B.V., Kerkrade, The Netherlands) attached to the patients' waist. This system
      allowed to record at 512 Hz each positive acceleration peak that correspond to each heel
      strike. The peak of acceleration, detected by the software internally developed, determined
      the stride duration.

      Four conditions were presented to patients in a randomized order. One condition consisted on
      walking without any RAS (Spontaneous Condition, SC). The three other conditions were
      respectively the Isochronic tempo RAS Condition (IC), the Random RAS Condition (RC) and the
      Autocorrelated RAS Condition (AC). Each of these three conditions consisted in walking with
      slight RAS which differ by their temporal organization. Each of them were composed with the
      software Matlab 2014R (Mathworks, M.A.) and adapted to each patient according to spontaneous
      gait speed determined by a 10m Walk Test achieved before the experiment. Consequently the IC,
      RC and AC respectively contained no RAS variation, random variation of the RAS and
      autocorrelated RAS organized in time and characterized by a Hurst (H) exponent = 0.80. To
      resume, even if these three RAS had the same mean of the interbeat duration, RAS differ from
      each other by the presence or the absence of rhythm variations (different H and alpha
      exponents). During the experiment, patients were listening to the RAS through earphones
      (Apple EarPods) by the mean of a MP3 player.

      Before data collection, patients listened to the RAS and were asked to mark the rhythm with a
      finger tapping to see if the temporal structure of the RAS was accurately detected. After
      this, patients were asked to "walk accordingly to the proposed rhythm". A minimum of 10
      minutes is necessary to get 512 consecutive gait cycles (number required for the application
      of the signal processing methods detailed below). The heading direction taken by the patients
      (clockwise or counterclockwise) was randomized between them but each patient kept the same
      heading direction after randomization. The experiment was always performed at the same time
      of the day for the same patient during ON phase of dopaminergic treatment to avoid drug
      effect. Furthermore, a maximum of two conditions were tested during one day with a minimum
      break of 5 minutes between each of the conditions to avoid a fatigue effect. Patients
      returned a second day to perform the other 2 conditions.

      Functional assessment

      Functional assessments covered the 3 domains of International Classification of Functioning,
      Disability and Health (ICF) : body functions and structures, activity and participation.
      Assessments will be described in another section.

      Gait assessment

      Data were extracted from 512 consecutive gait cycles which is required to measure gait
      variability.

      Spatiotemporal gait variables

      Mean gait speed, gait cadence and stride length were measured as follow:

        -  Mean gait speed (m.s-1) = Total walking distance (m)/ Acquisition duration (s)

        -  Gait cadence (#steps.min-1) = Total number of steps (#)/Acquisition duration (min)

        -  Step length (m) = Gait speed (m/s)*60/Gait cadence (steps/min)

      Stride duration variability

      Stride duration variability can be assessed 2 ways: in terms of magnitude or in terms of
      organization (how stride duration evolves across consecutive gait cycles).

      Magnitude of the stride duration variability:

      To determine the effect of the RAS on the magnitude of the stride duration variability during
      512 gait cycles, the mean, the standard deviation (SD) and the coefficient of variation (CV =
      [SD/mean] * 100) were assessed.

      Temporal organization of the stride duration variability (LRA):

      Three methods (Rescaled Range Analysis (Hurst exponent; H), Power Spectral Density (α
      exponent) and d relationship (d = H- [(1+ α)/2])) and the "surrogate data tests" were used to
      measure LRA. The presence of LRA can be shown with a high level of proof when these 3
      conditions are met:

        -  H is greater than 0.5

        -  α is significantly different from 0 and less than 1

        -  d ≤ 0.10 If an inconsistency appears between H and α, the Randomly Shuffled Surrogate
           Data Test is applied in order to reject null hypothesis of an absence of temporal
           structure in studied series.

      Data were treated by the mean of CVI Labwindows (C++).

      Statistical analysis:

      Statistical analyses were conducted using SigmaPlot 13.0. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA
      was applied to determine the presence or absence of effect of the various RAS on
      spatiotemporal gait parameters (gait speed, gait cadence, stride length) and on stride
      duration variability (linear measures (mean, SD, CV) and nonlinear measures (H exponent and
      α)). Another one-way repeated measures ANOVA was applied to analyze the variability of the
      inter-beat duration of the RAS (linear and nonlinear measures). When a significant difference
      between groups was detected with the ANOVA, a post hoc Tukey Test was performed to compare
      each mean with the other means to isolate the groups from each other. Spearman's correlation
      coefficient was measured to analyze the link between the nonlinear measures (H, α) of the
      stride duration and the inter-beat duration of the RAS. The results were considered
      statistically different for p-values < 0.05.
    
  