
    
      Phase 1 involves identifying the optimal screening tools and approaches for capturing CDE
      data, programming the screening tools and CDEs into the Epic EHR, and soliciting stakeholder
      input regarding implementation strategies for screening and clinical interventions (including
      treatment referrals) to address substance use.

      In the KTA framework, Phase 1 addresses the first steps in the action cycle, which are to
      identify, review, and select the tools that are to be implemented; adapt tools to the local
      context; assess barriers to use of the tools; and begin the process of implementation by
      programming these tools into the Epic EHR. We will accomplish these steps primarily through
      interviews and focus groups with key stakeholders. The information gained from stakeholders
      will be applied in an iterative process to develop a best-practice approach to screening
      patients, and to build the EHR tools (CDEs and CDS) that will be further tailored and tested
      in Phase 2, and then implemented in one clinic in Phase 3.

      Research Questions and Aims

      The research questions that Phase 1 seeks to address are:

        1. Where should screening and initial assessment occur, and who should administer the
           screening and assessment questionnaires?

        2. Is it better to screen for drugs only, or for drugs and alcohol, or for drugs, alcohol
           and tobacco? Should screening also include depression (e.g., PHQ2 and PHQ9)? Should
           screening be embedded in a broad behavioral health screen (e.g., a comprehensive health
           risk assessment such as My Own Health Report (30))?

      The specific aim that corresponds to Phase 1 is Aim 1: To program the NIDA CTN CDEs and a
      lean decision support module into Epic. This phase will also define potential barriers and
      facilitators to the adoption of the CDEs and CDS, which is a component of Specific Aim 2.
    
  