
    
      This is a Phase 1, open label, dose-escalation, safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic
      pilot study of minnelide given to adult patients with relapsed or refractory AML.

      The patient population will consist of adults previously diagnosed with relapsed/refractory
      AML for whom standard curative or life-prolonging treatment is unavailable or is no longer
      effective. Patients who are on hydroxyurea may be included in the study and may continue on
      hydroxyurea while participating in this study.

      Once enrolled into the study, patients will be administered Minnelide via a 30-minute IV
      infusion. Each 28-day treatment cycle is composed of 5 consecutive daily doses of Minnelide
      followed by a 2-day rest period, repeating for 21 days, followed by a 7-day rest period.

      Minnelide therapy may be administered for up to at least 12 cycles provided that the patient
      tolerates treatment and there is evidence of clinical benefit. If patients are still
      receiving clinical benefit, treatment may continue beyond 12 cycles, depending on drug
      availability and drug manufacturer (Minneamrita®) agreement. Study drug may be discontinued
      early if a patient experiences study drug related toxicities. Patients may discontinue
      therapy at any time. Patients will attend an End-of-Study visit 30 (+/- 10) days after
      receiving their last dose of study drug.

      To determine the MTD of minnelide, an approach using traditional "3+3" escalation rules will
      be used. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as events that are considered by the
      investigator to be related to therapy with minnelide. Although DLTs may occur at any point
      during treatment, only DLTs occurring during Cycle 1 of treatment will influence decisions
      regarding dose escalation. The initial minnelide dose will be 0.53 mg/m2 per dose; (3 dose
      levels will be explored; 0.53 mg/m2, 0.67 mg/m2, and 0.80 mg/m2). If more than 1 DLT occurs
      at Dose Level 1, then the next dose to be evaluated (Dose Level -1) will be 0.40 mg/m2. If
      more than 1 DLT occurs at Dose Level -1, the investigators will consider stopping the study.
      More conservative dose escalation, evaluation of intermediate doses, and expansion of an
      existing dose level are all permissible at the discretion of the investigator, if such
      measures are needed for patient safety or for a better understanding of the dose-related
      toxicity, exposure, or pharmacodynamics of minnelide.

      Toxicity will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), Version 4.0. Adverse events (AEs) will be assessed, and
      laboratory values, vital signs, and electrocardiograms (ECGs) will be obtained to evaluate
      the safety and tolerability of minnelide. Serial blood samples for determination of the
      plasma concentration of minnelide will be obtained during Cycle 1 at pre-specified time
      points. Assessment of disease response will follow the criteria outlined in the
      recommendations of the International Working Group (IWG) for diagnosis, standardization of
      response criteria, treatment outcomes, and reporting standards for therapeutic trials in
      myeloid malignancies [21, 22]. Circulating leukemic blasts will be assayed for
      pharmacodynamic marker levels before and at pre-defined time points after minnelide
      administration to characterize the extent and duration of the biological effects of minnelide
      in leukemic cells. Exploratory analyses of potential relationships between measures of plasma
      drug exposure and pharmacodynamic effects of minnelide may be performed as permitted by the
      data.
    
  