
    
      This Northern Ontario, community-based demonstration project is a multi-disciplinary, primary
      care provider-based collaboration. The goals of the project are to:

        1. Decrease the modifiable risk factors for primary care patients at risk for vascular
           disease in the Algoma District;

        2. Increase collaboration between health care providers such as family physicians,
           pharmacists, physiotherapists, dietitians and nurses in the community;

        3. Increase the participation of the patient and family in decision-making, self-care, and
           adherence to agreed-upon management plans;

        4. Improve patient access to care, clinical outcomes and satisfaction;

        5. Provide a business case for a practical, sustainable and generalizable model for the
           primary care of vascular disease in the community.

      The Group Health Centre, a multi-disciplinary, not-for-profit community-based health
      organization with 56,000 rostered patients, leads the project. However, all Sault Ste Marie
      community patients are eligible to join the Vascular Intervention Program (VIP). This program
      has three key components: a registry of VIP patients with audit, recall and feedback; use of
      the novel ACTION score template, and the optional use of VIPNet, a personalized patient
      record tool that provides secure web access to optimize quality and continuity of care. The
      VIP project aims to empower patients and increase collaboration among the primary health care
      team. Patients with any vascular risk factors will be eligible for VIP.

      The VIP project is a demonstration project that does not duplicate existing GHC chronic
      disease management programs because (1) the VIP is offered to all eligible community
      patients, not only GHC enrollees; (2) VIP integrates any patients with vascular risk, not
      just those with pre-defined conditions; (3) novel collaborative tools such as the ACTION
      template and VIPNet website are being piloted; and (4) explicit patient-centred decision
      making drives the process. The development and evaluation of the VIP demonstration project is
      a unique step in the evolution of primary care chronic disease management in Sault Ste Marie,
      and the rest of the province.
    
  