
    
      Patients with chronic hepatitis have increased risks of liver damage, including fibrosis and
      cirrhosis, which may eventually lead to hepatocellular carcinoma and end-stage liver disease
      requiring liver transplantation. These diseases are/will be the source of enormous health
      care costs and morbidity/mortality in the US.

      Most hepatologists still rely on liver biopsy findings in patients newly diagnosed with
      chronic hepatitis, which enables the assessment of liver damage (fibrosis and inflammation).
      Liver biopsy has limitations, including cost, invasiveness, poor patient acceptance, limited
      sampling, inter-observer variability and is difficult to repeat.

      Non invasive tests to capture the extent of liver damage at a larger scale are urgently
      needed. These will gain more acceptance among patients and hepatologists.

      In this proposal, the investigators would like to test and validate non invasive MRI methods
      based on advanced MR diffusion, perfusion and elastography techniques for the detection of
      fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with chronic hepatitis. In order to improve the diagnostic
      performance of MRI, the investigators would like to build and validate a predictive model
      based on advanced functional MRI metrics (diffusion, perfusion and elastography). If
      validated, this novel non invasive algorithm will not only decreases the number of liver
      biopsies, but also enable earlier diagnosis of liver fibrosis when antiviral treatment is
      more effective, and enable a comprehensive evaluation of the liver (to assess for cirrhosis,
      portal hypertension and hepatocellular cancer).

      This could significantly reduce the cost of care, could become a useful tool for testing new
      antifibrogenic and antiviral drugs in chronic viral hepatitis, and could be used to follow
      patients for detection of progression to cirrhosis.
    
  