
    
      Numerous studies have revealed that cardiac rehabilitation (CR) after myocardial Cardiac
      rehabilitation (CR) after revascularization results in better clinical outcomes, and have
      been strongly recommended for patients with coronary artery disease. In China, as compared to
      the exponential increase of PCI (Percutaneous Coronary Intervention) volume, only a very
      small amount of hospitals are able to develop CR programs. There is no large-scale study to
      explore the feasible CR pattern either. Home-based CR might be more favorable and practical
      for so many Chinese revascularized coronary artery disease (CAD) patients due to its
      feasibility and flexibility as well as low medical cost.

      This trial was designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of CR program at home for
      Chinese patients who underwent PCI procedure. This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled
      and observational study. The efficacy and safety of Home-based CR (HBCR) in revascularized
      patients will be evaluated through observation of its clinical characteristics and safety
      indicators. The study will involve 14 sites nationwide, with an expected sample size of 2,000
      followed up for 12 months. The primary endpoints is the incidence of composite major adverse
      cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE,death from any cause, nonfatal myocardial
      infarction, revascularization, stroke).Secondary endpoints are defined as decrease of
      hospitalization due to refractory angina pectoris，the improvements of cardiorespiratory
      fitness,life quality,as well as angina pectoris.

      The subjects will be randomized into 2 different groups, HBCR group and control group. After
      comprehensive evaluation, the orders from CR staff will be given. Besides the routine health
      education in both groups, the subjects in HBCR group will be further introduced the
      instructions of exercise training. The effect of HBCR on cardiorespiratory fitness,
      improvement of angina, cardiac function, quality of life, levels of anxiety and depression,
      as well as risk factor profile will also be evaluated. The investigators also aim to explore
      the factors which influence the adherence of subjects to our HBCR program.
    
  