
    
      Traumatic amputations are prevalent and pose many challenges for our wounded warriors. A
      recent publication reported that during the current conflicts, over 950 military personnel
      have sustained combat-related amputations, with 15% of them occurring more than 12 weeks
      after initial injury (1). Updated statistics place this number of amputees at over 1050
      (personal communication, COL Paul Pasquina, Chief of the Integrated Department of
      Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center-WRNMMC). The
      ability of a wounded warrior to gain optimal function after an amputation most often depends
      on his or her ability to successfully fit and adapt to a prosthesis. Once out of the acute
      phase, many patients with amputations suffer from pain when wearing a prosthesis, either from
      thin soft tissue cover over bony structures or peripheral nerves not well padded with soft
      tissue. Extrinsic residual limb pain is usually mechanical in origin related to the
      prosthetic socket or other prosthetic components. It is often the result of a mismatch
      between residual limb tissue tolerance and the prosthetic loads on the soft tissues. This
      sensitivity is often accentuated by superficial nerve trunks or neuromas at severed nerves
      that are exposed to excessive external mechanical loading (2). Poor socket interface,
      secondary skin breakdown, and/or pain may severely limit function.

      This presents a very difficult clinical problem and historically, when possible, the clinical
      procedure would be to involve the surgical revision of the amputation site with associated
      shortening of the bone, lengthy scars, and prolonged healing. If a below the knee amputation
      has to be converted to an above knee level, then there are serious functional implications.
      For local tissues at the amputation site that are of poor quality (e.g. scarred or covered
      with a skin graft), a distant muscle flap may be required (3,4). These flaps may require
      transfer to the amputation site using microvascular anastomosis of the blood vessels. The
      procedure is highly invasive and can add the morbidity of decreased function, deformity, and
      risk of wound healing problems at the muscle donor site. Failure rates in lower limb flaps
      can be as high as 18.5% (5, 6). Flap ulceration rates tend to be higher in these
      weight-bearing flaps, both skin and muscle free flaps frequently need secondary debulking
      procedures to improve function, and painful neuromas are not uncommon (6,7).

      A clinical solution that allows for the minimally invasive generation of new soft tissue
      padding at an amputation site without the need for further limb shortening, lengthy scars, a
      prolonged recovery, and significant donor site morbidity would have the potential to
      significantly help our wounded warriors and change clinical practice.

      Autologous fat grafting as a potential solution. Grafting of autologous fat tissue is a
      minimally invasive surgical technique that starts with the harvest of fat tissue from the
      abdomen or thighs using liposuction through incisions less than 5mm in length. The
      lipoaspirate is then processed to concentrate the adipose fraction and reinjected into the
      donor site. This surgical procedure involves the immediate transplantation of a patient's own
      tissue in a single operative procedure. It has the advantages of:

        -  Minimal access incisions

        -  Ability to transfer significant amounts of tissue (hundreds of grams of tissue)

        -  Can be used in setting of previous surgical procedures and presence of hardware

        -  Usually performed as outpatient procedure

        -  Minimal donor site morbidity at graft harvest site

        -  Low risk compared with more invasive surgical procedures

        -  Can be repeated multiple times, if necessary, even using the same donor sites

      The transfer of autologous tissues is not a new concept but just another method as we have
      seen with many types of flaps using various combinations of muscle, fat and skin have been
      well documented. Tissue flaps come from many different locations, and are used in many
      different ways to accomplish the desired results. Flaps have their own blood supply, they are
      more resilient than skin grafts, and usually produce much better results from a cosmetic
      standpoint because they can provide a better match for skin tone and texture. Skin flaps are
      also a better choice when tissue "bulk" is needed to fill contour defects. The obvious
      advantage is to use autologus tissue versus xenografts and allografts; each having known
      risks of rejection and adverse events.

      The literature has unequivocally demonstrated that clinical fat grafting in buttocks (a
      similar weight-bearing anatomic region) can be performed safely and effectively with
      retention rates approximating 75% up to 2 years and beyond (23-25). In an OVID database
      search of fat grafting articles, over 9000 articles have referenced the use of fat grafts in
      a wide arena of clinical situations. Specifically to this application over 100 references
      were relevant to this proposal and provided below.(26-132)

      The investigators propose a clinical trial to assess the efficacy of minimally invasive
      autologous fat transfer for addressing pain and poor prosthetic fit at amputation sites. This
      surgical procedure involves the immediate transplantation of a subject's own tissue and does
      not require FDA oversight. Importantly, we will use our knowledge and expertise working with
      adipose stromal cells to compare a regenerative medicine cell therapy modification of the fat
      grafting procedure with more traditional fat graft preparations.

      The biggest problem associated with fat grafting is unpredictable rates of fat graft
      resorption. This is likely related to the ability of the regenerating adipose tissue to
      rapidly develop a new blood supply. In this study, we will test a regenerative medicine
      approach of enriching the adipose graft with autologous adipose stem cells (stromal cell
      enriched adipose grafting). This may serve to improve graft retention over time and
      potentially improve functional outcomes.

      A modified preparation of the fat graft involves concentrating the endogenous stromal cells
      in the graft material in an effort to increase graft retention over time. The aspirated fat
      material used for fat grafting consists of mature adipocytes, a small amount of fibrous
      tissue, and immature adipose stromal cells (ASCs). These adipose stromal cells are a mixed
      population of non-lipid laden cells that serve to turn over mature adipocytes and vascular
      elements. "Preadipocytes," as well as endothelial precursor cells and multilineage progenitor
      cells, are found. Of note, ASCs have been shown to stimulate angiogenesis when stressed under
      hypoxic conditions and these cells may be instrumental in healing and volume retention of fat
      grafts. Yoshimura, et. al. (133) found that fat aspirated with a liposuction cannula (i.e.
      the method of fat harvest for fat grafting) is deficient in ASCs compared to whole fat. This
      is due to the fact that a major portion of ASCs are located around larger blood vessels that
      are left intact in the donor site after liposuction with a blunt cannula. The relative lack
      of ASCs in lipoaspirate may explain problems with fat graft reabsorption over time. Enriching
      lipoaspirate with ASCs should increase angiogenesis and, therefore, fat graft retention. This
      cell therapy approach takes advantage of the innate ability of ASC's to both secrete
      angiogenic factors and also differentiate into mature adipocytes. The improved blood vessel
      ingrowth can result in improved graft volume retention and superior reconstructive outcomes.

      Our group at the University of Pittsburgh has developed clinically useful and scalable GMP
      methods for ASC extraction under an NIH funded program, led by Dr. Rubin (Co-Director of the
      Adipose Stem Cell Center) in collaboration with Dr. Albert Donnenberg, director of the
      clinical laboratories for cell processing. We are currently starting a fully funded project
      with the Armed Forces of Regenerative Medicine (AFIRM). We are utilizing our extraction
      techniques to perform ASC enriched fat grafting for facial trauma reconstruction and this has
      received IRB approval at our institution. This process is regulated under human cells,
      tissues and cellular and tissue-based products (HCT/P) guidelines under section 361 of the
      CFR (21CFR1271.10). HCT/P therapies are exempt from the requirement for the submission of an
      Investigational New Drug (IND) application.

      For this project proposal, we have expanded the team to encompass expertise in reconstructive
      fat grafting, lower extremity reconstruction, physical medicine and rehabilitation,
      prosthetic design, nutritional support, and evaluation of psychosocial outcomes. Given the
      initial success with autologous fat grafting for facial reconstruction after trauma (analysis
      ongoing), even without enrichment of the graft with adipose stromal cells, we believe this
      therapy can be effectively applied for the treatment of limb pain. This procedure can be
      performed on an outpatient basis with no significant incisions on the limb, only small port
      sites measuring less than 5 mm. It is noted that this is a completely new, experimental
      application of a conventional treatment.
    
  