
    
      Identifying strategies to favorably alter unhelpful cognitions of patients with recent onset
      low back pain is a research priority and could help curb the transition from acute to chronic
      low back pain; lessening the need for prolonged and costly management. Current evidence
      suggests that psychological factors, including maladaptive pain beliefs and avoidant
      behaviors and expectations for recovery, are associated with poor outcomes in patients with
      low back pain. Recently, considerable attention has been given to training non-psychologists
      to provide psychologically based interventions for patients with low back pian. A recent
      review of interventions that included psychological approaches noted that all of the trials
      that failed to show beneﬁt included delivery of the intervention by non-psychologists.
      Authors suggest that increasing the effort in selecting, training, supervising and assessing
      the competence of the practitioners delivering the treatment could improve results.

      Low back pain comprises approximately 50% of the caseload of outpatient physical therapists
      physical therapists making physical therapists ideally positioned to manage the unhelpful
      cognitions of patients with low back pain. However, physical therapists often feel unprepared
      when managing the cognitive factors associated with low back pain. The purpose of this
      project is to develop and assess the effectiveness of a training program for physical
      therapists that focuses on cognitive reassurance; a novel cognitive intervention for patients
      with low back pain.

      Cognitive reassurance is a communication approach in which maladaptive beliefs and
      expectations are identified. Tailored explanations for the patient's conditions are then
      provided, possible prognosis and treatment are discussed, and clariﬁcations are offered. With
      adequate training, physical therapists could utilize cognitive reassurance to promote
      patients' understanding of his/her condition and modify maladaptive low back pain-related
      beliefs and expectations.

      The proposed pilot study will use a pre-post design to examine the impact of cognitive
      reassurance training on the low back pain beliefs and skills in physical therapists and
      physical therapist assistants. Following the training the investigators will recruit patients
      who have scheduled an evaluation for low back pain with the physical therapists who attended
      the training. Patient data will be collected at baseline before the evaluation and follow up
      data at 2, 4 and 8 weeks.

      The specific aims are: 1) Evaluate the feasibility of a cognitive reassurance training
      program for physical therapists that focuses on modifying physical therapists' beliefs and
      improving physical therapists' skill in the application of cognitive reassurance for patients
      with acute/subacute low back pain. 2) Evaluate the application of cognitive reassurance by
      physical therapists to patients with acute/sub-acute low back pain. 3) Examine the
      association between physical therapist application of cognitive reassurance and short-term
      changes in the patient's low back pain beliefs and expectations (low back pain beliefs,
      self-efficacy, pain catastrophizing, fear-avoidance).
    
  