
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate whether early treatment with venetoclax and obinutuzumab (V-O) extends overall
      survival (OS) compared with delayed treatment with V-O in high-risk (Chronic Lymphocytic
      Leukemia [CLL] International Prognostic Indicator [CLL-IPI] >= 4 or complex cytogenetics),
      newly diagnosed asymptomatic CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall response rates (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]), CR
      rates, progression-free survival (PFS), and event-free survival (EFS) between arms.

      II. To evaluate safety and tolerability of each arm. III. To compare time to second
      CLL-directed treatment (from randomization and from response) between arms.

      IV. To compare relapse-free survival (RFS) and time to second objective disease progression
      (PFS2) between arms.

      V. To compare the rates of Richter's transformation between arms. VI. To describe
      distribution of Cumulative Illness Rating Scale across the study, in each treatment arm, and
      to estimate the interaction between the scale and treatment arm and OS.

      PATIENT-REPORTED OUTCOMES OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of early intervention with V-O versus delayed therapy with V-O in CLL
      patients in relation to Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) using the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Leukemia scale.

      II. To assess the impact of the two treatment arms on the specific domains of the
      FACT-Leukemia, including physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being and
      leukemia-specific HRQoL.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (DELAYED V-O): Treatment begins once 2018 IWCLL indications are met. Patients receive
      obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1
      of cycles 2-6. Patients also receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 22-28 of
      cycle 1 and on days 1-28 of cycles 2-12. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (EARLY V-O): Treatment begins as soon as eligibility criteria are met. Patients
      receive obinutuzumab IV over 4 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of
      cycles 2-6. Patients also receive venetoclax PO QD on days 22-28 of cycle 1 and on days 1-28
      of cycles 2-12. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 10 years after
      registration.
    
  