
    
      Many older adults rely on a manual wheelchair (MWC) for community mobility, but are not
      provided with the skills for independent and effective use of their wheelchair. Suboptimal
      use of the wheelchair results in substantial social costs such as reduced engagement in
      meaningful activity, social isolation, and higher caregiver burden. This is a poor use of
      financial resources, including the cost of wheelchair acquisition and requirements for
      attendant care. Access to skills training is constrained by the expense and limited
      availability of skilled therapists; demands of patient and/or clinician travel; and lack of
      training programs designed specifically for older adults.

      Enhancing Participation In the Community by improving Wheelchair Skills (EPIC WheelS) is an
      individualized home-training program that optimizes learning for older adults while limiting
      the time demands of expert trainers. Using an affordable mainstream computer tablet device,
      EPIC WheelS provides a structured training program that can be customized for specific users
      needs. The tablet is mobile, for in-chair or tabletop use, in home and community locations. A
      touch screen operated audio-visual display features interactive training and practice
      activities as well as video-recording capability. Wireless Internet enables user-trainer
      communication and remote program monitoring and updating by the trainer. A monitored home
      program that is effective and efficient for older adults has the potential for application to
      other target groups, particularly those in rural and remote locations with limited access to
      rehabilitation.

      PURPOSE: The purpose is to evaluate the feasibility and effect size estimate of a 1-month
      customized home training program (EPIC WheelS) for improving wheelchair mobility skills among
      novice older adult manual wheelchair users compared to usual care. Despite the pervasive use
      of wheelchairs as an intervention in rehabilitation, the evidence for training in effective
      wheelchair use is still underdeveloped. Structured training has demonstrated excellent
      potential, but the most effective and efficient means of providing that training remains
      unclear. Larger multi-site clinical trials are required to establish evidence to inform and
      direct clinical practice. The investigators propose that this 2-year feasibility trial is not
      only critical, but also prudent, prior to moving forward with an expensive large multi-site
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). Specifically the results of this study will address 1)
      feasibility outcomes (i.e., recruitment and retention; trainer and subject burden; safety;
      intervention administration and adherence; perceived benefit) and 2) clinical outcomes (i.e.,
      effect size calculations for the primary and secondary measures). Although the principal
      intent is feasibility, the sample size calculation is based on the primary clinical outcome
      to provide a reasonable estimate of an effect size for planning the subsequent large scale
      RCT.

      HYPOTHESES: The investigators expect that the feasibility outcomes will be sufficiently
      robust to support conducting a subsequent multi-site RCT. The investigators also expect the
      EPIC WheelS training program will have a significant treatment effect with improvement in
      wheelchair mobility, compared to a control group. The primary clinical endpoint will be
      wheelchair skill capacity, as measured by the Wheelchair Skills Test (WST). Secondary
      clinical outcomes will include wheelchair skill safety; confidence with wheelchair use;
      mobility; and user evaluation of performance in participation-oriented activities.
    
  