
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of pathologic complete response with treatment of liposomal
      doxorubicin (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride) and carboplatin in patients with
      estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), HER2 negative breast cancer (triple
      negative breast cancer [TNBC]).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recurrence free survival (RFS), 2-year RFS, and overall survival (OS)
      after treatment with neoadjuvant liposomal doxorubicin and carboplatin followed by definitive
      breast surgery and then weekly paclitaxel in patients with ER, progesterone receptor (PgR),
      HER2 negative breast cancer.

      II. To describe the mutational spectrum of tumors found in primary, untreated ER, PgR, HER2
      negative breast cancer and their association with pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant
      pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (doxil) and carboplatin.

      III. To determine functional significance of genomic landscape in predicting drug response
      using patient derived xenograft (PDX) and ex vivo models.

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride* intravenously
      (IV) over 90 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ADJUVANT: Patients undergo definitive surgery at the discretion of the treating physician.
      Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes once weekly for 12 weeks in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      *NOTE: If there is a shortage of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, patients
      receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-20 minutes on day 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 20
      years.
    
  