
    
      Following the design of our pilot study, patients consenting to two sets of blood pressure
      readings will be randomly allocated using a random number table to either automated blood
      pressure measurement using a BpTRU device in an exam room (private area without any traffic
      or staff) with the door closed, or BpTRU in an open (non-private area) of the clinic with
      routine office traffic and noise levels. Patients randomized to the private area first will
      be subsequently tested in the non-private area and those randomized to the non-private area
      first will then be tested in the private area. A single portable BpTRU machine will be used
      for all recordings. A research assistant will be trained on the use of the equipment with at
      least five supervised training readings. The BpTRU device will be placed on the patient's arm
      and readings will be recorded by the research assistant. The first reading will be done with
      the research assistant present to ensure proper placement and recording. The patient will
      then be left alone for the subsequent five measurements separated by one minute intervals.
      This will be immediately followed by a second set of readings in the alternate location.
      During both sets of readings the patient will be seated comfortably in a chair with arms and
      will be instructed not to talk or cross their legs. The same arm will be used for both sets
      of measurements with the blood pressure cuff at heart level. The research assistant will
      record the average of the last five out of six blood pressure readings for each office
      location, in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and previous studies.

      The research assistant will record decibel levels in each location during BP readings using a
      Reed Sound Level Meter C-322 (Reed Instruments, Ste-Anne-de-Bellevue, Quebec, Canada). The
      sound level meter includes a data logger, and the mean decibel level per location for each
      set of readings will be recorded. The assistant will be trained in the use of the sound meter
      and logger and will use it during the five supervised BP training readings. The research
      assistant will also measure and record the patient's weight in kg, height in cm, and will
      collect information on patient's gender and self reported history of hypertension.

      Planned sample size and analysis Our sample size is based on equivalence of BpTRU measurement
      done in non private office areas as compared to measurement done in private office areas,
      using the results of our pilot study. We consider differences of less than 5 mm Hg in
      systolic blood pressure to be clinically equivalent. In order to demonstrate equivalence for
      our primary outcome, and accounting for clustering effect in primary care offices, using a
      power of 80% and a two sided alpha level of 0.05 to conclude equivalency for a difference of
      5 mm Hg or less, we will need to recruit 350 patients. Our planned recruitment is therefore
      fifty patients per office and seven office locations. 175 patients (25 per office location)
      will be randomly allocated to BpTRU measurement in a private exam room first and 175 will be
      allocated to an open area first.

      Following the analytic methods used in our pilot study, we will use a random effect
      regression model to account for repeated measures within each participant for analyzing the
      data. Regression analysis will be undertaken to compare the measures and results will be
      adjusted for clustering effect. All tests will be two-sided using an alpha level of 0.05.
    
  