
    
      The following parameters were analyzed prior to LCIG treatment (at baseline), at months one,
      three, six and twelve, and every year afterwards over a 10-year period:

        -  Safety:

           - Adverse Events (AEs) related to percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) procedures
           and gastrostomy, infusion device, and treatment. Actions taken to solve them, and
           reasons for treatment discontinuation and withdrawal.

        -  Effectiveness:

             -  Motor fluctuations: Off time in hours recorded in Parkinson's Disease Diary©.

             -  Dyskinesia and other motor clinical aspects: evaluated with the Unified Parkinson's
                Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) part IV, UPDRS part II in On and Off, UPDRS part III
                in On and Off, Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) stage in On and Off and Schwab and England
                (S&E) scale.

             -  Non-motor clinical aspects: cognitive function through Mini Mental State
                Examination (MMSE), and UPDRS part I, and relevant neuropsychiatric disorders.

      The parameters analyzed in the three prospective substudies carried out in three subsets of
      this population, are described below:

      Substudy 1 - Cognition and behavior assessment: Subgroup evaluated with a specific
      neuropsychological battery for assessment of cognition and behavior disorders prior to
      treatment (at baseline) and after 6 months of LCIG, by the same neuropsychologist at the same
      environmental conditions and in patients in phase On. The cognitive examination included:
      tests that assessed cognitive areas affected in PD according to the literature, psychometric
      tests with well-known parameters, tests that can be used in different types of populations
      (neurologic and psychiatric disorders, screening, etc.), tests suitable for a population with
      low educational and cultural level.

        -  Attentional function: Forward Digit Span test of Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third
           Edition (WAIS III); Audio-verbal attentional capacity; and Stroop Color-Word test.

        -  Executive functions: Backward Digit Span of WAIS III; Audio-verbal working memory;
           Stroop-word and Stroop-color subtests; Response inhibition capacity; Controlled Oral
           Word-Association Test (FAS) of phonemic verbal fluency; Category Naming Test (Animals)
           of semantic verbal fluency.

        -  Visual-constructional visuospatial and visuoperceptual functions: Clock Drawing Test -
           (order and copy) -visual-constructional; Reading clocks - simple visuospatial ability;
           Luria test of overlapping figures - visual perceptive skills function.

        -  Memory and learning: Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) - Short and long term
           audio-verbal memory and recognition.

        -  Language: Boston Naming Test (BNT) - Title by visual comparison.

        -  Motor functions: Luria motor sequences - Voluntary motor control, Motor coordination.

        -  Mood: Beck depression inventory (BDI)

        -  Behavior: Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) - Exploration of psychological and behavioral
           symptoms.

      Substudy 2 - Quality of sleep: Subgroup evaluated with Epworth scale, fatigue scale,
      Pittsburg quality of sleep questionnaire, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and Hamilton
      anxiety scale, administered prior to treatment (at baseline) and 6 months after treatment. In
      addition, an overnight polysomnography (PSG) study was carried out at these timings.

      Substudy 3 - Health status, QoL and caregiver burden: Subgroup evaluated for up to 12 months,
      with the Spanish version of the 39-items quality of life questionnaire in PD (PDQ-39, 0-156),
      health status questionnaires (EQ-5D, range 5-15; and EQ-VAS range 0-100), global clinical
      impression scale (CGI, range 1-7), and caregiver burden questionnaire or Zarit Burden index
      (ZBI, range 0-100). Assessments were done prior to treatment (at baseline), 1 week, 3 months,
      6 months and 12 months after treatment.
    
  