
    
      Rectal bleeding is a source of anxiety for both children and parents and is frequently
      encountered clinical complaint in routine practice in pediatric patient . Lower
      gastrointestinal bleeding means bleeding from sites distal to the ligament of treitz and
      presents as rectal bleeding while passage of bright red blood from the rectum is called
      hematochezia.

      The etiology of rectal bleeding is different in children than in adult according to age group
      which enables physicians to make appropriate differential diagnosis. There are several
      etiologies for rectal bleeding in pediatric practice ranging from mild condition requiring
      little or no treatment to severe and life-threating ones requiring immediate intervention.
      The etiologies include anal fissure, food allergy, infectious enterocolitis,
      Meckel'sdiverticulum, intussusceptions, volvulus, lymphonodular hyperplasia, inflammatory
      bowel disease, angiodysplasia, hemorrhoids, and hemolytic -uremic syndrome. Common causes of
      bleeding per rectum in children vary between studies . Once the bleeding is suspected to be
      coming from lower gastrointestinal tract it warrant an evaluation in all cases by
      proctosigmoidoscopy followed by colonoscopy .

      Colonoscopy is the examination of choice for diagnosis and management of bleeding per rectum
      in children . The benefits of colonoscopy include identification of the site of bleeding
      regardless of the rate or presence of bleeding through visualization the entire length of the
      colon often include the distal ileum by possibility of endoscpic intervention and biopsy
      taking to make and confirm the diagnosis and follow up evaluation, so gastrointestinal
      endoscopy with biopsy is an essential tool for diagnosis of crohns disease and ulcerative
      colitis in children, as well as therapeutical intervention of colonoscopy by hemostasis,
      removing polyps, dilating stricture or decompressing the obstructed bowel .

      Colonoscopy is considered a safe and low risk procedure. Complications of colonoscopy are
      rare and usually minor, as adverse effects of sedative medicine as (nausea,vomiting or
      allergies) can ocurr.

      Bleeding after colonoscopy is usually minimal but may follow mucous biopsy or polypectomy,
      Perforation is very rare but it is the most serious complication of colonoscopy in children,
      it is usually related to polypectomy and can be successfully managed with surgical
      intervention. In case of infection in which cause the child will be given antibiotics.
    
  