
    
      Part 1:

      Prostate cancer tissue has certain differences in its metabolism (chemical makeup) that are
      not seen in normal tissue. MRSI is a type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that uses the
      same type of scanner as a standard MRI. Unlike standard MRI, which takes pictures of the body
      regions, MRSI shows the metabolic features of the prostate cells. MRSI exams that use a
      "coil" behind the prostate (inside of the rectum) have been used to measure the metabolic
      features of prostate cancer tissue. This has been shown to improve the accuracy of finding
      prostate tumor using standard scanners called "1.5T" scanners.

      The coil works like an antenna, and air is normally used inside the coil to inflate it. The
      accuracy of endorectal MRSI exams still needs improvement. Use of PFC instead of air inside
      of the coil has been shown to greatly improve the quality of MRSI images at 1.5T scanners. At
      first, researchers want to learn if the newer, stronger (3T) scanners will improve the
      quality of endorectal MRSI exam when combined with PFC within the coil. PFC is a clear and
      odorless liquid that, as opposed to air, is physically very similar to human tissue (such as
      prostate tissue). This makes the MRSI images much clearer.

      If you agree to take part in this study (Part 1) and are found to be eligible, you will have
      2 MRSI exams (one with air and one with PFC) using an endorectal coil.

      Before being inserted, the coil will be inflated with air to check for a possible leak. You
      will lie on one side, inside of a 3T MRI scanner, and the coil (covered with protective
      nonlatex or latex) will be inserted into your rectum. Having the coil inserted is similar to
      having an enema tip inserted. The coil will be filled with air, and you will lie on your back
      so the first MRSI exam can be completed. Once the first MRSI exam is completed, as much of
      the air as possible will be removed from the coil using a syringe.

      The coil will then be filled with PFC, and the second MRSI exam will be repeated in the same
      manner. At the end of the exam, the PFC will be removed in the same manner, and then the coil
      will be removed from the rectum. There will be no direct contact between the PFC or air
      inside the coil and your body. In total, the 2 MRSI studies should take about 60 minutes.

      You will have a prostatectomy (surgical removal of the prostate) within 3 months of having
      the MRSI exams performed. After the operation, your participation in this study will be over.

      Part 2:

      Prostate cancer tissue has certain differences in its metabolism (chemical makeup) that are
      not seen in normal tissue. MRSI is a type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that uses the
      same type of scanner as a standard MRI. Unlike standard MRI, which takes pictures of the
      anatomy (body regions), MRSI shows the metabolic features of the prostate. MRSI exams that
      use a "coil" behind the prostate (inside of the rectum) have been used to measure the
      metabolic features of prostate cancer tissue. This has been shown to improve the accuracy of
      prostate tumor detection at standard scanners called "1.5T" scanners.

      The coil works like an antenna, and air is normally used inside the coil to inflate it. The
      accuracy of endorectal MRSI exams still needs improvement. Use of PFC instead of air inside
      of the coil has been shown to greatly improve the quality of MRSI images at 1.5T scanners. At
      first, researchers want to learn if the newer, stronger (3T) scanners will improve the
      quality of endorectal MRSI exam when combined with PFC within the coil. PFC is a clear and
      odorless liquid that, as opposed to air, is physically very similar to human tissue (such as
      prostate tissue). This makes the MRSI images much clearer.

      If you agree to take part in this study (Part 2) and are found to be eligible, you will have
      an MRSI exam with PFC using an endorectal coil. Only PFC will be used.

      Before being inserted, the coil will be inflated with air to check for a possible leak, and
      as much as possible of the air will be removed. You will lie on one side, inside of a 3T MRI
      scanner, and the coil (covered with protective nonlatex or latex) will be inserted into your
      rectum. Having the coil inserted is similar to having an enema tip inserted. The coil will be
      filled with PFC, and you will lie on your back so the MRSI exam can be completed. Once the
      exam is completed, the PFC will be removed from the coil using a syringe and then the coil
      will be removed from the rectum. There will be no direct contact between the PFC inside the
      coil and your body. The procedure should take about 30 minutes.

      You will have a prostatectomy (surgical removal of the prostate) within 3 months of having
      the MRSI exam performed. After the operation, your participation in this study will be over.
    
  