
    
      Title:Clinical Registration Trial of Intracranial Stenting for Patients With Symptomatic
      Intracranial Artery Stenosis:A Prospective Multi-center, Registry Trial

      Design of trial:

      This trial is an prospective, government-funded registration study that will observe the
      safety and effectiveness of intracranial stenting for preventing stroke during a mean
      follow-up of 3 years in patients with symptomatic stenosis of a major intracranial artery
      (MCA, carotid, vertebral, basilar). This trial was launched by Xuanwu Hospital, Capital
      University of Medical Science, with 40 collaborators participating. Enrollment will begin in
      2013, and it aims to have a sample size of 840 subjects in 2 years. The trial is scheduled to
      complete in 2015.

      Details:

      SAMMPRIS (Stenting vs. Aggressive Medical Management for Preventing Recurrent Stroke in
      Intracranial Stenosis) hasn't received the expected results; But, it does not mean that
      angioplasty with stent on intracranial treatment come to a full stop. On the contrary, a
      discrepancy on reported data between multi-centre RCT and most single center studies urges us
      for thorough investigation in future.

      As we know, SAMMPRIS is flawed with defect in design, heterogeneity in experience and
      credentials of operators and high rate of complication; Some questions about SAMMPRIS have
      been raised, and remained unresolved.

      This trial has been modified based on SAMMPRIS in order to acquire the data for China:
      Technique, experience, and credential of the operators are closely related with perioperative
      complications in PTAS. The investigators select 40 large-scale medical centers for
      participation on the basis of geographical distribution. All the participants are ranked as
      top in China. They have the most experienced surgeons or interventionist in China, and are
      fully qualified for this trial. This will guarantee the success and safety of technique,
      maintain the continuity of operator's experience, and make the complication rate as low as
      possible.

      SAMMPRIS was stopped ahead of schedule due to the safety concern. More than half of the PTAS
      patients were lost for follow-up at 1 year, and the remaining were followed up with a mean
      duration less than 1 year. It leaves the question of long-time follow-up data open. Base on
      SAMMPRIS, the investigators' trial will conduct a systematic follow-up system. Upon
      recruitment, all the patients' neurological and imaging examination will be determined at
      baseline, 1 week, 1 month, 6 months , 12 months after surgery, respectively.
    
  