
    
      Estimates derived from National data indicate that seven out of ten residents in assisted
      living have some form of dementia, with 29% having mild impairment, 23% with moderate
      impairment, and 19% with severe impairment. More than one-third of these residents display
      behavioral symptoms commonly associated with dementia, approximately 30-50% experience pain,
      the majority require assistance with activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADLs), are sedentary and have limited opportunities to engage in
      physical activity. Innovative approaches are needed to help residents with dementia remain in
      assisted living settings. Typically, however, the care of older adults with dementia living
      in assisted living settings has followed a "just get it done" approach. The focus of care is
      on task completion and minimization of behavioral symptoms. This results in care that ignores
      what the resident is able to do for him or herself and is custodial. Residents are not
      encouraged to perform activities such as combing their own hair, brushing their teeth, or
      ambulating. Providing custodial care facilitates a decline in physical capability and
      function, causes medical complications, exacerbates depressive symptoms, increases the
      likelihood of sustaining a fall and ultimately may result in a need to be transferred to
      acute or skilled nursing care. To overcome custodial care we use an approach referred to as
      Function Focused Care. Function Focused Care is a philosophy of care in which staff members
      engage residents in physical activity at their highest level of ability during all care
      interactions. Prior research has repeatedly supported the effectiveness of Function Focused
      Care in terms of maintaining function and increasing time spent in physical activity among
      older adults in assisted living settings. We do not know, however, if: (1) there is a
      difference between those with and without dementia in pain, pain management, behavioral and
      affective symptoms, or the quality of staff-resident interactions; (2) these factors are
      associated with participation in function focused care activities at baseline; or (3) there
      is a differential impact of the Function Focused Care for Assisted Living using the Evidence
      Integration Triangle Intervention (FFC-AL-EIT) between those with and without dementia in
      terms of participation in function focused care activities, function and physical activity
      over the 12 month study period. To answer these questions we propose adding measures for
      pain, behavioral and affective symptoms and quality of staff-resident interactions to Cohort
      2 of the parent study, Testing the Dissemination and Implementation of Function Focused Care
      (1R01AG050516-01A1). The findings from this study will add to what is currently known about
      older adults with dementia in assisted living and will be used to revise the FFC-AL-EIT
      intervention as needed to optimize participation in function focused care activities and
      thereby maintain and improve function and physical activity among older adults with dementia
      in assisted living.
    
  