
    
      Background:

        -  Tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO) is a rare disorder in which fibroblast growth factor
           (FGF23)-producing neoplasms cause renal phosphate wasting and skeletal disease.

        -  Recent studies have shown that chromosomal translocations causing a fibronectin-FGFR1
           (FN1/FGFR1) fusion gene have been identified in 40-60% of these tumors.

        -  BGJ398 is an orally bio-available, selective and ATP competitive pan-fibroblast growth
           factor receptor (FGFR) kinase inhibitor which has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in
           preclinical, in vitro and in-vivo tumor models harboring FGFR genetic alterations.

      Objectives:

      To induce complete metabolic response in subjects with tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO) with
      BGJ-398 as demonstrated by normalization of FGF23 and phosphate homeostasis.

      Eligibility:

      Patients may be eligible if they:

        -  Are adults 18-85 years with documented evidence of TIO due to a non-localized or
           unresectable tumor, or metastatic disease, or resectable tumor that cannot be easily
           removed.

        -  Are not taking any exclusionary medications or foods that may interfere with BGJ398.

        -  Are not pregnant or nursing and are willing to use contraception (at least two forms of
           contraception), if able to become pregnant.

        -  Have no significant ophthalmologic, gastrointestinal, renal, or hematologic disease.

      Design:

        -  Phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, single-arm, drug treatment trial.

        -  10 subjects to be studied.

        -  Treatment duration 6 months with 3 months off drug follow-up and optional extension
           phase.

        -  Monthly NIH visits with additional labs obtained in between visits.

        -  Imaging performed in those with identifiable tumors.

        -  Analyses to include repeated measures ANOVA assessing changes in biochemical indices
           over time in response to BGJ398.
    
  