
    
      The primary aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between skin barrier
      structure/function and skin health in a longitudinal birth cohort. The study (including the
      purpose and design) has been externally reviewed by a group of peers and was awarded funding
      by the Leo Foundation.

      There is no therapeutic intervention and we will offer no healthcare advice. All participants
      will be instructed to seek medical care as needed from their normal service provider. As such
      there are no significant ethical implications.

      This study involves a series of harmless procedures to test the properties of the skin in
      babies and the collection of information on how parents care for their baby's skin over the
      first 12 months of life. All types of procedures to test the skin are non-invasive and have
      been used safely in previous clinical studies in babies. Whilst FTIR spectroscopy was used in
      a previous study conducted by our team in babies (the OBSeRvE study), the investigators will
      now use a different FTIR instrument. Compared to the benchtop device used for OBSeRvE, the
      new instrument is better adapted to remote use because of its portability, is safer to use
      because the measurement head is made of rugged inert materials (diamond and stainless steel)
      compared to a fragile loop, and the detector is electrically cooled by batteries instead of
      liquid nitrogen. This device has been tested in humans for safety.

      The approach to recruitment of study participants has been informed by the experience of
      several other clinical studies in babies, including the Barrier Enhancement Eczema Prevention
      Trial, for which Sheffield has just recently finished recruiting 250 babies. Study
      recruitment and the skin procedures performed shortly after birth will be led by an
      experienced Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Research Midwife who is familiar in this clinical
      environment, and is comfortable with the ethical implications of working with babies and new
      mothers in the early stages following birth. The Research Midwife will perform the study
      duties, while remaining sensitive to the needs of the women and babies on the postnatal ward
      (for example allowing women to breastfeed in peace if requested), and ensuring throughout
      that maternity service provision will not be adversely affected. The Research Midwife is
      fully trained in good clinical practice and informed consent. Babies will only be included in
      the study if the mother's consent is freely provided. Every effort will be made to minimise
      the burden placed on parents: this means that the researchers will go to the participants to
      undertake the tests, either at the hospital or at their homes.The researchers will also
      distribute vouchers to the participants as a "thank you" for their involvement in the study.
      The voucher amount will be proportionate for their involvement, and is at an appropriate
      level for the burden of taking part. Taking part is entirely voluntary and the researchers
      will observe the customs/wishes of the participants. An experienced Research Midwife will
      lead all hospital assessments, with subsequent follow-up visits being lead by skilled
      University of Sheffield employed Skin Research Technicians who hold a Sheffield Teaching
      Hospitals research passport and have undergone a full Disclosure and Barring Services check.
      All participants will be notified prior to discharge from the maternity ward that the study
      team conducting home visits consists of both male and female members. If the participant is
      not happy for a male researcher to conduct a home visit, the researchers will ensure a female
      member of the team is available as a replacement.

      This study includes skin assessments at the participant's home. The research team will
      complete a lone worker risk assessment and will comply with The University of Sheffield and
      Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust Lone Working guidance. The researchers will issue a
      study mobile phone for communication during lone working episodes. The researchers have
      established a set of inclusion and exclusion criteria to ensure that the study is conducted
      fairly. To ensure that the results are generalizable the researchers have kept the exclusion
      criteria to a minimum with a geographical restriction centred on the Jessops Wing Maternity
      Unit established simply for logistical reasons (follow-up sessions being conducted at the
      participant's homes). The participants will be advised that their data will be held securely,
      identified only by a unique study number, and that all personal information will be kept
      strictly confidential. Identifying personal details will be kept only on the study
      registration form and the Consent form. These documents provide the only link between
      personal information and the study participant number, and will be kept separately from study
      data, and stored securely in the STAR study office. Pseudonyms will be used for purposes of
      transcription and verbatim quotation within any publication. Audio recordings will be
      destroyed after transcription analysis.
    
  