
    
      Idarubicin is a new generation of anthracyclines with high lipophilicity and is more
      permeable to cytomembrane and therefore is more cytotoxic to leukemic cells. It can pass
      through the blood brain barrier easily. so IDA has more advantages over other anthracyclines
      in prolonging the overall survival for AML. The induction therapy with idarubicin and
      cytarabine is now the first-line induction regimen for AML. Many clinical trails have
      indicated that the dosage of IDA is positively correlated with its effectiveness. But in
      China IDA has been used in varied dosages ranging from 6 to 12 mg/m2. In most Chinese
      hospitals, the usual dosage range of IDA is from 6 to 8 mg/m2 which may contribute to the
      much lower 5-year survival rates of AML reported in Chinese medical literature than those in
      foreign literature. What is the suitable dosage of IDA as induction therapy for Chinese AML
      population with the best efficacy but the lest increase of side effects? Till now there is no
      retrospective, randomized and multicentered clinical trails to answer this question on
      remission-inducing dosages of IDA. All the existing trials till now are just small- sampled ,
      single-centered , retrospective and non-randomized which can not provide strong evidences .

      This study aims at comparing two induction doses of 8mg/m2 and 10mg/m2 of IDA with the method
      of prospective randomized and multi-centered trial.The two doses of IDA have been used in
      many Chinese hospitals for many years, its effectiveness and safety have been recognized.
      This trail aims at the and side effects of IDA during induction therapy and its effect on the
      long-term survival of Chinese AML population, so it can provide strong evidences for optimal
      dosage of IDA for Chinese AML population.It can not only reduce the waste of medical social
      resources but also produce good social and economic benefits.
    
  