
    
      Only 2 studies evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively the sensitivity disorders in
      patients with bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy by intravenous (Boyette-Davis et al.,
      2011; Cata et al., 2007). In these 2 studies, the patients presented a distribution of the
      sensitive disorders characteristic of the so-called stocking-glove distribution of the CIPN
      affecting the distal extremities of the limbs. A quantification of the sensory thresholds
      (QST) was carried out and revealed a number of sensitive anomalies. Neuropathic patients
      suffer from deficits in tactile sensitivity and disorders of thermal sensitivity. In Cata et
      al. study, patients showed hypersensitivity to painful cold (CIPN patients vs. healthy
      controls: 10.4±2°C vs. 3±1°C, p<0.05), hot perception deficit (CIPN patients vs. healthy
      controls: 40.2±1.4°C vs. 37±0.74°C, p<0.05) and a painful hot sensitivity deficit. However,
      the cold sensory disorders would be more inconstant, because in neuropathic patients
      suffering from bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy, another study by the same team found
      only warm tactile and thermal sensory anomalies, but did not reveal a cold perception anomaly
      (Boyette-Davis et al., 2011). Finally, a few rare cases of bortezomib-induced hearing
      impairment have been described in the literature (Chim and Wong, 2008; Engelhardt et al.,
      2005). This ototoxicity is thought to be linked to an alteration in the functioning of
      peroxisomes (Lee et al., 2015).

      No studies have actually evaluated the long-term prevalence of bortezomib-induced neuropathy.
      The only studies with long-term follow-up have carried out a cumulative assessment over 22
      months (Pantani et al., 2014), 32 months (Dimopoulos et al., 2013) and 60 months (Wang et
      al., 2016) of the therapeutic response and adverse reactions induced by bortezomib. No
      studies dedicated to neurological adverse events have been conducted in the long term. Thus,
      the prevalence, duration, intensity and reversibility of bortezomib-induced neuropathy are
      poorly known in the long term (more than 5 years). On the other hand, a measurement tool such
      as the QLQ-CIPN20 questionnaire (EORTC) evaluating the intensity of sensory, motor and
      vegetative disorders associated with CIPN, a questionnaire presented as the most specific
      tool in the evaluation of CIPN (Lavoie Smith et al., 2013; Postma et al., 2005), has never
      been tested in this patient population.

      This study project aims to provide precise knowledge on the prevalence, intensity and
      consequences of bortezomib-induced neuropathy in the short (2016-2014) and medium (2014-2012)
      term after subcutaneous injection and in the long term (2012-2008) after intravenous
      injection, knowing that at the Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital, the route of
      administration of bortezomib was intravenous. Retreat to at least 9 years of age could
      provide information on the kinetics of onset and disappearance of neuropathy after
      chemotherapy treatments (data unknown in the literature to date). Finally, these data
      acquired in a French context relating to bortezomib-induced neuropathy may be used in future
      studies evaluating new intervention strategies to prevent and/or treat bortezomib-induced
      neuropathy.

      This observational study will combine retrospective treatment data from the CHIMIO®
      chemotherapy prescribing software with data obtained from patients by answering
      questionnaires.

      Patients will be identified from the CHIMIO® chemotherapy prescription software database. The
      algorithm (computer query) will identify all patients who received bortezomib-based
      chemotherapy for the multiple myeloma indication between 2008 and 2016. All the
      questionnaires used are validated in the scientific literature.
    
  