
    
      Initial visit/baseline measures for intervention and control groups (1-2 hrs): Subject Info
      and Demographics, Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Blood draw (vitamin B-1 (thiamine), vitamin
      B-9 (folate), vitamin B-12 (cobalamin), vitamin K, homocysteine, C-reactive protein), MS
      Functional Composite (MSFC) [Timed 25-Foot Walk (T25-FW), 9-Hole Peg Test (9-HPT), Paced
      Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT)], 6-minute walk, and Paced Visual Serial Addition Test
      (PVSAT).

      Complete at home/office/other: Automated Self-Administered 24-hour recall application
      (ASA24).

      Two-week run-in for intervention and control groups: Return survey instruments: [Multiple
      Sclerosis Quality of Life-54 (MSQOL-54), Veterans Specific Activity Questionnaire (VSAQ),
      Medication, Vitamin, and Supplement Log, and Food Diary]. Randomization; training for
      intervention and control groups (1-2 hrs). Training for the intervention group will involve
      orientation of subjects to the modified paleo diet and food logging; control group training
      will consist of study expectations (maintenance of normal diet) and food logging. Both will
      be conducted by a research team member, with subjects, on an individual basis.

      Begin 3-month study: 1 short follow-up call per week, for first three weeks, then every other
      week thereafter asking intervention and control group subjects if they need assistance with
      study procedures and providing assistance when needed/possible and ensuring subjects are
      accurately maintaining daily food log/diary (5 mins; could be longer/shorter depending on
      subject needs). If a subject (intervention or control arm) is having difficulty filling out
      the Food Log/Food Diary, he/she will have the opportunity to meet with research team members
      at a location of the subject's choosing (to include web-conferencing) for supplemental
      instruction.

      At 1 month and few days before returning for the final visit, complete at home/office/other:
      Automated Self-Administered 24-hour recall application (ASA24).

      Final visit* for intervention and control groups (1-2 hrs): Multiple Sclerosis Quality of
      Life-54 (MSQOL-54), Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Veterans Specific Activity Questionnaire
      (VSAQ), Medication, Vitamin, and Supplement Log, Food Log, Blood draw (vitamin B-1
      (thiamine), vitamin B-9 (folate), vitamin B-12 (cobalamin), vitamin K, homocysteine,
      C-reactive protein), MS Functional Composite (MSFC) [Timed 25-Foot Walk (T25-FW), 9-Hole Peg
      Test (9-HPT), Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT)], 6-minute walk, and Paced Visual
      Serial Addition Test (PVSAT). *End of participation for intervention group or cross-over
      (from control to 3-month intervention) for interested control group subjects.

      If regular in-person meetings are not possible (for two-week recall and/or supplemental
      instruction), a subject may choose to communicate with research staff via a web conferencing
      application (Google Hangout). The privacy policy may be found here:
      http://www.google.com/policies/privacy/ and will be provided to subjects upon request.
    
  