
    
      Tinnitus is hypothesized to originate as a result of a disturbance in the balance of
      excitatory and inhibitory neurons in central auditory structures. More specifically,
      inhibitory neurons hyperpolarize, by which their functional role is weakened . Consequently,
      this allows auditory neurons, deprived of input from a lesioned auditory system, to
      spontaneously synchronize their activity, resulting in the tinnitus percept.

      In the normal functioning auditory system, neurons firing synchronously in the alpha
      frequency region (8 - 12 Hz) have a gating function of inhibiting task-irrelevant regions in
      the brain. In people with chronic tinnitus, it has been observed, that alpha activity over
      temporal regions is weakened, thus leading to the spontaneous activity characterizing the
      condition. By upregulating alpha activity with neurofeedback training, it is hypothesized
      that the excitatory/inhibitory balance in temporal regions can be restored, thus minimizing
      the tinnitus percept.

      The coupling or exchange of information of distinct brain regions, leading to an integrated
      conscious perception, is assumed to be mediated by delta oscillations. In tinnitus, the
      distress associated with the condition arises as a consequence of coupling prefrontal areas,
      responsible for allocation of attentional resources with limbic (arousal) and temporal
      (auditory processing) regions. In neurofeedback, the downregulation of delta activity is
      hypothesized to lead to a de-coupling of the communication between the areas associated with
      the distress.

      No studies to date have tested the specific role of alpha and delta in the origin and
      perpetuation of tinnitus distress and intrusiveness. The present study seeks to compensate
      for this, by comparing an alpha and delta neurofeedback ratio training protocol with one
      assumed to have no direct association with the pathophysiology of tinnitus.

      In addition to the ten neurofeedback training sessions, all participants undergo diagnostic
      assessments at three time points throughout the trial (pre-neurofeedback training,
      post-neurofeedback training and at three months follow-up). For the first 40 participants,
      electroencephalographic (EEG) activity is recorded and cognitive capacity assessed with two
      attention tests, the Attention Network Test and Sustained Attention Response Task,
      respectively at all three time points. For the remaining 80 participants, the EEG recording
      is abandoned, and only cognitive capacity assessed in the pre- post, and follow-up phase of
      the study.

      EEG recording and attention processes is similarly measured in a control group (n=40) at the
      pre-neurofeedback training stage. The group is comprised of healthy, age and gender matched
      participants. Their inclusion serve the purpose of comparing the brain activity, both at rest
      and during cognitive activity between people with- and people without tinnitus.
    
  