
    
      This will be a single-center, randomized, controlled investigation. Consenting adults
      undergoing unilateral total knee arthroplasty with a planned adductor canal perineural
      catheter will be offered enrollment. Study inclusion will be proposed to eligible patients
      prior to surgery. If a patient desires study participation, written, informed consent will be
      obtained using a current UCSD IRB-approved ICF. Selection for inclusion will not be based on
      gender, race, or socioeconomic status.

      Following written, informed consent, we will record baseline anthropomorphic information. All
      subjects will have a peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard noninvasive
      monitors applied, supplemental oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face mask, and
      positioned supine. Midazolam and fentanyl will be titrated for patient comfort, while
      ensuring that patients remain responsive to verbal cues. The ultrasound will be placed to
      visualize the short axis (cross-section) of the adductor canal. If both sites (above femoral
      artery versus between femoral artery and vein) are acceptable for catheter insertion, the
      subject will be randomized using a computer-generated list (blocks of 8) to one of two
      treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio using sealed, opaque, consecutively numbered envelopes: (1)
      above femoral artery vs (2) between femoral artery and vein.

      Catheter insertion will adhere to current UCSD standard-of-care. The only difference for
      subjects participating in the study will be that the specific catheter insertion location
      will be determined randomly, instead of the physician simply choosing him/herself. All
      catheters will be placed by a regional anesthesia fellow under the direct supervision and
      guidance of a regional anesthesia attending. All catheters will be placed using standard UCSD
      perineural catheter techniques.

      The area of insertion will be cleaned with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl alcohol, and
      a clear, sterile, fenestrated drape applied. The ultrasound probe will be placed to visualize
      the short-axis (cross-section) of the target nerve(s). A 17-gauge needle (FlexTip, Teleflex
      Medical, Triangle Research Park, NC, USA) will be used to place all perineural catheters. The
      catheter-placement needle will be inserted through the skin wheal, advanced in-plane beneath
      the US transducer and directed to the target nerve as described below:

      "Above-the-artery": The needle will be directed below the nerve to about five o'clock of the
      artery. The needle will then be advanced to twelve o'clock of the artery while opening the
      adductor canal space with saline until adequate opening of the canal is realized. At that
      point, the catheter is placed above the artery.

      "Between-the-artery-and-vein": The needle will be directed above the nerve and placed at one
      o'clock of the artery. Then the needle will be positioned at about six o'clock of the artery
      and advanced between the femoral artery and vein with simultaneous pressure until the
      adductor canal opens appropriately. The perineural catheter will be placed between the artery
      and vein.

      Saline (10 mL) will be administered via the needle to dilate the space where the catheter is
      to be inserted. A flexible non-stimulating perineural catheter will be inserted 3-5 cm past
      the needle tip; and the needle withdrawn over the catheter. A 30 mL bolus of lidocaine 2%
      with 1:400,000 of epinephrine will then be administered through the catheter.

      Intraoperatively, patients may receive a general and/or neuraxial anesthetic that would be
      determined by the intraoperative anesthesia provider. Additional boluses of 10 mL 2%
      lidocaine with epinephrine may be given, if needed, via the perineural catheter.

      Perineural infusion: An infusion pump will be attached to each subject's perineural catheter.
      The pump will provide ropivacaine 0.2% at 6 mL/h and a 4 mL patient-controlled bolus with a
      30-minute lockout.

      Data collection: All data collection will be through standard UCSD nursing/therapy electronic
      medical record notes for the day following surgery.

      Primary endpoint: The primary endpoint will be the average pain on post operative day 1
      following surgery as measured on a numeric rating scale (0-10, 0=no pain, 10=worst imaginable
      pain) during the time periods of 08:00-24:00.

      Secondary endpoints: Other data collected will include: (1) total procedure duration (from
      needle-in to needle-out), (2) total opioid consumption on postoperative day 1, (3) worst pain
      score measured on a numeric rating scale, (4) number of intra-procedural vascular punctures,
      (5) total local anesthetic infused in 24 hours following surgery, and (6) distance ambulated
      on postoperative day 1 with first session of physical therapy.

      Sample size estimates:

      The primary analysis will utilize the Wilcoxon Rank Sum test. The mean postoperative day 1
      pain scores following adductor canal catheter placement for total knee arthroplasty is 4.12
      with standard deviation = 1.74.2 The null hypothesis is that the "above-the-artery" group is
      inferior to the "between-the-artery-and-vein" group. The alternative hypothesis is that the
      "above-the-artery" group in non-inferior to the "between-the-artery-and-vein" group. Assuming
      a non-inferiority limit of 1.5, power = 0.80, two-side alpha = 0.05, we will require 17
      patients in each group (total = 34). To account for dropouts, we plan to recruit 20 patients
      in each group, totaling 40 patients all together.
    
  