
    
      There are striking differences in breast cancer incidence rates between Asian and North
      American and Western European populations, but within Asia variation is also wide. Incidence
      in Mongolia is one of the lowest in the world (6.6/100,000) while China, its neighbor to the
      south, has about three times this rate (18.7/100,000). Furthermore, rates appear higher in
      urban than in rural areas in Mongolia. Over the last decade and a half Mongolia has
      experienced profound economic changes resulting in mass migration from a nomadic or
      semi-nomadic existence to a more western lifestyle in the capital city of Ulaanbaatar, and
      some back migration to rural areas. Together with the contrast in exposures between
      traditional and urban settings, migration presents the opportunity to study women as they
      acculturate to a more western lifestyle.

      We propose collecting blood and urine samples from premenopausal Mongolian women living in
      UlaanBaatar, the capital of Mongolia, to describe concentrations of several steroid hormones
      and growth factors that play a role in breast cancer development. The purpose of the study is
      to assess whether endocrine profile differs by degree of Western acculturation among those
      who have recently migrated to the capital. Subjects will be recruited among mothers of girls
      participating in a study of milk consumption and hormonal status presently being conducted by
      our colleagues at Harvard Medical School. In addition to the blood draw and urine collection,
      participants will have their height and weight measured and will complete a questionnaire on
      reproductive and medical history, migration status and lifestyle factors. Premenopausal blood
      samples with accompanying information on medical history and lifestyle factors from women
      participating in Project Viva in Boston, Massachusetts will provide a comparison group of US
      women at high breast cancer risk.

      In general, Asian countries have been treated as one entity and the substantial variation in
      breast cancer incidence among the countries that make up this large geographic area has not
      been addressed. This variation among Asian countries may provide further opportunity for
      hypothesis generating as we seek to determine what factors explain differences in breast
      cancer rates between populations. Studies of a range of biological parameters in
      premenopausal women among different racial/ethnic populations with varying breast cancer
      incidence would be informative.
    
  