
    
      Hyperthyroidism is a pathological disease in which the synthesis and secretion of thyroid
      hormones are increased by the thyroid gland. Thyroid hormone excess affects many systems.
      Common clinical symptoms are fatigue, palpitations, disturbed sleep, weight loss, heat
      intolerance, sweating, tremors, polydipsia, and anxiety. Common physical findings are
      tachycardia, extremity tremors and weight loss.

      Thyroid hormone directly affects skeletal muscles. Increased thyroid hormone causes myopathy
      with a decrease in muscle strength and mass. Hyperthyroid myopathy can cause a decrease in
      exercise capacity. The main cause of exercise intolerance in individuals with hyperthyroidism
      is the change in energy metabolism. The number of studies investigating the exercise capacity
      in hyperthyroid patients is limited. Information support will be provided to the literature
      by evaluating the exercise capacity in patients with hyperthyroidism.

      Physical activity is positively associated with changes in cardiovascular risk factors.
      Neuromuscular symptoms and exercise intolerance seen with thyroid hormone excess can lead
      people to an inactive life. Indirect calorimetry, the gold standard in energy expenditure,
      has been shown to be highly correlated with metabolic holter.There are no studies evaluating
      physical activity level with metabolic holter in individuals with hyperthyroidism. In this
      study, physical activity level will be evaluated by metabolic holter.

      Patients with hyperthyroidism referred to the Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation Unit of Gazi
      University Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Department by the physicians of the Department of
      Endocrinology and Metabolism of the Department of Internal Diseases of Gazi University
      Faculty of Medicine will be included in the study. Patients and healthy individuals will be
      evaluated and the evaluation results will be compared. According to the sample size analysis
      15 patients and 15 healthy individuals with similar demographic characteristics will be
      included the study. Patients and healthy individuals will be selected according to
      predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients will be evaluated twice. The first
      evaluation will be made in the new diagnosis. The second evaluation will be made in the
      euthyroidism.The assessments will be completed in two days.

      Functional exercise capacity (6 minutes walk test and 6 minutes stepper test), physical
      activity level (multi-sensor activity monitor), respiratory functions (spirometer),
      respiratory muscle strength (mouth pressure measurement), peripheral muscle strength
      (dynamometer), respiratory muscle endurance (incremental threshold loading test), quality of
      life (The Thyroid-Related Quality of Life-ThyPRO), fatigue (Fatigue Severity Scale),
      depression-anxiety-stress (Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-42), quality of sleep (Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index) and shortness of breath (Modified Medical Research Council (MMRC)) will
      be evaluated.
    
  