
    
      This open labelled first in human dose phase 1/2a study is designed to evaluate safety,
      feasibility and efficacy of multiple dosing with individualised VB10.NEO immunotherapy in
      patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumours including melanoma, non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC), clear renal cell carcinoma, urothelial cancer or squamous cell carcinoma
      of the head and neck (SCCHN), who did not reach complete responses with immune checkpoint
      inhibitor (CPI) therapy as their standard of care (SOC) treatment.

      Patients with melanoma, NSCLC, RCC and urothelial carcinoma must upon screening, have been
      receiving a CPI (anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1) for at least 12 weeks as the patient's standard of
      care. Patients with SCCHN can be screened as long as they have initiated treatment with CPI
      as SOC. The VB10.NEO vaccine will be added to continuing CPI treatment and shall not replace,
      omit, postpone or terminate the standard therapy. Patients who have been treated with CPI for
      at least 12 weeks, will be enrolled in case of some benefit to CPI treatment is expected, as
      defined by partial response, stable disease or disease progression (in case of a mixed
      response to CPI, provided at least one lesion shows measurable regression and patient,
      according to the investigator, would have a clinical benefit of continued immunotherapy).

      The assumption is to combine the immuno-stimulating effect of CPIs with immune responses
      towards specific neo-antigens in the vaccine, which may possibly increase the anti-tumour
      effect to reach durable efficacy.

      One arm of the study patients with SCCHN will have the option to be treated with
      bempegaldesleukin (NKTR-214) in combination with personalised VB10.NEO. This arm is open for
      enrollment from November 2019.

      The study will be conducted in two parts. Part A will evaluate safety, feasibility and
      efficacy of individualised VB10.NEO and bempegaldesleukin (NKTR-214) immunotherapy in SCCHN
      patients. The expansion part B will explore efficacy and safety in further patients with
      selected types of cancer showing signs of efficacy during part A.
    
  