
    
      This is a single centre, retrospective, cross-sectional study on patients who had anti-reflux
      surgery and pre-operative oesophageal physiology testing over 10 years. The investigators
      anticipate the recruitment of up to 350 subjects over 18 months.

      Eligible patients will be contacted over the phone and asked whether they would be interested
      in joining the study. Candidates will be presented with details no less than the exact nature
      of the study, the implications and constraints of the protocol. Subjects will be made aware
      that no intervention will be made in this study, therefore taking part involves no risks or
      side effects. If all questions that satisfy inclusion and exclusion criteria are answered
      satisfactorily, and patients are happy to enter the study, participants will be consented
      verbally over the phone. It will be stated that the participant is free to withdraw from the
      study at any time for any reason without prejudice to future care, and with no obligation to
      give the reason for withdrawal.

      Once recruited the following assessments and interventions will take place:

        1. Patients will be assessed based on the Reflux Disease Questionnaire (RDQ) which is
           designed to assess the frequency and severity of heartburn, regurgitation and dyspeptic
           symptoms. Response options are scaled as Likert-type with scores for and severity. RDQ
           demonstrated validity and reliability in multiple languages and represents a viable
           instrument for assessing symptom severity and response to treatment.

        2. Patients will also be assessed based on The Reflux Symptoms Index (RSI) questionnaire
           which evaluates the presence and severity of laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR). RSI can be
           completed in less than one minute. It is easily administered, highly reproducible and
           demonstrated design- and criteria-based validity in multiple languages.

        3. Participants will finally be evaluated based on the Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
           Health-Related Quality of Life (GORD-HRQL) questionnaire which is aimed at typical
           reflux symptoms and impact on the daily living. The questionnaire can be easily given
           over the phone in less than 2 minutes. GORD-HRQL has been validated and is a reliable
           and practical tool in several languages.

        4. Data recorded will include the standard components of pre-operative oesophageal pH
           monitoring and high-resolution manometry, reflux symptoms scores, PPIs (proton pump
           inhibitors) usage, post-operative physiology studies and re-do anti-reflux surgery.

        5. Statistical analysis will involve multiple logistic regression and multiple linear
           regression models. Sensitivity and specificity of each predictor will be measured using
           the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. A minimum of 350 patients
           for 5 predictors will define our sample size.
    
  