
    
      Background:

      Chronic pain is very common, and associated with substantial impairment and increased
      healthcare utilization. Implementation of treatment guidelines has been problematic, and
      chronic pain remains undertreated. Because of the prevalence of chronic pain among veterans,
      the VHA created a National Pain Management Strategy and adopted pain as the "5th vital sign."

      Objectives:

      Our primary objective was to determine to what extent a collaborative intervention improves
      chronic pain-related outcomes (pain-related function, pain severity and depression severity)
      in a VA primary care setting over six and 12 months. We also investigated to what extent the
      intervention affected 1) treatment of comorbid depression, 2) adherence of providers to
      guidelines for chronic pain, 3) patient and provider satisfaction and attitudes related to
      chronic pain treatment, and 4) incremental benefit (pain disability-free days) and
      incremental health services costs.

      Methods:

      The study was a cluster randomized controlled trial of a collaborative care intervention
      "Assistance with Pain Treatment" (APT) versus treatment as usual (TAU) at five primary care
      clinics of one Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

      401 patients and 42 primary care clinicians participated. APT included a 2-session clinician
      education program, patient assessment, education and activation, symptom monitoring, feedback
      and recommendations to clinicians and facilitation of specialty care. We randomized
      clinicians to APT or TAU, and nested patients within clinician intervention status.

      Patients were recruited via mailings and advertising flyers; those with chart-documented
      musculoskeletal pain diagnoses who reported at least moderate pain severity and pain-related
      function (Chronic Pain Grade [CPG]) lasting at least 12 weeks were invited to participate.
      Participants completed questionnaires at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months, with a subset
      re-assessed at 30 months. Primary outcomes were Roland-Morris Disability scores and CPG pain
      intensity scale scores over 12 months. Depression was assessed using Patient Health
      Questionnaire 9 [PHQ-9] scores. Intervention effects on patient outcome variables were tested
      using intention-to-treat analyses with multilevel models; patient-level covariates of age,
      sex, baseline depression severity, baseline opioid status (yes/no), and medical morbidity
      were included. To quantify provider adherence to pain treatment guidelines, we created the
      Pain Process Measure (PPM), a chart review checklist. Clinicians completed a baseline 23-item
      survey of attitudes and behaviors related to chronic pain management, job satisfaction, and
      satisfaction with local pain resources. Patient satisfaction measures included patient-rated
      global impression of change, global VA health care satisfaction, health-related quality of
      life, and receipt and rating of effectiveness of VA chronic pain treatment. Pain
      disability-free days were calculated from Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire scores. Data
      on VA treatment costs were obtained from the VA's Decision Support System for all utilization
      except certain intervention activities that were tracked in a separate study database.

      Status:

      Complete.
    
  