
    
      Currently out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) patients who achieve ROSC are routinely
      ventilated with the highest fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) possible (i.e. FiO2 1.0 or
      100% oxygen) until admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) - usually a period of 2 to 6
      hours post-ROSC.

      Post-ROSC oxygen therapy begins in the field by emergency medical services (EMS). EMS
      typically deliver a high flow of oxygen at rate of >10L/min (~100% oxygen), and use a pulse
      oximeter to monitor oxygen levels (SpO2). Normal SpO2 levels are considered to be 94% to
      100%. The delivery of 100% oxygen is then usually continued throughout a patient's stay in
      the emergency department (ED) and during any diagnostic testing (e.g. computed tomography
      scans and cardiac angiography). During this time, oxygen is delivered to patients who remain
      unconscious via a mechanical ventilator, with levels continuously monitored by pulse oximetry
      and periodically by a blood test called an arterial blood gas (ABG). The ABG measurements
      include the oxygen pressure in the blood (PaO2) in mmHg. Once a patient is admitted to the
      ICU, the PaO2 is assessed and the oxygen fraction is typically reduced and then titrated
      (reduced or increased) on the ventilator to achieve a normal level of PaO2 ("normoxia") of
      between 80-100mmHg.

      The administration of 100% oxygen for the first hours after resuscitation is based largely on
      convention and not on any supportive clinical data. It has been thought that maximizing
      oxygen delivery for several hours might be beneficial in a patient who has suffered profound
      deprivation of oxygen supply ("hypoxia") during a cardiac arrest. In addition, if a lower
      fraction of inspired oxygen is delivered, there is a perceived risk that the patient might
      become hypoxic (i.e. SpO2 <90% or PaO2 <80mmHg). Until recently, there has been no particular
      reason to recommend a decrease in oxygen delivery to the post-arrest patient prior to
      admission to ICU.

      However, recent systematic reviews of compelling experimental data and supportive human
      observational studies indicate that the administration of 100% oxygen can create "hyperoxic"
      levels in the early post arrest period which may lead to additional neurological injury, and
      thus result in worse clinical outcome. No randomised control trials have yet tested titrating
      oxygen administration to lower but normal levels (i.e. "normoxia").

      EXACT is a Phase 3 multi-centre, randomised, controlled trial (RCT) aiming to determine
      whether reducing oxygen administration to target an oxygen saturation of 90-94%, compared to
      98-100%, as soon as possible following successful resuscitation from OHCA improves outcome at
      hospital discharge.
    
  