
    
      EuroNet-PHL-C2 is a comprehensive treatment strategy for all first line classical Hodgkin
      Lymphoma (cHL) patients under 18 years (under 25 years in UK, Italy and France). The overall
      strategy is risk stratified (defining chemotherapy) and response adapted (defining
      radiotherapy) to tailor the amount of treatment to the individual patient and decrease long
      term complications.

        -  Radiotherapy indication will be restricted. Patients with a negative PET scan after two
           cycles of OEPA chemotherapy (Early Response Assessment - ERA) will not receive
           radiotherapy. The threshold for negative PET scan at ERA shifts from the previously used
           Deauville 1 and 2 = negative (as in the C1 trial) to Deauville 1, 2 and 3 = negative,
           thereby increasing the number of negative patients without indication for RT.

        -  Chemotherapy Randomisation

      All intermediate (TL-2) and advanced stage (TL-3) patients will be randomised between
      respectively 2 or 4 standard COPDAC-28 or intensified DECOPDAC-21 consolidation chemotherapy
      cycles. To avoid delayed consolidation, randomisation has to be performed before ERA and as
      soon as the TL-assignment is confirmed by central review. Therefore two randomised
      sub-studies arise based on the ERA PET response:

      Patients with adequate response at ERA do not receive radiotherapy - a randomised controlled
      chemotherapy comparison to show that intensified DECOPDAC-21 consolidation chemotherapy
      improves EFS as compared to standard COPDAC-28

      Patients with inadequate response at ERA - a randomised controlled chemotherapy-radiotherapy
      comparison - to show that DECOPDAC-21 combined with radiotherapy restricted to sites that
      remain FDG-PET positive at the end of all chemotherapy (Late response assessment - LRA) has
      comparable EFS compared to COPDAC-28 plus standard involved node radiotherapy as in the C1
      trial.

        -  Risk stratification is refined Former treatment groups (TG) of the EuroNet-PHL-C1 trial
           are reassigned into treatment levels (TL) by shifting early stage patients (former TG-1)
           with risk factors into TL-2.

        -  Semi-quantitative 'qPET' Results of semi-quantitative qPET are formally integrated into
           the response assessment.
    
  