
    
      It's a prospective observational study that will take place in the gynecology department in
      Carmel medical center in Haifa, Israel.

      The study population are women with the diagnosis of missed abortion matching 8 weeks of
      pregnancy or less, incomplete abortion or anembryonic pregnancy that are treated with
      misoprostol in the gynecologic emergency room according to the department's protocol.

      our department's protocol for the treatment of missed abortion matching 8 weeks of pregnancy
      or less, anembryonic pregnancy or incomplete abortions . these women usually get a full
      explanation from the doctor in the emergency room about the possible treatments :

        1. surgical evacuation i.e. dilatation and curettage

        2. treatment with misoprostol 800 mcg given vaginally. both treatments are used routinely
           in our emergency room. If the woman chooses the treatment with misoprostol she will then
           also be told about the study and if she agrees to participate in the study she will sign
           an informed consent form.

      After getting the first dose of misoprostol 800 mcg vaginally the woman is usually discharged
      home and then a sonographic follow up will be done on several preset occasions where an
      ultrasound is done vaginally and few sonographic indices are examined : the presence of
      gestational sac or gestational residua and its size, color doppler for the residua, the size
      of uterus... in addition to these indices routinely examined during the follow up according
      to the department protocol we will examine in this study the indices of uterine artery
      doppler (i.e. S/D ratio, resistance index, pulsatility index).

      according to the department protocol day 3 will be the first day of follow up , if a
      gestational sac is still seen in the uterus, or an endometrial thickness above 30 mm, a
      second dose of misoprostol is given, and the women will be reexamined on day 10, then a
      surgical evacuation is performed if we still have the same findings (gestational sac or
      endometrium >30mm) otherwise the woman is discharged and the last follow up will be on day
      4-5 of her next menstruation, that's when it will be decided if the abortion is complete and
      the uterus is completely empty. if a gestational residua is found after the menstruation then
      the woman will have to go through surgical evacuation .

      In the end we will compare the uterine artery doppler indices of the women with complete
      abortions to those with failed misoprostol treatment who needed surgical evacuation .

      No change in the treatment will be done during the study based on the uterine artery doppler
      indices , it's only an observational study .
    
  