
    
      In acute ischemic stroke, arterial occlusion lead to a brain ischemia that will progress to
      brain death of the ischemic area if the clot is not rapidly removed. Advanced neuroimaging
      can help us to distinguish between the irreversible injury brain parenchyma or core and the
      potential reversible ischemic tissue or penumbra. Multimodal neuroimaging techniques (MR and
      CT) have been developed in order to distinguish between core and penumbra areas and have been
      used to select patients in most of the last randomized clinical trials that have demonstrated
      the benefit of endovascular treatment. There is no agreement about which multimodal technique
      offers a better information to select patients for endovascular treatment.

      The main aim is to study the feasibility and usefulness of multimodal MR compared to
      multimodal CT to select patients with acute ischemic stroke and favorable clinical outcome
      after mechanical thrombectomy.

      The specific objectives are: Primary: to confirm no differences in long-term clinical outcome
      and safety in patients treated with endovascular therapy selected by multimodal CT or MR; and
      Secondary: (1) compare the feasibility of both techniques in this setting, (2) the
      door-picture time and door-groin puncture time of both techniques.

      Methodology: Single-center, randomized (1:1) and stratified by age and NIHSS study of
      consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke. Occlusion site, ischemic volume (core) and
      perfusion volume will be studied by an automated perfusion system (RAPID software) in both
      neuroimaging groups. Mechanical thrombectomy criteria will be based on the presence of an
      intracranial ICA or MCA-M1 occlusion and a volume of core lower than 70cc in the CBF or DWI
      sequences. Modified Rankin scale at 90 days and the rate of intracranial hemorrhage and
      mortality will be considered as variables of response.
    
  