
    
      BACKGROUND:

      High blood pressure continues to be a highly prevalent condition affecting about 20 percent
      of the U.S. population. Untreated, it may lead to coronary heart disease, stroke, kidney
      failure, and other complications. Medication is a major means of controlling hypertension and
      averting these debilitating consequences. Treatment with drugs, however, is undermined by
      suboptimal adherence to therapy. Forgetting to take medications is the most commonly elicited
      reason for lapses in medication use; but side effects, health beliefs, lack of knowledge of
      disease and treatment instructions, and financial barriers may also interfere. Determining
      those factors that (1) are predictably associated with fluctuations in adherence (such as day
      of the week, holidays, medication appointments); (2) ameliorate the impact of nonadherence,
      such as pharmacologic properties of drugs that protect patients during adherence lapses; and
      (3) correlate with the accuracy of adherence reporting by patients will assist in
      anticipating and addressing adherence obstacles and serve as the objectives of the study.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study used data collected from electronic adherence monitors, questionnaires, and
      computerized medical records that contained blood pressure readings during a prior
      investigation of antihypertensive adherence. This earlier investigation, conducted from 1994
      to 1997, involved 286 members of Harvard Pilgrim Health Care who were on single drug therapy
      for mild to moderate hypertension. Objective 1 evaluated the impact of temporal factors such
      as weekend versus weekday, holidays, seasons, and impending medical appointments on adherence
      by analyzing their effects on the daily rate of dosing recorded by electronic medication
      monitors. Time trend models were used for this purpose. Objective 2 assessed the impact of
      pharmacologic duration of action on the level of antihypertensive adherence required to
      maintain a goal blood pressure of <140/90 mmHg. This involved determining if the relationship
      between adherence and blood pressure was modified by the duration of drug effect. Objective 3
      concerning correlates of accuracy of reported adherence was approached by verifying reported
      adherence against electronically measured adherence. Predictors and correlates of accurately
      reported adherence such as patient age, gender, race/ethnicity, education, socioeconomic
      status, health beliefs, and measures of health status were then identified by cross
      tabulating and statistical modeling accurate reporting against these factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  