
    
      The study population in this clinical trial will be patients with moderate to severe stroke
      undergoing further stroke rehabilitation by returning regularly to the Day Rehabilitation
      Center (on an out-patient basis) of the Rehabilitation Unit at Tung Wah Hospital (TWH). The
      TWH Rehabilitation Unit, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong has been selected as the study site because it
      serves a major urban area in Hong Kong. TWH is a medical teaching hospital, patient medical
      care is standardized and a comprehensive set of records is compiled during stroke
      rehabilitation. Around 500 patients with acute stroke are admitted annually to the
      Rehabilitation Unit. The majority of the patients are stabilized (for up to 7 days) at Queen
      Mary Hospital, a major teaching hospital for treating acute medical conditions, prior to
      admission to the Rehabilitation Unit. On admission to the Rehabilitation Unit, each stroke
      patient undergoes a comprehensive medical assessment that includes a functional disability
      assessment using the modified Barthel Index and a rehabilitation programme is formulated.
      Following hospital discharge, patients requiring further rehabilitation return regularly to
      the Day Rehabilitation Center on an out-patient basis. Stroke patients deemed fit for
      discharge from the Rehabilitation Unit will be invited to participate in the study in
      accordance with the inclusion & exclusion criteria.

      The key outcome variable of this clinical trial is the dental plaque level (the key reservoir
      for oral pathogens). In a previous observational study we conducted among stroke survivors,
      the mean PI score was 2.1 (standard deviation [SD]=0.51) at discharge and 1.9 (SD=0.56) at 6
      months, yielding a change score of 0.21 (SD=0.46). On the basis of this study, and proposing
      a difference in plaque change scores of at least 0.3 between baseline to follow-up (and also
      between groups) and with the standard deviation set at 0.46, then the number of study
      subjects that would be required is 38 per group, based on 80% power and the statistical
      significance level set at 0.05. Anticipating a 20% dropout rate over the course of the
      clinical trial, the initial sample size for each treatment group is proposed as 47 patients
      per group (94 subjects in total).

      Assessments of clinical oral health status, presence of oral opportunistic pathogens and
      subjective oral health were conducted at baseline, 3 month and 6 month. All assessments were
      performed in the TWH Day Rehabilitation Center. Compliance was also assessed. Data will be
      stored on a computer (and backed up on a compact disc) in the Faculty of Dentistry, The
      University of Hong Kong. Professor Colman McGrath (Principle Investigator) will be
      responsible for its safekeeping. All data will be kept until analyses have been performed and
      all research manuscripts have been accepted for publication. The data will then be destroyed.

      The statistics software packages SPSS 21 for Windows (SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA) and STATA 13.0
      for Windows (IBM) were used in all statistical tests. Both per-protocol (PP) and
      intention-to-treat (ITT) analyses was employed for both primary and secondary outcomes. In
      bivariate analyses, within and between groups comparisons were made over the clinical trial
      period. When the outcome variables were continuous and followed a normal distribution, paired
      t test for related samples were performed to determine significant differences over time.
      Student t-test for independent samples was performed to compare the mean of the outcomes
      between intervention groups at baseline and follow-up review. When the outcome variables were
      continuous but did not follow a normal distribution as detected by normality test, Wilcoxon
      Signed Rank test (a non-parametric equivalence of the paired t test for related samples) was
      performed to determine significant differences over time. Mann Whitney U test (a
      non-parametric equivalence of the t test for independent samples) was employed to compare
      difference in the rank of outcomes between intervention groups at baseline and follow-up.
      When the outcome variables were categorical, McNemar test were performed to identify changes
      in prevalence over time and Chi-square test was employed to compare variations in prevalence
      between intervention groups at baseline and follow up.

      Regression analyses were employed to address the effect of potential explanatory factors for
      outcomes. When conducting the regression analysis, method of Last Observation Carried Forward
      (LOCF) was employed to deal with missing outcomes at follow-up reviews. Linear regression was
      adopted when the dependent variables were continuous and residuals of the regression followed
      a normal distribution. Negative binomial regression was adopted when the continuous dependent
      variables had over-dispersed count data. Logistic regression was adopted when the dependent
      variables were binary. Since the effect of intervention on the outcomes was of our core
      interest, the model fitting adopted a forward-wald method with the factor of intervention
      fixed in the model and one of the other explanatory factors added into the model each time.
      Each time the coefficient of the independent variables with the smallest significant p value
      (significance level p<0.05) was entered into the regression model. The model fitting process
      was repeated again until no more independent variable had significant p values.
    
  