
    
      Ischaemic preconditioning (IPC) was first described in a canine model by Murray et al in
      1986. By deliberately inducing brief periods of myocardial ischaemia and reperfusion by
      intermittent occlusion of a coronary artery, the ability of the heart to withstand a
      subsequent, more prolonged episode of myocardial ischaemia was enhanced, to the extent that
      infarct size was reduced. This ubiquitous endogenous form of cardioprotection has been
      observed in many different species and is capable of limiting ischaemia-reperfusion in
      non-cardiac organs such as the brain, liver, gut, bladder and skin. It has been demonstrated
      to improve long term clinical outcomes in patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI)and to improve distal myocardial perfusion and mitigate infarct size in
      patients undergoing primary PCI . Despite extensive investigations into the cellular and
      molecular basis of IP, the precise mechanism(s) whereby myocytes develop tolerance to
      potentially fatal ischemia is unclear. There are also unanswered questions regarding the
      necessary frequency and duration of transient ischaemia needed to invoke the protection. Less
      than 60 seconds has been shown to be too short in some studies, whereas there is clearly an
      upper limit (above 10 minutes in most tissues) whereupon the preconditioning stimulus itself
      may have detrimental effects. Nonetheless, previous studies of IP in the heart have shown
      that a factor is released during IP, which can be transferred to protect another heart .
      Furthermore, preliminary data by our group suggests that 3 or 4 cycles of 5 minutes of
      transient limb ischaemia and 5 minutes of reperfusion (remote ischemic preconditioning, rIPC)
      leads to the release of a circulating cardioprotective factor(s) into the blood stream, which
      reduces cardiac damage in experimental animals, and patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      The proposed study will test whether these humoral factors are released from the heart, into
      the bloodstream, by patients undergoing PCI. The Langendorff method, in which a perfused rat
      heart is isolated ex vivo, is a well validated technique which has been used widely in
      studies of IP. It allows us to measure directly several cardiac physiological parameters, as
      well as the myocardial infarct size after prolonged ischaemia. We have previously shown that
      serum from healthy adults undergoing rIPC can be dialysed to produce a crystalloid perfusate.
      When this is used in the Langendorff preparation myocardial infarction size is reduced. We
      will employ the same method to examine the possible release, and any dose response to a
      pre-conditioning stimulus (coronary angioplasty balloon inflation) of varying duration in
      adults undergoing elective PCI.
    
  