
    
      AIM and OBJECTIVES:

        1. To study the Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) regarding tobacco and smoke free
           public places among cab drivers ferrying customers near Tata Memorial Hospital

        2. To study the impact of smoke free public places with specific reference to smoke free
           cabs (on various factors such as number of customers, customer practices, health status,
           self practices, compliance etc.)

        3. To understand their attitude towards smoke free cabs.

        4. To educate them regarding hazards of tobacco and the need for smoke free cabs.

        5. To invite the cab drivers using tobacco to avail the Preventive Oncology screening
           facilities and Tobacco cessation clinic at the Tata Memorial Hospital

        6. To evaluate the compliance for availing the services

        7. To study the post-intervention KAP regarding tobacco and smoke free public places

        8. To determine the rate of oral pre-cancers and tobacco cessation after one year
           follow-up.

      Methodology:

      Design: Single arm interventional study

      Step 1: Around 400 cab drivers in Mumbai will be enrolled after explaining the programme and
      obtaining informed consent. They will be interviewed with the help of a well structured
      questionnaire to collect information about their Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP)
      regarding tobacco, their attitudes and experiences regarding smoke free public places with
      specific reference to smoke free cabs.

      Step 2: The cab drivers will be given detailed health education regarding hazards of tobacco
      and the need for smoke free cabs. They will be invited to participate in oral cancer
      screening at the Preventive Oncology (PO) screening clinic.

      Step 3: The cab drivers will be again interviewed with the help of a well structured
      questionnaire to collect information of their post-intervention KAP regarding tobacco and
      smoke free public places.

      Step 4: The cab drivers using tobacco will be invited to participate in the tobacco cessation
      programme at the TCC and will receive three monthly follow-up for one year. Various tobacco
      cessation interventions in the form of one to one counseling, focus group discussions, role
      plays, games etc. will be used. In addition they will be engaged in conveying messages about
      tobacco control and refraining from tobacco habit, to the customers while commuting. This
      will also reinforce their own commitment towards tobacco cessation.

      Variables to be estimated:

        1. the change in the baseline KAP

        2. the perceptions and attitude of cab drivers regarding implementation of smoke free cab
           policy.

        3. the results of oral cancer screening in the form of oral pre-cancers and cancers
           detected

        4. the success of tobacco cessation programme in the form of self reported quit rates at
           the end of one year

        5. reactions of the commuters and their own perceptions towards the no tobacco messages
           conveyed to the customers while traveling

      Data Analysis:

      Data entry will be done in the Department of Preventive Oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital
      using SPSS version 18. Checks for consistency, data safety and analysis will be carried out
      at regular intervals. Both descriptive and inferential statistics will be generated for
      describing variables under the study objectives.
    
  