
    
      Eligibility criteria The eligibility criteria were pathologically confirmed, previously
      untreated or refractory/relapsed ENKTL as defined by the World Health Organization
      classification; age≥18 years; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of
      0-2; at least one measurable lesion; adequate haematologic function (haemoglobin > 9.0 g/l,
      absolute neutrophil count > 1500/ml, platelets > 75,000/l), hepatic function (total serum
      bilirubin ≤ 1.5 times the upper limit of normal, alanine aminotransferase and aspartate
      aminotransferase ≤ 2.5 times the upper limit of normal), renal function (serum creatinine ≤
      1.5 mg/dl, creatinine clearance ≥ 50 ml/min); normal coagulation function and
      electrocardiogram results. Prior chemotherapy and radiotherapy should have been completed >4
      weeks earlier, willingness to provide written informed consent. Stage was defined according
      to the Ann Arbor system. The Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Centre Research Ethics Board
      approved this study before subjects were enrolled.

      Treatment PA-Gemox dosages were as follows: days 1 and 8, 30-min intravenous infusion of 1000
      mg/m2 gemcitabine; day 1, 2-h intravenous infusion of 130 mg/m2 oxaliplatin; day 1, deep
      intramuscular injection of 2500 U/m2 PEG-ASP at two different sites. The regimen was repeated
      every 3 weeks for a maximum of six cycles. Stage IE/IIE patients underwent four cycles
      induction chemotherapy, followed by involved-field radiotherapy after got CR, PR or SD.
      Three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy was done by linear accelerator at 2.0 grays (Gy) per
      daily fraction with 5-6 weeks. The involved- field radiation (IFRT) dose was 50-56 Gy.
      Refractory/relapsed patients underwent at least two cycles treatments unless there was
      disease progression or unacceptable side effects, or withdrawal of patient consent.
      Autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT) was recommended after they
      achieved CR.
    
  