
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) is common and currently affects an estimated 6.6 million
      adults in the United States (1). In addition being highly prevalent, CHF is responsible for ~
      1 million hospital discharges per year and approximately 50% of patients with CHF will die
      within 5 years making it a highly morbid and lethal disease (1).

      Manifestations of CHF include symptoms of volume overload such as dyspnea, abdominal bloating
      and/or fatigue. The genesis of these symptoms begins with loss of the integrity of arterial
      circulation due to decreased cardiac output (2). Decreased activation of mechanoreceptors in
      the carotid sinus, left ventricle, aortic arch and renal afferent arterioles due to lower
      systemic arterial pressure stimulates the sympathetic nervous system (SNS),
      renal-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and non-osmotic release of arginine vasopressin
      (3). As a result, sodium reabsorption in the proximal tubule followed by water absorption
      increases causing accumulation of intravascular volume to compensating for arterial
      underfilling (4). Consequently, activation of neurohumoral reflexes result in increased
      cardiac afterload and preload, cardiac remodeling, hyponatremia and pulmonary edema (5).
      Renal vasoconstriction, sodium and water retention leads to a continuous positive feedback
      loop of further salt and water accumulation accompanied by further renal vasoconstriction
      (6).

      Diuretic therapy is the most common means to relieve congestion in acute decompensated heart
      failure (ADHF) and approximately 90% of patients are treated with loop diuretics (7).
      Although loop diuretics are a cornerstone ADHF care and carries the highest level of
      recommendation by the American Heart Association (Class I); the guideline is supported by the
      lowest level of evidence (Class C) (8). While effective at natriuresis, loop diuretics are
      known to stimulate the SNS and RAAS, both of which have adverse consequence in heart failure
      (9,10). Not only is the RAAS system stimulated due to changes in arterial filling, furosemide
      blocks sodium chloride transport at the macula densa causing renin release independent of
      renal sodium loss (11). With increase stimulation of renin release, vasoconstriction of the
      renal artery ensues causing or further exacerbating renal insufficiency (12). Long-term
      utilization of loop diuretics results in hypertrophy of the distal nephron and increased
      expression of a sodium chloride co-transporter (13). These changes along with increased
      aldosterone levels further enhances distal sodium reabsorption and prevents aldosterone
      escape (14).

      In treating heart failure patients as a population, diuretic resistance is encountered
      commonly and escalating doses of furosemide may be utilized to achieve fluid loss (15).
      Clinically, use of high-doses of loop diuretics is associated with greater rates of clinical
      events such as mechanical ventilation and myocardial infarction compared to low-dose loop
      diuretics (16). High-dose loop diuretic administration is associated with worsening renal
      function (17), increased length of hospital stay and greater in-hospital mortality (17-19).
      There is in fact a linear correlation with diuretic dose and mortality (20).

      Given the potential hazards of administering loop diuretics in CHF patients, the remaining
      options are limited. Changing diuretics strategies from bolus to continuous loop diuretic
      infusion does not appear to change overall outcomes (21). Alternative strategies for
      relieving congestion include inhibition of the distal nephron using thiazide diuretics.
      Thiazide diuretics work synergistically with loop diuretics to induce natriuresis but have an
      independent association with worsening renal function and death (20,22). Utilizing inotropes
      to increasing renal perfusion pressure may improve natriuresis, however, it comes with the
      price of increasing mortality regardless of whether beta-adrenergic agonists (dobutamine) or
      phosphodiesterase inhibitors are used (23,24). Ultrafiltration and mechanical unloading of
      the heart is another therapeutic option, however it was found to be ineffective and
      associated with worsening renal function (25). Even low doses of dopamine or nesiritide were
      not effective in improving outcomes in patients with cardiorenal syndrome (26). Higher doses
      of spironolactone were recently shown to be safe in a prospective cohort treated for acute
      decompensated heart failure (27). Recently a case report was published showing that patients
      hospitalized with congestive heart failure, worsening renal function and diuretic resistance
      were able to be diuresed without adverse effect on renal function or hyperkalemia by treating
      with escalating doses of spironolactone (28)

      The study will be a prospective, open-label, randomized cohort study comparing adding
      high-dose spironolactone to usual heart failure care versus usual care in patients with acute
      decompensated heart failure. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to either usual
      care or high-dose spironolactone plus usual care. Both arms of the study will continue with
      treatment of ADHF until euvolemia as defined as the resolution of pulmonary edema, peripheral
      edema, abdominal bloating and/or jugular venous distention. Assessment of clinical status,
      urine and serum electrolytes, symptoms and renal function will be performed in accordance to
      standard of care.
    
  