
    
      Approximately two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight or obese, thus placing obesity first
      as a public health concern in the U.S. Not only is obesity detrimental at the individual
      level, by increasing risk for chronic disease and premature mortality, but it also presents
      problems at the economical level by increasing medical costs.

      At the heart of weight management is the ability to appropriately regulate energy intake. A
      key factor in regulation of consumption is satiation, the process by which an eating bout
      ends. Quicker onset of satiation may result in decreased consumption, which is important in
      achieving an adequate energy balance. Negative energy balance, in which energy intake is less
      than energy expenditure, is required for weight loss; however, there are challenges with
      increased hunger and decreased satiation as energy intake is decreased.

      One of the factors believed to influence satiation is the ability to increase the rate of
      habituation occurring during an eating bout. Habituation is a basic form of learning that can
      be measured by the rate of decrease in consummatory response to repeated presentations of
      food orosensory cues. Following this decreased response rate to a particular food,
      presentation of new orosensory cues may result in dishabituation to both the previously
      habituated food as well as the new orosensory cue, thus causing an increase in consummatory
      response. Dishabituation during an eating bout, i.e. exposure to a variety of orosensory
      cues, may be related to recovery of appetite and decreased satiation, leading the
      calorie-replete individual to overconsume. Alternatively, with repeated presentations of the
      same orosensory cue, one becomes accustomed to the taste faster, giving rise to habituation,
      which should increase satiation. A more rapid rate of habituation would mean that less energy
      is consumed within an eating bout. Research indicates increased weight status in relation to
      slower habituation rates as well as an inverse relationship between the extent of orosensory
      variety and habituation rates. Additionally, research shows a positive association between
      amount of orosensory cues and amount consumed within an eating bout.

      One way to provide a single orosensory cue and initiate enhanced habituation with a minimal
      amount of additional energy intake is by chewing sugar-free, flavored gum. If matched to the
      flavor of the food about to be consumed, chewing gum prior to an eating bout may increase the
      rate of habituation, consequently reducing consumption.

      Therefore, the purpose of this proof-of-concept study is to examine if chewing gum before an
      eating bout will increase the rate of habituation and subsequently reduce energy intake
      within the eating bout. The outcomes of this study may be useful in the health setting for
      creating prescriptions for weight-loss, weight maintenance, and weight-gain prevention.
    
  