
    
      1. Background

           Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD) therapy has become a well-established treatment
           option for endstage heart-failure either as a bridge to transplant (BTT) or destination
           therapy (DT). Currently, continuous flow LVADs are operated at a constant rotational
           speed, which results in a fixed relation between the difference between pump inlet and
           outlet pressure (=head pressure) and pump flowrate. This results in a cardiac support,
           which is not very adaptable to physiologic demand or preload changes due to reduced
           venous return and subsequent preload reduction e.g. due to hypovolemia. Nonetheless it
           could be shown, that optimal setting of LVAD support is essential to optimize patient
           outcomes.

           Proper measurement for cardiovascular function under LVAD support is therefore of key
           importance, especially as unwanted pumping conditions such as "overpumping", causing a
           collapse of structures of the left ventricle (LV), also referred to as suction. This
           could lead to suction induced arrhythmia (or tachycardia) as well as impairments to the
           right ventricle (e.g. tricuspid valve insufficiency) due to a ventricular septum shift.

           Ultrasound and cardiac catheterization are the standard clinical methods for the
           evaluation of morphological and functional properties of the heart, and also eventually
           changing properties of the aortic valve. Further diagnostics include conventional ECG
           analysis but also heart rate variability to obtain information of the neurohumoral
           status. Exercise stress tests and recently developed activity diagnostics give further
           important information about overall recovery and quality of life.

           All these methods however require time-consuming procedures, being unacceptably
           cumbersome for frequent monitoring. On the other hand, a frequent and effective
           noninvasive evaluation of the cardiac status provided by the rotary blood pump (RBP)
           itself would have a remarkable impact on LVAD patients and their therapy, especially for
           the evaluation of their overall and cardiac recovery.

           Previously, pump signals from another centrifugal blood flow device (HVAD Medtronic
           Inc., Minneapolis, USA) have been used to estimate hemodynamic variables noninvasively.
           These were used to track patient progress, or to detect unwanted pumping states, such as
           ventricular suction. Variables such as contractility, relaxation, suction, Aortic Valve
           Opening and cardiac rhythms, can be extracted. These may aid clinicians in their
           decisions on the level and strategy of pump support. While this is not currently widely
           implemented in clinical practice, this type of monitoring holds the promise of deeper
           insights into patient physiology. As demonstrated in a recent study, continuous
           high-resolution HVAD monitoring sheds light on suction occurrences. Interindividual and
           intraindividual characteristics of longitudinal suction rates were observed. Longer
           suction clusters have higher probabilities of tachycardia within the cluster and more
           severe types of suction waveforms. This work showed the necessity of improved LVAD data
           monitoring.

           The Abbott Inc. HeartMate 3 LVAD is a centrifugal continuous flow pump with a fully
           magnetically levitated rotor enabling frictionless movement, textured blood-contacting
           surfaces to establish a tissue interface with blood and wide blood flow gaps between the
           rotor and its housing to lower shear stress and consequently blood trauma.

           Monitoring of the pump and with this the cardiac status with the HeartMate 3 is
           currently very limited to infrequent log-files with one data entry every 15 minutes and
           only limited amount of entries. Due to the low resolution data, the standard HM3
           monitoring is not feasible for the evaluation of suction events or in depth analysis of
           the interaction between LVAD and the remaining native heart function.

        2. Aim The aim of this study is to develop noninvasive diagnostics of the cardiac remaining
           respectively recovering function derived from HeartMate 3 pump data only and compare
           with standard clinical diagnostic procedures. These procedures include cardiac
           ultrasound and ECG. After this pilot study, the newly developed methods would allow
           frequent, simple and automatic monitoring of patients implanted with the HeartMate 3
           device. Such continuous assessment of cardiac function would massively help therapy
           optimization of cardiac protection and, if possible, cardiac recovery.

        3. Study protocol The developed new methods are based on pump flow, pump motor and magnetic
           levitation data only. These methods include also the evaluation of heart rate
           variability and arrhythmias and its influence to HeartMate 3 suction events.

           In this study non-invasive recordings of pump data will only be performed at rest, with
           speed changes under guidance of echocardiography on occasion. Beat-to-beat/High
           resolution pump data recordings for the HeartMate 3 have not been performed before, thus
           the recorded pump data will be analyzed and compared to clinical diagnostics in this
           pilot study. Previous feasibility and safety tests for the pump data recording have been
           performed in the laboratory setting. The pump data recording is used for research only
           as observational study and not for diagnostic purposes.

           The pickup of high resolution data is done with a coil mounted outside on the driveline
           with only one contact (common ground) to the exposed metal housing of the driveline
           connector. Therefore, the only metal connection will be this equipotential bonding
           conductor connection to the outside of the metal housing of the driveline connector. The
           pickup coil is only listening to the magnet field of the wires transferring data
           packages between pump and peripheral controller. During the study there is no need to
           exchange the existing peripheral LVAD HeartMate 3 controller, therefore at no point the
           pump will be stopped.

           The data of patients on the intensive care unit (ICU) or normal ward are stored in a
           continuous data acquisition system (CDAS) on a notebook which is operated in battery
           operation, and analyzed afterwards with a mat-lab (MathWorks Inc., USA) based software.
           For outpatients a mobile data-recorder (size of approximately 8cm x 5cm x 2cm, weight
           approx. 110g) powered with a 9V battery will allow a continuous data acquisition for a
           period up to 2 months on a SD card.

           Routinely, all pump parameters are stored in a so-called log file, in the form of
           delimiter-separated character strings containing decimal and hexadecimal values. The log
           file data is provided from the pump's controller and the pump itself, which are both
           storing a periodical and an event log file. The periodical log files, as the name
           implies, are created continuously and periodically during pump operation, while the
           event log files provide additional information which is stored only when the HeartMate 3
           detects a potential adverse event or abnormal pump behavior (e.g. arrhythmias, suction).
           Therefore, the data of every patient is contained in multiple sets of four different log
           files (periodical and event log files from the pump's controller, plus periodical and
           event log files from the pump itself) with defined timestamps for each set of
           parameters.

           The maximal storage capacity of logfiles is only 256 entries with a minimal periodic
           logging interval of 10min. Therefore the ability to detect e.g. suction events and
           abnormal pump operation due to hemodynamically changes should be evaluated with high
           resolution continuous data acquisition system (CDAS) data and the routinely available
           logfiles and compared to each other.

           Pump data will be collected from the routinely available logfiles via the device monitor
           and from high resolution HeartMate 3 CDAS data, which can be picked up contactless every
           second.

           The data of patients on the ICU or normal ward are stored in a continuous data
           acquisition system (CDAS) on a notebook which is operated in battery operation, and
           analyzed afterwards with a mat-lab based software. For outpatients a mobile
           data-recorder will allow a continuous data acquisition for a period up to 2 months on a
           SD card.

           During the post-operative patient stay at the ICU and normal ward, the pump data will be
           continuously recorded together with all routinely measured hemodynamic variables.
           Contextually with the pump data, during the post-operative patient stay at the ICU and
           normal ward, ECG will be continuously acquired from the clinical monitors. Holter ECG
           data are recorded once for 24 hours during the normal ward stay and once at home after
           the outpatient visit 12 months after enrollment. The application of the Holter ECG
           device and the pump data measurement will be performed during the hospital stay or at
           home thus requiring no additional patient waiting time.

           Additionally, for patients with implanted pacemakers/ICDs or loop recorders, the heart
           rate and variability parameters will be also retrieved from the data delivered by these
           devices (of course, only if the setting of the pacemakers/ICD allows changes in the
           patient individual heart rate).

           ECG will be recorded using the clinical monitors during the stay on the ICU and using
           Holter ECG devices for ambulant patients and in out of hospital patients. SPSS and
           descriptive statistics will be applied. The standard heart rate variability parameters
           and more sophisticated parameters for arrhythmia pattern detection which are derived
           from the pump flow and the same parameters derived from the ECG signals or if applicable
           and available from implanted pacemakers/ICDs and loop recorders will be described
           explorative based on mean ± standard deviation or median (interquartile range) and
           visually represented by histograms and box-plots. However, these only have a purely
           exploratory character in this pilot study to check the feasibility and/or practicability
           of this non-invasive methods and for a later, larger study to find possible
           correlations, which should also be checked in a follow-up study. Following this pilot
           study, a follow-up study should test the hypothesis that the developed methods for easy
           assessment of cardiac function during LVAD support, can provide an additional tool for
           optimization of cardiac protection, thereby reducing adverse events and optimizing
           clinical outcomes.

        4. Summary Currently, studies of recovery of heart and body function are complex,
           time-consuming and can only be carried out on a case-by-case basis. Aim of this study is
           the continuous determination of cardiovascular parameters from the already non
           invasively available pump data from fully magnetically supported cardiac support systems
           (HeartMate 3, Abbott Inc.). In this project these analysis methods are to be applied
           clinically and compared with established examinations (e.g. ultrasound, ECG). With the
           newly developed biomedical method, a regular, high-resolution and cost-effective pump
           monitoring, which further improves life expectancy and quality of life of LVAD patients
           should be established.
    
  