
    
      It is hypothesized that the administration of indinavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine will
      result in:

        1. No evidence of infectious virus in lymph node tissue, CSF, PBMCs, and semen samples in
           50% of patients who have undetectable viral RNA by the most sensitive validated assay
           available (ultradirect assay) for at least 48 weeks.

        2. Sustained suppression of HIV-1 infection as measured by a decrease in serum viral RNA to
           below the limit of detection of the ultradirect assay for at least 48 weeks in at least
           25% of patients.

        3. Suppression of HIV-1 infection as measured by a decrease in serum viral RNA to below the
           limit of detection of the standard Amplicor assay (i.e., negative) in at least 90% of
           patients by Week 16.

        4. Suppression of HIV-1 infection, suggesting eradication of the virus as measured by
           maintenance of serum viral RNA to below the limit of detection of the ultradirect assay
           for at least 24 weeks after discontinuation of indinavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine in
           patients who have maintained this level of suppression for at least 120 weeks on
           therapy.

      All patients receive indinavir plus zidovudine plus lamivudine for at least 96 weeks. If
      there is no evidence of infectious virus, and patients continue to have serum viral RNA
      levels below the limit of detection of the ultradirect assay for at least 96 weeks, therapy
      is continued for an additional 24 weeks. However, during this additional 24 weeks of therapy
      patients may continue to receive this triple combination drug regimen or make changes to this
      drug regimen treatment by reducing their number of antiretroviral agents. After 120 weeks, if
      patients continue to have serum viral RNA levels below the limit of detection of the
      ultradirect assay, patients discontinue all antiretroviral therapy. However, if there is any
      evidence of infectious virus, as outlined above, patients do not discontinue therapy.
      Patients who develop detectable serum viral RNA following discontinuation of therapy are
      given the option to reinitiate therapy with the triple combination of indinavir, zidovudine
      and lamivudine. NOTE: Patients who develop an intolerance to zidovudine may use stavudine at
      doses per body weight at the direction of the investigator.
    
  