
    
      Consultation in a hospital ED and the provided treatments are stressful, as it usually
      results from an unexpected event that has a negative impact on health. Also, an ED is a noisy
      and chaotic environment, which can increase anxiety and pain sensitivity related to certain
      medical procedures. Indeed, the conditions under which medical and surgical procedures are
      performed have an impact on the patient's experience: pain can be more intense if the patient
      is stressed and focused on the medical procedure. The well-being of patients, especially
      during these invasive medical procedures, can be improved by adjusting the conditions in
      which the procedure is performed.

      The literature and clinical observations show that distraction is a very effective
      non-pharmacological strategy to reduce pain and anxiety. The use of measures such as
      television, music or other audiovisual media has been shown to decrease pain during painful
      medical procedures in ED. The perception of pain competes with other stimuli, whether sensory
      or psychological. This competition is all the more effective as the number of senses involved
      and their intensity increases. However, these traditional media have little distractive
      power. They capture partially the patient's attention and the patient can easily refocus on
      the ongoing medical procedure.

      These traditional media do not produce an immersive experience. According to this principle,
      the analgesic effect of VR is expected to be greater than that provided by passive
      distractions such as watching a film on television, as demonstrated during wound dressing
      replacement in burned patients. Also, the patient's emotional state plays a role in her/his
      distractibility during a procedure. Therefore, the ideal distractive method should involve a
      maximum of senses (vision/hear/touch/...) and affects the patient's emotions to compete with
      the unpleasant stimulus.

      VR is a recent technology that offers a multi-sensory (vision, hearing), immersive and
      three-dimensional experience. It offers an active immersion in a virtual world, letting the
      patient navigate in a virtual world, leading to a greater perceived presence in this virtual
      environment (telepresence). Telepresence allows the patient to be a co-constructor of the
      experience. It differentiates VR from other cognitive and distractive techniques. VR can thus
      distract patients more effectively from the conditions under which they receive their
      treatment by procuring a superior distraction. However, studies on the impact of VR during
      invasive or painful procedures have left some unanswered questions that limit its
      unrestricted use in the ED :

        -  Most of the studies have been conducted in children.

        -  Different technologies have been used by different studies, precluding direct
           comparisons between studies;

        -  There are few data on the impact of VR applied in an emergency department with adult
           patients;

        -  The differentiation between the effect of the media (images used) and the effect of the
           medium (technology used) is often neglected; In this study, the investigators will
           attempt to demonstrate the potential superiority of VR, using a commercial VR device
           projecting a virtual environment designed specifically for medical use by a private
           company, and available to any group or ED wishing to apply this technology. The
           investigators will include adult patients requiring a painful medical procedure. In
           addition, patients will be randomized between two groups, both exposed to the same
           virtual environment (media) but screened in two different technologies (medium).
    
  