
    
      Acute peptic ulcer bleeding remains a therapeutic challenge with significant morbidity and
      mortality. Endoscopic therapy using various modalities significantly reduces re-bleeding,
      need for surgery and mortality in patients with peptic ulcer bleeding. Endoscopic therapy
      achieves successful hemostasis in more than 90% of patients, and re-bleeding occurs in 10-30%
      of patients. Re-bleeding has an important impact on prognosis. Studies showed adjuvant
      treatment with proton pump inhibitor (PPI) after initial endoscopic hemostasis reduced
      recurrent ulcer bleeding. Two consensus documents have endorsed a high-dose PPI regimen (80
      mg stat followed by an infusion of 8 mg/h for 72 h). The biologically plausible mechanism of
      benefit of such a high-dose regimen is to promote clot stability by sustaining the
      intragastric pH above 6. However, the optimal dose and administration route of proton pump
      inhibitors (PPI) for the prevention of peptic ulcer rebleeding remains unclear.

      The use of IV PPIs adds significantly to the cost of patient care in hospital. Recent studies
      reported oral PPI may have similar acid suppressive effect as high dose PPI infusion. A
      prospective trial and a retrospective analysis have shown that oral PPI therapy may also be
      effective in decreasing rebleeding rates in patients with acute gastrointestinal bleeding due
      to high-risk peptic ulcer disease, and the magnitude of benefit appears similar to what has
      been demonstrated with IV PPIs. A meta-analysis reported no difference in the magnitude of
      risk reduction between the oral- and the intravenous-route. Given the significant cost
      savings over their IV counterparts, oral PPIs would be an attractive choice of therapy in
      this situation provided that they have a similar efficacy to IV PPIs. However, no studies
      have directly compared oral and IV PPI therapy in this setting.

      We conducted a head-to-head study, comparing two strategies for PPI administration in the
      prevention of rebleeding, surgery, and death in patients with high-risk bleeding peptic
      ulcers in whom successful endoscopic hemostasis was achieved.
    
  