
    
      Study Objective: To evaluate the hypothesis that mechanical embolectomy with the Solitaire
      device is superior to medical management alone in achieving favourable outcomes defined as
      modified Rankin score (mRS) 0-3 at 90 days in subjects presenting with ischemic stroke due to
      basilar artery occlusion up to 24 hours from symptom onset.

      Subject Population: Subjects presenting with acute ischemic stroke within 6-24 hours from
      symptom onset/last seen well and whose strokes are attributable to an occlusion of the
      basilar artery. Subjects are either ineligible for IV alteplase or have received IV alteplase
      therapy without recanalization. The randomization employs a 1:1 ratio of mechanical
      embolectomy with Solitaire stentriever in conjunction with manual aspiration versus medical
      management alone. Randomization will be done under a stratification process using age,
      baseline National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and therapeutic window. For the
      primary endpoint, subjects will be followed for 90 days post-randomization.Sample size is
      projected to be 318 patients.

      Care providers: Vascular neurologists and trained interventional neuroradiologists or
      neurologists in certified comprehensive stroke centers that treat more than 500 acute stroke
      patients and perform more than 30 acute mechanical thrombectomies every year will treat
      patients. Neurointerventionalists have to have previously performed at least 10
      thrombectomies with Solitaire device in acute ischemic stroke patients.

      Interventions: Patients in both arms will be admitted at acute stroke units (or Intensive
      Care Unit if needed) and treated following the Chinese Guidelines for the Early Management of
      Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke. Concomitant medications and non-pharmacological
      therapies will be recorded. If a decision of stopping support life measures is adopted, this
      will be recorded in the Case Report Form (CRF).A maximum of six attempts to retrieve the
      thrombus in a single vessel can be made with any Solitaire device or aspiration. In case an
      atherosclerotic lesion is found underlying the occlusive lesion angioplasty/stenting through
      detachment of the Solitaire device will be allowed.
    
  