
    
      Aim:

      The overall aim of this study is to examine the baseline lymphatic function and anatomy in
      women who have undergone and completed treatment for breast cancer.

      Comparison will be made between:

        -  The treated arm and the untreated arm in the patient.

        -  The treated arm in patients who did not develop lymphedema and the treated arm in
           patients who did.

      Introduction:

      The lymphatic vasculature is distributed around the entire body where it pumps excess
      protein-rich fluid from the interstitial space back to the circulatory system. It does so
      partly by intrinsic contraction of lymphatic smooth muscle cells in the lymphatic vessel wall
      and partly by the forces applied to the lymphatic vessels by surrounding contracting muscles.
      Lymphatic valves in the vessels prevent backflow of the fluid. Lymphedema occurs when the
      lymphatic vasculature is unable to transport the lymphatic fluid out of an affected region.
      (1) There are two types of lymphedema. The first is idiopathic lymphedema and consist of
      lymphedema caused by genetic dysfunction or inherent anatomical abnormalities of the
      lymphatic vasculature. The second type is called acquired lymphedema and is due to external
      factors such as physical disruption, compression of lymphatic vessels, surgery or
      radiotherapy. (2) The commonest reason for lymphedema in the western world is cancer
      treatment. It is seen after treatment of several different cancer types such as gynecologic
      cancer, melanoma, genitourinary cancer, head and neck cancers and particularly breast cancer
      being the most frequent cancer type in women in Denmark. (3-7) More than one in five patients
      surviving breast cancer experience lymphedema, however, estimates range from 13-65%.(8, 9)
      Radiation therapy to the breast or to the axilla appears to increase the risk of lymphedema
      significantly. (10-12) These patients experience a large number of severe consequences, both
      physical and psychological, following development of lymphedema. These include decrease of
      physical strength, range-of-motion and sense in the upper extremities. An increased feeling
      of pain and heaviness is also experienced. Psychologically, these women experience anxiety,
      depression, sexual dysfunction, reduced body confidence and a lowering of general quality of
      life. (13-18) The current treatment of lymphedema consists primarily of complete decongestive
      treatment (CDT), which combines different treatment approaches such as bandaging, compression
      garments, manual lymphatic drainage, and exercise. Although the current treatment options can
      help patients with lymphedema significantly, the patients still have to undergo a lifelong
      treatment and cope with some of the complications previously mentioned. (19) In order to
      secure a foundation for the development of curative or preventive treatments of lymphedema
      developed due to breast cancer treatment, the impact of this oncological treatment on the
      function and anatomy of the lymphatic vessels has to be understood.

      Design:

      Study population:

      The study population will consist of 28 patients treated for breast cancer who simultaneously
      are enrolled in the Skagen 1 trial. The NIRF imaging and MRI will be performed after
      completion of breast cancer treatment and no later than half a year after completed
      treatment.

      Information to the patient:

      All women being candidates for the Skagen 1 Trial will be invited to participate in this
      study by their oncologist. If the patient is interested contact information will be passed
      along to the principal investigator. He and the participant will make an agreement of place
      and time for the meeting to happen and the participant will be informed that she is requested
      to participate in a health scientific research project. The participant is encouraged to
      bring along an assessor to the information. The meeting takes place in a quiet and
      undisturbed room affiliated with the Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery. Oral
      as well as written information of the study are given to the participant and the procedures,
      the risks and the gains of the study are carefully explained. If the patient is interested in
      participating she will be asked to give her written consent. The patient will be told that
      she should consider it before deciding and that her consent is not binding and can be
      withdrawn at any time should she wish to do so. The study will be performed no earlier than
      two weeks after the information is given. Therefore, they will have two weeks to consider
      whether to participate or not.

      After the meeting the participant will be informed:

        -  If new information regarding risks, side effects or complications emerges.

        -  If any changes to the research design is made that affects the participant.

        -  If new information regarding the health status of the participant emerges unless she has
           asked to not be informed.

        -  Of the results obtained and their consequences regarding the participant in she wishes.

        -  If the project is cancelled and the reason why.

      Study procedures:

      By using a novel lymphatic imaging technique, the Near Infrared Fluorescence imaging (NIRF),
      and non-contrast MRI scans the function and the anatomy of the lymphatic vasculature can be
      visualized and analyzed. These two imaging techniques have been shown to be superior to other
      techniques in lymphedema imaging. (20) All examinations will be made under similar
      conditions, on the same segment of lymphatic vasculature, in the same room and bed and with
      patients in the supine position. The estimated duration of each examination is approximately
      3,5 hours.

      NIRF setup: This study will be using a custom-built setup previously used by the Department
      of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery at Aarhus University Hospital (21, 22): A EM-CCD
      camera (C9100-13 Hamatsu, Japan), with a Navitar lens (25mm f 0.95) and 835±15nm band-pass
      filters on each side of the lens. The light source is a custom designed 785 nm 450 mW laser
      (PowerTechnology, Arkansas, US). A 780±28nm band-pass filter is placed in front of the laser
      to minimize light leakage. Indocyanine Green (ICG) will be used as a fluorophore, and a 0,1
      mL injection of 0.025% ICG dissolved in saline, equivalent to a 25μg dose per injection, will
      be given prior to commensal of the study.

      Research design:

      Near Infrared Fluorescence Imaging: In this study, different tests will be made to measure
      lymphatic activity.

      Frequency and velocity: Contraction frequency and package velocity will be examined and
      calculated using LabView. Contraction frequency will be defined as lymphatic contractions
      generated per minute, and contraction package velocity as the velocity by which the lymph is
      propelled forward following each contraction.

      Pumping pressure: A highly accurate (±1mmHg) cuff system (Hokanson E20 rapid cuff inflator,
      Hokanson AG101 air source) will be positioned around the proximal antebrachium, after having
      manually emptied the lymph vessels proximally to the cuff. The cuff will then be inflated to
      80 mmHg, and after every 5 minutes, the pressure will be lowered by 5 mmHg. Over time the
      pressure of the lymphatic vessels will exceed that of the cuff, and lymph will pass through,
      giving an estimate of the pressure within the lymphatic vessel. The cuff will be placed
      identically during both examinations.

      Magnetic Resonance Imaging: MRI will be used to visualize the anatomy and the morphology of
      the lymphatic system.

      MRI: The lymphatic anatomy of the neck, entire chest, abdomen, and arms will be imaged and
      investigated with a 3 T MRI system (Siemens Skyra; Siemens Medical, Germany). MRI will
      included a respiratory-gated (navigator) 3D fast spin-echo sequence with the following
      parameters: matrix = 448 × 448, voxel size = 0.9 × 0.9 × 0.8 mm3 FOV = 100 - 400 cm2,
      repletion time = 2830 ms, echo time = 649 ms, flip angle = 125˚. This sequence will be
      repeated sequentially for whole-body coverage using multiple phased-array coils, with each
      coil covering a different body region, without coil repositioning

      Protocol:

      Upon arrival participants will receive three injections of ICG distally on each arm, two on
      the dorsal side and one on the palmar side. Ten minutes after injection, the primary sequence
      of the lymphatic vessels will be recorded, allowing for calculation of frequency and
      velocity. Following, the pumping pressure of the lymphatic vessels will be estimated as
      described above. All NIRF sequences will be recorded of the same region of lymphatic vessels
      and on both arms. After completion of the NIRF examination, an MRI scan of the upper body and
      extremities will be made, allowing for morphological evaluation of the lymphatic system in
      the region.

      Study drug:

      Drugs used as a tool:

      ICG (0.5mg/ml solution) will be injected intradermally distally on each arm, two on the
      dorsal side and one on the palmar side for a total dose of 180μg. The Danish Health and
      Medicines Authority have approved the use of ICG to visualize lymphatic vessels using near
      infrared fluorescence in this study (reference number: LMST-2012025009). ICG green was FDA
      approved in the 1950's and has safely been used in different clinical procedures
      (ophthalmology, neurosurgery, hepatology and cardiology) ever since. In comparison to doses
      used in these procedures, up to 2mg/kg, the dose administered in the investigator's study
      (180μg) is considered small. ICG associates with albumin and as soon as it reaches the blood
      stream it is taken up by the liver and secreted into the bile, resulting in a biological
      half-life of 2-4 minutes in the blood. The only "side-effect" seen is a 4-5 mm green
      discolouration of the skin at the injections sites, which will disappear in a couple of days.

      Side-effects:

      The possible side effects of ICG (ICG-pulsion, Nomeco A/S, Denmark) are severe allergic
      reaction, which occurs very rarely (affects fewer than one in every 10,000 patients) and
      local irritation of the skin.

      Together with the symptoms of the allergic reaction, an increase of special white blood cells
      associated with allergic reactions can occur (hypereosinophilia).

      The possibility of an allergic reaction is greater in patients with extremely serious kidney
      failure.

      Study duration:

      The study will start September 1st, 2018 and terminate August 31st, 2019.

      Ethical concerns Aside from the ICG injections and the discomfort of being inside an MRI
      machine, no inconvenience will be applied to the participants. The participants will not
      benefit from this study themselves other than knowing that they could contribute with
      knowledge that might enable a possible future treatment. The gain of knowledge this study
      provides outweighs the discomfort the participants may experience.

      The participants participate on a voluntary basis with informed consent that can be withdrawn
      at any time. The participant's integrity and privacy will be respected. The study is
      conducted in accordance with the Helsinki declaration and Danish law.

      Compensation to volunteers There will be no compensation to the participants.

      Publication Positive, negative and inconclusive results will be published in an international
      scientific journal.

      Clinical Perspectives:

      The physiology behind the development of edema in breast cancer patients undergoing treatment
      is still not clear, however, a possible part of the explanation could be a change in function
      and/or anatomy of the lymphatic vessels after breast cancer treatment.

      So far, the treatment of lymphedema is unsatisfactory. It is often life long treatment and
      invalidating for the quality of the patients life. If a change can be shown further studies
      can clarify what part or parts of the treatments are responsible for the change. This could
      be done by including patients before the start of treatment and then examine the patients
      after surgery/chemotherapy and after radiotherapy subsequently.

      By studying the lymphatic vessels in these patients, data may elucidate the characteristics
      of the changes taking place and thus provide new insight for future treatments and ways to
      prevent or reduce the development of edema.
    
  