
    
      Background:

      -Laboratory-based investigations have contributed to an improved understanding of the biology
      of cancer and to the development of new therapies for pediatric malignancies.

      Objectives:

      -Systematic Molecular, Genomic, Proteomic, Metabolomic ( Omic ) and other profiling for
      enrolled subjects.

      Eligibility:

      Pediatric or Adult subjects of any age with one of the following:

        -  Diagnosis of any tumor or malignancy, pre-malignant disorder or suspected cancer
           susceptibility familial syndromes, regardless of age

        -  Individuals without malignancy undergoing surgery, other treatment or normal well visit.

        -  Biological relatives of a subject with a pediatric tumor or malignancy or with suspected
           familial cancer syndrome.

        -  Patients enrolled in an approved companion protocol

        -  Blood and/or tissue specimens that have been previously collected and are available for
           research analysis

        -  Biospecimens can be collected with minimal additional risk to the subject during
           sampling or procedures required for routine patient care.

      Design:

        -  This study will allow for the collection of specimens for a Tissue Repository, and for
           designated sample investigations including systematic molecular, genomic and proteomic
           (Omic) profiling, and growth factor and cellular profile investigations.

        -  Testing activities may include:

             -  DNA, RNA and protein will be extracted from a section of tumor samples, the
                remainder will be stored.

             -  Germ line DNA and RNA will be extracted from lymphocytes or other normal uninvolved
                tissue

             -  Germ line DNA will be extracted from lymphocytes or other normal uninvolved tissue
                of the biological relatives of the subject.

             -  Xenografts, explant and cell lines established from tumor, pre-malignant and normal
                samples

             -  Tumor samples and samples for circulating tumor cells sent for the establishment of
                Xenografts and single cell suspension of tumor for drug testing

             -  Omics (Genomics and Proteomic) studies will be performed

             -  Growth factor and cellular profile investigations of bone marrow-derived cell
                populations to include quantification of hematopietic progenitor cells (HPCs),
                endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs), and mesenchymal progenitor cells (MPCs),
                levels of matrix metalloprotease 2 and 9 (MMP2) and (MMP9), gene expression, growth
                factor and microvesicle analysis and bone marrow analysis of progenitor cells in
                blood and tissue.

             -  Research tests described in active IRB approved protocols

             -  Immune profiling and stromal profiling of blood, tumor, and normal tissues

             -  Immune function studies from blood and normal tumor tissues

        -  Utilizing an oversight committee to oversee the receipt and the distribution of unlinked
           tissues to other investigators.

        -  Qualitative methodologies will be used to ascertain knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and
           behaviors in 25-35 parents/caregivers at NIH concerning the anticipated use of NGS for
           diagnosing and directing therapy for pediatric cancer and how incidental findings might
           be returned.

        -  Expected accrual 100-150 patients per year.
    
  