
    
      Background: Vitiligo is characterized by a depigmentation acquired with partial or total loss
      of melanocytes from the epidermis, causing great psychosocial impact. Several therapeutic
      modalities have been proposed for its treatment and surgical treatments have been shown to be
      promising, especially in recalcitrant cases. The technique of epidermal rasping grafting, a
      variant of the punch micrografts technique, shows high repigmentation rates and does not
      require high cost technology. Objective: The objective of this project is to perform a
      comparative study for the surgical treatment of vitiligo, in which the same patient (N = 10)
      will receive, in symmetrical acrylic areas, only dermabrasion with a micro needling of 0.25
      mm or dermabrasion using micro needling followed of the cell suspension application
      (melanocytes and uncultured keratinocytes). Methodology: In the donor area (scalp) the
      healthy tissue will be removed. This tissue will be placed in a sterile container with
      physiological saline and fragmented with delicate scissors for about 20 minutes until
      homogeneous consistency of the material is obtained. After the enzymatic digestion of
      epidermal cells of the dermis, it will isolate melanocytes and keratinocytes that will be
      placed in the recipient area. After 15 days of the surgical procedure, patients will start
      the phototherapy UVB-NB sessions (twice a week). The patients will be evaluated about the
      pain during the procedure, the improvement of injuries of vitiligo and the vitiligo-specific
      quality-of-life instrument (VitiQoL Vitqol Index) will be applied after and before the
      treatment. Conclusion: The technique of grafting by epidermal scrap shows high rates of
      repigmentation and does not require high cost technology, which motivated us, in this study,
      corroborating the literature and helping to disseminate this technique.
    
  