
    
      Using a stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial design, we will implement PAINFREE
      sequentially in 7 Emergency Departments (EDs) in the greater Montreal area where as each ED
      site acts as its own control and provides data in both pre- and post-implementation periods.
      Mixed methods analysis will be used to link quantitative (pain management indicators pre- and
      post-implementation) to qualitative (feasibility, fidelity and acceptability of
      implementation) data sets to facilitate data triangulation to evaluate the effects of
      PAINFREE in real world settings.

      PAINFREE Initiative at each site includes 3 phases: pre-implementation, implementation, and
      post-implementation. The approach is patient-centered and is composed of three complementary
      components: a patient component, a physician component, and a nursing component.

      Each program phases include the following steps:

        1. Pre-implementation (2 months):

             1. In all study sites, distribution and analysis of a web-based survey for nurses to
                document factors that can impact PAINFREE implementation in their environment

             2. Review of medical records of the target population for extraction of selected
                variables

        2. PAINFREE implementation (6 months):

             1. Awareness campaigns will be organized throughout the institution of each study site
                (posters, brochures, billboards, lanyards)

             2. Profession-specific educational presentations (1 hour) for physicians and nurses,
                accredited as part of continued professional development programs

             3. Distribution of standardized point-of-care tools to improve pain assessment and
                documentation (pocket cards, use of validated pain scales), treatment (standardized
                prescription) and re-assessment

             4. Distribution of educational material and tools targeting pain care literacy (pain
                scale interpretation, pamphlet) for patients and their families

        3. Post-implementation (4 months):

             1. Review of medical records of target population for extraction of selected variables

             2. Distribution of report cards comparing each ED's post- and pre-intervention
                performance on pain management indicators and comparing their performance to that
                of other sites

             3. Phone call interviews with patients

             4. Focus group interviews (physicians and nurses)
    
  