
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of sorafenib tosylate and lenalidomide in
           combination with dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
           (phase I)

        -  To describe the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. (phase I)

        -  To evaluate the confirmed response in patients treated with this regimen. (phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To correlate clinical effects (adverse events and/or tumor response or activity) with
           pharmacologic parameters (pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics) and/or biologic results
           (correlative laboratory). (phase II)

        -  To assess overall survival and time to disease progression in patients treated with this
           regimen. (phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of sorafenib tosylate in combination with
      lenalidomide followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate once to twice daily on days 1-28, oral lenalidomide
      once daily on days 1-21, and oral dexamethasone on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood and bone marrow sample collection periodically during study for
      laboratory correlative studies. Bone marrow plasma samples (i.e., fresh marrow aspirates) are
      assessed for marrow angiogenesis (microvessel density) by IHC; angiogenic capability (tubular
      network formation) by in vitro angiogenesis assay; tumor cell proliferation by
      bromo-2-deoxyuridine uptake; tumor cell apoptosis by three-color flow cytometry (CD38, CD45
      or CD138, and 7AAD); and expression of VEGF and soluble VEGF receptors on plasma cells by
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Bone marrow biopsies are assessed for various
      phosphoproteins by IHC; phosphorylation status of ERK1/2 by immunoblotting; and for
      pharmacodynamic markers (e.g., P70 S6K) by immunoblotting. Blood samples are assessed for
      surface markers of circulating endothelial cells (CD105, CD34, and CD146) by flow cytometry
      and for circulating endothelial cell progenitors by late colony formation in mononuclear
      cells. The endothelial lineage is confirmed by phenotyping of surface markers for endothelial
      cells.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 39 patients will be accrued for phase I and 44 for phase II of
      this study.
    
  