
    
      This study will proposed 3 novel protocols, including upper extremity (UE) VCT, UE SES, and
      virtual reality based CIT (VRCIT) in the treatment of upper limb dysfunction in patients with
      CP. investigators hypothesize that the functioning and health-related quality of life (HRQOL)
      will improve through biomechanical and physiological changes after different treatment
      protocols in patients with CP. The biomechanical and physiological changes varied depending
      on different treatment protocols. This project aims to: 1. the immediate effects of new
      protocols in these patients through biomechanical, physiological, and clinical measures; 2.
      the maintaining effects of new protocols in these patients through biomechanical,
      physiological, and clinical measures;3. the most effective treatment protocol; 3. the
      biomechanical and physiological mechanism underlying clinical improvement; and 5. the
      clinical predictors influencing the outcome for new protocols.

      This 4-year project will recruit an estimated 92-100 patients with CP. A blind, randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) study was designed. In the phase I (1st year), investigators will
      set-up the experimental protocols and perform pilot study. Twenty patients will be randomized
      into 4 groups: SES, VCT, VRCIT, and shame control groups. In the phase II (2nd -3rd year),
      36-40 patients will be randomized into 2 groups: SES and shame control groups. In the phase
      III (3rd -4th year), 36-40 patients will be randomized into 2 groups:VCT and VRCIT groups.
      The outcome measures include biomechanical, physiological (muscle tone, muscle strength and
      endurance, kinematics, bone density, body compositions, metabolism), and clinical
      assessments, including functioning (motor impairment, movement and participation) and HRQOL,
      based on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF)
      framework. The outcome measures will be administered at before, immediately after 12-week
      intervention, and 3-month follow-up assessments.

      This project is significant for the translational and evidence-based medicine on CP
      neurorehabilitation. The research will offer valuable biomechanical and physiological
      biomarker that support motor control models proposed to account for motor problems and new
      protocol intervention in these patients.
    
  