
    
      This study is designed to detect, engage, and experimentally evaluate the effects of
      internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (e-CBT) to treat college students in two Latin
      American low-middle income countries (LMICs; Colombia and Mexico) with major depressive
      disorder and/or generalized anxiety disorder, with or without other comorbid common mental
      disorders (CMDs). Detection and engagement will be based on inexpensive internet-based
      recruitment and administration of self-report surveys. The intervention will be based on
      inexpensive e-CBT to address the low resources in LMICs. The study builds on prior research
      by collaborators in the WHO World Mental Health (WMH) survey consortium and WMH International
      College Study (WMH-ICS) initiative documenting high prevalence, impairment, and unmet need
      for treatment of CMDs among college students around the world and significant effects of
      e-CBT in treating these disorders in high income countries.

      First, the investigators will carry out a pragmatic clinical trial with students seeking
      treatment for CMDs at student clinics in universities in Colombia and Mexico. Students on
      waitlists for student clinic services will be offered a possibility of receiving guided or
      self-guided e-CBT immediately while staying on the list. 33% of the students with CMD who
      express interest will be randomized to guided e-CBT, another 33% to self-guided e-CBT, and
      the remaining 33% to treatment as usual (TAU), where the latter is defined as remaining on
      the waiting list. Short-term aggregate intervention effects will be assessed 90 days after
      randomization and longer-term effects 12 months after randomization. The investigators will
      then use ensemble machine learning methods to predict heterogeneity of treatment effects of
      e-CBT versus TAU and develop a precision treatment rule (PTR) to predict which students will
      respond best to which intervention. A SMART design will then be implemented in which 50% of a
      second cohort of students from the same sample frame (i.e., students seeking treatment for
      CMDs at student clinics in the participating universities) will be randomized to the
      treatment arm predicted to be optimal by the PTR and the other 50% to randomization across
      arms.

      Additionally, the investigators will use outreach to recruit students into the trial who
      might not otherwise seek treatment from student clinics. Two procedures will be used here. In
      the first, students will be recruited from annual WMH-ICS internet-based mental health needs
      assessment surveys that will be carried out with a probability sample of students to estimate
      unmet need for treatment and barriers to treatment. Students who respond to these surveys and
      meet inclusion criteria and are not in treatment will be randomized to guided e-CBT,
      self-guided e-CBT, and treatment as usual in student clinics to determine if access to guided
      and self-guided e-CBT reduces the unmet need for treatment among students with CMDs who fail
      to seek treatment at student health clinics. The second will expand recruitment by sending
      emails to random subsamples of students notifying them of the availability of the
      internet-based interventions and inviting them to participate in a trial. Students that
      respond to this announcement will then be recruited and randomized into the same three arms
      as among students that participated in the annual WMH-ICS survey.
    
  