
    
      Although it has been postulated that early hypoxemia lasts approximately two hours after a
      surgical procedure, the first 20 minutes of the postoperative period seem to be most critical
      . It is evident that the majority of transport times would fall well within this 20 minute
      window , thus the potential for postoperative hypoxemia during the transport period does
      exist. Canet, et al. (1989) found significant differences in oxygen saturation when
      administering 35% oxygen to adults in the PACU after a 30 second transport while breathing
      room air.The alveolar shunt induced by atelectasis is the main cause of oxygenation
      impairment during postoperative period. Witting MD, Lueck CH reported the ability of pulse
      oximetry at room air to detect hypoxemia based on 513 blood gas analysis. Coincidentially a
      room air oxygen saturation value <96% was selected a cut point of hypoxemia ( Po2 <70 mmhg
      )and moderate hypercapnia ( Pco2 >50 mmhg ) . Jones and Jones descriped a digram showing
      relationship between SPO2 and FiO2 and proved that SPO2 < 96% correspond to shunt effect of
      more than 10% and defines alveolar collapse . clark et al 2001determined time required for
      partial pressure of arterial oxygen to reach equilibrium during mechanical ventilation after
      a step change in fractional inspired oxygen, they reported that 5-10 minutes will be adequate
      . Ferrando C 2017 reported The accuracy of postoperative, non-invasive Air-Test to diagnose
      atelectasis in healthy patients after surgery They found that the air test diagnosed
      postoperative atelectasis with sensitivity of 82% and specificity of 87% and area uder the
      curve of 0.9 The presence of atelectasis was confirmed by CT scan in all patients with
      positive air test and in 5 patients with negative air test .The Air-Test may represent an
      accurate, simple, inexpensive and non-invasive method for diagnosing postoperative
      atelectasis.Sonography is a simple, noninvasive, and radiation-free methodology which has
      gained increasing usage in daily practice for detection of atelectasis. Sonography is a
      radiation-free methodology which plays an important role in diagnosing pulmonary diseases
      including obstructive and compressive atelectasis of different origins Furthermore, lung
      ultrasound has shown reliable sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of
      anaesthesia-induced atelectasis . Telectasis after general anaesthesia is basal and
      segmental. For this,we designed this trial as a pilot to detect the accuracy (sensitivity and
      specificity) of Air-Test to detect atelectasis in a homogenous group (elderly patients
      undergoing orthopedic surgery) using Roc testing.
    
  