
    
      A Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) evaluation comprises measurement of a distal single value and
      a pullback maneuver during hyperemic conditions. The PPGindex is a novel metric derived from
      the FFR pullback curve.3 This metric complements the distal FFR value by informing the
      spatial distribution of epicardial resistance (i.e. focal or diffuse) along the coronary
      vessel. The PPGindex relies on two components: first, the magnitude of pressure drop
      determined as a maximal pressure gradient over 20 millimeters relative to the total vessel
      gradient; and second, the length of functional disease relative to total vessel length. These
      two parameters are weighted equally to provide a metric that ranges from 0 to 1. PPGindex
      values approaching 1 represent functional focal coronary artery disease (CAD) whereas values
      close to 0 represent diffuse functional CAD. Until now, the interpretation of the FFR
      pullback relied on visual assessment. The PPGindex quantifies the pattern of functional CAD
      and has been shown to predict functionally complete revascularization. Percutaneous
      revascularization in vessels with high PPGindex is associated with high post-PCI FFR and vast
      improvement in epicardial conductance whilst PCI in vessels with low PPGindex results in low
      post-PCI FFR. An curvilinear relationship is observed between PPGindex and functional gain
      (i.e. FFR post-PCI minus FFR pre-PCI). The PPGindex, therefore, aims to predict the response
      to PCI in physiological terms.

      Calculation of the PPGindex is indicated in cases with an FFR≤0.80. FFR pullbacks are
      performed under hyperemic conditions at a steady pace during manual pullback. A calculation
      of the PPGindex using the Coroflow console (Coroventis Research Ab, Uppsala, Sweden) is
      available for online use and computes the PPG value immediately after the pullback maneuver.
      This software also includes an automated drift correction. The pullback curve is depicted on
      an dedicated pullback display screen and the pressure gradients are shown per millimeter,
      allowing correlation between the location of pressure step-ups and the anatomical target for
      PCI. In summary, we can distinguish three points where FFR influences the clinical
      decision-making process. First, an FFR ≤0.80 indicates potential benefit of
      revascularization. Second, the pullback curve assesses disease pattern and PPG index value
      quantifies it, helping de physician in the decision about treatment options (e.g. PCI, CABG
      or OMT). And, third, the location of pressure step-ups along the vessels helps plan the PCI
      strategy with respect to coverage of functional disease. A combined FFR and PPG-guided PCI
      strategy has the potential to improve patient selection and enhance procedural planning.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the predictive capacity of the PPG index for
      post-PCI FFR and to determine the impact of the PPG index on clinical decision making about
      revascularization and on clinical outcomes.
    
  