
    
      Tivozanib hydrochloride (tivozanib; previously known as AV-951 and as KRN951) has the
      chemical name
      (N-{2-Chloro-4-[(6,7-dimethoxy-4-quinolyl)oxy]phenyl}-N'-(5-methyl-3-isoxazolyl)urea
      hydrochloride monohydrate. Tivozanib is a novel and potent vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (VEGFR TKI) that has demonstrated significant
      anti-tumor effects in pre clinical experiments [1]. Tivozanib inhibits phosphorylation of
      VEGF receptors (VEGFR) -1, -2 and -3 at picomolar concentrations (IC50 of 0.21, 0.16 and 0.24
      nM respectively), and inhibits c-Kit and platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) at
      10-times higher concentrations (IC50 of 1.63 and 1.72 nM respectively).

      Based on its biochemical profile, tivozanib appears to be one of the most potent and
      selective VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor in clinical development. Other agents used for
      treatment of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) such as sunitinib and sorafenib inhibit multiple
      tyrosine kinases in addition to the VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase, leading to off-target
      toxicities such as fatigue, hand-foot syndrome, stomatitis, and neutropenia. The adverse
      event (AE) profile of tivozanib demonstrates that it is a selective VEGF tyrosine kinase
      inhibitor, with reduced off-target toxicities.

      Nivolumab is a fully human IgG4 programmed death 1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint inhibitor
      antibody that selectively blocks the interaction between PD-1, which is expressed on
      activated T cells, and PD-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) and 2 (PD-L2) which are expressed on immune
      cells and tumor cells. Interaction between PD-1 and PD-L1 or PD-L2 normally results in the
      inhibition of the cellular immune response. Nivolumab has shown activity in renal cell
      carcinoma. [2]

      This study is designed to test the hypothesis that tivozanib can be combined with nivolumab
      for the treatment of patients with renal cell carcinoma. The purpose of the study is to
      determine the maximum dose of tivozanib that can be safely combined with nivolumab, and to
      evaluate the safety profile and tolerability of this combination. Given the different
      mechanisms of action and a lack of overlapping toxicities this combination may provide an
      alternative therapy to patients with renal cell carcinoma.
    
  