
    
      Background: There are several known challenges to starting a medication for depression, such
      as side effects and needing four to six weeks before the effects of the medication may be
      noticed. This pilot randomized controlled trial will compare usual care to an intervention
      which aims to improve antidepressant adherence and depression outcomes in Veterans initiating
      medication to treat depression by using Annie, VA's short messaging services (SMS)
      application and My HealtheVet, VA's patient portal.

      Method: Veterans will be eligible if they are initiating a new antidepressant medication as
      part of their care at the Iowa City VA primary care or mental health. Veterans will be
      randomized to one of three groups, usual care or 1 of 2 interventional groups (Annie or Annie
      plus). Veterans in the intervention groups will 1) receive education about depression and the
      importance of taking medications as prescribed and 2) receive text messages from "Annie" with
      information and questions for response. For example, are Veterans taking their medication, is
      their medication working, and how would they rate their mood. They will also receive weekly
      reports about their responses to Annie through My HealtheVet, VA's patient portal. In
      addition, Veterans assigned to Annie Plus will receive a weekly phone call to review progress
      and to answer any questions. Prior to a participant's scheduled follow-up appointment, a
      summary of information collected to date via Annie will be made available to the clinical
      team in the medical record. At the end of the study, participants will be invited to complete
      a recorded interview about their experiences using the Annie text messaging program and to
      provide any recommendations for changes. VA providers will also be invited to complete a
      recorded phone interview about their experience with patients using Annie.

      For Veterans randomized to the control condition, research staff will provide education about
      depression and the importance of taking medications as prescribed. Staff will contact
      participants in this arm by phone just prior to scheduled follow up visits to discuss any
      concerns the patient may be experiencing. A sample of Veterans will be asked to complete a
      recorded interview about their medication management at the end of the study.
    
  