
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although tobacco smoking is the major environmental risk factor for COPD, only a minority of
      smokers develops this condition, and it appears that genetic and other environmental factors
      are important in determining risk. There has been growing interest in the hypothesis that
      dietary factors modify COPD risk, possibly by protecting against oxidant injury. Available
      data addressing this hypothesis have a variety of methodological limitations that preclude
      any firm conclusions. The study was the first to address this hypothesis using data from the
      Nurses' Health Study, a large, prospective cohort study with detailed dietary assessments and
      a follow-up interval of sufficient duration to examine incident COPD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study examined the relationship between dietary factors and chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) among participants in the Nurses' Health Study, an ongoing prospective cohort
      study of 121,700 women, ages 39-64 in 1985. This cohort had been followed by means of
      biennial questionnaires which inquired about a variety of topics, including dietary intake
      (using a validated semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire) and physician diagnosis of
      COPD. In 1998, all participants with a history of COPD were sent a supplementary
      questionnaire regarding specifics of COPD diagnosis and related topics. The study examined
      the relation of dietary factors to risk of newly-diagnosed COPD during 1985-1998. During this
      time period, there were approximately 2,100 cases of "confirmed" COPD (i.e., physician
      diagnosis and pulmonary function tests [PFTs] at time of diagnosis or abnormal FEV-I in past
      year) and "probable" COPD (i.e., physician diagnosis and recent respiratory symptoms, but
      PFTs not known). Preliminary data supported the validity of these case definitions, and this
      was examined further by reviewing 600 medical records. Likewise, potential under-diagnosis
      was examined in a random sample of past and current smokers who had never reported COPD or
      asthma. The specific dietary hypotheses were that high intakes of antioxidants (e.g., vitamin
      C, vitamin E, and carotenoids), magnesium, potassium, and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
      (e.g., fish oils) decreased risk of COPD, whereas high intakes of specific fatty acids (e.g.,
      linoieic acid) increased risk. The cohort size and 13-year follow-up provided >90 percent
      power to detect a trend across quintiles of dietary intake. In 1998, among approximately
      2,400 prevalent cases with diet data, study investigators addressed a secondary aim: to
      determine the relation of dietary factors to COPD severity during 1998-2000. COPD severity
      was assessed by self-report of current medications, recent symptoms, activity limitations,
      and health care utilization (e.g., emergency room or urgent office visits for COPD
      exacerbations). The rising prevalence of COPD, particularly among women, along with its high
      societal cost, makes COPD prevention an important public health goal.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  