
    
      In a single-dose bioavailability study, the investigators showed previously that provision of
      calcium and magnesium in a soluble form as EffCaMgCit improved intestinal absorption of
      calcium and magnesium and suppressed parathyroid function during PPI treatment, compared with
      calcium carbonate. In a multidosing trial with esomeprazole 40 mg/day for 28 days, EffCaMgCit
      suppressed parathyroid function and bone turnover, and increased serum and urinary magnesium,
      compared with placebo. Moreover, EffCaMgCit co-administered with PPI conferred an alkali
      load, and averted apparent acid load conferred by PPI (when given with placebo).

      In the current proposal, the investigators wish to conduct a 2-year treatment trial, directed
      at obtaining more definitive evidence that EffCaMgCit overcomes all three complications of
      PPI.

      Aim 1. To test the hypothesis that EffCaMgCit would prevent/treat osteoporosis, by
      suppressing parathyroid function and bone resorption, thereby stabilizing bone mineral
      density (BMD). The critical endpoint will be BMD. Secondary endpoints will be serum PTH and
      C-terminal telopeptide (CTX).

      Aim 2. To test the hypothesis that EffCaMgCit would prevent/treat hypomagnesemia/magnesium
      deficiency, by providing bioavailable magnesium. The critical endpoint will be fractional
      excretion of magnesium (FEMg) and free muscle magnesium by MRS. Secondary endpoints will be
      serum and urinary magnesium.

      Aim 3. To test the hypothesis that EffCaMgCit would reduce the risk of CKD during PPI use by
      averting putative hypomagnesemia/magnesium deficiency and neutralizing acid load. The
      investigators propose that PPI causes hypomagnesemia/magnesium deficiency and confers an acid
      load, - factors implicated for incident CKD and its progression. EffCaMgCit is expected to
      avert incident CKD by providing bioavailable magnesium and alkali load. Critical endpoints
      will be endogenous creatinine clearance, FEMg, free muscle magnesium and acid-base status.
    
  