
    
      Overall study objective:

      The objectives of this Stage I pilot study are to 1) adapt Ca-HELP for use in rural settings,
      and 2) inform research and trial design choices by engaging community partners. Following the
      completion of formative tasks about this adaptive design approach, investigators will conduct
      an open trial to test the feasibility and acceptability of methods and procedures for later
      use on a large scale R01-level RCT.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To adapt the Ca-HELP intervention for use with older adults with cancer in rural
      settings. This intervention adaptation will be informed by: (1) social-cognitive theory;12,13
      (2) mixed methods analysis; and (3) semi-structured interviews from key stakeholder groups
      including patients, caregivers, and providers and hospital administration staff in rural
      clinic settings.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the adapted Ca-HELP intervention
      among older adults with cancer in rural clinic settings.

      Hypothesis 2a: To evaluate feasibility, ≥70% of participants will meet the benchmark for
      feasibility defined by participant retention and adherence to the intervention.

      Hypothesis 2b: To evaluate acceptability, ≥70% of participants will meet the benchmark for
      acceptability defined by responses on self-report measures of perceived helpfulness,
      satisfaction, and impact.

      Aim 3: To test the preliminary efficacy of the Ca-HELP intervention adaptation on older
      adults with cancer to improve pain self-management (primary outcome) as well as pain
      misconceptions; self-efficacy to communicate with their physicians regarding pain severity,
      pain-related impairment, and pain severity (secondary outcomes).

      Hypothesis 3: We hypothesize that the intervention will reduce patients' pain misconceptions,
      pain-related impairment, and pain severity and improve pain self-management and self-efficacy
      to communicate about pain with their physicians.

      For Aim 1, investigators will collect feedback from older adults with cancer (n=10 patients),
      their caregivers (n=10), and providers and staff working in rural clinic settings (n=10) to
      determine the appropriateness of this intervention framework and best methods for
      implementation (e.g., in person health coach, telephone-based, etc.). Following these
      formative tasks, Aims 2 and 3 will be achieved through an open trial in rural Tennessee to
      test the intervention with n=30 older (65 years+) cancer patients in rural clinics and assess
      outcomes at baseline, post-intervention, and three months post-intervention.
    
  