
    
      The incidence of chronic diseases and conditions including cancer that require a long-term
      treatment process and also affect the individual psychological status and quality of life has
      increased with a high financial burden as a result of relatively prolonged human life under
      the influence of contemporary medicine. Palliative care services can be applied in chronic,
      life-threatening conditions such as cancer, and provide physical, mental and psychological
      support to patients worldwide. Symptoms including pain, constipation, diarrhea, anorexia,
      dysphagia, nausea and vomiting, dehydration, depression, delirium, and fatigue may
      demonstrate in cancer patients receiving palliative care, while most of the them have
      complain of pain. Studies have reported that 30% of cancer patients experienced pain at the
      diagnosis, 50-70% of them in during treatment period, and 60-80% of them in the terminal
      period. It was determined in another study that 90% of patients had pain when they were
      hospitalized in palliative care service, and more than half of them defined the pain severity
      at 5 and above.

      Pharmacological agents were used to manage pain control, as they had rapid effect and were
      easily applicable. In addition to pharmacological agents, the application of
      non-pharmacological interventions is important for improving the quality of life and patient
      comfort and reducing the symptom burden in relieving pain caused by the side effects and
      methods of treatment in the palliative care cancer patients. Since non-pharmacological
      methods could reduce pain by applying alone or in combination with drugs, the frequency of
      use has increased in recent years. Music therapy was used as a non-pharmacological method in
      many health problems as a traditional treatment and psychosocial interventions. The study was
      aimed to investigate the effects of music therapy on pain in patients with cancer
      hospitalized palliative care service. In the current study we tested the hypothesis that
      palliative care patients' pain management. 1. reduce the rate of pain score. 2. reduce the
      rate of anxiety scoe. 3. To increase the rate of comfort level. 4. To increase the rate of
      functional capacity.
    
  