
    
      The esophagogastric junction (EGJ) is an anatomical region where different tumour entities
      which should be treated with different surgical approaches. Carcinomas within this area cause
      discordance concerning the classification due to the topographical borderland between the
      esophagus and the stomach. The definition, classification and staging of adenocarcinomas of
      the esophagogastric junction (AEG) have been inconsistent and are challenging. Siewert
      provided a system for classifying the tumours into three types based on
      topographical-anatomical criteria with direct impact on therapeutic strategies and wide
      acceptance in Europe. Adenocarcinomas of the esophagogastric junction type I involve the
      distal esophagus and mostly arise in intestinal metaplasia of Barrett's esophagus; AEG type
      II originates at the anatomical cardia and AEG type III are subcardial gastric carcinomas
      infiltrating the esophagogastric junction and distal esophagus from below. The mix of
      esophageal and gastric classification systems and especially, the controversy of the cell of
      origin of AEG type II present significant difficulties in defining this entity. The 7th
      edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer/Union Internationale Contre Cancer
      (AJCC/UICC) classification presented a new definition of AEG in 2009. A tumour is classified
      as esophageal as soon as it extends into the esophagus and its epicentre is located within
      5cm of the esophagogastric junction. Thus, Tumours with an epicentre in the stomach and
      distance greater than 5cm from the esophagogastric junction (EGJ) or those within 5cm of the
      EGJ but without extension into the esophagus are staged as gastric carcinoma. Most of the
      cardia carcinomas which originally were staged according to the gastric cancer TNM
      classification are now staged according the esophageal carcinoma TNM classification. Accurate
      preoperative staging of Siewert type II tumours is a challenge. Apparently, AEG type II show
      a specific biology with a high rate of lymph node metastases in comparison to distal
      esophageal carcinomas. The optimal surgical approach ranges from extended gastrectomy to
      radical esophagogastrectomy. In our opinion, an esophagogastrectomy with colonic
      interposition could be suggested as an appropriate approach in AEG type II. Therefore, we
      analyzed the oncological outcome of patients who underwent esophagogastrectomy versus
      extended gastrectomy due to carcinomas of the esophagogastric junction (Siewert type II).
    
  