
    
      Study population This pilot study is a multicentre epidemiological intervention study of
      exploratory nature, hence no power calculation was performed, aiming to demonstrate trends.
      The study includes 50 subjects without a control group.

      The inclusion criteria of the 50 subjects are: people over 55 years old, with a STARS® score
      ≥10 (moderate-to-high risk for AMD). Individuals with a STARS® score <10, or taking
      nutritional supplements containing vitamin D or trace nutrients in the 4 months prior to
      enrolment, and people with grade-3 or grade-4 AMD scores according to the AREDS simplified
      scale, were excluded from the study.

      Study Design and Procedures The study was conducted in accordance to the GCP and Declaration
      of Helsinki principles, and the study protocol and all relevant study documents were
      submitted for review to the UZ Leuven Ethics Committee. Informed consent form was obtained
      from the subjects prior to their enrolment in the study. All information collected was kept
      confidential and anonymized and used exclusively for the purposes of this study in compliance
      with the applicable personal data protection and processing laws.

      The study was completed within a single visit. Outcome data was collected during a one-time
      subject interview comprising of clinical eye examinations (typically visual acuity), the
      STARS® questionnaire, visual acuity assessment, an OCT scan on the macula, and fundus
      photography. Blood samples were collected using a Vacutainer system with 1 purple EDTA tube
      and 2 red tubes to assay for omega-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA as well as omega-6 for the
      calculation of the omega-6:omega-3 (Ω6:Ω3) ratio, vitamin 25(OH)D, zinc oxide and cupric
      oxide. Samples were analysed by the RP Lab, Rue Emile Francqui 7, 1435 Mont-Saint-Guibert,
      Belgium (www.rplab.be).

      Data Analysis The data were tested for normality using the Chi-Squared Goodness-of-Fit test.
      Data distribution was not normal for some of the assayed micronutrients, thus all data were
      analysed to identify trends using subject proportions (%) and descriptive statistics for not
      normally distributed data: median ± MAD (median absolute deviation).
    
  