
    
      Obsessive Compulsive Disorders (OCD) are a frequent and debilitating disease. Impact on daily
      life is usually important, with a high rate of mood and anxious comorbidities, such as Major
      Depressive Disorder occurring in half of these participants. The effects can be dramatic,
      leading to higher suicide rate in this population.

      Guidelines for OCD treatment in France recommend the use of Serotonin Specific Recapture
      Inhibitors (SSRI) and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), if possible simultaneously.
      However, those treatments are responsible for adverse effects for the first and not easily
      accessible for the second. Consequently, a non-negligible number of participants still
      suffers from symptoms of OCD with a non-optimal treatment.

      Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS), a noninvasive neurostimulation method,
      has shown its usefulness in the treatment of mental illnesses. It has been authorized by the
      Food and Drugs Administration in the United States for the treatment of OCD. It represents an
      alternative method for helping those participants, but pattern of modifications over OCD
      pathophysiology has still to be unraveled.

      In order to precisely analyze the effects of Low Frequency rTMS (LF rTMS) on OCD, the
      investigators designed a monocentric, prospective, double blind study comparing cerebral
      blood flow (CBF) before and after a rTMS treatment. Measurements will be performed on the
      Orbito Frontal Cortex (OFC), whose role in OCD has already been shown by our team (Nauczyciel
      et al, 2014 in Translational Psychiatry), using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in Arterial
      Spin Labeling (ASL).

      Inclusion criteria will be OCD diagnosis, age between 18 and 65, and the lack of counter
      indication to MRI and rTMS. Participants will firstly undergo MRI before treatment, along
      with a psychometric assessment. Participants will then receive a one-week rTMS treatment,
      with two sessions of fifteen minutes per day. Second MRI and evaluation will be performed 4
      weeks after the end of the treatment.

      Psychometric assessment will consist of MINI, YBOCS, CGI, MADRS, HAMA, and GAF, administered
      before and four weeks after treatment. The psychiatrist giving the assessment will be blind
      to the randomization of the patient, so will be the radiologist performing the MRI.

      Our primary outcome is to show a significant difference between CBF in OCD in participants
      treated by rTMS versus participants treated by sham rTMS. A decrease of the CBF in the OFC is
      expected, in regards to the inhibitor effects of LF rTMS. This result will allow us to follow
      objectively the neurobiological effects of rTMS, developing the ability to plan more
      efficiently rTMS treatment for participants.
    
  