
    
      Tinnitus is the most prevalent service-connected disability for Veterans. Many Veterans are
      offered sound-based (acoustic) therapy for tinnitus that is intended to alter the tinnitus
      perception and/or reactions to tinnitus in a clinically beneficial way. Various methods of
      acoustic therapy are in use and companies are promoting different products. It remains
      unknown; however, how certain acoustic parameters may be more effective than others. Recent
      research has shown the benefit of one such acoustic therapy, Notched Noise Therapy, that
      presents wideband sound with the tinnitus frequency region notched out, theorized to
      distribute lateral inhibition into the notched frequency region to suppress neural activity
      believed to cause the tinnitus percept. Previous studies have typically involved brief daily
      exposures, which are not as likely to remodel neural processes underlying tinnitus as is
      continuous "immersion" in background sound, which is adopted here. The proposed study will
      conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of notched noise therapy
      (NNT). The long-term goal of the research program is to develop an accessible, evidence-based
      treatment that reduces tinnitus loudness and to be able to assess that treatment through a
      validated method of behavioral and physiological clinical tools. The overall objective for
      this CDA-2 research plan, which is the next step toward attainment of the investigators'
      long-term goal, is to systematically evaluate the utility of functional, psychoacoustic, and
      electrophysiologic measures to reveal the overall whole-health impact in Veterans with
      chronic tinnitus. The trial will enroll 108 participants, who will be randomized to one of
      three acoustic therapy methods: amplification + notched noise, amplification + noise without
      notch, and amplification-only. The three groups will be asked to wear ear-level devices
      (combination instruments that provide both amplification and 1-10 kHz shapeable noise) as
      much as possible during waking hours. All participants will undergo acoustic therapy for 8
      weeks and will complete outcome measures (i.e., Tinnitus Functional Index, Psychoacoustic
      loudness and pitch matches, AEP, and EEG measures) at baseline and at 4 and 8 weeks. They
      will repeat outcome assessment at 12 weeks to evaluate for maintenance of any effects while
      not receiving acoustic therapy for 4 weeks. (Participants requiring hearing aids for hearing
      loss will continue to use their aids during the 4-week no-treatment period). The
      investigators hypothesize that NNT suppresses tinnitus perception by distributing lateral
      inhibition into the notched frequency region and will therefore, reduce the perception of
      tinnitus loudness. At the completion of this CDA-2 program, the expected outcomes include a
      NNT as a therapy for tinnitus and the contributions that it may have on tinnitus perception
      as well as a solid training foundation for a successful VA research career. These results are
      expected to have an important positive impact because they will not only provide insight into
      the true reactionary and perceptual benefit of an intervention, but a treatment evaluation
      protocol will be determined, ultimately providing a foundation for the development of
      evidence-based acoustic therapies to treat tinnitus, a critical component and goal of Veteran
      tinnitus care.
    
  