
    
      This is a single-center, randomized, double arm prospective clinical trial involving adult
      patients undergoing outpatient surgeries at The OSUWMC. Institutional review board (Office of
      Responsible Research practices) approval is mandatory preceding the start of the clinical
      trial. Written informed consent will be obtained from all eligible patients participating in
      this trial, and signed prior to the initiation of any study-related procedures. The study
      will be conducted in accordance with the principles of Good Clinical Practice and will be
      approved by the appropriate institutional review boards at OSUWMC. An individual with
      appropriate human subjects protection and HIPAA education will undertake the consent process
      in the surgeon's office or other appropriate location (e.g. preoperative clinics).
      Researchers will utilize the electronic medical record (EMR) to screen and identify surgical
      cases based on study inclusion criteria. These cases will be reviewed together with the
      surgical team to determine whether all inclusion and exclusion criteria are met, prior to
      approaching the patient. Prior surgery, a study-team investigator will approach the patient
      to discuss the nature of the study, its requirements, and potential risks. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from every subject prior to the start any study related procedures
      and enough time will be allowed for the subject to ask questions and receive answers. The
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be reviewed in order to ascertain whether a patient
      qualifies for this study. Subjects must meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria to qualify for the study.

        -  All medication taken 7 days prior surgery will be recorded. Demographic information,
           previous medical history, vital signs, urine pregnancy test, and a physical examination
           will be performed at this time as a standard of care and results will be recorded.

        -  Study medication dosages will be calculated prior to surgery by using total body weight
           (TBW) by the research team, following standard operational procedures.

      II.4.B. Intraoperative phase

        -  Pre-induction: intravenous midazolam (2 - 4 mg) if required.

        -  Induction of general anesthesia: anesthesia will follow the standard of care protocols
           set by our center. Therefore, preoxygenation will be achieved with 100% oxygenation for
           at least 5 full Tidal Volume and suggested dosage of anesthetic drugs will be as
           follows: propofol 1-2 mg/kg, lidocaine IV 40-100 mg, fentanyl IV 1-2 μg/Kg, and
           sevoflurane 0.5-1 MAC (if needed). Additionally, rocuronium (0.3-0.7 mg/kg) will be used
           for neuromuscular blockade in all patients.

        -  Maintenance of general anesthesia: balanced anesthesia will be administered for
           maintenance at the anesthesiologists' discretion. We suggest the following regimen:
           sevoflurane (0.5-1 MAC), remifentanil IV 0.05-0.25 μg/kg/min, and propofol IV 20-75
           μg/kg/min. In accordance with guidelines for Good Clinical Practices in pharmacodynamic
           studies of NMBA, neuromuscular monitoring will be assessed via the train-of-four (TOF)
           stimulation. TOF device will be placed on the ulnar nerve to illicit twitches in the
           adductor pollicis. The response to TOF stimulation will be assessed by the
           anesthesiologist every 30 minutes, starting at intubation. If second response reappears
           in the TOF stimulation, supplemental doses of rocuronium will be administered at
           anesthesiologists' discretion.

        -  Neuromuscular blockade reversal: after peritoneal (port sites) closure, TOF will be
           assessed. Exact doses of the study medications (previously determined by total body
           weight) will be administered as following:

             -  Sugammadex:

                  -  If spontaneous recovery has reached second twitch after TOF: 2 mg/kg

                  -  If spontaneous recovery has reached between 1-2 post-tetanic counts but no
                     twitch responses to TOF: 4 mg/kg

                  -  When there is a clinical need to reverse NMB within 3 min of a single dose of
                     rocuronium (1.2 mg/kg): 16 mg/kg

             -  Neostigmine: 50 µg. Kg-1 will be administered after spontaneous recovery has
                reached fourth twitch after TOF in accordance with our institutional standard
                procedures and published literature [10, 11]

        -  After IP administration, TOF will be assessed every 30 seconds during the first 3
           minutes and every minute afterwards to TOF value ≥ 0.9

        -  The following variables will be collected:

             -  Time from peritoneal closure (port sites) to anesthesia readiness for OR discharge
                to PACU

             -  Time from IP administration to extubation

             -  Time from IP administration to TOF ≥ 0.9

             -  Time from IP administration to anesthesia readiness for OR discharge to PACU
                II.4.C. Postoperative phase (Postoperative Care Unit)

        -  The modified Aldrete score will be documented in the EMR.

        -  Time to discharge-readiness from the OR to PACU, admission time to PACU, and time to
           discharge from the hospital will be recorded.

        -  Perioperative incidence of IP related adverse events (i.e. bradycardia, anaphylaxis,
           nausea and vomiting, and hypotension) Summary statistics will be calculated and reported
           as means (standard deviations) or medians [inter-quartile ranges] for continuous
           variables and as frequencies (percentages) for categorical variables. Study groups will
           be compared using Student's t-tests or Wilcoxon Rank-Sum tests for continuous variables
           and chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests for categorical variables where appropriate.
           Primary hypotheses comparing time from peritoneal closure (port sites) to anesthesia
           readiness for OR discharge to PACU between study groups will be tested using Student's
           unpaired t-tests (on the natural log transformed outcomes if necessary) at the 5% type I
           error rate. All analyses will be conducted using SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary,
           N.C.) The study will last approximately one year including recruitment, analysis of the
           data and writing of the manuscript.
    
  