
    
      The current severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic is
      complicated by pneumonia (15 to 20% of cases) requiring hospitalization with oxygen therapy.
      Almost 20 to 25% of hospitalized patients require intensive care and resuscitation; half die.

      On April 3, 2020, in France, 59,105 confirmed cases have been identified. 6,305 people are
      hospitalized in intensive care and 4,503 patients died.

      The main cause of death is acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). However, some deaths
      have been linked to pulmonary embolism (PE). Very little data is available in the medical
      literature regarding PE during this infection.

      Recognition of PE is important because there is specific treatment to limit its own
      mortality. The identification of biological parameters of hemostasis predictive of
      thromboembolic disease is crucial in these patients who are difficult to mobilize.

      The diagnostic difficulties with traditional means, the seriousness and the ignorance of a PE
      make it necessary to evaluate the frequency of it in the patients having to be hospitalized
      by the practice of a systematic thoracic angiography scanner in the patients having no
      contra-indication for its realization, as well as during hospitalization in patients
      deteriorating without any other obvious cause.

      The thromboembolic events and disturbances of the coagulation system described in patients
      with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonitis suggest that this viral infection is associated with an increase
      in the activation of coagulation contributing to the occurrence of thrombosis and especially
      from PE.

      The main objective of this work is therefore to determine the incidence of the occurrence of
      PE in patients with hospitalized SARS-CoV-2 pneumonitis by performing systematic thoracic
      angiography scanner in all hospitalized patients.

      The secondary objective is to study the coagulation and fibrinolysis profile in these
      patients and to assess endothelial activation in order to better understand the
      physio-pathological mechanism behind PE and to determine if one of the parameters studied
      could be an indicator of PE risk.
    
  