
    
      Background. Cannabis is the most widely used illicit substance in the whole Western world and
      rates are further rising. Almost 240.000 adult Germans fulfill DSM-IV criteria for cannabis
      dependence and 140.000 the criteria for cannabis abuse (past 12-month), respectively. Several
      studies have revealed a considerable degree of unmet needs for intervention and treatment for
      cannabis disorders, for example in terms of associated physical, mental health, social and
      legal problems. The epidemiological significance of the problem is contrasted sharply with
      (1) strongly increasing treatment demand due to cannabis-related problems, (2) the lack of
      evidence-based interventions (motivational and early treatment) (3) the lack of specific
      services, and (4) the lack of treatment programs and components with established efficacy.
      With regard to treatment research there is a marked deficit with only a handful of studies up
      to date. Only in the US and Australia, some recent effort was undertaken to develop and
      evaluate cannabis-specific dependence treatment programs in controlled trials with highly
      selective samples. However, there are currently no 'state of the art' benchmark programs
      neither in Germany nor in other European countries that are suitable for routine use.

      Aims. (1) To develop a modular treatment program (ST/TST) for cannabis use disorders based on
      treatment packages and components that have been shown to be effective in previous US and
      Australian trials, and to adapt these material to the needs of our target population. (2) To
      demonstrate that this modular treatment package, implying motivational enhancement,
      cognitive-behavioral and psychosocial problem solving components is efficacious in comparison
      to a delayed treatment control (DTC) group. (3) Additionally, we test whether the targeted
      standardized treatment (TST) component tailored to address more specifically core problem
      areas results in superior short term (3-months) outcomes in these core domains as compared to
      the ST-group.

      Method. A randomized controlled intervention study is proposed. A total of 210 participants
      will be randomly assigned to two, respectively three study conditions: 1. ST (n=70) including
      motivational enhancement, cognitive-behavioral, and psychosocial problem solving treatment
      components, 2. TST (n=70), including the same components as the ST but partly individually
      matched to the specific problem profile of the patient, and (c) a delayed treatment control
      group (DTC, n=70). Core outcome variables are total quit rates, number of cannabis use in the
      past 4 weeks, decrease in ASI scores and retention rate. The core hypothesis will be tested
      in the combined ST/TST group (n=140). The ASI serves for the allocation algorithms in the TST
      group and serves as outcome measure for the 3rd hypothesis.

      The proposed study is innovative and will result in a considerable advancement of our
      knowledge about effective treatments in cannabis disorders and will inform about the value of
      targeted individualized allocation.
    
  