
    
      Patients with an indication for spondylodesis are included according to the inclusion
      criteria and exclusion criteria. Subsequently, randomization into the MySpine and
      conventional group is performed. Patients remain blinded to the randomization.

      On the basis of a computed tomography, the surgeon plans the entry points, the screw size and
      length, as well as the angle of the screws in two planes (sagittal and axial) on the
      computer. In the MySpine group, a three-dimensional, digital reconstruction of the spine is
      made using Medacta International SA software. On the basis of these planning files,
      three-dimensional templates with guide channels (guides) are produced for each individual
      vertebra. These guides can be applied dorsally to the bony anatomy and thus specify the entry
      points as well as the direction of the screw. Also, replicas of the individual vertebra are
      produced in the 3D printer.

      The patients are operated in a prone position via a dorsal approach. After preparation of the
      dorsal process, vertebral arches and vertebral joints as well as the transverse process, the
      screws are implanted with one of the following methods depending on the randomization:

        1. Freehand (fluoroscopically controlled)

        2. MySpine System

      Postoperatively, all patients undergo computed tomography of the operated area. On the basis
      of this computed tomography the number of pedicle perforations as well as their extent should
      be determined according to the simplified Laine classification. These results are to be
      statistically evaluated with the question of whether there are significant differences
      between the two techniques with respect to the absolute and individual number of pedicle
      perforations, as well as their extent. It is also to be examined whether these results show a
      dependence on the level of experience of the surgeon.

      In addition to the individual radiation exposure (cumulative irradiation time in seconds and
      irradiation dose in cGy), the time for the dorsal instrumentation for each of the two systems
      per surgeon is also to be measured and evaluated.

      In the follow-up, the outcome is also recorded by means of pain registration, ODI score and
      complication detection (infections, pedicle fractures, implant loosening, pseudoarthrosis,
      re-operations).

      The follow-up assessments 6 weeks, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years after surgrey are peformed
      according to institutional standards.
    
  