
    
      Study Design:

      Investigators will conduct a 5-community longitudinal study using a cluster randomized
      stepped-wedge design to evaluate the intervention impact on alcohol, tobacco, and other drug
      (ATOD) and obesity prevention primary aims of: (1) substance use harm reduction, overall ATOD
      use and intentions to use; and (2) weight/body mass index (BMI) change as well as the effect
      on leisure-time physical activity/physical activity (LTPA/PA), and healthful food habits
      among adult Choctaw women at risk for obesity and ATOD. The cluster randomized stepped-wedge
      design is a type of cross-over study in which clusters of women from each community cross
      over to the intervention arm at randomly assigned time points (one time per year, per
      community).

      Sequence and Timing of Study Procedures:

      Randomization: Investigators have created five regional communities and within each community
      a convenience sample will be drawn. Each site has been randomly assigned to start the
      intervention at a given year. Randomization occurs only to determine the year each community
      enters the study. Community 1 will begin the intervention immediately; communities 2-5 will
      complete three health assessments prior to beginning the intervention. These will occur at
      the same time of post-walk assessments for the community currently in the intervention (i.e.
      community 2 does health assessments in the same months community 1 does post-walk assessments
      and then begins the intervention in Year 2.)

      Recruitment and Screening of Participants:

      Recruitment strategies:

        -  Referrals from staff from Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (CNO) project staff, staff at
           Choctaw Nation Health Services Authority (CNHSA), Community Advisory Council members,
           health providers, and general community members. They will provide potential
           participants with a flyer and encourage women to call if interested.

        -  The following strategies will be used as necessary: posting flyers in community health
           clinics, stores, community centers, and other locations identified by our community
           advisors; and posting flyers in the tribal newspaper, other local news outlets, and on a
           study Facebook page.

        -  Recruitment materials will invite American Indian/Alaska Native women who are interested
           in participating in the research study to call a dedicated, toll-free phone number or
           the project number at Choctaw Nation.

      Screening:

        -  Participants can opt for a phone or in-person screen using the same script.

        -  CNO study staff will answer and return phone calls and conduct the screens. Indigenous
           Wellness Research Institute (IWRI) staff will conduct eligibility screens on the phone
           as needed.

        -  Women screened out will be given a community resource list. Phone screeners will offer
           to mail or email the list.

        -  If a person is eligible, but declines to participate, they will be given a brief
           one-item exit question regarding general reason for non-participation.

        -  Eligible women who agree to participate will be asked to schedule their baseline
           assessment.

      Participants will receive reminders by email, text or phone 2 days before, the day before,
      and the day of any meetings, assessments, or events.

      Consent and Baseline Assessment:

      The baseline assessment consists of a brief physical health assessment and a
      computer-assisted behavioral health survey administered by study staff. The physical health
      assessment is a non-invasive procedure that involves the measurement of BMI (with portable
      digital weight scale and height measure) and blood pressure. The computer-assisted behavioral
      health survey will ask a series of questions and take under 90 minutes to complete.

      After consent is obtained, CNO study staff will set up the study laptop and headphones that
      the participant will use to enter their responses to the questionnaire. The variable matrix
      includes instructions, prompts, response scales, and references for all measures used for
      each behavioral health assessment.

      Group Sessions/Yappalli Curriculum (Months 1-3) Participants will attend up to eight group
      sessions. The curriculum for these sessions includes: learning about Choctaw history,
      traditions,and cultural systems as well as women's roles (e.g., Treaty of Dancing Rabbit
      Creek); participating in cultural activities (e.g., stickball or social dances); developing
      traditionally-based materials (e.g., walking sticks); and using cultural metaphors for
      behavioral changes (e.g., 4 pillars of wellness-mind, body, spirit, emotion)). Experiential,
      outdoor activities are incorporated to promote group cohesion, improve relational worldviews,
      and connectedness to nature and the environment. Examples include activities on an outdoor
      ropes course maintained and managed by CNHSA or increasing LTPA/PA by walking or gardening.

      Motivational Interviewing Individual Sessions (Months 1-3) In up to three sessions,
      participants will identify personal change goals on the main outcome variables as well as
      community leadership goals. These sessions will target four areas: increasing physical
      activity or movement; reducing or eliminating "junk" snack foods, sweets, and sugared soft
      drinks; decreasing addiction and or potential to misuse tobacco, alcohol or other substances
      and food; and increasing community leadership skills.

      Culture Camp (Month 2) In this two-day, overnight camp participants will practice camping and
      being outdoors (e.g., setting up tents, trying out new shoes and equipment, etc.) and begin
      to strengthen group cohesion prior to embarking on the Trail. It is also designed to
      synthesize goals and cultural values discussed in the group and individual sessions.

      Trail of Tears Walk (Month 3) Participants will gather at a location in Oklahoma before
      driving to a starting point at the Mississippi/Arkansas border then follow one of the routes
      of the Choctaw Trail of Tears through Arkansas and back into Oklahoma. They will walk on
      average 8-10 miles per day and travel by van for a portion of the trail to a different
      campsite each day. At the end of the trip, the walkers will have walked approximately 60-80
      miles over the 260 mile route. On the last night of the Trail, participants will make a vow
      to conduct a community-wide event (based on personal and leadership goals and experience on
      the Trail) within nine months. Note: a support van will travel along with walkers so that
      they could walk as many minutes or miles they feel comfortable doing (e.g., from 10 mins.
      Less than a quarter mile to 10 miles).

      Post-Walk assessments (Months 3-12) Three follow-up health assessments will occur: one
      immediately post-walk in Month 3, one in Month 9, and one in Month 12. These behavioral
      health assessments will be collected in the same manner and include a similar set of measures
      as the baseline assessment. The physical health assessments will also be conducted in the
      same manner as the baseline assessment.

      Post-Walk Group Meetings (Months 3-12) Participants will attend up to six group meetings to
      plan community leadership events (investigators provide a small budget for the women to
      create a community event such as a community food garden). Specific meetings include: at
      three months post-walk a digital storytelling training to create a story related to ATOD and
      obesity prevention and their personal experiences; and at six months post-walk an individual
      MI booster session to revise their personal vows/goals and community leadership goals.

      Final Community Event (Month 12) Participants will share digital stories and/or community
      event experiences and undergo a naming ceremony as they transition to health leaders within
      their communities. They will be given the option to become a member of one of seven Choctaw
      health promotion societies on which the intervention is based to continue their health
      promotion leadership efforts after their participation in the project ends.
    
  