
    
      This is an open label, single period study in 24 male DMD subjects consisting of children
      (ages 4-12, inclusive) and adolescents (ages 13-16, inclusive) with at least 12 subjects
      between the ages of 4-12 (children). Subjects taking maintenance corticosteroid therapy will
      be required to take their dose of corticosteroid 24 hours (± 2 hours) prior to the first dose
      of deflazacort on Day 1. Subjects receiving deflazacort as maintenance corticosteroid therapy
      must take their last dose at least 30 days prior to the first dose of deflazacort on Day 1.
      Concomitant corticosteroid therapy will be prohibited during the study while the subject is
      taking deflazacort. On Day 1, a single oral dose of deflazacort under fasting conditions will
      be administered in the CRU followed by blood sampling for plasma analysis of DFZ and
      21-desacetyl-DFZ for 8 hours. Following the 8 hour PK sample on Day 1, subjects will be given
      medication to take at home for once-daily, morning dosing on Days 2 through 7 (+2 days). On
      Day 8 (+2 days), subjects will return for a PK sample predose and an 8th oral dose of
      deflazacort under fasting conditions which will be administered in the CRU followed by PK
      sampling for 8 hours.

      Safety will be monitored throughout the study by repeated clinical and laboratory evaluations
      on Days 1 and 8 (+2 days). Subjects will be contacted via telephone approximately 7 days (± 1
      day) following study drug administration on Day 8 (+2 days) for a follow-up assessment to
      determine if any adverse event (AE) has occurred since the last study visit. Subjects who
      terminate the study early will be contacted if the Principal Investigator (PI) deems
      necessary.

      Subjects that complete this study or receive at least one dose of study medication will be
      eligible for an open-label extension study with deflazacort treatment conducted under a
      separate protocol.
    
  