
    
      Mitral regurgitation is a common disease which can lead to heart failure and death if left
      untreated. The only known therapy for mitral regurgitation is correction of the mitral valve,
      most commonly performed by surgical repair or replacement. According the STS database, there
      were 15,748 lone mitral valve surgeries in 2014. The number of mitral valve surgeries has
      been increasing with a 23% increase between the years 2010 and 2014. Based on the ACC/AHA
      guidelines for the management of mitral valve disease, quantifying the severity of mitral
      regurgitation is central to determining which patients are appropriate for correction of
      their mitral valve by surgery. Specifically, once the diagnosis of severe MR is made,
      patients are considered appropriate for mitral valve surgery in almost all clinical
      circumstances. However, there is a significant mortality and morbidity associated with mitral
      valve surgery. In the STS database, 30 day mortality was ~2% for repair and ~5% for
      replacement. This data does not take into account long-term mortality and morbidity from
      re-operation and life-long anti-coagulation as well as changes in quality of life.

      The most common diagnostic tool to assess the severity of MR is echocardiography. Several
      studies have shown that echocardiography parameters used to quantify and qualify MR have high
      inter-observer and intra-observer variability, calling the accuracy of these parameters into
      question. Furthermore, studies have shown that there is a significant degree of discordance
      between echocardiography and MRI when assessing MR, particularly among patients referred for
      mitral valve surgery. In a recent study, quantification of mitral regurgitant volume MRI was
      found to be more accurate than echocardiography in patients who underwent mitral valve
      surgery. All 38 patients who underwent mitral valve surgery in this study were deemed
      appropriate according the ACC/AHA guidelines based on echocardiographic findings. However,
      more than 2/3rds of patients who underwent mitral valve surgery in this study did not have
      severe MR by MRI. Thus, we propose this prospective multicenter trial to assess: 1) the
      severity of MR by MRI in patients undergoing mitral valve surgery. 2) the impact of mitral
      valve surgery on quality of life and healthcare costs in the context of MR severity by MRI,
      3) assess patient outcomes post surgery in the context of MR severity by MRI and 4) the
      likelihood of valve replacement vs. repair according to MR severity by MRI.
    
  