
    
      Pediatric Bipolar Disorder (PBD) severely impairs a child's emotional development, and is
      associated with alarming rates of suicide, school failure, aggression, risk taking behaviors
      and substance abuse (Geller et al, 1998; 2001; Carlson et al, 1998). At present, very little
      is known about the pathophysiology or optimal treatment of PBD. The long range goals of this
      proposal are threefold: to investigate a range of pharmacotherapeutic agents that are safe
      and efficacious for PBD, to use fMRI techniques to examine abnormalities in brain function in
      this disorder, as well as any change in brain function after treatment.

      In contrast to the adult literature, we are aware of only two prospective studies assessing
      the efficacy of standard mood stabilizers in a pediatric sample. In one, lithium was found to
      be moderately effective in PBD with comorbid substance abuse (Geller et al, 1998). In the
      other, divalproex sodium, lithium and carbamazepine produced a maximum of 50% symptom
      reduction (Kowatch et al, 2000). Subsequently, Kafantaris et al (2001) observed a
      potentiation of lithium's antimanic effect when combined with risperidone. Further, a
      prospective, open trial of olanzapine for PBD reported a 70% symptom reduction (Frazier et
      al, 2001) with a retention rate of 96% compared to only 7% with classic mood stabilizers
      (Kowatch et al, 2000).

      Thus, parallelling adult studies (Sachs et al, 2000), novel antipsychotics are a promising
      treatment in this population. Further, up to 60% of acute PBD episodes present with psychotic
      features (Geller et al, in press). Finally, the time to full effect with mood stabilizers is
      often 4 weeks in children (Kowatch et al, 2000; Geller et al, 1998; Kafantaris et al, 2001),
      whereas antipsychotics usually have a more rapid response onset (Pavuluri et al, in press).
      Given the potential efficacy of novel antipsychotics for PBD, the aim is to conduct a
      randomized trial comparing a novel antipsychotic to a standard mood stabilizer:
    
  