
    
      Patients with hemianopic field loss are unaware of objects in their blind (non-seeing)
      hemi-field and often experience difficulties with mobility and navigation, such as walking
      into obstacles on the side of the field loss. In 2000, Peli (2000) described a new
      peripheral-prism design of prismatic correction for hemianopia, which addresses many of the
      inadequacies of existing designs of hemianopic visual aids, and produces true field expansion
      (i.e. the simultaneously seen field is larger with the device than without). In collaboration
      with the Schepens Eye Research Institute (Boston, MA), Chadwick Optical Inc (White River
      Junction, VT) has developed a permanent form of Fresnel prism segments, which are made from
      an acrylic material and can be embedded in a plastic spectacle lens. These permanent prisms
      offer better cosmesis, optical quality and durability than the temporary 40 prism-diopter
      press-on Fresnel prism segments used in previous evaluations of the peripheral prism system.

      In this study we will evaluate new high-power (57 prism diopter) permanent peripheral prism
      glasses. The study will employ a crossover design in which each participant will wear a pair
      of real prism glasses (high-power, 57 prism diopter) and a pair sham prism glasses
      (low-power, 5 prism diopters, that provide little field expansion) in counterbalanced order.
      The efficacy of the real prism glasses relative to the sham prism glasses will be assessed
      for general mobility (walking). We expect that participants will prefer the real prism
      glasses over the sham prism glasses as the former will be more helpful for obstacle detection
      when walking.

      Prism glasses will be fitted by Low Vision Practitioners at community-based Vision
      Rehabilitation Clinics. After wearing the first pair of glasses for 4 weeks, participants
      will return for an in-office follow up visit, at which a questionnaire will be administered
      to record their experiences of wearing the glasses. The second pair of prism glasses will
      then be fitted. Another questionnaire will be administered 4 weeks later to record the
      experiences of wearing the second set of glasses.

      At the end of the period of wearing the second pair of prism glasses, a clinical decision
      will be made as to whether the participant should continue to use the real prism glasses
      (e.g. if a participant finds the prism glasses helpful for obstacle avoidance when walking).
      For participants who continue with the prism glasses, a final telephone follow-up interview
      will be conducted after about 6 months.
    
  