
    
      Recent data from the French perinatal cohort and others indicate that HIV-RNA levels at
      delivery correlate with risk of transmission among women treated with antiretroviral agents.
      Most of these treatments include zidovudine alone or in combination. Mitochondrial toxicity
      related to nucleoside analogues exposure (zidovudine and lamivudine) has been reported in
      adults and in infants with in utero exposure to these drugs. In addition, biological markers
      of genotoxicity on nuclear DNA have recently been shown in exposed newborn. These issues
      raised the concern of the risk/benefit of multiple therapy in the context of mother to child
      transmission for women who do not meet the standard criteria for antiretroviral therapy. In
      women with CD4≥350 and VL<30 000 copies/ml a treatment with lopinavir/ritonavir should
      achieve a rapid control of HIV1 viremia below 1000 copies/ml without harm in term of
      resistance. In this study we would like to assess under strict control, the safety and
      efficacy of such regimen compared to the same boosted PI + zidovudine and lamivudine as
      standard regimen. The treatment will start at 26 weeks of gestation, and the follow up will
      include safety and efficacy parameters as well as pharmacokinetics in plasma and genital
      tract for the women, blood/cord ratio, testing for ARV resistance. Women will stop their
      treatment after delivery. Infants will be closely monitored up to 24 months with HIV DNA and
      HIV.RNA-PCR for HIV testing and biochemical and haematology usual safety evaluation. In
      addition frozen samples will be collected for specific evaluation of nucleoside analogue
      foetal mitochondrial and nuclear DNA interactions.

      In term of transmission safety, the end point would be to reach a viral load below 200 copies
      after 8 weeks of treatment. In case of failure, this would allow a sufficient delay for a
      treatment modification: i.e. addition of NRTI and an elective caesarian could be programmed.
    
  