
    
      This research project will focus on whether it is safe and effective to rely on donor cells
      to prevent relapse of leukemia, lymphoma, or other blood cancer after bone marrow stem cell
      transplant (SCT). For many patients with these conditions, a bone marrow transplant can be
      the only chance for cure. The standard type of bone marrow transplant involves giving very
      high-doses of chemotherapy and radiation to kill all the cancer cells followed by an infusion
      of bone marrow stem cells from a relative who is a bone marrow match. After the transplant
      the patient takes anti-rejection drugs for many months to prevent the donor's immune cells
      from causing a severe reaction called Graft-versus-Host Disease (GVHD), which can even be
      fatal. However, for some patients with certain types of high-risk cancer even this intense
      treatment is not effective and the cancer relapses.

      Is has been known for many years that some of the bone marrow cells from the donor can kill
      cancer cells. Recently, it has been discovered that sometimes patients who relapse after a
      bone marrow SCT can be cured by giving an infusion of donor white blood cells (called a donor
      leukocyte infusion or DLI). By giving a DLI BEFORE a relapse happens, hopefully relapse can
      be prevented.

      The high doses of chemotherapy and radiation therapy given prior to a standard bone marrow
      stem cell transplant can make a patient very sick and also increase the chance of getting
      severe GVHD. In this research study we are going to rely mainly on the donor cells to kill
      the cancer cells, and patients will receive dosages of chemotherapy that are lower than the
      usual dosages. It is thought that this low intensity conditioning will make the transplant
      safer without risking more relapses, however it is not know whether low intensity
      conditioning is safer than standard conditioning.
    
  