
    
      Maxillary sinus floor augmentation (MSFA) is used to enhance the alveolar bone height of the
      posterior maxilla. Autogenous bone is the preferred graft material. Dental implants inserted
      in sinuses augmented with autogenous bone grafts have demonstrated high implant survival.
      However, autogenous bone grafts is associated with risk of donor site morbidity and
      unpredictable graft resorption. Hence, various bone substitutes alone or in combination with
      autogenous bone graft are used to simplify the surgical procedure by diminishing the need for
      bone harvesting. Reviews have reported high survival of suprastructures and implants after
      MSFA with different mixtures of autogenous bone graft and bone substitutes. Xenograft is a
      tissue graft transplanted from another species than humans. MSFA with xenograft alone or in
      combination with autogenous bone graft have demonstrated high survival of suprastructures and
      implants. Symbios xenograft granules (Dentsply, United Kingdom) is a new porcine bone mineral
      characterized as an anorganic bone matrix with an interconnecting pore structure that
      supports formation and in-growth of new bone. A short-term study comparing autogenous bone
      graft with porcine bone alone or a mixture of autogenous bone and porcine bone indicated that
      porcine bone alone or in combination with autologous bone is biocompatible and
      osteoconductive and can be successfully used for MSFA. However, the long-term implant
      survival after MSFA with autogenous bone graft in combination with Symbios xenograft granules
      is presently unknown. In contrast, it has been postulated that bone formation in the
      maxillary sinus does not require the presence of a grafting material. The maintenance of
      space for blood clot formation accompanied by the resorption and deposition of bone cells
      derived from the sinus periosteum or cancellous bone of the maxilla would be responsible for
      bone formation. Moreover, high implant survival rate, limited peri-implant marginal bone
      loss, few biological and technical complications has been documented after MSFA with blood
      coagulum as grafting material. However, only few short-term studies have compared MSFA with
      blood coagulum and autogenous bone graft or bone substitutes. Therefore, it is presently
      unknown how much bone regeneration and grafting is necessary for long-term functional implant
      stability after MSFA.

      Purpose Test the H0-hypothesis of no difference in implant treatment outcome after MSFA with
      a 1:1 mixture of autogenous bone graft and Symbios xenograft granules compared with blood
      coagulum as grafting material. Assessment will include survival of suprastructures and
      implants, changes in peri-implant marginal bone level, volumetrical stability of the graft
      material and treatment related complications after an observation period of one year. Oral
      health related quality of life (OHIP-14) and patient satisfaction will also be assessed using
      questionnaire and visual analogue scales (VAS).

      Objective

      Test the H0 hypothesis of no differences in:

        -  Survival of suprastructures and implants.

        -  Volumetrical stability of the graft.

        -  Peri-implant marginal bone level.

        -  Implantat stability quotient.

        -  Patient-reported outcome measures.

        -  Complications.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome measures:

        -  Survival of suprastructures. Loss of suprastructures is defined as a total loss because
           of a non-treatable mechanical/or biological complication.

        -  Survival of implants. Loss of implants is defined as removal of a non-integrated
           implant, mobility of previously clinical osseointegrated implant, and removal of
           non-mobile implants due to progressive peri-implant marginal bone loss and infection.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  Volumetric changes of the graft.

        -  Peri-implant marginal bone level.

        -  Patient-reported outcome measures.

        -  Complications e.g. loosening of crown and fractures of veneer ceramic.

      Materials and methods Forty consecutively healthy patients with a missing posterior maxillary
      tooth will be included and randomly allocated to: 1) MSFA with a 1:1 mixture of autogenous
      bone graft and Symbios xenograft granules (control group) or 2) blood coagulum (test group).
      Patients will be included using a Facebook posting through the University's Facebook page,
      the local dental association website or patients that are referred to the Department of Oral
      and Maxillofacial Surgery, Aalborg University Hospital for treatment of a missing tooth in
      the posterior maxilla. All patients will be offered participation in the study, if they meet
      the inclusion criteria. Prior to patients' first visit, they will receive a notice informing
      about their rights to have a person of their choice to be present during the visit for
      consultation if they wish. When the patients arrive for their first visit they will be given
      verbal information about the study and the written information given prior to their first
      visit will be elaborated. They will also receive an informed consent form. Finally, patients
      will be informed that they are free to terminate their participation in the study at any
      given time without any explanation and it will not affect their further treatment.

      CBCT is frequently used before and after installation of implants in conjunction with MSFA.
      Included patients will receive an increased radiation dose, since CBCT scanning in addition
      to enoral radiographs are obtained to compare the treatment modalities. Seven CBCT with a
      total dose of 0.609 mSV, one orthopantomogram with a dose of 0.021 mSV and seven enoral
      radiographs with a total dose of 0.056 mSV will be obtained and the total effective dose will
      be 0.686 mSV. The standard radiation dose for MSFA with a similar observation period would be
      0.251 mSV. Patients participating in the study will therefore receive a higher radiation dose
      of 0.435 mSV compared to a standard treatment. The extra radiation that each patient in the
      study is exposed to equals 1 month of background radiation. The risk of getting cancer caused
      by radiation is 0.005% per 1 mSV. The study will include a total of 40 patients; each patient
      will receive an extra dose of 0.435 mSV in comparison to patients not participating in this
      study.

      The initial examination of the patient will include:

        -  Clinical examination and screening.

        -  Missing one posterior maxillary tooth (>4 months).

        -  Need of one implant in the posterior maxilla.

        -  Adjacent tooth in opposite jaw in contact with planned crown.

        -  Plaque and gingival index, probing pocket depth, and probing attachment level of the
           adjacent tooth/teeth.

        -  Radiographical examination of the residual alveolar bone based on CBCT.

        -  Orthopantomography to document the pre-treatment status.

        -  Patient will fill out the OHIP-14 questionnaire. The surgical procedure will be
           performed in local anesthesia with or without oral sedation or in general anesthesia
           with nasotracheal intubation. Implant installation and fabrication of the subsequently
           prosthetic solution will be performed according to manufacturer's recommendations. The
           maxillary sinus wall is exposed by an intraoral marginal incision from tuber maxillae to
           the first premolar with a vertical releasing incision. A 1 x 1 cm bony window to the
           maxillary sinus is created with burs maintaining an intact Schneiderian membrane. The
           membrane is elevated from the sinus floor as well as the lateral sinus wall and
           displaced dorsocranially with blunt dissector. An implant bed is successively prepared
           on the top of the alveolar crest following manufactory's recommendations. A straight
           dental implant is inserted with a cover screw. The implant stability quotient is
           measured for all inserted implants. A sealed randomization envelope is opened in order
           to allocate the patient to: 1) 1:1 mixture of autogenous bone graft and Symbios
           xenograft granules or 2) blood coagulum. The autogenous bone graft is harvested with a
           curved SafeScraper from the zygomatic buttress. Specially prepared stainless steel cup
           are used to estimate 1 cm3 of particulated autogenous bone graft, which will be mixed
           with 1 ml of Symbios xenograft granules (0.25-1 mm) and soaked in autogenous blood until
           use. Approximately two ml blood coagulum will be sucked from the surgical area. In the
           control group, the sinus around the implant is packed with the 1:1 mixture of autogenous
           bone graft and Symbios xenograft granules. In the test group, the sinus around the
           implant is filled with a two ml blood coagulum around the inserted implant. Periosteum
           and mucosa are sutured with Vicryl 4-0. No provisional restoration is inserted during
           the healing period. Patient questionnaire will be filled out after one week and one
           month. After six months of healing, inserted implants are exposed via a crestal incision
           and implant stability quotient is measured before healing abutment is placed. Mucosa is
           adapted and sutured with Vicryl 4-0. The prosthetic restoration will be initiated three
           weeks after the healing abutment has been placed including individualized abutment and
           fixed restoration.

      Patients will be scheduled for a postoperative clinical examination after one year of loading
      involving:

        -  Plaque and gingival index, probing pocket depth, and probing attachment level.

        -  Oral health related quality of life - OHIP-14.

        -  Patient satisfaction (VAS). Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP) is a questionnaire
           designed to measure impairment of oral health related quality of life and focuses on the
           frequency of complaints regarding the general dentition over a course of time. However,
           OHIP states the patient's overall oral impairment, and does not take a specific
           treatment site into account. Therefore, additional questionnaire including VAS may be
           used to evaluate the area of a missing tooth and/or a tooth replacement. The total
           implant treatment, peri-implant soft tissues, implant crown, and implant function at the
           follow-up examination will be assessed using a systematic questionnaire. Each question
           will be scored on a 100-mm VAS with 0 indicating extreme dissatisfaction and 100
           indicating complete satisfaction. The VAS scores will be measured to the nearest mm by a
           ruler.

      Radiographical evaluation will include seven sets of periapical radiographs and CBCT-scan
      obtained preoperatively, immediately postoperatively, after abutment connection and after 1
      year of loading. To provide blinding of the radiographical evaluation, the CBCT-scans are
      coded. Volumetrical changes of the grafts are estimated by point counting and the method
      described originally by Cavalieri. To obtain an equivalent starting point for the systematic
      uniform random sampling of the CBCT-scans images involving the maxillary sinus, all images
      from the neighboring teeth to the implant bed are selected. The first CBCT images after the
      distal surface of the anterior neighboring tooth is sampled randomly using a random number
      table for each maxillary sinus. Every second CBCT image is selected to ensure an equal mutual
      distance between the selected 5-10 images. The original outline of the maxillary sinus before
      implant installation is recorded and superimposed on the corresponding images. A point grid
      test system is superimposed at random on all images, allowing 100-200 points to hit the graft
      of each maxillary sinus. The numbers of intersections over the graft are counted on each
      selected image. Cavalieri volume estimation principle is used to estimate the total volume of
      the graft.

      Peri-implant marginal bone changes are evaluated by linear measurements on digital periapical
      radiographs at implant placement, baseline and one year after loading. The distance from the
      implant-abutment connection to the marginal bone level will be measured mesially and distally
      parallel with the long-axis of the implant.
    
  