
    
      Title: VRC 612: A Phase 1, Dose Escalation, Open-Label Clinical Trial with Experimental
      Controlled Human Malaria Infections (CHMI) to Evaluate the Safety and Protective Efficacy of
      an Anti- Malaria Human Monoclonal Antibody, VRC-MALMAB0100-00-AB (CIS43LS), in Healthy,
      Malaria-Na(SqrRoot) ve Adults.

      Design: This is the first study of the VRC-MALMAB0100-00-AB (CIS43LS) monoclonal antibody
      (mAb) targeting the Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) circumsporozoite protein (PfCSP) in healthy
      adults. This two-part, dose-escalation, adaptive design study will evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and protective efficacy of CIS43LS. The primary
      hypothesis is that CIS43LS will be safe and tolerable when administered by either intravenous
      (IV) or subcutaneous (SC) routes. The secondary hypotheses are that CIS43LS will be
      detectable in human sera with a definable half-life and confer protection following a
      controlled human malaria infection (CHMI).

      Study Product: VRC-MALMAB0100-00-AB was isolated and developed by the Vaccine Research Center
      (VRC), National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Institutes of
      Health (NIH) and binds a unique and conserved epitope at the junction of the N- and repeat
      regions of the PfCSP.

      Subjects: Healthy subjects, 18-50 years of age, who are malaria-naive.

      Study Plan:

        -  Part A: Part A evaluated the doses and routes as shown below in the Study Schema table
           in an open-label, dose escalation design. The study started with enrollment into Group
           1. Safety data show that CIs43LS is safe and tolerble at all dose groups and routes of
           administration. Preliminary PK data suggest that a gradiant or serum concentrations will
           be present across groups at the time of CHMI.

        -  Part B: Part B will evaluate the doses and routes of CIS43LS needed to reach a threshold

      of protection by assessing serum concentration prior to CHMI. Part A veteran subjects will be

      invited to participate in Part B and may receive a repeat dose of CIS43LS. New subjects will
      also enroll into Part B to receive CIS43LS followed by CHMI.

      Duration: Subjects who receive CIS43LS will be followed through 24 weeks after product
      administration. Control subjects will be followed through 8 weeks after CHMI.
    
  