
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether the incidence of neoadjuvant acute gastrointestinal toxicity (grade
           ≥ 2) associated with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is reduced by inverse-planned
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)-based radiation treatment when compared with
           conventionally delivered radiotherapy, as was utilized in the capecitabine and
           oxaliplatin arm of RTOG-0247 (NCT00081289).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the feasibility of performing IMRT in a cooperative group setting for the
           treatment of rectal cancer.

        -  To estimate the incidence of all toxicity (hematologic and non-hematologic) associated
           with protocol treatment in the neoadjuvant period, the adjuvant period, and overall.

        -  To estimate the pathologic complete response rate following neoadjuvant IMRT-based
           chemoradiotherapy.

        -  To estimate the time to treatment failure and patterns of failure.

        -  To correlate pre- and post-treatment levels of serum cytokines with symptoms during and
           pathological outcomes following neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer.

        -  To evaluate the rate of abdominoperineal resections.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients undergo inverse-planned intensity-modulated radiotherapy to
           the pelvis once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks (total of 45 Gy) and a 3-dimensional
           conformal radiotherapy boost to gross disease once daily for 3 days (total of 45 Gy).
           Beginning on the first day of radiotherapy and continuing through completion of
           radiotherapy, patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks
           and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29.

        -  Surgery: Within 4-8 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo
           resection of the rectal tumor.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients with completely
           resected disease and negative surgical margins receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2
           hours and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV bolus on day 1 and
           fluorouracil IV infusion continuously over 46 hours beginning on day 1 . Treatment
           repeats every 14 days for up to 9 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months after the start of treatment for 2 years, every 6 months
      for years 3-5, and then annually thereafter.
    
  