
    
      Patients requesting epidural labor analgesia will be eligible for recruitment. After written
      informed consent is obtained, placement of monitors and aseptic technique, the 17G epidural
      needle will be placed using the loss of resistance (LOR) technique to air or saline at the
      lumbar level chosen by the anesthesiologist. When LOR occurs, the needle will then be filled
      with 2 mL NaCl 0.9% from that syringe and the pressure monitoring accessory will be connected
      to the needle. The second investigator will then connect the high pressure tubing to the
      acessory without touching it, and the pressure will be zeroed at level of the needle
      insertion. Pressure will then be transduced and the waveform, recorded. An epidural catheter
      (SIMS Portex) will then be passed through the needle and advanced 5 cm beyond the tip of the
      epidural needle. After securing the epidural catheter in place, the patient will be placed on
      the lateral position. The catheter will then be filled NaCl 0.9% from a syringe and a
      high-pressure tubing extension leveled at the spine level will be connected to the catheter
      and the pressure will be transduced and recorded. Data recorded will include 2 parameters: 1)
      The presence or absence of a pulsatile waveform, and 2) The actual pressure read at the
      epidural space, in mmHg. Those readings will be obtained in 2 distinct moments: at a " rest"
      state, meaning during an interval between contractions, and at an "active" state, during the
      first contraction after the epidural catheter is placed. A test dose of 3 mL of 2% lidocaine
      with epinephrine1:200.000 will then be given to exclude potential spinal or intravascular
      injection. After 3 minutes, a loading dose of 10mL of 0,125% bupivacaine will be given for
      labor analgesia and the presence or absence of a bilateral sensorial block at T10 or higher
      at 30 min will be assessed.
    
  