
    
      A loop ileostomy is a common procedure used to divert fecal matter from anastomotic sites
      after abdominal surgeries. Major complications from creation and subsequent closure of a
      temporary loop ileostomy include: stoma retraction, stoma prolapsed, stenosis, herniation,
      intra-abdominal abscess, anastomotic leak, wound dehiscence. Small-bowel obstruction (SBO)
      was the most common complication. SBO is caused by adhesions in the surgical site, with
      narrowing or angulation of the intestine causing obstruction. Prevention of these adhesions
      may reduce the frequency with which SBO is seen after this surgery. Furthermore, surgery to
      close the ileostomy is complicated by the presence of adhesions which make dissection of the
      ileostomy difficult, and increase the risk of injury of the small intestine during
      dissection, prolonging the operation time in an effort to minimize risk to the patient.

      AlloMEM™ is human peritoneal membrane designated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      for use as a homologous tissue where native peritoneum is absent or traumatized. The AlloMem™
      is not regulated as a device and no 510k submission has been made by the FDA. AlloMem™ is
      allogeneic freeze-dried, irradiated human peritoneal membrane used as a soft tissue wound
      covering solely regulated under 361 HCT/P because by FDA definition it is: minimally
      manipulated; intended for homologous use only; does not involve the combination of cell or
      other tissues, and does not rely on the metabolic function of cells for its primary function.
      Two animal studies have shown that AlloMEM™ can help prevent intra-abdominal adhesions and
      provides the biological framework for peritoneal remodeling. By decreasing adhesions and
      providing a peritoneal remodeling capacity, both the time needed for ileostomy closure and
      the risk of enterotomy or seromyotomy would be reduced. The combination could lead to
      decreased complication rates and therefore decreased morbidity for the surgical patients
      requiring an ileostomy.
    
  