
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity profile and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intravenous
      interleukin-12 (IL-12) administered biweekly for 6-18 weeks in the presence and absence of a
      test dose in patients with metastatic or unresectable malignancies.

      II. Determine the optimal timing for administration of an IL-12 test dose, based on its
      impact on secondary biologic parameters in these patients.

      III. Determine the antitumor effects of IL-12 administered according to this schedule, with
      and without a test dose, in these patients.

      IV. Determine the effect of a test dose on toxicity profile, MTD, tumor response and various
      biologic phenomena in serum, and, where possible, tumor and liver in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a 3-part dose escalation study.

      In Part A, patients receive intravenous interleukin-12 (IL-12) twice a week for 6 weeks.
      Courses are repeated until patients achieve a complete response or there is disease
      progression. Dose escalation of IL-12 continues in cohorts of 3-6 patients until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose below that at which 2 of 6
      patients experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT).

      In Part B, patients receive a single test dose of IL-12 administered intravenously at a 1, 2,
      or 3 week interval prior to starting the multidose twice a week regimen as in Part A. Cohorts
      of 4 patients will receive IL-12 at the MTD obtained in Part A.

      In Part C, patients receive IL-12 at one dose level above the MTD obtained in Part A using
      the optimal schedule for the test dose determined in Part B. Dose escalation continues in
      cohorts of 3-6 patients until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose below
      that at which 2 of 6 patients experience DLT. Patients may continue to receive IL-12 until
      they have no measurable disease or until disease progression.
    
  