
    
      The University of Chicago Crime Lab and Education Lab are partnering with the City of
      Chicago, Chicago Public Schools, and Youth Guidance to implement a randomized controlled
      trial to test the efficacy of Youth Guidance's Working on Womanhood program across two
      cohorts: Cohort 1, receiving programming during academic years 2017-18 and 2018-19, and
      Cohort 2, receiving programming during academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20. For Cohort 1,
      incoming 9th, 10th, and 11th grade female students in 10 Chicago Public Schools high schools
      (as of Fall 2017) will be screened for eligibility and randomized to either a treatment group
      that will be offered to receive WOW services over two academic years, or to a control group
      that will not be offered to receive WOW services over two academic years. For cohort 2, only
      incoming 9th graders (as of Fall 2018) will be randomized, in the same manner. Control group
      students will still be eligible to receive other status quo school and community supports.
      Outcomes of interest will be measured using administrative data and a comprehensive student
      survey.

      WOW is a trauma-informed, in-school group counseling and clinical mentoring program developed
      by non-profit Youth Guidance. Informed by CBT, WOW helps girls challenge unhelpful thoughts
      and build self-esteem and self-efficacy to make positive and healthy decisions. WOW aims to
      reduce depression, anxiety, and PTSD symptoms, and improve academic and behavioral outcomes.
      WOW delivers a 26-lesson curriculum via weekly small-group counseling sessions during the
      school day. The curriculum is designed around five core values: self-awareness, emotional
      intelligence, healthy relationships, visionary goal setting, and leadership, and delivered by
      masters-level social workers and counselors. WOW counselors may also provide individual
      counseling and referrals to other services. The WOW program fills a critical gap in the
      existing set of programs available to these students, by providing services that cater to the
      unique needs of young women in our most under-resourced high schools.
    
  