
    
      Screening in these three centers is based on the use of a self-administered questionnaire for
      the detection of depressive disorders, the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), which
      allows the calculation of a score.

      In addition to the EPDS, three other tools are used at the GHPSJ maternity : a questionnaire
      to screen for anxiety, the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-S), and two for trauma
      symptoms, the Peritraumatic Dissociative Experiences Questionnaire (PDEQ) and the
      Peritraumatic Distress Inventory (PDI). In this center, the screening includes a second phase
      with a home mailing between 6 and 8 weeks after delivery: the EPDS, the STAI-S and the Impact
      Events Scale-Revised (IES-R), another test screening for post-traumatic stress.

      Based on the protocol implemented in these three maternity hospitals, the present research
      project aims to estimate the prevalence of postpartum depressive disorders at different times
      during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. It will also aim to identify the factors associated
      with the occurrence of these disorders, primarily to determine the association between
      elements of the pandemic context and the risk of postpartum depressive and anxiety disorders.

      This project, which is based on an epidemiological approach, thus aims to assess the mental
      health risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Postpartum women are a particularly
      vulnerable group, especially in terms of mental health.

      Indeed, 1 to 5% develop post-traumatic stress disorder during this period and 10 to 20%
      develop post-partum depression. Furthermore, the National Confidential Survey on Maternal
      Deaths (NCSMD) shows that suicide is now the leading cause of maternal death in France (i.e.,
      death occurring between conception and the first year following birth), before postpartum
      hemorrhage and before preeclampsia (data not yet published). From pooled English, Dutch, and
      French data, we observe that 36% of maternal deaths occurring between conception and the
      first year postpartum are deaths by suicide.

      The COVID-19 pandemic and the associated measures that went as far as confining the
      population were very likely to increase the factors favouring the occurrence of mental health
      impairment in the general population, but perhaps even more so in certain at-risk groups such
      as postpartum women.

      The pandemic context, whether through the fears associated with the viral infection for
      oneself or one's family, or through the consequences of the exceptional measures put in place
      in many countries to limit viral circulation, has had an effect on the general population and
      on the population of women in pregnancy, in different contexts. To date and to our knowledge,
      there is no data that would allow us to know the impact that this context may have had on the
      mental health of pregnant women in France. Moreover, there are no studies, either in France
      or elsewhere, on the impact of this pandemic context on the prevalence of psychological
      disorders in the postpartum period. However, this period is already a time of particular
      psychological vulnerability, a time when the risk of maternal suicide is at its highest. It
      is moreover reasonable to think that the pandemic impact and the general and local measures
      that accompany it may have an even greater impact during this postpartum period. The measures
      taken to prevent and protect against viral dissemination have had the effect of completely
      closing most maternity services to fathers and thus depriving mothers, totally or partially,
      of social and marital support and, in some situations, of physical proximity to their
      children, all of which are risk factors for postpartum depression.

      In the perinatal context, it has also been documented that post-traumatic stress disorder is
      strongly associated with the risk of perinatal depression.
    
  