
    
      the investigators recruit women who diagnose with symphysiolisis by having 2 out of 3 of the
      follow:

        -  Examine for pain or sensitivity to touch on pubic symphysis joint.

        -  Modified Trendelenburg's test

        -  Active straight leg raise test The trial doctor will mark the woman's chart with a
           continuous number that will become her number in the trial, and she will then be
           referred to the acupuncturist.

      Women will be randomly divided at a 1:1 ratio, according to the randomized number chart
      prepared by the trial's statistician. The list of random numbers will be delivered to the
      head of the acupuncturist team and it will be the only copy in existence aside from the one
      belonging to the statistician. According to that list of numbers, the head acupuncturist will
      instruct the acupuncturist on call as to the type of acupuncture to be performed, true (V)
      vs. placebo (P) on the participant . The type of acupuncture (V or P) will be recorded in the
      woman's chart.

      The treatment will be conducted by one of the acupuncturists on staff at the integrative
      medical center. All the acupuncturists have many years of experience in treating pregnant
      women with Chinese medicine. The acupuncture will be carried out with 0.18/40mm single use
      needles. Point selection and numbers of points used will be determined following the
      evaluation of the acupuncturist according to the accepted standards of in Chinese medicine.
      They will not, however, deviate from the list of true acupuncture points in the list of
      possible true paints . Placebo acupuncture will be three to four points selected at random
      from the list of placebo points . The acupuncturist's evaluation in the placebo group will be
      the same as in the evaluation in the treatment group and the true acupuncture points selected
      during that time will be the ones used in case of failure and continued pain following the
      first (placebo) treatment, after cross over.

      It should be noted that the woman's assessment and the exam will take place before the
      acupuncture treatment begins, whether it is the true or placebo group.

      Approximately 30 minutes after the acupuncture treatment began, the woman will be asked once
      again to assess her level of pain. An improvement of 1.5 marks on the NRS scale is considered
      a positive response. Women whose response after 30 minutes of acupuncture is less than this
      will be given the opposite acupuncture treatment. Those who received V acupuncture will
      receive P acupuncture and those who received P acupuncture will receive V acupuncture. A
      woman will be called our team if her pain is significantly worse. She will then receive the
      treatment that has been found most effective between the two acupuncture treatments she
      received previously.
    
  