
    
      IPF is a disease in which fibrous tissue clogs the lungs. This eventually damages air sacs in
      the lungs and leads to widespread and permanent scarring of lung tissue. Individuals with IPF
      may experience breathing difficulties, cough, chest pain, and a decreased exercise capacity.
      Pulmonary hypertension, which is high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs, affects
      half of all people with IPF. The fibrous tissue that clogs the lungs also blocks blood from
      flowing through the lungs effectively, reducing the amount of oxygen in the lungs. The
      fibrous tissue also reduces the lungs' ability to use what oxygen is available. These factors
      can cause breathing difficulties and may eventually lead to heart disease. Sildenafil is a
      medication that can increase blood supply to the lungs and reduce the heart's workload. The
      purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of sildenafil at improving breathing
      function, exercise capacity, and quality of life in people with advanced IPF.

      This study will enroll people with advanced IPF. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive sildenafil or placebo three times a day for 12 weeks. Study visits will occur at
      baseline and Weeks 1, 6, and 12. At Week 12, participants will have the option to continue in
      the study for an additional 12 weeks. All participants who agree to continue in the study
      will receive sildenafil three times a day for the second 12 weeks. Study visits will occur at
      Weeks 13, 18, and 24. At all study visits, a physical exam and blood collection will occur.
      At selected visits, the following study procedures will occur: lung function testing; urine
      collection; a 6-minute walk test, which will measure the distance walked in a 6-minute
      period; and questionnaires to assess health status, breathing, and quality of life.
      Participants will record medication usage and symptoms in a daily diary. Study researchers
      will review medical records and the Social Security death index 5 years following the end of
      the study to determine the incidence of death among study participants.
    
  