
    
      The prevalence of women making an irrational decision will be compared to the participation
      rate in the Danish screening program. The study population will consist of a random sample of
      women aged 44-49. Similar to the American study, two types of information will be compared
      (detailed vs. non-detailed information about the harms of screening). Participants will be
      randomised to one of two information groups. Based on the American study, it is assumed that
      the willingness to participate in the hypothetical screening program will be 40 percent. To
      achieve the desired precision in this study, a standard error of 2.5 percent is required
      corresponding to a confidence interval spanning approximately 35-45 percent. This will
      require 384 women in each group, corresponding to a total study population of 768. The survey
      will be sent electronically (using "e-Boks") with a link to access the online survey trial.
      The survey will consist of screening and cancer related questions as well as questions on
      age, education, and health literacy. Five questions on appraisal of health information from
      the Health Literacy Questionnaire will also be included. After the data collection, data will
      be linked to data on income, residence, civil status, education, breast cancer diagnosis, and
      information on whether a participant is immigrant, descendent or of Danish origin.

      The original plan for the main analysis was to compare the two groups of women randomized to
      different information groups (detailed vs. non-detailed information about the harms of
      screening). However, due to lower participation rate and therefore smaller sample size than
      expected, information group was disregarded in the main analysis. The two groups will still
      be compared in a secondary analysis. This decision was made before getting access to data
      from the questionnaire.
    
  