
    
      The study subjects are bipolar depressive patients seeking outpatient treatment for bipolar
      affective disorder in the psychiatric outpatient clinic in Heath Unit System of the Network
      of Outpatient Hospital of the State University of Londrina , and tobacco use disorder
      according of criteria Diagnostic Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, as control use
      never smokers.

      This is a placebo-controlled, 12 weeks, with a sample of 130 bipolar patients who sought
      treatment at the outpatient clinic of the Hospital of clinical psychiatry at State University
      of Londrina clinical trial , double-blind , randomized, from May 2015 to May 2016. Patients
      will be randomly allocated into two groups, double-blind, to receive a combination product
      (NAC, 1.8 g/day) or placebo for a period of 12 weeks. Both groups remain receiving
      maintenance treatment in outpatient psychiatry , and general medical and routinely reviews
      psychiatric . The dosage will be fixed 1.8 g /day of NAC administered in capsules taken 1
      before breakfast, 1 before lunch and 1 before dinner is equal doses.

      The choice of this dosage is based on previous studies (Prado et al., submitted) , in which
      similar doses that are effective and well tolerated . To enable the process to be
      double-blind study medications (NAC or placebo ) will be dispensed monthly number and
      identical formulations and packages sealed by a pharmacist who will participate in the
      parallel test . Patients will do blood tests for assessment of oxidative stress at baseline
      will be randomized to use of NAC or placebo and at the final stage of the 12 weeks , when the
      new assessment and collection of blood for analysis of oxidative stress will be performed .
      Clinicians who conduct the study will be blinded to allocation of NAC or placebo for each
      patient .

      The NAC is a compound with a low rate of adverse effects , among them being described
      diarrhea, nausea and dermatological allergy. It is considered a very low risk medication. The
      placebo will be the basis of lactose, composed almost devoid of risk for side effects except
      if allergic to lactose (exclusion criterion ) .
    
  