
    
      SCD is an inherited blood disorder. Symptoms include anemia, infections, organ damage, and
      intense episodes of pain, which are called "sickle cell crises." The Comprehensive Sickle
      Cell Centers (CSCC) is a network of 10 centers that conduct research to improve health care
      and treatment options for people with SCD. This study, the Collaborative Data Project
      (C-Data), will establish a comprehensive database of children and adults receiving medical
      care at participating CSCC research centers who are potentially eligible for inclusion in SCD
      clinical trials. The main purposes of this study are the following: 1) to gather medical
      information about a large number of people with SCD over a long period of time; 2) to
      identify potential participants for future SCD clinical trials; 3) to collect information
      about how SCD affects quality of life; and 4) to evaluate the relationship between SCD
      patients' characteristics and medical events.

      In this study, research staff will review participants' medical records twice a year for at
      least 5 years. Information will be collected regarding participants' medical history,
      physical exams, blood tests, and demographics. Once a year, participants will take part in a
      short interview about their health and lifestyle. Participants will also complete
      quality-of-life and patient satisfaction questionnaires during the first year of the study
      and may complete additional questionnaires in the future. During an interview, participants
      will be asked general questions about their experience with SCD and more specific questions
      on headaches and any possible relation they may have to SCD pain. Participants may also be
      asked to provide a blood sample at some point during the study. CSCC researchers will analyze
      the information in the database and may contact participants in the future to see if they are
      interested in enrolling in SCD clinical trials.
    
  