
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Correlate baseline and change in apoptosis and proliferation with clinical and
           pathological response to neoadjuvant docetaxel followed by surgery in women with newly
           diagnosed breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate baseline and change in fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography
           uptake with clinical and pathological response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate baseline and change in gene expression profiles with clinical and pathological
           response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate baseline and change in tumor and serum proteomic patterns with clinical and
           pathological response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
           pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Within 2-4 weeks after the completion of 4 courses of docetaxel, patients
           undergo breast-conserving surgery or a mastectomy at the discretion of the treating
           surgeon. Patients may receive additional chemotherapy prior to surgery at the discretion
           of the treating physician.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive adjuvant chemotherapy at the discretion of the
           treating physician.

        -  Radiotherapy: Patients undergo radiotherapy after the completion of all chemotherapy at
           the discretion of the treating physician.

        -  Hormonal therapy: Patients with estrogen- and/or progesterone-positive tumors receive
           hormonal therapy after the completion of chemotherapy and all local therapies at the
           discretion of the treating physician.

      Patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  