
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to determine the feasibility and acceptability of study
      procedures in comparing the effectiveness of four advance care planning (ACP) decision aids
      when used by Nurse Care Coordinators (NCCs) with their patients in primary care. Study
      activities include face-to-face participation in primarily 3 one-hour meetings with their NCC
      and completion of study questionnaires at baseline and at completion of the intervention. If
      during the ACP process the patient identifies a surrogate decision maker/health care agent
      (SDM/HCA), the SDM/HCA will be invited to also participate in the study by answering a
      questionnaire when the patient has completed the ACP intervention.

      Findings from prior studies provide evidence of the success of the ACP decision aids for use
      in the ACP process. The proposed study is a logical next step to meet the need to enhance
      patient-centeredness in primary care practices. The study team is strategically positioned to
      successfully conduct the proposed study with adequate support and skills available. The
      proposed study is innovative in that it compares the effectiveness of evidence-based ACP
      decision aids when used by primary care nurses in collaboration with the patients they serve.

      A four-arm, prospective, comparative, feasibility design is proposed. Participants will be
      recruited from the caseloads of NCCs from Mayo Clinic's primary care practice. After
      enrollment patients will be randomly assigned to either one of 3 ACP web-based decision aids
      or an ACP educational brochure decision aid arm to receive education and guidance related to
      the ACP process.

      The central hypothesis is that ACP by NCCs in collaboration with patients in primary care
      settings is feasible and effective when supported by a decision aid. All 4 ACP decision aids
      have been proven successful when used by patients independently, but no evidence exists
      regarding their success when used in a patient/clinician collaboration in primary care. Group
      differences will direct us to explore whether one or more ACP decision aid performs better
      than others, thereby indicating that successful ACP by NCCs in primary care settings may be
      supported by particular decision aids. Direct benefits to subjects involved are not assured,
      but information regarding the ACP process and the possibility of identifying a surrogate
      decision maker and completion of an advance directive provides a potential benefit.
    
  