
    
      Based on a National US survey in 2012, 69% adults track at least one health indicator using
      either a tracking device or some other means. The main health indicators tracked were diet,
      weight, and exercise. Although not as extensive as the above health indicators, certain
      studies also looked at sleep indicators through the trackers to support validity of their
      use. Based on the study team's literature review, none of the studies looked at an
      intervention designed to utilize data-trackers-based data to improve physician-patient
      communication regarding sleep.

      Commercially available and inexpensive exercise, fitness and sleep trackers are broadly
      available and consumer use is growing rapidly. Industry analysts estimate that over 30
      million Americans have access to their sleep tracking data (e.g. Fitbit. Jawbone). Physicians
      seldom use patient-generated (i.e. subjective) sleep data (e.g. sleep diaries) and have been
      slow to integrate objective sleep data collected from commercial sleep trackers. Two
      commercial sleep trackers have been validated by independent testing. The National Sleep
      Foundation (NSF) has led recent efforts to establish normative data (i.e. appropriate ranges)
      for sleep duration and sleep quality. NSF, together with the Consumer Electronics Association
      (now Consumer Technology Association), has established a work-group involving over 40 sleep
      tracking technology companies which is working to standardize sleep tracking data collection
      and reporting. Finally, NSF has developed a tool ("SleepLife") that translates data retrieved
      from all commercially available sleep trackers into a personal sleep tracking record. This
      product has been tested rigorously for two years and publicly released in January 2016. These
      developments present the timely opportunity to test a new paradigm for patient and physician
      communication using objective patient data (sleep).

      The study team will utilize a combination of observational and interventional study designs
      to achieve study objectives.
    
  