
    
      Research on estimation and measurement of renal function has been greatly stimulated by the
      international concept of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and its classification into stages of
      severity based on the level of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (National Kidney Foundation
      KDOQI and ANAES in 2002, KDIGO conference in 2005), and by the development of recommendations
      for clinical practice according to this stages. Many efforts have focused on the validation
      of new formula to estimate GFR from endogenous markers. Nevertheless, the performance of
      these formula is limited by a large inter individual variability, that requires in many cases
      the use of GFR measurement using exogenous tracers (extreme anthropometric characteristics,
      abnormal production of endogenous tracers, potential kidney donors, dose adjustment,
      nephrotoxicity monitoring…). The use of GFR measurement is burdened by a lack of availability
      due to methodological, biological and regulatory (for radioactive tracers) constraints.
      That's why a need exists for new validated tracers that will be more accessible and easier to
      use. Moreover, there are differences between the measurement techniques: single injection of
      the tracer or concentration equilibrium obtained by continuous infusion; plasma or urinary
      clearance.

      Two new tracers for GFR measurement are here offered for validation: Gd-DOTA and
      Calcium-EDTA. Gd-DOTA is a macrocyclic paramagnetic contrast product, which can be measured
      using an ELISA type immunoassay. Although being widely used in radiology with higher doses
      than those that will be used for GFR measurement in the multi-GFR study, Gd-DOTA has never
      been involved in systemic nephrogenic fibrosis cases (ProFinest study). Calcium-EDTA has been
      used for many years for the chelation of heavy metals. Recently, a colorimetric assay for
      Calcium-EDTA measurement has been developed. Gd-DOTA and Calcium-EDTA clearance for GFR
      measurement will be compared to inuline clearance in healthy volunteers (25 for each new
      tracer) and CKD patients (150 for each new tracer).
    
  