
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability and determine the maximum tolerated dose of
      intralesional (quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (unadjuvanted influenza vaccine)
      for patients with a) resectable melanoma as monotherapy, and b) metastatic melanoma,
      concurrent with standard of care, single-agent checkpoint inhibition.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate tumor dimensions of injected (Cohorts #1-2) and non-injected lesions (Cohort
      #2 only), by caliper measurement. (Clinical endpoint) II. To determine time to disease
      progression (local or distant). (Clinical endpoint) III. To evaluate immunohistochemistry
      density, cells/mm^2: CD4, CD8, PD-L1, PD1, CD56, CD20, CD45RO, FOXP3. (Tumor-based endpoint)
      IV. To evaluate granzyme B H-score. (Tumor-based endpoint) V. To evaluate NanoString Pan
      Cancer Immune Profiling Panel. (Tumor-based endpoint) VI. To evaluate tumor-infiltrating
      lymphocytes: not identified, present (non-brisk), present (brisk), cannot be determined.
      (Tumor-based endpoint) VII. To evaluate degree of tumor regression (percent). (Tumor-based
      endpoint) VIII. To evaluate changes in micro ribonucleic acid (microRNA) expression.
      (Tumor-based endpoint) IX. To evaluate of flow cytometry for T-cell subset evaluation and
      changes in circulating microRNA. (Blood draw endpoint)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the evidence of immunologic activation in blood and tissue specimens.

      OUTLINE: This is dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on
      day 0 and intratumorally on days 2 and 14 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgery on day 28.

      COHORT II: Patients receive quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine IM on day 0 and
      intratumorally on days 2, 14, 28, 42, 56, 70, 84, and 98 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive standard of care ipilimumab,
      nivolumab, or pembrolizumab.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 1 year.
    
  