
    
      Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common complication after cardiac surgery. Imbalance of
      cerebral oxygen supply and demand is one of the pathogenesis of postoperative delirium. The
      perioperative cerebral oxygen levels and postoperative delirium highly correlated, while as a
      high incidence of cerebral oxygen desaturation(SCO2) in cardiac surgery, especially in
      extracorporeal circulation. Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) can monitor the SCO2
      continuously, noninvasively, simultaneously on bilateral cerebral hemisphere, and monitoring
      will not restricted by extracorporeal circulation.Using NIRS to moniter and intervene
      thecerebral oxygen levels in extracorporeal circulation of heart surgery patients ,thereby
      reducing the incidence of postoperative delirium. This hypothesis has a very important
      clinical value.

      This study intends to include 140 patients, who requires extracorporeal circulation cardiac
      surgical treatment. All cases will be divided into trial group and control group preoperative
      follow-up.Two groups of patients in surgery will be both performed the investigator's
      existing standerd monitoring and surgery process.

      The trial group cases will be given NIRS monitoring in the whole surgical procedure. And once
      the SCO2 value below ideal levels (80% of the basic level or 50% of the absolute value), the
      intervention process will be started immediately to correct the low cerebral oxygen status,
      by adjusting the position of extracorporeal circulation arteriovenous catheter, stabilizing
      the mean arterial pressure, increasing oxygen supply and , adjusting the pump speed, etc. The
      control group cases will be only placed the probe of NIRS moniter.

      In 72 hours after the surgery , all patients will be assessed POD by cardiac surgery
      intensivecare unit(CICU) physicians according to delirium scale .

      This project intends to research monitoring brain oxygen supply and intervention can reduce
      the incidence of postoperative delirium.
    
  