
    
      Cancer patients and survivors struggle with chronic symptom burden, including sleep
      disturbance, fatigue, depressive symptoms, and anxiety, among others. Sleep disturbance is
      one of the most common complaints among cancer patients and survivors (reported in as many as
      85% of cancer patients and survivors, depending on the type of cancer), but is often not
      fully addressed by pharmacologic intervention alone. Therefore, cancer patients and survivors
      often turn to non-pharmacologic approaches.

      Currently, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is the most available,
      evidence-based, non-pharmacologic treatment strategy to manage sleep disturbances in cancer
      patients and survivors. However, this treatment modality is time-consuming and intensive,
      requiring patients to frequently meet in-person with therapists and physicians at
      sites/clinics. This approach may not be sustainable in the long term, as cancer patients
      often report barriers to attending in-person interventions, including fatigue,
      transportation, and scheduling difficulties. Although remote delivery of CBT-I has been
      suggested as an alternative,1 only a single pilot study has investigated this possibility.
      The pilot study delivered CBT-I via a mobile app, but was limited by the small sample size
      (n=19) and no control group. Further research is needed testing the delivery of efficacious,
      non-pharmacologic interventions remotely to cancer patients and survivors for the management
      of sleep disturbance.

      Smartphones, due to their increasing ubiquity among cancer patients and survivors, offer a
      novel medium through which to deliver non-pharmacologic sleep-management interventions. In a
      recent survey of 1,300 cancer patients, 71% reported owning a mobile smartphone. A 2018
      survey of 631 cancer patients demonstrated that 74% regularly use a smartphone, and 39%
      expressed an interest in supportive care information via mobile apps. Meditation is a
      non-pharmacologic intervention that has a growing body of literature to document its benefits
      for sleep in cancer patients, and it is a less time-consuming and resource-intensive strategy
      when compared to CBT-I. Further research needs to examine the potential efficacy of
      meditation as an efficacious non-pharmacologic strategy for the self-management of sleep
      disturbances.

      The investigators have successfully delivered meditation to hematological cancer patients
      previously via the Calm app with moderate effects demonstrated on sleep disturbance. However,
      more research is needed to test the preliminary effects of smartphone-based meditation among
      cancer patients for sleep disturbance as compared to an active control group. In the proposed
      study, the investigators will recruit a national sample of cancer patients and survivors
      (N=300) within two years of cancer diagnosis, to pilot test an eight-week smartphone-based
      meditation intervention (i.e., Calm; n=150) on sleep disturbance (primary outcome) as
      compared to a smartphone-based health education podcast control group (n=150). The
      investigators will aim to recruit 50% men into the study.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Objective 1: Explore the preliminary effects of eight weeks of daily meditation delivered
      using the Calm app on sleep disturbance in cancer patients and survivors within two years of
      diagnosis as compared to a smartphone-based podcast control group.

      The primary hypothesis for this objective is that those in the Calm group will experience
      improvements in sleep disturbance greater than those experienced by the podcast control group
      at eight weeks.

      Objective 2: Explore the preliminary effects of eight weeks of daily meditation delivered
      using the Calm app on cancer patients and survivors within two years of diagnosis on anxiety,
      depression, pain intensity, global health, quality of life, emotional regulation, and
      mindfulness as compared to a smartphone-based podcast control group.

      The primary hypothesis for this objective is that those in the Calm app group will experience
      improvements in anxiety, depression, pain intensity, global health, quality of life,
      emotional regulation, and mindfulness greater than those experienced by the podcast control
      group at eight weeks.

      Exploratory Objective 3: Explore the sustained effects of meditation delivered using the Calm
      app on cancer patients and survivors (i.e., 12-week follow-up).

      The primary hypothesis for this objective is that those in the Calm app group will experience
      improvements across outcomes compared to baseline that are sustained at 20 weeks.
    
  