
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the toxic effects of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel vs
           cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, and carboplatin in patients with high-risk primary breast
           cancer. (Arm I closed to accural as of 4/6/2006.)

        -  Compare the efficacies of these regimens followed by peripheral blood stem cell rescue
           in these patients.

        -  Determine the efficacy of a bisphosphonate to prevent relapse/metastasis after high-dose
           chemotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by stage of disease.

      Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected after mobilization with filgrastim (G-CSF),
      administered subcutaneously or IV, twice daily beginning 3 days before collection and
      continuing until collection is complete.

      All patients receive conventional-dose adjuvant chemotherapy, probably comprising doxorubicin
      IV, cyclophosphamide IV, and fluorouracil IV over 1 hour on days 1, 22, 43, and 64. Patients
      are then randomized to receive 1 of 2 treatment arms of high-dose chemotherapy. (Arm I closed
      to accrual as of 4/6/2006.)

        -  Arm I (ACT) (closed to accrual as of 4/6/2006): Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 24
           hours on days -9 to -6, cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day -5, and paclitaxel IV
           over 24 hours on day -2. PBSC are reinfused on days -2 and 0. G-CSF is administered
           beginning on day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Arm II (STAMP V): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, carboplatin IV, and thiotepa IV
           over 24 hours on days -7 to -4. PBSC are reinfused and G-CSF is administered as in arm
           I.

      Within 4-6 weeks of day 0 of high-dose chemotherapy, patients with estrogen and/or
      progesterone receptor positive tumors receive oral tamoxifen twice daily for 5 years.
      Patients are also randomized to receive a bisphosphonate comprising pamidronate IV every 4
      weeks for 2 years.

      Quality of life is assessed before therapy, at 30 days after high-dose chemotherapy, and at 6
      and 12 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for at least 10
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  