
    
      The investigators will collect breast milk samples at four visits, at 2-3 days after birth
      (colostrum) and at 1-3.4, 3.5-5.9, and 6-8.5 months of lactation from well-nourished mothers
      age ≥18 to ≤40 years, in a systematic, identical way in four countries. The four sites are:
      Copenhagen, Denmark; Banjul, The Gambia; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and Mirpur, Dhaka,
      Bangladesh. The most important site selection criteria were that multiple micronutrient
      supplements are not consumed after week 28 of pregnancy; maternal diet is adequate but
      consumption of highly fortified foods is limited; and exclusive breastfeeding is 60% at 4
      months.

      In order to have 250 women and infants per site complete the study at 8.5 months,
      approximately 500 women will be recruited during the third trimester of pregnancy. This
      should allow for mothers and infants not meeting study eligibility criteria in pregnancy or
      early lactation, and drop-outs from the study. Recruitment during pregnancy will increase the
      opportunity to locate and recruit women since recruitment in the immediate post-delivery
      period will be difficult. It will also enable the women to be counselled on the importance of
      exclusive breastfeeding (EBF). Colostrum will be collected at 2-3 days postpartum for future
      analysis. The first collection of mature milk will occur between 1 and 3.4 months postpartum,
      when maternal and infant blood samples will also be collected on all participants. At the
      final two visits, in addition to milk collection, blood will be taken from all mothers but
      only half of the infants each time, primarily for the assessment of micronutrient status.

      A requirement is that infants must be EBF in the 1-3.4 month period, and breastfed (BF) in
      the second and third period. Longitudinal measurements on the same mother after the BF period
      are not necessary for statistical reasons, as the investigators are not creating RVs for
      change in milk composition. The investigators expect that due to attrition and cessation of
      BF, the sample size will need to be augmented in later months; the alternative would have
      been to recruit and measure many more women in earlier stages in order to have an adequate
      sample size in the 7-8.5 month interval, which would be a much less efficient approach.
      Therefore after 6 months, if women are not breastfeeding, additional lactating women will be
      recruited from the group that was not EBF in the 3.4 month period, or from the local health
      center or community.

      At all three points of mature milk collection the investigators will measure breast milk
      volume; diet, anthropometry and morbidity of the mother and infant; and infant development at
      3.5-5.9 and 6 to 8.5 months; and will collect infant fecal samples for future analyses of the
      microbiome. Milk volume will be measured at three sites using the International Atomic Energy
      Agency's protocol that requires dosing the mother with deuterated water and collecting
      maternal and infant saliva urine samples at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 13 and 14 days after the dose. In
      Denmark breast milk volume will be measured by 24 hour infant weighing.

      Most of the laboratory analyses will be conducted at the United States Department of
      Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Western Human Nutrition Research Center (WHNRC)
      in Davis, California. Other analyses will be performed in the Department of Chemistry at
      University of California, Davis (HMOs and other bioactive compounds in milk), and the Swiss
      Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich (iodine status). RVs will be constructed following
      the methods and principles developed for the World Health Organization (WHO) Child Growth
      Standards and the Intergrowth-21st Project.

      An add-on study "Evaluation of maternal insulin resistance, metabolic and inflammatory
      biomarkers for prediction of successful initiation and duration of breastfeeding" is being
      conducted at the Danish site and was approved by The Regional Committee on Health Research
      Ethics with (H-17015174).

      The aims of the add-on study are to evaluate if maternal metabolic and inflammatory
      biomarkers can predict successful initiation and duration of breastfeeding in a population of
      healthy non-obese Danish women, to evaluate the impact of maternal inflammatory biomarkers
      during pregnancy on the offspring's growth and risk factors for later disease, and to relate
      the impact of maternal metabolic and inflammatory biomarkers during pregnancy on
      breastfeeding behavior and on the offspring's growth and risk factors for later disease in
      this population to corresponding outcomes in an established cohort of infants born of obese
      mothers.
    
  