
    
      OBJECTIVES: Stored blood and toenail samples are available from a case-control study of ALS
      conducted in 1993-1996. The purpose of the initial study was to examine the relationship to
      ALS of lead and other exposures, including mercury, pesticides, and solvents, as well as
      genetic susceptibility to these exposures. The protocol was closed in May 1997 (closed
      protocol #95-007) after recruitment of study subjects ended. The objective of the present
      proposal is to reopen the protocol to permit measurement in blood or toenails of genes,
      proteins, neurotoxicants, and other factors or agents potentially associated with ALS, as
      well as analyses of existing data. The short-term goal is to measure (i) polymorphisms in DNA
      repair genes; (ii) serum protein profiles; and (iii) serum organochlorine pesticide levels.
      Other factors may be of interest in the future, for example polymorphisms in other genes or
      levels of metals in blood or toenails. We also plan (iv) to continue analyses of existing
      data. Some data analysis will involve combining data from the original ALS study with data
      from the Harvard Normative Aging Study, a cohort study of World War II verterans that has
      collected demographic, lifestyle, and medical data as well as information on bone and blood
      lead levels.

      STUDY POPULATION: No new subjects will be recruited for this protocol. The original study
      involved 110 ALS cases, 31 hospital controls with other neurologic diseases, and 256
      population controls, recruited in New England between 1993 and 1996. The population controls
      were frequency matched to the cases on the basis of age, gender, race, and region within New
      England.

      DESIGN: The original study was a case-control study. Data collection involved an interview
      collection of blood and toenail samples, and measurement of bone lead using x-ray
      fluorescence. Stored blood and/or toenail samples are available from 107 ALS cases, 31
      hospital controls, and 39 population controls. The present study will use conventional
      techniques to measure genetic polymorphisms and serum organochlorine levels and newly
      developed SLDI-TOF technology to evaluate serum protein profiles.

      OUTCOME PARAMETERS: The outcome parameter is risk of ALS. Associations with ALS risk will be
      evaluated for polymorphisms in DNA repair genes; serum protein profiles; and organochlorine
      pesticide levels in serum.
    
  