
    
      Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR) and shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) provide excellent
      clinical outcomes but are often associated with significant postoperative pain, frequently
      managed with oral opioid medication. Orthopedic surgeons prescribe approximately 32 unused
      pills per shoulder surgery and are the third largest prescribers of opiates in the USA. It is
      incumbent upon the orthopedic community to identify postoperative pain management methods
      which reduce the need for narcotic medication following shoulder procedures as a means to
      mitigate the impact of orthopedic procedures on this epidemic.

      The use of intraoperative local and regional anesthesia or field blocks, in conjunction with
      multimodal pharmacological strategies, is an accepted approach for managing surgical pain and
      reducing opiate use but requires peer reviewed protocols to gain wider acceptance.

      Interscalene nerve block with bupivacaine remains a gold standard for peri-operative
      analgesia, but is associated with significant rebound pain due to the short duration of the
      local anesthetics. Recent studies have demonstrated that the addition of a liposomal
      bupivacaine field block may lower pain and enhance patient satisfaction throughout the first
      postoperative week. Liposomal bupivacaine has recently received FDA approval for ISB, but the
      data regarding its efficacy in nerve blocks is sparse.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to determine if liposomal bupivacaine-enhanced
      interscalene nerve blocks can be used to improve peri-operative pain control methods, limit
      narcotic use, and provide appropriate postoperative analgesia compared to standard
      bupivacaine blocks. Primary and secondary outcome measures will be collected as number of
      opiates taken and self-reported VAS pain scores over a 14 day postoperative period,
      respectively.

      The hypothesis of this study is that an interscalene nerve block with liposomal bupivacaine
      will decrease both postoperative VAS pain scores and total narcotic consumption when compared
      to a standard bupivacaine interscalene nerve block alone.
    
  