
    
      Panic and generalized anxiety disorders are serious conditions that often are inadequately
      recognized and treated, responsible for significant morbidity, and associated with excessive
      health services' utilization. More effective treatment interventions that involve both
      primary care physicians (PCPs) and patients are necessary to manage these conditions.

      Patients presenting for primary care services will be screened for panic and generalized
      anxiety disorders using the Primary Care Evaluation of Mental Disorder (PRIME-MD); patients
      and their PCPs will be informed of patients' diagnosis. Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to receive either a telephone-based collaborative care intervention or their PCPs'
      usual care.

      The telephone care intervention will involve a protocol that is based on the American
      Psychiatric Association's and other published guidelines for treating panic disorder (PD) and
      generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The care manager will assess each patient's treatment
      preferences for either anxiolytic pharmacotherapy, a self-management workbook, referral to a
      community mental health specialist, or some combination of these. The care manager will
      conduct periodic telephone follow-up interviews with intervention participants to inquire
      about anxiety symptoms, treatment adherence, review lesson plans, and any side effects they
      have experienced, as applicable. The care manager maintains correspondence with the PCPs of
      the telephone intervention participants via an electronic medical record system to rapidly
      relay information regarding patients' treatment and obtain the PCPs approval for initiating
      or adjusting pharmacotherapy according to the patient's response to treatment and protocol.

      A blinded research assistant who is unaware of participants' randomization group will conduct
      telephone interviews with all participants to assess the effectiveness of the intervention
      relative to the usual care control condition. These interviews will be conducted at baseline
      and at 2-, 4-, 8-, and 12-months follow-up. Measures assessed include anxiety symptoms,
      functional status, health services utilization, and overall quality of life.
    
  