
    
      Visit 1 (V1): During this visit at the Pediatric Research Platform at the Children's
      Hospital, subjects will undergo an open food challenge to 3 processed foods labeled with "may
      contain traces" by following safety and accuracy guidelines for food challenges (7). The
      following foods (similar for all patients) will be given in one dose in the size of a regular
      serving:

        -  cookies, max 30 g;

        -  chocolate, max 30 g;

        -  breakfast cereals, max 50 g.

      Each meal will be administered with a 1 hour observation period in between and at the end.

      If the patient does not react to any of the foods or has only oral itching (mild symptoms),
      he/she will be instructed to stop the ban on "may contain" foods and eat them regularly. If
      the patient has more than mild symptoms, the study will be stopped and the patient will be
      banned from eating foods with traces. The study subjects with a negative challenge and
      instructed to eat foods with the "may contain" label will be provided emergency medications
      and instruction on when and how to use them according to current guidelines (8).

      An age appropriate quality of life questionnaire will be filled out by the parents/patient
      during the visit.

      For the following 3 months after "may contain food" challenges, the patients will be invited
      to eat on a regular basis any foods labeled as "may contain" tree nuts and/or peanuts and
      record the consumption on a diary. Such foods will only be eaten in presence of a family
      member instructed for the measures to be taken in case of a reaction. They will record any
      history of reaction and contact the study team. The brand name of the food, and if available
      the batch will be recorded. The participants will store the study food and its packaging
      safely in a box and bring it along at V2 for allergen content analysis.

      If a reaction occurs, the food will be analyzed for allergen content by immunoaffinity
      capillary elecrophoresis-matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry, as
      well as a simplified version of this technique, the immunomagnetic separation
      -matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry.

      Visit 2 (V2): During this visit, the parents/patients will report on the brand, the frequency
      and the amount of "may contain" foods eaten since V1.

      The quality of life questionnaire will be filled out again by the parents/patient.
    
  