
    
      Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most frequently occurring serious bacterial infection in
      young children and accounts for 5 to 14% of emergency department visits. UTIs can be divided
      into asymptomatic bacteriuria, cystitis, and acute pyelonephritis (APN ). The APN is
      associated with an increased risk of renal damage, acquired through renal scarring. Which is
      a consequence of the inflammatory and immune response that aim to eradicate the bacteria
      involved in the UTI.

      Parenchymal infection can be solved, but there are a number of poorly understood factors that
      may perpetuate inflammation, and this would promote the formation of scarring. One of the
      most relevant factors involved in formation of renal scarring is the production of
      inflammatory mediators (complement proteins, bactericidal peptides, cytokines , chemokines,
      ). hence, the use of anti-inflammatory drugs may prevent the release of these mediators and
      the formation of permanent renal scarring. Renal scarring in childhood has been associated
      with serious complications as hypertension, preeclampsia, and ESRD in young age.

      Current treatment of children with UTI has focused on the treatment of vesicoureteral reflux
      (VUR) and on the early treatment of UTI with antibiotics. Although the presence of VUR
      increases the likelihood of bacteria gaining access to the kidney, correction of VUR is not
      sufficient to prevent scarring. Renal scarring frequently occurs in children who do not have
      VUR, and early diagnosis and treatment of children with VUR is not associated with a
      reduction in the incidence of end-stage renal disease. Similarly, early antibiotic therapy is
      necessary, but it is not sufficient to prevent renal scarring in most children with UTI.
      Because signs of UTI in children are relatively non-specific, the diagnosis is often delayed.
      data from many studies have shown that once the infection has localized to the renal
      parenchyma, treatment with antibiotics alone does not prevent scarring. hence ,It is clear
      that the current management is not always effective in preventing renal scarring. The
      proposed study aims to determine whether dexamethasone therapy - which focuses on modulation
      of the host inflammatory response - is effective in reducing renal scarring.
    
  