
    
      A major disadvantage of giving SD NVP is the potential for maternal development of NVP
      resistance and additional resistance to other nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors
      (NNRTI) in the mother; as a result, future treatment options may be limited for these HIV
      infected women. The purpose of the study is to determine which of three ART regimens most
      effectively deters the development of maternal NVP resistance in HIV infected pregnant women
      postpartum. This study also compared the effectiveness of short-term versus long-term ART in
      discouraging the development of maternal NVP resistance.

      Some mothers in this study received ZDV monotherapy prior to SD NVP administration;
      initiation of ZDV monotherapy was at the discretion of the site investigator and was be
      provided by this study. Randomization was stratified by receipt of ZDV monotherapy during the
      pregnancy.

      Prior to labor, mothers were randomly assigned to receive SD NVP at the onset of labor and
      one of three postpartum ART regimens: 3TC/ZDV, FTC/TDF, and LPV/r. In addition, participants
      were randomly assigned to receive 7 or 21 days of their assigned postpartum treatment.

      Mothers were followed for 96 weeks following delivery; there were 11 study visits for mothers
      during the study. At the onset of labor, medical and medication history, a targeted physical
      exam, and an obstetrical exam occurred. Additional physical exams occurred on Day 1 and Weeks
      1 and 3. Blood collection occurred at 8 study visits between Weeks 3 and 96. Infants were
      followed for up to 96 weeks after birth; there were 8 study visits for infants during the
      study. Infants who had ever been breastfed had study visits at Weeks 16, 24, 48, and 96, and
      at about 1 and 2 years of age. A physical exam, medication history, and blood collection
      occurred at each infant visit. Mothers and infants could be prescribed continuing ART, but
      such ART was be provided by this study.
    
  