
    
      Aims and Design: Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), accounts for an
      estimated 94,000 invasive infections and 19,000 deaths annually in the U.S. In order to
      prevent MRSA infections among Veterans, the VA successfully implemented the VA MRSA
      Prevention Initiative that has reduced patient-to-patient transmission of MRSA. However, this
      Initiative does not prevent most MRSA surgical site infections (SSIs) because MRSA SSIs are
      usually caused by MRSA transferring from a patient's nose to their own surgical incision
      site. Cardiac surgery and total joint arthroplasty (TJA; e.g. hip or knee surgery) are among
      the most common operations performed by the VA and are associated with particularly high
      clinical and economic impact. In order to eliminate MRSA SSIs in the VA, the study group
      developed a checklist based on a meta-analysis of studies that assessed methods to prevent
      gram-positive SSIs among TJA and cardiac surgery patients. This SSI Checklist includes
      preoperatively testing a surgical patient's nose for asymptomatic MRSA colonization. If the
      patient is MRSA colonized, s/he will be treated with prophylactic nasal mupirocin ointment,
      chlorhexidine gluconate baths, and antibiotic prophylaxis with both cefazolin and vancomycin.
      The SSI Checklist will be implemented in 10 VA Medical Centers (VAMCs). A high-quality
      quasi-experimental study, with a qualitative process evaluation will be performed to assess
      the SSI Checklist. The goals of this project are 1) to assess the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of the checklist to prevent MRSA SSIs among Veterans undergoing TJA or
      cardiac surgery, and 2) to assess barriers and facilitators to checklist implementation.

      Methods: This study includes both quantitative and qualitative components. In the
      quantitative component, the SSI Checklist will be implemented in 10 VAMCs for 3 years and
      outcomes will be compared between the intervention group and two control groups: 1) 5 years
      of historic data from the same 10 VAMCs, 2) 8 years (5 historic year and 3 intervention
      years) of concurrent data from other VAMCs that did not implement the SSI Checklist. Study
      endpoints will include: 1) MRSA SSIs as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC); 2) SSIs caused by other pathogens; 3) cost per SSI prevented, cost per
      life-saved, cost per MRSA SSI prevented and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved.
      VA databases including VA National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (VASQIP), VA Decision
      Support System, VA Inpatient Evaluation Center (IPEC) and Veterans' Informatics & Computing
      Infrastructure (VINCI) will be used to collect data. Time series analysis and linear mixed
      effects models will be used for the statistical analysis. In the qualitative component, a
      process evaluation will be conducted at 6 different VAMCs, which includes collecting data
      before, during and after implementation, to examine the contextual factors and stakeholder
      perspectives that influence adoption of the SSI Checklist. Observations and semi-structured
      interviews will be conducted in Years 1 and 3, along with thematic content analysis, to
      examine facilitators and barriers to the implementation at the different study sites. The
      Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research will be used to guide the process
      evaluation and provide the foundation for a systematic evaluation of local contextual factors
      that influence implementation of the SSI Checklist. The products of this study include a
      validated SSI Checklist, a business-case analysis, an implementation toolkit, and a team
      experienced in checklist implementation for prevention of infections. At the end of this
      study period, the study team will meet with operational partners including National
      Infectious Disease Program Office (NIDS) and the MRSA / Multidrug-resistant Program Office
      (MDRO), and the National Center for Occupational Health and Infection Control (COHIC) to
      discuss implementing this checklist nationwide as part of the VA MRSA Prevention Initiative.
      This study has high potential to significantly decrease SSI, and in turn morbidity and
      mortality due to SSIs, in our Nation's Veterans.
    
  