
    
      Fostering emotional and behavioral well-being is critical to school success, and research
      shows that over 70% of all mental health treatment for children is delivered in schools.
      Thus, school mental health (SMH) services are a fundamental component of our nation's
      strategy to ensure academic and life success of our children and youth. Unfortunately, SMH
      providers rarely use evidence-based approaches and are often poorly integrated into the
      school context. SMH providers carry large caseloads, experience time constraints, and serve
      youth with a broad array of needs. For SMH to live up to its potential, individuals who
      provide SMH treatment must be equipped with effective and efficient ways to address student
      emotional and behavioral needs.

      The purpose of this project is to conduct a multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) of
      the Brief Intervention Strategy for School Clinicians (BRISC). BRISC is a fully developed,
      manualized intervention strategy for use by professionals working individually with high
      school students experiencing mental health symptoms or other emotional and behavioral
      stressors that negatively affect their ability to succeed academically. With funding from an
      IES Development and Innovation grant (R305A120128), BRISC was developed as a brief,
      evidence-based, and flexible "Tier 2" intervention designed to fit the high school context.
      Findings from a small (N=66) comparison study indicate positive, small to large sized effects
      (ES = .30 - 1.33) in favor of BRISC over SMH services as usual (SAU) for a range of short and
      longer-term outcomes (see Section A9). The study also found high clinician fidelity to BRISC,
      increased clinician use of evidence-based strategies, high ratings of feasibility, and very
      low ratings of research burden. Moreover, even though the majority of students who were
      referred to BRISC were in the clinical range for functional impairment due to MH problems,
      over 50% were able to step down to lower levels of intervention after four sessions of BRISC,
      demonstrating promise for efficiency and reach. The current study aims to further examine the
      efficacy of BRISC, the mediators and moderators that may further influence its development,
      and to illuminate how and under what conditions BRISC is effective. A cluster randomized
      design has been used to assign 52 schools in Washington, Minnesota, and Maryland to BRISC or
      SAU (520 students total; 260 per group).

      This efficacy project has six research aims:

        1. To test the effects of BRISC on hypothesized short-term service outcomes such as
           clinician use of evidence-based strategies and standardized assessment data, therapeutic
           alliance, student service satisfaction, retention in services, and service referrals.

        2. To test the effects of BRISC on hypothesized short-term student outcomes, such as
           problem-solving, coping skills, school engagement, school attendance, and homework
           completion.

        3. To test the effects of BRISC on longer-term outcomes such as MH symptoms,
           emotional/behavioral functioning, peer/family relations, discipline problems at school,
           and academic performance.

        4. To examine the impact of BRISC on treatment efficiency, in terms of trajectory of
           student change in outcomes over time.

        5. To confirm that BRISC is perceived as an appropriate, feasible, and acceptable
           intervention for use by SMH clinicians working in a diverse array of high schools.

        6. To examine hypothesized moderators and mediators of outcomes, including service factors
           (e.g., fidelity, service dosage/duration, clinician orientation, receipt of other
           services), student factors (e.g., age, gender, problem type and severity), and proximal
           outcomes (e.g., problem-solving skills, coping strategies, school engagement).
    
  