
    
      The most important task of the European Society of Hypertension is to improve blood pressure
      treatment and increase blood pressure control, thus decreasing cardiovascular risk, premature
      cardiovascular and renal morbidity and mortality, with in addition a reduction of health-care
      costs. More than a decade ago, the European Society of Hypertension established a network of
      Excellence Centres. Those centres are leading institutions for the diagnosis and treatment of
      hypertension and thus are front runners of good clinical practice in hypertension management
      in their countries. An important task of the Excellence Centres is also to be active in
      research, particularly in projects conducted by the European Society of Hypertension. The
      ongoing BP-CON-ESH project on the rate of blood pressure control in hypertensive patients
      addresses the most elementary,but at the same timethe most important aspect in hypertension
      management, because the observed low rates of blood pressure control is the reason why
      hypertension is still today the leading cause of death worldwide.

      In the BP-CON-ESH study we are going to include and analyze treated hypertensive patients
      seen consecutively by the ESH Excellence Centres. Blood pressure will be measured as usually
      done in the office, but care will be adopted to make measurements highly standardized in all
      Centres.

      The primary goals will be to determine the global, regional and country rates of hypertension
      control in Europe. Other goals will be to identify global and regional factors associated
      with blood pressure control in different European regions. It is well known that the overall
      control of hypertension in Europe is still insufficient. However, the problem is not the same
      across Europe. Differences in healthcare systems exist among European countries, and in some
      countries government healthcare system only partially reimburse costs of antihypertensive
      therapy. There are also differences in gross national product, educational levels, salt
      consumption, prevalence of obesity and other aspects. These could cause dissimilarities in
      hypertension prevalence, achieved blood pressure control and cardiovascular mortality among
      European regions.

      The results obtained in the BP-CON-ESH project will be used to refine treatment strategies
      for improvement of blood pressure control and will serve as a basis for assessing future
      changes and trends in Europe.
    
  