
    
      Project PRIDE is a manualized group intervention consisting of 8 weekly sessions, each
      lasting 2.5 hours and consisting of approximately 10 men (estimated number given expected
      attrition). Each session will be co-led by two trained group facilitators. The intervention
      sessions will proceed as follows.

      Sessions 1 and 2 will consist of introductions, setting of ground rules, exploration of
      expectations and apprehensions, a broad exploration of participants' different gay/bisexual
      (GB) identities, and an introduction to the minority stress theory. Special attention will be
      paid to creating a safe space for all participants and the establishment of a non-judgmental,
      sex-positive atmosphere.

      Sessions 3 and 4 will consist of an introduction to the stress and coping model, application
      of the model via a group activity to facilitate understanding, and an exploration of
      GB-associated stressors in different areas of participants' lives (e.g., friendships,
      romantic and/or sexual relationships, school/work, family). Participants will be asked to set
      specific mental and behavioral (i.e., sexual and drug use) health goals using the SMART
      (specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound) goal-setting model.

      Session 5 will consist of identifying links between sexual behavior, minority stress, and
      coping, with an emphasis on triggers for sexual risk behavior such as drug use.

      In Sessions 6 and 7 safer sexual practices and sexual communication skills will be addressed
      through group activities and psychoeducation, with an emphasis on harm reduction and
      normalization. Examples of activities include demonstration of proper condom application
      using a penis model, demonstration of opening an internal condom, and watching a video
      regarding the importance of using lubricant during anal sex. An example of sexual
      communication includes the explanation and demonstration of assertive communication, with an
      emphasis on assertive communication regarding one's sexual needs and boundaries. Participants
      will have opportunities for active engagement, such as role-plays to practice assertive
      communication.

      Session 8 will consist of a review of the topics covered in the group and participants'
      experiences in group, with emphasis on what participants learned and what topics participants
      thought they still needed to focus on. The group leaders will seek feedback regarding the
      areas of the intervention that were effective and ineffective. Finally, participants will be
      given a chance to say goodbye to the leaders and other members.

      At pre, post, and follow-up, participants will complete self-report questionnaires,
      containing a demographic questionnaire and the measures listed in section 9. Participants
      will complete all measures on a password-protected laptop computer. In addition, participants
      will complete urine drug tests and tests for HIV, chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis.
      Finally, participants will collect their saliva at four time points at each assessment to
      assess for cortisol awakening response.
    
  