
    
      Advances in the understanding of the coagulation imbalance in liver disease have experts
      questioning the clinical efficacy of current plasma transfusion practices in patients with
      liver disease. Having recently discovered a large previously unrecognized risk (TRALI) of
      plasma transfusion in this patient population, the investigators now believe the current
      clinical transfusion paradigm under-recognizes risk and overvalues the benefit of plasma
      transfusion in bleeding patients with liver disease. Though experts have recommended more
      judicious use of plasma, clinical practice remains variable. Transfusion triggers and
      thresholds are often arbitrarily set based on conventional coagulation studies and evidence
      to guide clinicians on plasma dosing required to achieve these laboratory thresholds does not
      exist. The investigators hypothesize that a restrictive plasma transfusion strategy in
      critically ill chronic liver disease patients with acute gastrointestinal bleeding will
      decrease a surrogate measure of TRALI without increasing bleeding complications (figure 1).
      With the collaborative support of the pulmonary/critical care, hepatology, and transfusion
      medicine services, the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial comparing a
      restrictive versus liberal strategy of plasma transfusion in bleeding patients with liver
      disease. In addition, investigators will refine and validate our plasma transfusion dosing
      algorithm so clinicians will have the tools to appropriately dose plasma to reach
      evidence-based transfusion targets.

      The development of TRALI is believed to require two pathophysiologic events. First, a
      pro-inflammatory stimulus, such as sepsis, leads to exposure of endothelial surface adhesion
      proteins and consequent capture of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) within the pulmonary
      microvasculature. Second, these adherent PMNs are activated by mediators within transfused
      blood components, leading to neutrophilic inflammation and TRALI. Emerging evidence suggests
      that the process of neutrophil adhesion in the lung involves degradation of the endothelial
      glycocalyx, a thin layer of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) lining the vascular lumen(S). In mice,
      sepsis results in pulmonary glycocalyx loss, neutrophil adhesion and subsequent development
      of ALI(S). Glycocalyx degradation is also associated with organ injury in humans, as
      evidenced by an increase in circulating GAG fragments (e.g. heparinoids) in septic shock.
      Circulating heparinoids can be detected quickly and accurately by a point of care
      heparinase-I modified thromboelastogram (TEG) study26-27. Detection of heparinoids by TEG may
      therefore indicate pulmonary microvasculature propensity for PMN adhesion (first event) and
      be utilized as a predictive biomarker for TRALI. Restrictive plasma transfusion strategies
      could then be individualized to high risk patients to decrease the probability of a second
      event resulting in the clinical syndrome of TRALI. In conjunction with the clinical trial,
      investigators will perform a translational observational study to assess whether detection of
      systemic heparinoids predict the subsequent development of a TRALI surrogate,
      post-transfusion hypoxemia. These clinical studies will pave the way for larger clinical
      trials guiding future plasma transfusion practice and decreasing the significant TRALI burden
      in the critically ill.
    
  