
    
      Background: There is urgent need to develop and evaluate innovative, evidence-based, and
      sustainable approaches for pediatric obesity in accessible settings. One such approach, the
      screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment (SBIRT), has been used to address
      preventable health concerns, such as hazardous drinking; this time- and resource-limited
      approach delivers a brief, theoretically-driven intervention to increase awareness of a
      health concern and provides the respondent with feedback and information on relevant
      resources. This approach is suited to obesity prevention as it can enhance parents' awareness
      and concern for children's lifestyle behaviors, remove social barriers and provide anonymity
      for families, and overcome limited availability of obesity-related health services.

      Setting. This study will take place at a centrally-located Edmonton pediatric clinic housed
      within the Edmonton Oliver Primary Care Network (EOPCN). Primary care (PC) represents an
      accessible, relevant, and appropriate venue to prevent pediatric obesity because (i) PC often
      represents families' first point of contact with the health care system, (ii) the goals and
      priorities of PC clinics are well-aligned with primary and secondary prevention of chronic
      diseases, and (iii) patients typically access health care services throughout the life
      course, therefore representing a suitable environment to capture longitudinal data.

      Phase I. The objective of this phase is to develop a web-based, theoretically-driven SBIRT to
      enhance parents' awareness, concern for, and motivation to support children's lifestyle
      behaviors. The SBIRT (RIPPLE; the Resource Information Program for Parents on Lifestyle and
      Education) will screen children of all weight statuses, deliver a brief intervention
      regarding children's lifestyle behaviors to parents, and provide parents with a menu of
      resources and community resources to facilitate the prevention of obesity in children. The
      intervention has been informed by the Norm Activation Model, and a survey following the
      intervention will test psychosocial constructs from the Theory of Planned Behavior and Health
      Belief Model. Parents will receive a personalized report based on their intervention
      responses and selected resources and services; parents will have the option to email this
      report to themselves.

      Phase II. The objective of this phase is to refine the SBIRT using focus groups. Participants
      (n=30) will include parents, and pediatric-focused administrators, health care providers,
      research coordinators, and graduate trainees. Focus groups will query participants' overall
      perceptions of the program; specifically, impressions regarding likability, acceptability,
      satisfaction, and feasibility of incorporating the intervention into clinical practice. Focus
      group discussions will be transcribed in real-time using a court reporter, which will
      optimize transcription accuracy and ensure confidentiality. The method of Qualitative
      Description (QD) will be used to develop a rich and explicit description of the phenomena. QD
      necessitates less interpretive interference on behalf of the researcher, therefore
      representing an accurate and realistic embodiment of participants' discussion.

      Phase III (RCT). The objective of this phase is to recruit parents (n=200) from a pediatric
      primary care clinic to enroll in the RCT. This double-blinded, parallel-design RCT will
      adhere to CONSORT guidelines. The allocation sequence will be electronically generated and
      blocked randomization (5 arms; block size of five) will be used to ensure equal group sizes
      throughout the study. Research assistants will be blinded to participants' intervention
      assignment and participants will not be aware if they have received the intervention or
      control.

      Parents will be eligible for the study if they speak and read English, and have a 5 - 17 year
      old child who is present at the appointment with a non-urgent medical issue. Data will be
      collected at (i) baseline during delivery of the online RCT and (ii) 1-month follow-up to
      assess time-related changes in parents' psychosocial constructs (e.g., intention to change
      children's lifestyle behaviors; primary outcome) and families' utilization of resources and
      health services to facilitate healthy lifestyle behaviors (secondary outcome). Follow-up will
      include email delivery of a survey measure identical to that administered at baseline. Given
      rates of attrition tend to increase over time parents' access to the online personalized
      report will serve as a proxy of participation if the online survey is not completed.

      Continuous variables will be described by univariate summaries; frequency distributions will
      be determined for categorical variables. Participant characteristics (e.g., weight status,
      child sex) will be examined to assess equivalence of intervention groups at baseline, and
      attrition tendencies across sub-groups will be examined using two-way ANOVA. Multilevel
      modelling will be used to assess intra- and inter-level individual and group change in the
      primary and secondary outcomes; this form of analysis is appropriate when observations are
      nested within groups and/or multiple time points. Estimates of effect sizes will be based on
      percent change in primary outcomes. Significance will be p<0.05.

      Significance & Future Directions. The SBIRT is designed to encourage self-management by
      providing families with tailored feedback and linking them with appropriate and relevant
      resources to facilitate children's healthy lifestyle behaviors. Findings from this study will
      inform future intervention refinement and implementation into everyday clinical practice.
    
  