
    
      Solution Focused Approach (SFA) interview technique is an approach that can be used by nurses
      who have important roles in the protection, maintenance and promotion of health in healthcare
      services. Because the SFA interview technique can be integrated into all dimensions of
      health, it enables children and adolescents to be aware of their own strengths and skills and
      to improve their skills. This raised awareness encourages individuals to start and maintain
      change. The earlier the awareness of individuals is raised, the higher the achievement level
      of the approach will increase. Further studies can be conducted in which the duration of the
      SFA interview technique follow-ups is longer. Moreover, it can be suggested that studies be
      conducted to analyze the cost-effectiveness of this approach.

      All health professionals in general and, specifically nurses, should be educated about the
      SFA interview technique strategies. Nurses who carry out the SFA interviews conducted using
      the SFA interview technique should enable individuals to realize their own strengths. The
      number of interviews can be determined in accordance with the topic and the data obtained
      from individuals. If the interviews are carried out with school children-adolescents,
      attention should be paid to conduct interviews with their families. Enabling individuals to
      reach a solution using the SFA interview technique strategies is the major point of
      interviews. This result may not appear immediately. Interviews should be continued with
      patience to find what works in resistant individuals.

      After these interviews are completed, interviews should be continued with the individuals
      periodically. To enable individuals to maintain their nutrition and exercise behaviors,
      interviews should be carried out with adolescents and their families at least twice in a
      month after the SFA interviews. Nurses who conduct SFA interviews can carry out individual
      interviews or group interviews in Endocrinology Polyclinics, Family Health Centers, or at
      schools as a school nurse.
    
  