
    
      Bacterial meningitis (BM) is a major cause of morbidity and death in the developing world.
      Hib and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines have the potential to prevent meningitis but neither
      vaccine is available in many countries with limited resources. New (and expensive)
      antimicrobials have done little to improve the prognosis. A background of HIV infection in
      many parts of the world adds to the grim prognosis of childhood BM. Adjuvant dexamethasone
      has gained much attention, because of its effects in damping the host's inflammatory response
      in childhood BM. However, little or no clinical benefit has been observed in several studies.
      Most importantly, the first sufficiently powered study in Malawi found no benefit at all.
      Another sufficiently powered (N=654) study on childhood BM, recently completed in Latin
      America, showed little benefit of dexamethasone even in Hib meningitis but did show benefit
      from adjuvant oral glycerol.

      It is not known how glycerol works, and there is probably more than one mechanism. One-third
      of children with bacterial meningitis suffer from significantly reduced cerebral blood flow
      caused by intracranial oedema. Glycerol slightly increases serum osmolality, and this small
      change may improve rheology and enhance cerebral circulation, perhaps by increasing perfusion
      pressure. Thus, extravascularization of water and hidden hypovolemia is improved. Osmotic
      diuresis is of less importance, because urinary output does not increase with these doses (6
      ml/kg/day) of glycerol. A gradient between the body compartments would require an intact or
      nearly intact blood brain barrier (BBB), and that is not the case in BM. Glycerol is also a
      scavenger of free oxygen radicals. This activity may alleviate the inflammation
      characteristic of BM.

      Paracetamol is used widely as an antipyretic, analgesic, and anti inflammatory agent. It is
      effective, safe, inexpensive, and available as a syrup, tablet, suppository and injection; it
      suits all ages. The effect is dose-dependent. There are very few contraindications, eg
      allergy. The mechanisms are not well understood, but NSAIDs dampen inflammatory reactions
      other than those mediated by inhibition of arachidonic acid metabolism. There are differences
      between paracetamol and other NSAIDs: paracetamol inhibits the centrally located COX 3 and
      NMDA receptors, other NSAIDs inhibit COX 2 receptors in periphery. These mechanisms may
      partly explain the different results in patient outcome. In a retrospective analysis of 809
      adult patients with bacteremia in Finland, those who received paracetamol had a better
      survival rate than those treated with other NSAIDs or salicylate.

      A prospective clinical trial on childhood BM in which the value of glycerol is reviewed, and
      the potential of paracetamol is examined is warranted. Both adjuvants aim to improve the poor
      prognosis of this disease.

      Objectives

      A Prospective, Randomized, and Double-Blind Clinical Study Using a Two-by-Two Factorial
      Design to answer two questions:

        1. Can the prognosis of childhood BM be improved by giving adjuvant oral glycerol?

        2. Can the outcome be further improved by large doses of rectal paracetamol?

      The primary end points are:

        1. death,

        2. severe neurological sequelae on discharge

        3. post meningitis, severe, sensorineural hearing loss on hospital discharge.

      Various patient characteristics are taken into account as covariates, eg severity of illness,
      age, aetiological agent, haemoglobin level, HIV status and presence of malaria co-infection.

      The secondary end points are

      1. audiological or neurological sequelae (according to the Denver-II developmental screening
      test).
    
  