
    
      The proposed study plans to compare the efficacy of behavioral drug and HIV risk reduction
      counseling (BDRC) to low intensity methadone counseling during methadone maintenance
      treatment. In selecting BDRC, we were guided by several considerations, including its
      acceptability, suitability, feasibility, potential efficacy, and potential for rapid and
      widespread dissemination in the U.S. and elsewhere. BDRC was developed to be delivered by
      regular drug counselors, so that it would be relatively easy to disseminate this counseling
      if it is found efficacious. BDRC combines behavioral contracting with an
      Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) model for reducing HIV risk behaviors and
      illicit drug use that is grounded in social cognitive theory and supported by empirical
      findings in a number of studies and populations. The more intensive HIV risk reduction
      interventions provided in BDRC, including personalized assessment of risk (i.e.,
      identification of personal, social and environmental factors associated with risky behaviors)
      and education and training in skill-building and self-control, may lead to greater reductions
      in both drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors than the more limited, brief counseling
      provided in LIMC, as supported by findings of a recent clinical trial with methadone
      maintained patients and a meta-analysis regarding the effectiveness of HIV risk reduction
      interventions during drug abuse treatment. BDRC emphasizes a medical model of treatment for
      drug dependence and is highly complementary to and compatible with regular methadone
      maintenance treatment.

      Because early abstinence achievement is associated with longer term treatment success, BDRC
      uses short-term behavioral contracts to help the patient achieve an initial period of
      abstinence, take maintenance medications regularly and as prescribed, activate the patient
      behaviorally, and reduce behaviors associated with HIV transmission. The accomplishment of
      specific, short-term behavioral goals early in treatment promotes the patient's experience of
      therapeutic success and counters the patient's belief that his/her actions will not lead to
      success in accomplishing goals. Short-term behavioral goals target a limited number of
      domains, including achieving an initial period of abstinence, increasing activities
      (primarily vocational, social or recreational) that are not related to drug use, and reducing
      HIV risk behaviors (e.g., fostering consistent condom use, avoiding casual sexual encounters,
      avoiding IDU or needle or equipment sharing). BDRC teaches cognitive and behavioral
      strategies for promoting behavioral change, including identifying antecedents of drug use,
      needle sharing, and high risk sexual behaviors, and learning strategies to avoid high risk
      situations or cope without engaging in these behaviors. Skill building exercises (e.g.,
      regarding condom use) are used within sessions to learn and practice new skills, and patients
      are encouraged to practice these skills outside the session in their natural environment.
      Based on recent findings from research in cognitive and social psychology on message framing,
      the treatment also emphasizes the positive consequences of behavioral change (e.g., the
      benefits of not using drugs or of maintaining a steady relationship vs. the dangers
      associated with continued use or sex with multiple partners). Counselors are trained to
      acknowledge the patient's efforts to change-even partial accomplishments of goals are
      praised--rather than to focus on the patient's failures, which is often perceived as
      criticism. Recognition of accomplishments and positively framed messages generally evoke
      positive affect, which is often generalized and ascribed to the behavior in question, thus
      resulting in greater adherence to recommendations. An emphasis on recognition of
      accomplishments and positively-framed advice helps patients to build self-esteem and the
      sense that they can change their lives for the better.

      Substance abuse is thought to be associated with a range of memory and executive function
      (EFs) deficits, but the majority of research support for this hypothesis comes from research
      on alcohol and stimulant related disorders. The evidence of long-term cognitive deficits in
      chronic opiate users is limited, nonetheless most consistently it suggests that EFs may be
      affected by chronic opiate use. Because BDRC incorporates many cognitive behavioral
      therapeutic techniques, includes educational and learning components and aims at improving
      decision making skills of the patients, we plan to evaluate a broad range of memory and
      executive functions of patients enrolled in the proposed study in order to identify common
      EFs impairments, evaluate if such impairments interfere with treatment efficacy, and if
      additional treatment components are necessary and can be devised in order to improve
      treatment efficacy for patients with cognitive impairments. We also plan to evaluate if
      cognitive performance improves during methadone maintenance treatment when combined with BDRC
      and evaluate whether presence or absence of impairments are associated with differential
      effects of treatments.
    
  