
    
      Recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone (r-hFSH), which totally lacks LH activity, is
      widely used to induce multiple follicle development in women under pituitary desensitization,
      in order to submit them to treatment with assisted reproduction techniques (ART). Clinical
      experience from hypogonadotropic-hypogonadic women suggests that while FSH alone is
      sufficient to induce follicle development, LH plays a significant part in final follicle
      maturation, estrogen synthesis and optimal endometrium growth.

      This was a phase III, multicentre, randomized, open-label comparative study to evaluate if
      the addition of r-hLH (Luveris) in a 2:1 ratio to FSH from day 8 of ovarian stimulation is
      able to decrease the total FSH dose and to improve cycle outcome in 250 infertile women
      undergoing ART, who required high FSH dose in a previous cycle (≥ 3500 IU). Subjects who have
      met all the inclusion criteria, achieved pituitary desensitization and started controlled
      ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) treatment with FSH, on stimulation day 8 (S8) received an
      identification number and will be allocated to one of the two following arms:

      Arm : FSH + r-hLH (2:1 ratio of FSH:r-hLH), Arm : FSH alone. Treatment with Luveris was
      commenced on day 8 (S8) and continued until injection of hCG or cancellation of the treatment
      cycle.

      Monitoring of stimulation, FSH dose escalation, criteria for injection of hCG, ovum pick up,
      embryo transfer and pregnancy confirmation took place according to standard management
      practice. The in-vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytosolic sperm injection (ICSI)
      procedure, including luteal phase support, was performed according to each centres' normal
      procedures.

      The subjects were followed up and the treatment outcome (menstruation or pregnancy) was
      recorded. The delivery outcome for any pregnant subjects was recorded in the Case Report Form
      (CRF).

      Information on the delivery outcome for each pregnancy was collected. Information on adverse
      events was collected during the study period.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of the study was:

      To determine whether the addition of r-hLH (Luveris) from day 8 of ovarian stimulation
      reduces the FSH dose needed to obtain/retrieve each oocyte.

      The secondary objectives of the study were:

        -  To determine whether the addition of Luveris to FSH at day 8 of ovarian stimulation
           improves cycle outcome based on secondary endpoints

        -  To determine the safety of Luveris in this indication
    
  