
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia seen in clinical practice and is
      associated with an increased risk of stroke, heart failure and Death. Oral anticoagulation
      (OAC) is the only treatment so far being able to reduce mortality in AF patients, despite new
      antiarrhythmic drugs and ablation techniques.

      Postoperative AF affects one-third of patients undergoing aortocoronary bypass surgery
      (CABG). It is typically characterized by an episode of AF lasting 24-48 hours, starting at
      the second postoperative day, and affected patients are usually discharged in sinus rhythm.
      Postoperative AF is associated with an increased 30-day mortality compared to patients who
      are in sinus rhythm during the hospital stay. Later studies have shown that CABG patients
      with an episode of postoperative AF have an increased long-term mortality compared to
      patients in sinus rhythm (SR). In particular, patients with postoperative AF have a doubled
      cardiovascular long-term mortality, mainly explained by an increased risk of fatal ischemic
      stroke and cardiac death. The risk of future AF is increased in patients with postoperative
      AF, and one-fourth of patients with an episode of postoperative AF develop later AF. At six
      years follow-up, 9.1% of patients with postoperative AF have had a lethal or non-lethal
      episode of ischemic stroke, compared to 3.0% of patients in SR (p=.002).

      All patients undergoing CABG are offered single or dual antiplatelet therapy depending on the
      presence of drug-eluting stents and type of coronary artery disease. Antiplatelet therapy
      does not offer any protection of thromboembolic disease in patients with AF. The indication
      for anticoagulation in patients with an episode of postoperative AF is basically not
      different from other types of AF. Given the short duration of a typical episode of
      postoperative AF, warfarin is seldom prescribed at discharge (3.6% in one study).

      Atrial fibrillation is a common complication of myocardial infarction, with an incidence of
      new-onset AF between 5-20%. New-onset AF occurs postoperatively in 5-6% of patients
      undergoing acute percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for ST-elevation myocardial
      infarction (STEMI), and is marker of adverse outcomes. However, studies of heart rhythm
      beyond the post procedural period following PCI are lacking.

      About one third of all AF is asymptomatic, silent and often paroxysmal. The risk of stroke
      seems to be the same for silent AF as for those with symptomatic AF. Screening for silent AF
      using handheld ambulatory ECG recorders has proven to be an effective way of capturing
      episodes of AF and superior to 24 hour Holter recordings.

      In trials comparing PCI and CABG, there is a consistent difference in stroke rate. In the
      Syntax trial, the stroke incidence at one-year follow-up was 2.2% in the CABG group compared
      to 0.6% in the PCI group. In the Freedom trial, the stroke incidence at five years was 5.2%
      in the CABG group and 2.4% in the PCI group. Of note, differences in the incidence of
      postoperative AF or treatment with OAC were not recorded in these trials.

      In conclusion, several studies have shown an increased risk of late cardiovascular death and
      ischemic stroke in postoperative AF patients, and the difference in stroke rate between PCI
      and CABG may be explained by unprotected episodes of AF after discharge.

      The investigators therefore hypothesize that patients undergoing CABG have an increased risk
      of silent AF postoperatively compared to patients undergoing PCI and that this difference may
      explain some of the differences in stroke rate between PCI and CABG patients. This study can
      improve AF detection in patient cohorts and by initiating OAC also in patients with silent AF
      potentially decrease the risk of stroke.
    
  