
    
      Previous studies have focused on characterizing viral and immune dynamics after initiation of
      HAART in patients without opportunistic infection. The development of TB in HIV-infected
      individuals is associated with an elevation in HIV RNA levels, a decrease in CD4 cell counts,
      and an increase in activated (CD38) lymphocytes and proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1,
      TNF-alpha, and IL-6). Response to HAART may differ in individuals with an active
      opportunistic infection such as TB.

      HIV-infected patients with active TB follow an anti-TB regimen including rifabutin and are
      observed for a maximum of 24 weeks before they initiate HAART. Plasma samples for 24-hour
      post-rifabutin dosing are collected at entry and at Weeks 4, 8, and 12, then again at Weeks
      2, 3, 4, 12, and 24 after HAART initiation. Analyses of these samples are used to explore the
      relationship between cytokines and rifabutin metabolism and the effect of nelfinavir on
      rifabutin pharmacokinetics. The HAART regimen is nelfinavir plus lamivudine (3TC) plus either
      zidovudine (ZDV) or stavudine (d4T). After initiation of HAART, all patients undergo
      intensive monitoring of viral and immune dynamics for 2 months. The patients continue to be
      followed for 1 year from the time of starting HAART. Neither the HAART drug regimen nor
      anti-TB medications will be provided by the study and must be obtained by prescription. If
      patients are intolerant of the HAART regimen or exhibit virologic rebound, primary providers
      can alter or modify this regimen. As part of substudy A5065s, patients who experience signs
      or symptoms of paradoxical reactions (i.e., new persistent fevers that develop after
      initiating HAART and which last for more than 1 week without an identifiable source; marked
      worsening or emergence of intrathoracic lymphadenopathy, pulmonary infiltrates; worsening or
      emergence of cervical adenopathy on serial physical examinations; or worsening of other
      tuberculous lesions) have additional clinical evaluations (including a chest x-ray, a target
      clinical assessment, concomitant medications, and signs and symptoms) weekly for 4 weeks,
      then every month thereafter until the symptoms resolve.
    
  