
    
      The annual costs of seasonal influenza in the United States have been estimated at $87.1
      billion, while costs from the common cold have been estimated at $40 billion. Office
      employees are at increased risk for contracting communicable disease at work, since they
      spend nearly half of their waking hours in this setting, work in close proximity with each
      other, and share equipment. Furthermore, employers in the U.S. have a compelling interest to
      reduce the spread of infectious disease, because they pay for the direct and indirect costs
      of absenteeism in employee wages, replacement of staff, reduced quality of services, rising
      health care premiums, and if self-insured, direct health care expenditures.

      Hand hygiene is the single most important action to reduce the transmission of pathogens that
      result in healthcare acquired infections. Moreover, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette
      have been recommended as primary non-pharmaceutical strategies in the early stages of an
      epidemic before a suitable vaccine is available. While influenza vaccine uptake is the most
      important recommendation to prevent influenza, the vaccine only protects against 3 or 4 of
      the most prevalent circulating strains in a given flu season and does not provide protection
      against non-influenza viral and bacterial pathogens. Meta-analysis has shown that numerous
      community intervention studies in schools, daycare, and private homes have reduced illness
      from infectious disease by 21-31%.

      Despite the enormous burdens from communicable disease and the importance of the workplace as
      a setting for the potential spread of infections, to date, only four randomized control
      trials have been performed world-wide among office-based employees to assess the efficacy of
      hand hygiene interventions to reduce the spread of communicable disease, including acute
      respiratory infections (ARI), influenza-like illness (ILI) and gastrointestinal infections.
      Collectively, these interventions have shown promising results. Hubner and colleagues (2010)
      found a 65% reduction in the odds of contracting the common cold among workers with improved
      hand hygiene in a public administrative setting in Germany while Savolainen-Kopra and
      colleagues (2012) found a reduction in infectious illness among office employees in Finland
      who participated in a study arm that utilized soap and water and educational training. In the
      U.S., Stedman-Smith and colleagues (2015) found a 31% significant reduction in self-reported
      ARI / ILI and gastrointestinal illness combined in a multi-modal hand hygiene pilot
      randomized cluster trial among office employees at a Midwestern government center. While,
      Arbogast and colleagues (2016) found a significant reduction in health care claims for
      communicable infections spread by hand-to-mouth modes of transmissions over a 13-month,
      multi-component hand hygiene trial which utilized education, hand sanitizer and disinfectant
      wipes.

      This is a comprehensive non-pharmaceutical randomized cluster hygiene improvement
      intervention to reduce self-reported acute respiratory tract infections (ARIs) /
      influenza-like-illness (ILI) and gastrointestinal (GI) illness, absenteeism, and presenteeism
      over a 90-day trial. The Intervention group will receive hygiene supplies (hand sanitizer,
      surface disinfectant wipes, tissues) and educational materials in varied mediums, including
      brief educational videos, and motivational posters hung in common work areas, in addition to
      hand sanitizer, along with hand sanitizer and surface disinfectant wipes installed in shared
      work areas. The control group will perform their usual hygiene activities and will not
      receive an intervention. Predominate pathways for the spread of ARI/ILI and non-foodborne GI
      infections include: (1) droplets that land on the nose, mouth, or are inhaled from infected
      persons' who cough, sneeze or talk; or (2) pathogens on hands contaminated from fomites or
      from touching infected persons, which come in contact with portals of entry including the
      mouth and nose. This multi-modal intervention is developed to promote improvements in the
      performance of protective behaviors that will reduce the spread of pathogens for ARI/ILI and
      GI infections by minimizing exposure from these two common pathways.

      Identical weekly surveys will be administered to the intervention and control groups to
      measure self-reported illness, absenteeism and presenteeism; related behavior and attitudinal
      beliefs will be included in the surveys at specified longer intervals during the study. A
      sub-analysis will be performed to determine if those at high-risk for complications resulting
      in severe morbidity and mortality from infections show a reduction in self-reported
      infections, absenteeism and presenteeism. The intervention and control groups were randomized
      by work floors before the onset of the enrollment period.

      It is hypothesized that employees in the intervention group will experience reduced
      self-reported illness, absenteeism and presenteeism along with improved protective hygiene
      behaviors, and attitudinal beliefs relative to those in the control group over the 90-day
      trial. Statistical analysis will be performed to determine if a relative reduction in
      self-reported communicable infections, absenteeism, and presenteeism, along with the
      improvement of related behaviors and attitudinal beliefs occurred among members in the
      intervention group relative to the control group over the 90-day trial. Statistical analysis
      will include the use of multiple imputation to impute missing variables, and the calculation
      of incidence rate ratios with 95% confidence intervals. Incident rate ratios will be
      calculated using generalized linear mixed models with a Poisson distribution and a log link
      function that will be adjusted for potential confounders and intercluster correlation.
    
  