
    
      Atypical antipsychotic (AA) medications are associated with obesity, diabetes mellitus,
      dyslipidemia, and cardiovascular disease.1 The prevalence of obesity in the AA medicated
      population ranges from 40-60%, compared to 30% of the general population. Treatments that are
      aimed at either reducing the burden of obesity in psychotic illness or preventing the weight
      gain and other metabolic changes associated with AA are needed. One potential therapy that
      has received inadequate clinical evaluation is Green tea (Camillia sinensis; GT). GT contains
      flavonoids including epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), as well as caffeine, that have been
      documented to promote weight and fat loss in normal to overweight healthy subjects. Recently
      green tea was shown to significantly decrease plasma LDL and triglyceride concentrations and
      increase HDL concentrations in obese women. GT has never been evaluated for its potential to
      prevent weight gain or changes in plasma lipid concentrations in patients initiating therapy
      with AA. However, case reports of individuals indicate that treatment with a green tea
      extract may have efficacy in preventing weight gain in 4 patients that initiated treatment
      with quetiapine.

      We hypothesize that intake of GT in the form of a dietary supplement will result in
      significantly less weight gain than supplementation with placebo in patients initiating
      therapy with Zyprexa®. We propose to conduct an 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled
      pilot study of 48 out-patient volunteers to determine if twice daily supplementation with GT
      1) attenuates weight and fat gain in patients initiating therapy with Zyprexa® and 2)
      attenuates changes in cardiovascular risk factors including plasma lipoprotein and
      triglyceride concentrations. The experiments will be performed on patients who initiate
      therapy with Zyprexa® with a BMI < 40kg/m2 that do not have dyslipidemia requiring
      pharmacologic intervention.
    
  