
    
      The study will use a combination of cell culture, animal, and human studies employing some of
      the latest technologies in magnetic resonance spectroscopy and single-photon emission
      computed tomography, combined with classical physiology, biochemistry, and molecular biology
      to test four interrelated hypotheses. There is increased uptake of free fatty acids into the
      kidney as a result of higher circulating levels as well as preferential transport by the
      proximal tubule as part of a "conditioning" effect. The increased provision of free fatty
      acid supplies metabolic substrate for ATP generation hence reducing the consumption of other
      substrates such as glutamine, which is the principal source of ammoniagenesis by the proximal
      tubule. This substrate competition, or metabolic switch, can lower the formation of the major
      urinary buffer ammonia, even in the absence of injury to the proximal tubule. With sustained
      lipid loading of the proximal tubule that exceeds its oxidative capacity, lipid storage is
      first activated but with time, toxic lipid metabolites may build up. We have evidence that
      excess saturated fat, which is prevalent in the Western diet, leads to proximal tubule
      lipotoxicity manifested as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) leakage/stress, and we propose that
      defective ammoniagenesis is part of a broader lipotoxic phenotype. We further propose that
      accumulation of a specific lipid species may be responsible for the toxicity. To test whether
      proximal tubule steatosis and lipotoxicity in humans have a functional consequence, we will
      study uric acid stone formers. Having previously shown that thiazolidinediones (TZD) reduce
      renal steatosis and lipotoxicity and improve ammonium excretion in animals, we have initiated
      a randomized intervention trial with TZD or placebo in human uric acid stone formers. The
      interim analysis showed that after 6 months of TZD therapy, stone formers had improved
      urinary biochemical parameters and reduced propensity for uric acid precipitation. We will
      continue this trial but add a novel highly sensitive method to non-invasively measure renal
      fat, testing whether improvement in urinary biochemistry associates with reduction of renal
      fat. This proposal addresses fundamental concepts of renal tubular lipid biology and
      lipotoxicity, and clinically will shift the paradigm of uric acid stone therapy from empiric
      urinary alkalinization to specific reduction in renal fat. We will also introduce
      cutting-edge human imaging studies for kidney research.
    
  