
    
      Axis corrective surgery of the knee is an attractive alternative to the knee prosthesis in
      young active patients with unilateral osteoarthritis of the knee. The purpose of this study
      is to elucidate whether patients operated with high tibia open-wedge osteotomy for
      osteoarthritis of the knee pain can be treated more appropriately, so that both healing and
      rehabilitation are served optimally.

      Proximal open-wedge tibia osteotomy is an accepted treatment option for younger patients with
      unilateral osteoarthritis of knee. 70 such operations are performed in the investigators
      Orthopaedic Divisions each year. The surgery involves cutting through the upper end of the
      tibia and opens the bone using specialized instruments. The tibia is lengthened on the medial
      side with the purpose of correcting the mechanical axis of the knee joint. The surgery is
      associated with many pains in the early postoperative phase. Until now, pain treatment has
      been controlled with either epidural block, or regional block via femoral catheter. Both
      treatments may involve risks such as loss of strength and sensibility disturbance, which
      often prolongs the early recovery and mobilization. Moreover, pain treatment administered via
      femoral catheter is often not sufficient as a part of the area behind the knee joint is not
      covered.

      With the advent of new pain therapies, particularly intra operative administration of local
      anaesthetics directly in the operating field and catheter administration for postoperative
      pain management, there is hope that those disadvantages are eliminated. By ensuring an
      effective pain treatment and the possibility of early mobilization only hours after
      completion of surgery, this will allow for better patient care in terms of reduced pain,
      shorter hospitalization and quicker rehabilitation.

      New results show that the healing of bone opening is not compromised by rapid mobilization.
      The migration of bone parts around the opening is measured by roentgen stereometric analysis
      (RSA), with a precision of approximately 0.2 mm. This verifies stable healing of the bone
      opening.
    
  