
    
      Nursing staff is trained to conduct the micro-training. The sham intervention is unstructured
      at the discretion of the respective nurse. They are only informed about the purpose of the
      sham intervention, the expected time frame and the course of a sample sham intervention.

      First, the data collection of the group with control intervention is started until the
      required number of patients is recorded. As soon as these data are complete, the group with
      study intervention is recorded.

      The patients are recruited from the oncological outpatient clinics. After the outpatient
      clinics before a parenteral therapy, they have a waiting period, during which the patient's
      consent is obtained. The patients are then taken to the intervention room for parenteral
      therapy. Here, the questionnaire is filled out before, during or after the therapy, and then
      the intervention with the nurse takes place. This process with a short reflection period must
      be designed in such a way because the indication for escalation of the opioid pain treatment
      is made during the oncological consultation which is the only possibility to recruit patients
      for this pilot study. The way the clinic runs today, the nursing staff is timewise only
      available for training patients with parenteral therapy. If the patients needed more time to
      think about it, they would have to be trained separately at a later point in time, which
      would only be established if the effectiveness of the patient training could be proven.
      Because the patients are not exposed to any risk from the planned interventions, this
      procedure is reasonable in our view.

      In micro-training (study intervention), patients are taught structured knowledge based on the
      content of a checklist. In addition to pain recording, patients are trained in the use of
      basic and reserve pain medication and co-analgesics, the most common opioid side effects are
      discussed and how to react to them. It is also checked that the necessary prescriptions or
      medication have been given. Furthermore, after completing the BQII Barriers Questionnaire
      (second part of the questionnaire), patient-related barriers, i.e. concerns or fears of the
      patient with regard to pain therapy, become apparent. With a factual discussion and a
      professional weighing of advantages and disadvantages, the nurse tries to break down these
      barriers and thus promotes the patient's motivation for a well-adapted pain therapy. In the
      case of sham intervention (control intervention), there is only a conversation between the
      nurse and the patient. In this conversation the patient is picked up with his current
      knowledge about his pain therapy and any questions are answered correctly. However, there is
      no structured transfer of knowledge in the sense of patient training.

      The data is recorded using a three-part questionnaire. The first part of the questionnaire
      contains questions regarding pain-related restrictions in everyday activities (using the
      Brief Pain Inventory as the standard for pain assessment of oncological patients as used by
      the Swiss Cancer League). The second part of the questionnaire deals with patient-related
      barriers using the BQII Barriers Questionnaire. The third part of the questionnaire consists
      of global questions: confidence in dealing with pain medication, satisfaction with pain
      therapy, restriction of the most important activities in everyday life and satisfaction with
      quality of life.

      4 weeks after the intervention, patients are asked to fill in the same three-part
      questionnaire again. At that time, the questionnaire is sent to them by mail with a reply
      envelope.
    
  