
    
      -  Prospective, randomized, active treatment-controlled, evaluator-blinded (radiologist
           reviewer and physician evaluator) multicenter study (up to 40 sites in the US and EU).

        -  All subjects that meet preoperative screening eligibility criteria will be randomized to
           treatment with Hyalofast® with BMAC or Microfracture.

        -  Hyalofast® is a sterile, biodegradable non-woven pad (2 x 2 cm or 5 x 5 cm) that is
           composed of HYAFF-11®, a benzyl ester of hyaluronic acid. Hyalofast® acts as a
           biodegradable support for the autologous bone marrow aspirate concentrate. Hyalofast® is
           soft and conformable and can easily be cut to fit the lesion size.

        -  Autologous bone marrow is harvested from the subject intraoperatively during the Index
           Procedure. Approximately 60 mL of bone marrow will be aspirated from the subject's iliac
           crest using the SmartPrep 2 Bone Marrow Processing Pack. The cellular rich portion will
           be concentrated via the SmartPrep BMAC 2 Centrifuge System at point-of-care to provide 7
           mL of bone marrow aspirate concentrate (BMAC). 1 - 2 mLs will be used for post-procedure
           testing of total nucleated cells, cell viability, and sterility.

        -  Hyalofast® with BMAC is implanted during either a standard knee arthroscopy or
           min-arthrotomy depending upon surgeon preferences and intra-operative findings. The
           lesion to be treated will be debrided to a stable cartilage margin. The defect will be
           sized and Hyalofast® will be cut to fit the lesion area. If necessary, more than one
           Hyalofast® pad can be overlapped to cover the lesion. 2 mL of BMAC will be loaded per
           Hyalofast® scaffold and then implanted to cover the defect. Hyalofast® with BMAC readily
           adheres to the site of application, but, if necessary, can be secured to the defect
           margins with an FDA-approved fibrin glue.

        -  All subjects will be assessed at intervals post-procedure (1 month, 3 months, 6 months,
           12 months, 24 months, and 36 months).

        -  Subjects will be required to follow a strict pre-specified post-surgery rehabilitation
           protocol specific to the defect location.

        -  Measures to assess effectiveness will be conducted at follow-ups, with the primary
           effectiveness endpoint assessment done at the 24 month timepoint.

        -  Evaluators doing efficacy assessments of the subject and administering subject-reported
           outcome instruments will be blinded to the treatment.

        -  Safety will be assessed by the collection of adverse events at all timepoints.

        -  Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will be conducted at Screening, 1 month, 12 months, 24
           months, and 36 months. Evaluation of the MRIs, including the MOCART score, will be done
           by blinded radiologist reviewers. The one month MRI will be used as the baseline MRI for
           evaluation of treatment effectiveness.
    
  