
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      There is a clinically significant variation in individual understandings and approaches among
      orthodontists to pumicing prior to using the SEP to bond brackets. There is also a lack of
      current studies in the last decade comparing bond strengths between pumiced and non-pumiced
      teeth while using the latest SEP products in the market. Therefore the aim of this research
      is to the investigate the relevance of pumicing prior to bonding orthodontic brackets. The
      investigators also then aim to recommend either the continued usage of, or to highlight it's
      clinical redundancy in the bond-up process, hence reducing cost and saving time for both the
      patient and clinician.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION:

      Based on the expected proportions of bracket breakages in pumiced and non-pumiced groups, a
      one-tailed priori power calculation determined that 266 orthodontic brackets would be
      required to give a power of 0.9 at significance level of 0.05, assuming failure proportions
      of 2.46% and 11.41% (Lill, 2008), which was deemed a clinically significant difference.

      Incorporating an attrition rate of 20%, the ideal sample size to achieve a statistically
      significant result would be 319 brackets, equivalent to 20 patients with 16 orthodontic
      brackets each.

      RANDOMIZATION:

      The block randomization technique will be used. A 1:1 ratio will be used with fixed block
      sizes of 4:4:4:4:4. There will be no stratification used in the randomisation. A computer
      generated random number list will be prepared by a supervisor with no clinical involvement in
      the trial. The allocation sequence will be concealed from the main investigator enrolling the
      participants in sequentially numbered, opaque and sealed envelopes.

      To prevent subversion of the allocation sequence, the name and date of birth of the
      participant will be written on the envelope. Corresponding envelopes were opened only after
      the enrolled participants for that block completed all baseline assessments and it was time
      to allocate the intervention. Each participant will receive either an odd or even numbered
      envelope. The split mouth contra-lateral technique will be used. Patients receiving an even
      number will receive pumicing on the maxillary left and mandibular right quadrants, and
      patients receiving an odd number will receive pumicing on the maxillary right and mandibular
      left quadrants.

      INTERVENTIONS:

      Patients who attend the Faculty of Dentistry, University of Malaya requesting orthodontic
      treatment will be screened. Patients who fulfil the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      selected for this study. During screening, the participants will receive information leaflets
      and detailed explanations on the study. Informed consent will then be taken from the
      patients. A total of 20 participants will be recruited for the study.

      The first appointment will be for bond-up.At the bond up appointment, the teeth will be
      isolated with a cheek retractor and a saliva ejector. In the control quadrants, the teeth are
      polished with a slurry of plain pumice and water for 5 seconds per tooth, using a rubber cup
      in a slow contra-angle handpiece. In the study quadrants, no pumicing will be performed. All
      quadrants will then washed with water and each tooth air-dried for 5 seconds. The single etch
      primer (SEP) Transbond Plus 3M will be then applied according to manufacturer's instructions.
      For each tooth, the applicator will be used to rub the enamel to be bonded for 3 seconds, the
      applicator returned to the well, and the process repeated for each tooth. Transbond XT
      adhesive will be applied to the bracket base, the brackets are placed on the teeth with
      brackets holders and firmly seated .Excess adhesive will be removed from around the periphery
      using a probe, and each bracket light-cured for 5 seconds per interspace with an LED curing
      light. (Planmeca Lumion).

      The brackets used will be mesh-based stainless steel orthodontic brackets (3M Unitek Gemini
      MBT 0.022"x 0.028) and the wires used will be 3M Unitek Nitinol (NiTi) HANT & Stainless Steel
      (SS) wires. A check for occlusal interferences will be made and the initial 0.014 NiTi
      archwires will be placed in all four quadrants after band cementation and secured with
      elastomeric ligatures. Post-operative patient instructions will be given.

      To maximize moisture control and standardize all patients, the teeth will be bonded in a
      specific order as follows: first, the upper labial segment followed by the lower labial
      segment, then the right premolars (uppers then lowers) and finally the left premolars(uppers
      then lowers).

      The wire sequence used will be 0.014 Niti to 0.018 NiTi to 17x25 NiTi to 19x25 Stainless
      Steel archwire. Patients are required to be in the 19x25 SS wire for at least a month.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      Any bond failure that occurs until the patient is in the 19x25 SS wire for a month, will be
      verified by the clinician. The patient's name along with the position of the bracket and the
      amount of adhesive remnant left on the surface will be recorded in a logbook as per the
      Adhesive Remnant Index (ARI).

      Any brackets that debond during treatment will be rebonded with Transbond XT after
      conventional acid-etching with 37% phosphoric acid. They will then be subsequently excluded
      from the trial to avoid recounts. Bond failures were recorded prospectively, as was the
      adhesive remnant index (ARI) results. Data on bond failure will be collected at 1 month after
      placement of the 19x25 SS wire.

      The central and lateral incisors will be grouped as anterior teeth, and the canines and
      premolars will be grouped as posterior teeth for recording purposes.

      STATISTICAL METHODS:

      Statistical Analysis will be done using SPSS software version 22. P < 0.05 will be set as the
      level of significance.

      The Shapiro-Wilk test of normality (n<50) will be done to determine if the data is normally
      distributed.

      The independent T-test will then be used to compare the means of both groups, pumiced and
      non-pumiced to determine if there is a statistically significant difference between both the
      groups.

      If the results are not distributed normally, the non-parametric Mann Whitney U-test will be
      used to compare the means.

      ADDITIONAL ANALYSIS:

        1. The independent T-test/ Mann-Whitney U-test will be used to compare means to assess the
           difference in breakage failures between the anterior and posterior groups.

        2. The Levene's test of variance will be applied to the results of the Adhesive Remnant
           Index (ARI), if the variances are equal, the one way analysis of variance (ANOVA) test
           will be used to determine if there is a statistically significant differences between
           the means of the results. If the variances are assumed to be unequal, the Kruskal-Wallis
           test will be used for this purpose.
    
  