
    
      Systematic studies of adverse cognitive and neurobiological changes subsequent to
      chemotherapy for lymphoma, breast, and other cancers have attracted substantial interest in
      the past decade. Little is known, however, concerning the feasibility and effects of
      potentially protective therapies on cerebral function in patients undergoing chemotherapy.
      Animal models have recently proved useful in examining some of the toxic effects of
      chemotherapy agents on working memory and other abilities, as well as on biological
      properties such as proliferation and survival of neuronal precursors involved in hippocampal
      neurogenesis. Such models have also proved useful for testing potential neuroprotective
      properties of agents given before, during and/or after chemotherapy. For example, impairment
      in spatial working memory and decreased hippocampal neurogenesis is induced in rats by the
      chemotherapy agent methotrexate, but co-administration of the (FDA-cleared and commercially
      available) drug fluoxetine has been shown to counteract the negative long-term effects on
      memory and hippocampal neurogenesis otherwise occurring after methotrexate administration. To
      determine whether such a strategy could be effective in counteracting effects that
      chemotherapy may have on cerebral function in humans, well-controlled experimental data
      obtained with cancer patients is needed.

      This investigation will employ a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled
      design, to provide a rigorous test of whether fluoxetine, a drug with a long-standing
      excellent safety profile in humans most commonly marketed as an antidepressant, can offer
      protection to breast cancer or lymphoma patients against changes in cerebral function
      occurring after chemotherapy (Specific Aim 1). It will further provide a test of the
      durability of any protective effects beyond the period during which fluoxetine is used, by
      re-assessing function approximately 6 months after completion of the regimen (Specific Aim
      2). Cerebral function will be assessed by determining distributions of regional cerebral
      metabolism, previously demonstrated to sensitively detect functional alterations and closely
      reflect diminished cognitive abilities with high statistical power, using positron emission
      tomography with the glucose analog radiotracer [F-18]fluorodeoxyglucose. Neuropsychologic
      testing will be conducted in parallel with neuroimaging studies and, as a step towards
      understanding mechanisms underlying neurotoxic effects of chemotherapy and potentially
      related to protective effects of fluoxetine, peripheral markers of inflammatory cytokines
      will be measured in blood samples drawn at the time of neuroimaging (Specific Aim 3). If use
      of fluoxetine in cancer patients can be validated in this manner and lead to its adoption in
      the clinical setting, it will constitute the first drug with demonstrated utility for the
      prevention of cerebral dysfunction associated with exposure to chemotherapy. Moreover, as
      this involves an agent that is already FDA-cleared for other indications, widely commercially
      available throughout the U.S. and other parts of the world, and relatively inexpensive since
      it is obtainable in generic formulations, it would represent a pharmacologic approach that is
      amenable to rapid translation to the clinical setting.
    
  