
    
      This study is a pretest-posttest design. Thirty-five subjects with MCI and 35 with SCD, who
      are diagnosed by physicians, will be recruited from the neurology outpatient clinic of
      National Taiwan University Hospital. All participants will wait for 16 weeks as a historical
      control and then receive the multicomponent cognitive intervention. The intervention is
      composed of 14 weekly 1.5-hour group sessions and 2 individual sessions in a 4-month period.

      The multicomponent cognitive intervention in this study is a combination of several
      approaches, including cognitive training, cognitive rehabilitation, lifestyle interventions,
      and psychological interventions. Cognitive training is an approach which trains patients by
      repeated practicing to optimize or restore cognitive functions. Cognitive rehabilitation is
      tailored programs in which therapist usually provides patient strategies focusing on specific
      activities of daily life. Lifestyle interventions educate and encourage individuals to make
      changes to their life to balance the risk and protective factors. The strategies can include
      regular physical exercise, healthy nutrition (i.e., Mediterranean diet), frequent
      participation in cognitively-stimulating activities, and reduction of smoking and heavy
      alcohol consumption. Psychological interventions target neuropsychiatric symptoms that are
      common among individuals with SCD and MCI (e.g., depression, anxiety, fatigue, poor sleep)
      and thus include relaxation exercises, mindfulness techniques, skills to manage stress and
      poor sleep, and cognitive behavioral techniques. By using the approaches above together, the
      investigators hope to improve participants' cognitive and daily function.

      All participants will be assessed at four time points: before waiting period (A0), before the
      intervention (A1), right after the 16-week intervention (A2), and 16 weeks after the
      intervention (A3). The primary outcomes are the subjective and objective performance of
      activities of daily living, and the secondary outcomes are the cognitive performance on the
      neurological tests, anxiety, and depression.
    
  