
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with newly diagnosed intermediate- or high-risk
           rhabdomyosarcoma treated with upfront window therapy comprising irinotecan and
           carboplatin.

        -  Determine the acute toxic effects of this regimen combined with radiotherapy in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the rate of local control achieved in patients treated with this regimen in
           combination with intensity-modulated radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of administering maintenance therapy comprising
           irinotecan to patients with high-risk rhabdomyosarcoma treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, in vitro measurements of angiogenesis with clinical features
           (extent of disease), response to therapy, and outcome in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of improved outcomes,
           in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Courses 1 and 2: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and irinotecan IV
           over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 8-12. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 2
           courses.

        -  Courses 3-5: Patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15; dexrazoxane IV over
           15-30 minutes, doxorubicin IV over 15-30 minutes, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on
           days 1 and 2; and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning on
           approximately day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every
           21 days for a total of 3 courses.

      Some patients may undergo surgical resection of the tumor after completion of course 5. After
      course 5, patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 4-5.5 weeks.

        -  Courses 6 and 7*: Patients receive vincristine IV and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day
           1; irinotecan IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 8-12; and G-CSF SC once daily beginning on
           approximately day 13 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every
           21 days for a total of 2 courses.

      NOTE: *Patients who develop disease progression during courses 1 or 2 do not receive further
      irinotecan and carboplatin. Instead, patients receive ifosfamide and etoposide as in courses
      8 and 9.

        -  Courses 8 and 9: Patients receive vincristine IV on day 1; etoposide IV over 1 hour and
           ifosfamide IV over 2 hours on days 1-5; and G-CSF SC once daily beginning on
           approximately day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every
           21 days for a total of 2 courses.

        -  Course 10: Patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43;
           dexrazoxane IV over 15-30 minutes, doxorubicin IV over 15-30 minutes, and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2; and filgrastim SC beginning on
           approximately day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover (1 course).

        -  Course 11 and 12: Patients receive etoposide IV over 1 hour and ifosfamide IV over 2
           hours on days 1-5 and G-CSF SC once daily beginning on approximately day 6 and
           continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 2
           courses.

      Patients with high-risk disease proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy*: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 8-12.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 6 courses.

      NOTE: *Patients who develop disease progression during courses 1 or 2 do not receive further
      irinotecan.

      In all courses, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression or recurrence after initial response.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1
      year, and then annually thereafter.

      *Starting with A(8), patients will undergo PET Scans instead of Bone Scans, at the discretion
      of the PI.
    
  