
    
      Background: Immunization with the pentavalent vaccine Diphtheria-Tetanus-Acellular
      pertussis-Inactivated poliomyelitis-Haemophilus influenzae type b (DTPa-IPV-Hib) at two
      months of age is known to be associated with cardio-respiratory events (CRE), such as apnea
      and bradycardia, in 11 to 47% of preterm infants [1,2]

      Methods: This randomized, double blinded, placebo-controlled study was conducted in the
      neonatal intensive care unit of Sainte-Justine University Hospital (Montreal, QC, Canada)
      over a period of fourteen months (February 2010 - March 2011). Study was approved by CHU
      Sainte-Justine institutional Ethics Committee for Clinical Studies. Written informed parental
      consent was obtained for all infants.

      The vaccines administered were: Diphtheria-Tetanus-Acellular pertussis-Inactivated
      polio-Haemophilus influenzae type B (DTaP-IPV-HIB: Pediacel® 0.5ml) and the pneumococcal
      conjugate 10-valent vaccine (Synflorix® 0.5ml). The two vaccines were administered by nurses
      intramuscularly in the anterolateral region of each thigh.

      On enrollment, patients were randomized by the pharmacy (investigator blinded) into two
      groups: the study group received oral ibuprofen (Advil® Pediatric drops for infants < 3
      months of age; Wyeth-Ayerst 40 mg/ml, DIN 2242522) 5 mg/kg/dose as recommended by the
      manufacturer (Ibuprofen;
      n=28):http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/drugsatfda/index.cfm?fuseaction=Search.DrugD
      etails.

      The control group received an oral placebo (Placebo; n=28). The placebo was prepared by the
      CHU Sainte-Justine pharmacy and was composed of sodium stearate 0.25g + lactose 0.5g + 15 ml
      of simple syrup, with a measured osmolarity of about 750 mosml/kg. The drugs were
      administered by nurses in an opaque syringe 30 minutes prior to immunization, and then at 8
      and 16 hours following the immunization for a total of 3 doses.

      Cardio-respiratory monitoring and recordings were performed in all patients continuously for
      72 hours, beginning 24 hours before and continuing until 48 hours after immunization (Figure
      1). Monitoring tracings were printed and CRE were extracted and compared to nurses'
      surveillance noted in a separate sheet. These analyses were performed by two different
      operators: a medical fellow (WBJ) and a research nurse. The results were discussed and an
      agreement reached between operators in any instances of discordance. The recorded CRE
      included: bradycardia (a 33% decrease in baseline heart rate for at least 4 seconds or a
      heart rate ≤ 80 bpm), desaturations (10% decrease in baseline saturation), and apnea
      (respiratory pause of at least 20 seconds, or a respiratory pause of 15 seconds associated
      with a bradycardia).

      Total CRE was expressed as the average number of events (desaturation + apneas + bradycardia)
      / 24 hours. Δ Total CRE / patient / 24 hours was defined as the difference between the
      average number of events / 24 hours observed before vs. after immunization for each patient.
      Biographical data, maternal and pregnancy data, and infant medical data (base line heart
      rate, temperature and ventilation duration) were also collected for each patient.

      Two annotated polysomnographies were performed for all patients with an AURA PSG GRASS
      ambulatory and wireless system. Each polysomnography had a duration of 2.5 hours: the first
      was conducted on enrolment (the day before immunization), and the second was conducted 18 to
      24 hours after immunization. The patients were settled comfortably in an environment with
      reduced tactile, auditory and luminous stimulation, and the cardiac electrodes, oximeter and
      abdominal respiration detector were placed. The polysomnographies were annotated by the
      research nurse or medical fellow (WBJ) for the total duration of the recordings, and analysis
      was performed by the team of Pr Pladys (Rennes, France).

      CRP and prostaglandin E2 were measured as systemic markers of inflammation. Blood samples for
      CRP levels were taken at the same time (0.5ml/sample in microtube with lithium heparin and
      gel barrier), and analyzed by immunoturbidimetric dosage (Sainte-Justine University Hospital
      Biochemistry laboratory). Capillary blood samples (0.5ml/sample) were collected in an
      EDTA-coated tube 30-60 min prior to the immunization, and 18h after. 10µM indomethacin was
      added to each tube within 30 min of sampling in order to inhibit ongoing PG synthesis by
      platelets. After centrifugation, plasma was frozen (-80ºC) until analysis. Plasma PGE2
      concentration was determined by ELISA (PGE2 Parameter Assay kit; R and D systems, #KGE004B;
      intra- and inter-assay variability of 6.7% and 10.6% respectively).

      All blood samples were taken following sucrose administration as per routine practice in the
      NICU. They also were taken at the same time of a routine blood test already planned for the
      patients. Δ CRP and Δ PGE2 were defined, respectively, as the difference between CRP and PGE2
      levels before and after immunization.

      Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS (v20.0 for Windows). All variables were tested
      for normal distribution using the Shapiro-Wilk normality test. When normally distributed
      (parametric), data were presented as mean ± standard deviation, applying one-way analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) and Bonferroni post hoc test. Nonparametric data were analyzed using the
      Kruskall-Wallis with Dunn post-test. HRV parameters were analyzed by paired or unpaired
      Student's t-test, or Wilcoxon w-test and Mann-Whitney u-test as appropriate. Correlations
      between non parametric data were analyzed using Spearmen test. The two-sided significance
      level was set at 0.05.

      The sample size calculation (26 patients required in each group) was based on a 40% incidence
      of CRE post vaccination [1,2] and with the hypothesis that the ibuprofen will decrease this
      incidence from 40% to 15% (α of 0.05 and a power of 80%).

      A post-hoc analysis was performed to identify the pre-immunization characteristics of the
      preterm infants who increased their CRE of more than 1 SD.
    
  