
    
      Study design

      This study will be prospective, multi-institutional randomized controlled trial comparing
      single lumen and dual lumen ureteroscopes. Specifically, a new double-lumen ureteroscope will
      be compared in a multicenter trial with the currently existing single-lumen ureteroscopes in
      patients undergoing ureteroscopy for stones in the kidney and ureter.

      Patient Recruitment and Randomization

      All patients presenting to the Department of Urology at University of California, Irvine,
      University of Toronto and North Shore-LIJ Health System requiring a flexible ureteroscopy for
      treatment of their kidney or ureteral stone disease will be approached for enrolment in the
      study, assuming the inclusion and exclusion criteria detailed below are met. After discussion
      of the study with potential participants, interested parties will be given a copy of the
      consent form. The investigator will review and explain the consent form with the potential
      subject. All information about the study will be provided. Ample time will be given for
      individuals to ask questions regarding participation and to have questions answered prior to
      signing the consent form. If so desired, those interested will be given a copy of the consent
      form to take home so that they may have the opportunity to discuss participation further with
      family and/or advisors. If an individual chooses to enroll, the consent form will be signed
      before procedure begins. Once an individual joins the study and informed consent is obtained,
      the subject will receive a signed copy of the consent form. Individuals may chose not be
      enrolled in the study or may withdraw from the study at any time without repercussions to
      subsequent care.

      Patients agreeing to participate in the study will be randomized on the day of surgery.
      Stratified block randomization will be utilized to balance the number of patients with
      different stone sizes (>1cm, <1cm), kidney, proximal and distal ureteral stones between the
      two groups.

      Device description

      The Wolf Cobra Richard (Wolf Endoscopy, Vernon Hills, IL), a dual-lumen flexible ureteroscope
      is currently the only existing device with two working channels utilized in the operating
      room. Wolf Cobra has a shaft size of 9.9F. Each of the Cobra's two channels is 3.3 F in size
      (smaller compared with regular ureteroscopes 3.6F) but give a larger total cross-sectional
      area when two combined together. Atraumatic 6 Fr. distal tip dilates to a 9.9 Fr. sheath for
      ease of entry.

      A dual-channel ureteroscope may provide several advantages. Having additional working channel
      enables better irrigation than a single-channel ureteroscope. It is achieved by continuous
      inflow and outflow, which might significantly, improve intraoperative visualization and
      maintains a clear field of view by efficient cleaning of blood, debris, and stone, even when
      utilizing multiple instruments simultaneously. Usually, multiple passes with different
      instruments requires the surgeon to reposition the ureteroscope in order to change the
      instruments which can potentially reduce efficiency and increase the length of operative
      time. The second working channel will allow the surgeon to use multiple instruments
      simultaneously while maintaining the flow and efficiently treat the stone or other pathology
      (Figure 1). This feature may offer technical advantages

      Outcomes

      Preoperatively, all patients will undergo a diagnostic imaging (CT, KUB, US) to identify the
      stone burden and location. Follow up imaging will be standardized across all participating
      institutions and will include CT or KUB imaging after the procedure to identify residual
      stones.

      The primary outcome of the study will be the procedure time (minutes). This will be measured
      from the start of the endoscopic access to the end of the procedure including complete
      fragmentation and stone fragment removal.

      The following data will also be recorded and serve as the secondary outcomes:

        1. Stone clearance rate (Will be defined by URS and postoperative imaging)

        2. Total ureteroscopy time

        3. Stone fragmentation time (this time will be recorded from start of first lithotripsy
           till complete stone fragmentation)

        4. Stone clearance time

        5. Overall procedure time (including positioning, URS procedure, extubation)

        6. Requirement for a second procedure

        7. Intraoperative complications

        8. Immediate postoperative complications

        9. Postoperative complications within 30 days of the procedure

       10. Surgeon's opinion and comfort (rank from 1-10?)

       11. Visibility using a questionnaire or rank from 1 to 10.

       12. Ureteroscope durability

      Additionally, patient demographics and clinical characteristics such as age, gender, Charlson
      comorbidity index, ASA, BMI, previous medical and surgical history will be collected. Stone
      characteristics such as size, location, density (HU) will be recorded. For each patient,
      three (width, length and depth) largest diameters of the stone will be measured from
      preoperative CT and volume will be calculated for accurate stone measurements. All
      preoperative and postoperative outcomes will be compared based on the stone characteristics
      such as size, location and type of stone (HU)

      Deflection Angles

      New single lumen and double lumen ureteroscopes will be used for the purpose of this study.
      To avoid any confounding factors, these scopes will be used exclusively on patients who are
      involved in the trial. Every week each ureteroscope will be assessed for maximal deflection,
      which is defined as the angle between the tangents of the deflection point and the tip of the
      ureteroscopes, as described by Monga and Parkin9,10. In order to calculate the angle, a
      photocopy of the ureteroscope while in maximal deflection will be taken. Both upward and
      downward angles of deflections will be measured three times and the mean value will be
      subsequently calculated for each type of ureteroscope prior to first usage. These
      measurements will be performed after each week of usage. After the last case of the study,
      the maximal angle of deflection for each of the two types of ureteroscopes will be measured
      again and will be compared to the measurement at the beginning of the study.

      Fatigability Fatigability of a given ureteroscope is defined as decrease of the maximum
      amount of deflection of the tip4. The fatigability of each ureteroscope will be measured by
      subtracting the mean value of maximal deflection at the end of the study from the maximum
      deflection measured at the beginning of the study.

      Subjective Assessments

      After each procedure, the surgeon that performs the endoscopic procedure will be asked to
      rate the image quality of the scope by filling out a questionnaire from 1-10 (1 being poor
      and 10 being excellent visualization). These subjective assessments will be the investigators
      secondary outcomes. Additionally, the ease of deflection and overall scope performance will
      be asked.

      Once each ureteroscope reaches a point where it will require repair, it will be shipped to
      the manufacturing company. The reason for repair will be recorded, and the type and cost of
      each repair will be documented.
    
  