
    
      We will evaluate up to 200 IDUs receiving care in our clinics. For those found to carry
      genotype 2 or 3 and be eligible for treatment on medical grounds, we will evaluate the
      patients in a bi-weekly case conference. All physicians who are participating in this study
      will also be included. Nursing and counselling staff will also be present. For those who
      qualify to receive therapy for HCV, based on Provincial guidelines, a decision will be made
      regarding their appropriateness to begin treatment based on physical, mental, social and
      addiction-related factors. Once treatment is initiated, the primary objective of this study
      is to evaluate a relatively high intensity DOT program for the treatment of HCV-infected
      IDUs. All patients will have access to: full-time primary care physician, half-time
      specialist physician, immediate access to one of three full-time nurses and one of six
      full-time counsellors. All weekly pegylated interferon injections and one of two daily doses
      of oral medications will be administered/witnessed by clinic staff. The interferon will be
      injected at the clinic by a staff nurse, while the one daily dose of ribavirin that will be
      observed will be given simultaneously with methadone (if the patient is on maintenance
      therapy with this agent) either at the clinic site or at a community pharmacy, as has been
      decided in that individual's plan of care. This plan will be maintained at the time of
      initiation of HCV therapy. This study will evaluate 50 individuals infected with HCV
      genotypes 2/3 receiving up to 24 weeks of therapy. The primary outcome will be evaluation of
      SVR (undetectable virus at 48 weeks, 24 weeks after cessation of therapy). Patients will be
      enrolled at PCHC, TPHU or CCHC, according to their usual site of medical care. They will be
      assessed to determine if they wish to participate in the trial and meet its inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. They will then be asked to provide written, informed consent using the
      document approved by the Research Ethics Board. Once consent is granted, a medical evaluation
      and laboratory testing will be completed. Clinical data will consist of a medical history (to
      include recreational drug use history) and physical examination (to include vital signs,
      weight and height). Laboratory evaluations will include: confirmation of HCV antibody status,
      viremia and genotype; Hematology (CBC); Blood Chemistry (ALT, creatinine, alkaline
      phosphatase, total bilirubin (direct and indirect), urea nitrogen, albumin, glucose, sodium,
      potassium, chloride); ANA, TSH, HBsAg, iron studies, ceruloplasmin, AFP, PT/INR, HIV antibody
      test (CD4 cell count and HIV plasma viral load, if known HIV-positive); Urinalysis and
      Toxicology Screen; Serum pregnancy test in women of child-bearing potential. All blood work
      to evaluate treatment efficacy and toxicity will be collected by study personnel. This will
      be done at weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24 (more frequently if clinically indicated),
      according to the standard of care. All medical follow-up will be according to standard of
      care. This study will involve the prospective evaluation of HCV therapy in patients who would
      receive treatment regardless of their participation in the study.
    
  