
    
      MATERIALS AND METHODS Study design and eligibility criteria The present study was designed as
      a randomized, triple-blinded study (patient, clinician and biostatistician). Twenty-four
      patients who had visited the Periodontology Department of the Faculty of Dentistry,
      Kafrelsheikh University, Egypt and suffered from a moderate-to-severe chronic periodontitis
      with Grade II furcation involvement of the first or second mandibular molars aged from
      18years to 50 years and had at least 3 mm vertical probing depth were recruited in this
      study.

      Exclusion criteria included the presence of systemic disease, the use of medications
      interfering with wound healing, abnormal clotting and bleeding time, cigarette smokers, the
      presence of anatomical complexity that interfere with proper scaling and root planning in the
      selected teeth such as cementoenamel projection and bifurcation ridge, the presence of caries
      or restoration in furcation area, Grade II mobility or more in the selected teeth, allergy to
      any materials used in this study, any contraindication for periodontal surgery, the presence
      of radiographic periapical lesions and the unwillingness of the patient to accept a
      periodontal surgery and being a compliant during follow-up visits.

      Randomization and blindness Patients were randomly assigned immediately before surgery into
      two groups (12 patients each) by computer-assessed randomization software (Random Allocation
      Software, Version 1.0). Control group received L-PRF alone as a sole graft material, while
      the study group used L-PRF in combination with aPDT. One in-charge clinician performed that
      the interventions was unaware of the assignments codes. Another clinician, who was blinded to
      the study arms, performed measurements of periodontal indices. A maxillofacial radiologist
      blindly reported the osseous changes. The research ethical committee of Faculty of Dentistry,
      Kafrelsheikh University approved the study (KD/09/20). It is also registered in the WHO
      clinical trial registry (IRCT: 201201231760).

      Study protocol All enrolled patients approached a written informed consent. All patients
      received oral hygiene instruction, scaling and root planing before the surgery. Occlusal
      adjustment and correction was performed, if needed. All surgical procedures were performed by
      the same periodontist as the following: intrasulcular incision followed by mucoperiosteal
      flap elevation, then granulation tissue debridement followed by subgingival scaling and root
      planing. After that, the patient received the arms (either L-PRF alone in the control group
      or L-PRF with aDPT in the study group) based on the predefined random allocation. Finally,
      suturing of the coronally positioned flap with silk 3-0, and the patients were prescribed
      postoperative antibiotic (Augmentin, 1000 mg, twice daily) and antiseptic mouth-wash
      (chlorhexidine gluconate % 0.12, 5cc, BID).

      L-PRF preparation Blood Samples were collected in 9 mL glass-coated plastic tubes without
      anti-clotting agent (Becton Dickinson Vacutainer, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA). The blood was
      centrifuged immediately at 2700 rpm for 12 minutes with a table centrifuge (DLAB DM0506
      low-speed centrifuge, DLAB Scientific Co., Ltd., China; Fig. 1A). The L-PRF was formed in the
      middle part of the tube. The clot was taken from the tube and any remnants of red blood cells
      were scraped off using sterile gauze.

      aPDT: Primary and secondary end points

      Clinical evaluation:

      Vertical clinical attachment level (VCAL), vertical pocket depth (VPD), furcation horizontal
      component (FHC) and gingival recession (REC) were measured with a graduated periodontal
      probe. The indices were recorded at baseline and 6 months after the surgery.

      Radiologic assessments Bone defect height, depth, width and volume were measured
      radiographically using CBCT at baseline and 6 months.

      Statistical analysis We estimated that twelve patients should be enrolled to achieve 80%
      power for a standardized difference of 1.4 between the two study arms, which was calculated
      for the primary end point (vertical clinical attachment loss), using an Altman's nomogram.
      Continuous data were expressed as mean (±standard deviation). A paired t-test was used to
      assess two-time parameter changes and to compare mean differences between 2 different
      intervals of the same group. Changes between the two groups were compared by independent
      sample t-test. IBM SPSS software version 20 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) was utilized for
      statistical analysis. P < 0.001 was considered statistically significant.
    
  