
    
      Investigators will recruit and survey 66 adults (to reach a goal of 60 with complete data),
      75-85 years with low health literacy LHL (30 per arm) over 24 months to learn the effects of
      the newly developed CRC DA pamphlet on older adult's screening intentions, knowledge of
      options and the benefits and harms, and SDM from community health centers. Investigators
      collect baseline data over the phone prior to the visit. Patients who are eligible and
      willing to participate will come to a regularly scheduled visit with their primary care
      physician (PCP) early to answer the pretest questions. Stratifying by sex, 30 participants
      will be randomized to receive the CRC DA pamphlet and 30 will be randomized to receive the
      home safety information at the visit in case they cancel their appointment and reschedule.
      The home safety information is 2 pages, and was designed by AGS Health in Aging Foundation.
      It has been used successfully in prior studies of DAs as a control intervention.
      Investigators chose this pamphlet for the control arm because it is written at <7th grade
      reading level and reading about home safety should not affect screening decisions. Providing
      the control group the home safety pamphlet to read reduces response bias since it helps keep
      participants blinded to the intervention of interest and compensates for the time and
      attention required by the intervention group to read the DA. At the visit, participants will
      review the DA or the home safety pamphlet. The revised CRC DA pamphlet is expected to take
      5-10 minutes to read as well as the home safety pamphlet. After completing the pre-survey
      questionnaire before the visit the patient will have their PCP visit. The post-test will be
      asked after the PCP visit in person or over the phone (depending on the participant's
      preference, access to a phone, and ability to stay after their appointment for enough time to
      complete the post-visit questionnaire). Investigators will conduct a chart review at 6 months
      to see if a CRC screening discussion occurred and the outcome (i.e., qualitative trends in
      use of CRC screening). Investigators will also call each patient at 6 months to ask about
      their CRC screening intentions.
    
  