
    
      Objective: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of blindness in people
      over age 65 in the United States, is a heterogeneous clinical entity in which retinal
      degeneration occurs predominantly in the macula in the context of aging and leads to
      impairment of central visual acuity (VA). AMD occurs in two general forms, one of which
      involves choroidal neovascularization (CNV) with subsequent formation of a disciform scar.
      This is often referred to as the neovascular or wet form. A second form, the subject of this
      study, is termed dry atrophic macular degeneration or otherwise geographic atrophy (GA) and
      involves a slow progressive atrophy of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and
      photoreceptors in the macula, also resulting in central vision loss. GA is estimated to
      affect up to one million people in the U.S. and there is no current treatment that can
      prevent its onset or retard its progression. While the etiology of GA is not completely
      understood, inflammatory processes involving the activation of resident immune cells of the
      retina called microglia are likely to contribute. The objective of this study is to study the
      progression of GA so as to be able to characterize in quantitative terms the natural
      progression of GA in patients not receiving any directed treatment; there is currently no
      approved treatment for GA.

      Study Population: Twenty-five (25) participants with unilateral or bilateral GA associated
      with AMD will be enrolled.

      Design: This prospective, natural history study will follow participants with GA associated
      with AMD.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the rate of change in area of GA based on grading by
      an external Reading Center of fundus autofluorescence (FAF) images in the assigned study eye.
      The primary outcome will be calculated for 45 months as compared to baseline. Secondary
      outcomes will include changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), rate of change in area
      of GA based on fundus photography and development of exudative AMD ascertained using optical
      coherence tomography (OCT) and changes in macular sensitivity.
    
  