
    
      BACKGROUND Antiplatelet agents (APAs) are widely prescribed for coronary stenting, primary
      and secondary prevention of cerebrovascular and coronary artery disease. Dual antiplatelet
      therapy (aspirin/plavix) has become the mainstay antiplatelet treatment strategy for the
      prevention of stent thrombosis. Maintaining antiplatelet therapy until the end of the
      indicated period is crucial for the success of coronary stents. Premature discontinuation of
      antiplatelet therapy markedly increases the risk of stent thrombosis, a catastrophic event
      that frequently leads to myocardial infarction (MI), with a death rate of 20-40%. Aspirin is
      commonly prescribed for lifetime in patients at increased atherothrombotic risk, whereas
      Plavix is regarded as mandatory until the coronary stents are fully endothelialized, which
      takes 4-6 weeks for bare metal stents and up to 1 yr for drug-eluting stents. And yet, within
      the first year after stenting, approximately 5% of patients who have undergone percutaneous
      coronary interventions (PCIs) will require noncardiac surgery, thus raising dilemmas of APA
      management: stopping APA treatment before operation to avoid bleeding while risking
      postoperative stent thrombosis versus maintaining APA therapy perioperatively thus risking
      extensive blood loss but limiting the risks of postoperative ischemic events.

      Current recommendations are that aspirin should not be discontinued pre-operatively, with the
      exception of brain surgery and certain urological operations in which bleeding may be
      difficult to control and is therefore life threatening.

      The continued use of plavix during the perioperative period significantly increases
      intraoperative blood loss, re-operations for the control of hemorrhage and transfusions, but
      does not affect morbidity, mortality, or surgical outcomes.

      Most guidelines recommend to postpone invasive procedures until the end of the indication for
      plavix. Only vital or emergency surgery should be performed on full antiplatelet therapy,
      with the exception of procedures in which even a small hemorrhage may have disastrous
      consequences (e.g. intracranial surgery, spinal surgery in the medullary canal, surgery of
      the posterior chamber of the eye), or procedures involving massive bleeding.

      Evidence-based data are needed to guide management of patients in whom early antiplatelet
      withdrawal is being considered (e.g. those who require non-cardiac surgery). Several studies
      have been conducted in orthopedic and cardiac surgery, however, to the best of our knowledge,
      not in spine surgery. This type of surgery might often be semi-urgent and postponing surgery
      for long time may be problematic.

      This prospective, observational study is designed to evaluate the safety of APA therapy
      continuation in patients admitted for lumbar spine surgery.

      METHODS

      Study design The study will be conducted as an observational one. An informed consent will be
      obtained from all patients matching the above criteria. Diuretics and oral hypoglycemics will
      be discontinued the day prior to surgery, as dictated by the routines in our patients.
      Antiplatelet therapy will be continued as commonly practiced in these procedures. Any
      deviation from this protocol will be documented. Throughout the postoperative period study
      patients will be observed for any bleeding- or thrombosis-related events, and relevant
      perioperative data will documented (see "patient monitoring & assessment").

      Peri-operative management Anesthetic and surgical management, including management of
      surgical hemorrhage or any other hemodynamic event will adhere to standard practice.
      Postoperatively, study patients will be transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit and
      later to the neurosurgery department, unless otherwise indicated. In the postoperative
      period, departmental routines will guide blood product transfusions, pain management, fluid
      regimens and medications administered.

      Patient monitoring & assessment

      Patients will be allocated into 4 groups:

        1. Patients not at risk of coronary and/or cerebrovascular disease, and not taking APAs.

        2. Patients at high risk for cardio/cerebrovascular disease (diabetes mellitus, cigarette
           smoking, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, morbid obesity), but not taking APAs.

        3. High-risk patients with cardiovascular risk factors (as above), in whom APA is
           prescribed as primary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD).

        4. Patients with a history of a coronary syndrome (stable/unstable angina); MI; transient
           ischemic attack (TIA)/stroke; severe carotid artery stenosis/stenting; or peripheral
           vascular disease, on APAs for secondary prevention.

      For each consented patient included in the study we will record demographics and medical
      history ; chronic medications ; detailed cardiovascular history ; neurological examination ;
      APA-related data: type and dose of APA taken; indication ; Intra-operative data ; and
      perioperative complications.

      Outcome measures

        1. Primary outcomes: hemorrhagic, thrombotic, and neurological complications Include any
           complication, morbidity or death potentially caused by continuation (e.g., direct or
           indirect hemorrhage; hemorrhagic CVA) or withdrawal of APA therapy (e.g., MI; PE;
           ischemic CVA; DVT; etc.), occurring until discharge, or within 30 postoperative days.
           Neurological complications may be related to surgery; bleeding; thrombosis; other, and
           will be classified accordingly.

        2. Secondary outcomes Include: re-intubations; transfer to ICU; length of stay (LOS);
           re-admissions within 7 / 30 days; major morbidity or death 30 and 60 days
           postoperatively.

      Study size The study is expected to last 2 years, and to include approximately 200 patients.

      REFERENCES

        1. Anderson, J.L., et al., ACC/AHA 2007 guidelines for the management of patients with
           unstable angina/non-ST-Elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American College
           of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing
           Committee to Revise the 2002 Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Unstable
           Angina/Non-ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction) developed in collaboration with the
           American College of Emergency Physicians, the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and
           Interventions, and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons endorsed by the American Association
           of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation and the Society for Academic Emergency
           Medicine. J Am Coll Cardiol, 2007. 50(7): p. e1-e157.

        2. Fox, K.A., et al., Benefits and risks of the combination of clopidogrel and aspirin in
           patients undergoing surgical revascularization for non-ST-elevation acute coronary
           syndrome: the Clopidogrel in Unstable angina to prevent Recurrent ischemic Events (CURE)
           Trial. Circulation, 2004. 110(10): p. 1202-8.

        3. Hirsch, A.T., et al., ACC/AHA 2005 Practice Guidelines for the management of patients
           with peripheral arterial disease (lower extremity, renal, mesenteric, and abdominal
           aortic): a collaborative report from the American Association for Vascular
           Surgery/Society for Vascular Surgery, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and
           Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine and Biology, Society of Interventional
           Radiology, and the ACC/AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to
           Develop Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Peripheral Arterial Disease):
           endorsed by the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation;
           National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; Society for Vascular Nursing; TransAtlantic
           Inter-Society Consensus; and Vascular Disease Foundation. Circulation, 2006. 113(11): p.
           e463-654.

        4. Keller, T.T., A. Squizzato, and S. Middeldorp, Clopidogrel plus aspirin versus aspirin
           alone for preventing cardiovascular disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev, 2007(3): p.
           CD005158.

        5. Smith, S.C., Jr., et al., AHA/ACC guidelines for secondary prevention for patients with
           coronary and other atherosclerotic vascular disease: 2006 update: endorsed by the
           National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Circulation, 2006. 113(19): p. 2363-72.

        6. Weitz, J.I., J. Hirsh, and M.M. Samama, New antithrombotic drugs: American College of
           Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines (8th Edition). Chest, 2008.
           133(6 Suppl): p. 234S-256S.

        7. Grines, C.L., et al., Prevention of premature discontinuation of dual antiplatelet
           therapy in patients with coronary artery stents: a science advisory from the American
           Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, Society for Cardiovascular
           Angiography and Interventions, American College of Surgeons, and American Dental
           Association, with representation from the American College of Physicians. Circulation,
           2007. 115(6): p. 813-8.

        8. Iakovou, I., et al., Incidence, predictors, and outcome of thrombosis after successful
           implantation of drug-eluting stents. JAMA, 2005. 293(17): p. 2126-30.

        9. Patrono, C., et al., Antiplatelet drugs: American College of Chest Physicians
           Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines (8th Edition). Chest, 2008. 133(6 Suppl): p.
           199S-233S.

       10. Pfisterer, M., et al., Late clinical events after clopidogrel discontinuation may limit
           the benefit of drug-eluting stents: an observational study of drug-eluting versus
           bare-metal stents. J Am Coll Cardiol, 2006. 48(12): p. 2584-91.

       11. Ong, A.T., et al., Late angiographic stent thrombosis (LAST) events with drug-eluting
           stents. J Am Coll Cardiol, 2005. 45(12): p. 2088-92.

       12. Schouten, O., J.J. Bax, and D. Poldermans, Management of patients with cardiac stents
           undergoing noncardiac surgery. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol, 2007. 20(3): p. 274-8.

       13. Laffey, J.G., J.F. Boylan, and D.C. Cheng, The systemic inflammatory response to cardiac
           surgery: implications for the anesthesiologist. Anesthesiology, 2002. 97(1): p. 215-52.

       14. Priebe, H.J., Triggers of perioperative myocardial ischaemia and infarction. Br J
           Anaesth, 2004. 93(1): p. 9-20.

       15. Ho, P.M., et al., Incidence of death and acute myocardial infarction associated with
           stopping clopidogrel after acute coronary syndrome. JAMA, 2008. 299(5): p. 532-9.

       16. Ferrari, E., et al., Coronary syndromes following aspirin withdrawal: a special risk for
           late stent thrombosis. J Am Coll Cardiol, 2005. 45(3): p. 456-9.

       17. Sharma, A.K., et al., Major noncardiac surgery following coronary stenting: when is it
           safe to operate? Catheter Cardiovasc Interv, 2004. 63(2): p. 141-5.

       18. Chassot, P.G., A. Delabays, and D.R. Spahn, Perioperative antiplatelet therapy: the case
           for continuing therapy in patients at risk of myocardial infarction. Br J Anaesth, 2007.
           99(3): p. 316-28.

       19. Chu, M.W., et al., Does clopidogrel increase blood loss following coronary artery bypass
           surgery? Ann Thorac Surg, 2004. 78(5): p. 1536-41.

       20. Douketis, J.D., et al., The perioperative management of antithrombotic therapy: American
           College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines (8th Edition).
           Chest, 2008. 133(6 Suppl): p. 299S-339S.
    
  