
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess Composite Removable Sinus Stent safety and efficacy
      implantation following FESS surgery compared to standard of care.

      At first pilot stage, 3-6 patients will be enrolled to this study. At 2nd stage 19-27
      additional patients will be enrolled to this study for statistical assurance.

      In study group patients will undergo post-FESS bilateral implantation of Composite Removable
      Sinus Stent into ethmoid sinus under same anesthesia. Stent is inserted upon low pressure
      balloon catheter. After reaching target position balloon is inflated and stent deployed and
      secured. Balloon catheter is deflated and removed. Stent implanted for 14-28-day time period
      (depending on healing process and therapeutic effect). The stent will be removed upon balloon
      catheter or using medical grasper, following cooling and self-crimping.

      In control group patients will undergo post-FESS bilateral tampon placement into middle
      meatus as standard of care. Tampon will be removed at day 2-3 post surgery.

      Patients in pilot study group (group 1) scheduled for 6 follow up visits at 1,2,3,4,6 and 12
      weeks after implantation.

      Patients in study group (group 2) scheduled for 4 follow up visits at 2, 4, 6 and 12 weeks
      after implantation.

      Patients in control group (group 3) scheduled for 3 follow up visits at 2, 6 and 12 weeks
      after surgery. All groups scheduled for tampon removal at day 2 - 3 after ESS surgery (if
      nessecery) .

      During follow up visits patients will be examined for:

        -  Endoscopic examination of the surgical cavity to assess inflammation, MT position,
           adhesions and polyposis.

             -  Inflammation VAS anchored as o=none and 10cm=severe (significant erythema and edema
                and/or hypertrophy, and/or polypoid change.

             -  Adhesions graded at 5-point scale as none, small but not obstructing, obstructing
                but easily separated, dense and separation is difficult, severe with complete MT
                lateralization into lateral nasal wall.

             -  MT position graded at 4-point scale as medialized, normal, partially lateralized,
                and lateralized.

        -  SNOT - 22 score - taken prior to FESS and at 12 weeks follow up.

        -  Pain questioner - taken at tampon removal day for group 3 and at stent removal day for
           groups 1 and 2.

      Stent will be removed between 14 and 28-day implantation, during self-crimp procedure induced
      by cold saline wash and safely pulled out. Stent removal performed after adrenaline-lidocaine
      administration for minimization of bleeding.

      Study Discontinuation

        -  Patient severe inflammation or pain associated with the stent

        -  Patient nasal trauma.

        -  Stent migration

        -  Nitinol struts exposure as reason for granulation process initiation
    
  