
    
      Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) is one of the primary side effects of
      glucocorticoid use resulting in increased risk of fractures. Glucocorticoid therapy affects
      bone mass, glucidic and lipidic metabolism, thyroid function and is also responsible for a
      decline in cognitive function. In this study a natural approach will be used, a soy-derived
      isoflavone, namely genistein. Genistein has been proven effective in preserving bone mineral
      density in post-menopausal women, and has an high safety profile. Genistein was also able in
      improving cardiovascular markers, as well as lipidic and glucidic metabolism markers without
      interfering with thyroid function.

      Treatment guidelines for the use of glucocorticoids have been established which advise that
      if prednisolone is administered at 5 mg per day for three months or longer requires regular
      monitoring of bone mineral density (BMD) and treatment to prevent osteoporosis must be
      initiated (American college of Rheumatology). Vitamin D and calcium are also recommended for
      the management of all patients treated with glucocorticoids. Bisphosphonates should be
      considered for the prevention and treatment of this disorder, because they can prevent the
      initial loss of bone mass from glucocorticoids. Alendronate, risedronate, and zoledronic acid
      were shown to prevent and reverse the loss of BMD in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis with
      greater effects than those observed with vitamin D and calcium. In fact, bisphosphonates
      induce improvement of BMD that is 2-fold greater than that observed during vitamin D
      treatment alone (4.6% vs. 2.0%, respectively). Anabolic therapy is also used for the
      treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. Teriparatide causes a greater increase in
      BMD than alendronate and greater reduction in the risk of vertebral fractures. Even with
      these evidentiary clinical trials and guidelines, patient bone loss is, in general, poorly
      managed. In glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, fractures also occur at higher BMDs than in
      postmenopausal osteoporosis in untreated women. Consequently, guidelines for the treatment of
      postmenopausal osteoporosis are not applicable to glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, and
      patients should be treated at BMD T-scores of -1.0 to -1.5 standard deviations. In addition,
      vertebral fractures may be asymptomatic and often require radiological diagnosis before
      treatment.

      During the initial phases of glucocorticoid exposure bone resorption is increased.
      Glucocorticoids inhibit the formation of mature osteoblasts, but also activate an activate
      apoptosis in these cell types. Osteoprotegrin (OPG) expression, a key factor involved in
      modulating maturation of osteoclasts, is reduced also by glucocorticoids resulting in
      increased osteoclastogenesis. Therefore, the combination of reduced osteoblast formation,
      increased osteoclast maturation leads to accelerated bone loss while on glucocorticoid
      therapy. Therapies are needed which modulate osteoclast as well as osteoblast activity to
      restore a more normal balance to the bone remodeling process in glucocorticoid treated
      patients.

      A rational treatment for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis should combine a significant
      anti-osteoporotic and anti-fracture activity with positive actions on the several undesirable
      effects of this therapy including alteration in glucose and lipid metabolism, amplification
      of the cardiovascular risk, impairment in thyroid and cognitive function.

      Genistein aglycone represents an innovative therapeutic bullet to challenge the metabolic
      derangements induced by glucocorticoids. Among the anabolic compounds tested in recent years
      genistein aglycone seems a promising agent able to stimulate bone formation and to reduce
      bone resorption, acting via a genomic as well as a non-genomic pathways. Genistein is an
      isoflavone found in small quantities in certain legumes throughout the plant kingdom.
      Genistein has both ER agonist and antagonist activity in different cell types and works in a
      promoter specific manner in gene activation via ERs. Effects of genistein on bone metabolism
      derived from direct and indirect actions on bone cells and can be summarized in stimulation
      of osteoblastic bone formation and inhibition of osteoclastic bone resorption.

      It has been demonstrated that genistein inhibits glucocorticoid receptor transactivation and
      may also induce a proteosomal degradation of the glucocorticoid receptor complex via the p53
      and ubiquitin pathways. Another mechanism might involve genistein activity as a tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor via the limitation of the subcellular nuclear transport and the recycling of
      the glucocorticoid receptors, inhibiting in turn the effects of glucocorticoids on bone. In a
      rat model, we studied genistein preservative effects on methylprednisolone-induced bone loss
      and osteonecrosis of the femoral head. In our study genistein succeeded in preventing
      osteoporosis and osteonecrosis of the femoral head when co-administered with the
      glucocorticoid. The isoflavone statistically maintained bone mineral density and content over
      the methylprednisolone-treated group and showed comparable efficacy with the vehicle group.
      Genistein co-administered with methylprednisolone also statistically maintained femoral
      bone's resistance to rupture compared with the methylprednisolone group and preserved the
      normal architecture of cartilage as well as both cortical and trabecular bones with a
      well-organized matrix in femoral head.

      Besides the protective effects on osteoporosis, genistein has been shown to positively
      affects the cardiovascular system reducing predictors of cardiovascular risk, improving
      endothelial function and ameliorating glucose and lipid metabolism. In addition genistein
      possesses beneficial activity in the central nervous system and protects the hippocampus from
      injury.

      Regarding the effects of genistein on thyroid function that may be impaired by
      glucocorticoids a recent clinical trial evaluated the effects of three year administration of
      pure genistein aglycone (54 mg/day) on thyroid-related markers, in postmenopausal women.
      Specifically, changes in thyroid hormone receptors and thyroid hormone enzymes, blood levels
      of thyroid hormones and thyroid auto-antibodies were assessed. The results of this research
      showed that daily consumption of genistein aglycone did not modified circulating fT4 (free
      thyroxine), fT3 (free triiodothyronine), and TSH (thyroid-stimulating hormone) levels;
      further, genistein aglycone administration over 3 yr did not affect the enzymes involved in
      thyroid hormone production, the thyroid hormone auto-antibodies, and the expression of
      thyroid hormone receptors then confirming that genistein does not appear to alter thyroid
      function in postmenopausal women.

      Taken together this clinical and pre-clinical observations lead the investigators to
      hypothesize a role for genistein in the management of glucocorticoid-related side effects.
    
  