
    
      STUDY DESIGN AND PLAN: This is a multicenter, open-label Phase 3B study designed to evaluate
      the safety and efficacy of BMN 110 in Australian patients with MPS IVA. Approximately 10
      patients in Australia with a confirmed diagnosis of MPS IVA will be enrolled in this study.
      Eligible patients will receive weekly infusion of BMN 110 2.0 mg/kg until BMN 110 becomes
      commercially available in Australia.

      Screening [Week -4]. After obtaining informed consent, information on demographics,
      concomitant medication(s) use and medical history (including pre-study growth data) will be
      collected; blood will be drawn for confirming MPS IVA diagnosis by enzymatic test (when
      applicable); and, blood and urine for clinical laboratory tests will be collected.
      Electrocardiogram (ECG), routine physical examination including standard neurological
      examination, vital signs; and cervical spine (flexion-extension) imaging by either
      radiographs, or a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or CT scan may be collected during
      Screening visit. Adverse Events (AEs)/Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will also be monitored
      and collected.

      Baseline Visit [Week 1, Day -1]. Upon confirmation of eligibility by confirmed diagnosis of
      MPS IVA by enzymatic test, negative pregnancy tests at Baseline (in women of childbearing
      age) and medical history, patients will be enrolled in the study and will complete following
      assessments: urine KS and urine creatinine, vital signs, routine physical examination
      including standard neurological examination, body weight (for verifying dose), clinical
      laboratory assessments, immunogenicity tests, ECG, 6MW test, 3MSC test and RFT will be
      performed and AEs/SAEs and concomitant medication use will be collected. In addition,
      anthropometric parameters (including height) will be measured, pain assessment test
      (Adolescent Pediatric Pain Tool [APPT], pain tool in children, adolescents, and adults) will
      be administered; and PedsQL (QOL questionnaire for pediatric patients) or SF-36 (QOL
      questionnaire for adult patients) questionnaire will also be completed during this visit.
      Patients who have abnormal overnight pulse oximetry readings will be assessed for sleep
      apnea, the results of which will be calculated using the Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) at
      Baseline, Week 25, Week 49 and ETV.

      Treatment Visit 1 [Week 1, Day 1]. Patients will receive the first dose of BMN 110 by
      intravenous (IV) infusion. Assessments on Day 1 will include vital signs, routine physical
      examination including standard neurological examination, and concomitant medication use and
      AEs/SAEs. All assessments will be performed prior to treatment, except AEs/SAEs which are
      collected continuously throughout the study. Immunogenicity lab tests are completed only in
      the event of an Infusion Associated Reaction.

      Treatment Visits [Weeks 2-48]. Patients will be treated weekly with BMN 110 for 48 weeks.
      Prior to each weekly treatment, patients will have vital signs and routine physical
      examination including standard neurological examination. Concomitant medications and AEs/SAEs
      are collected at every visit. Body weight will be determined every 4 weeks after the Day -1
      visit to confirm dose volume. Immunogenicity lab tests are completed only in the event of an
      Infusion Associated Reaction.

      Efficacy Assessment Visits [Weeks 25 and 49]. The following data will be collected during
      weeks 25 and 49: clinical laboratory tests, urine KS and creatinine levels, immunogenicity
      test, ECG, 6MW test, 3MSC test, RFTs and anthropometric measurements. The patients will also
      complete the APPT test,and PedsQL or SF-36 questionnaire (as appropriate). Patients who have
      abnormal overnight pulse oximetry readings will be assessed for sleep apnea. Immunogenicity
      lab tests are completed only in the event of an Infusion Associated Reaction.

      Additional Safety Assessment during Week 49 Visit. In addition to the efficacy and safety
      assessments listed above, cervical spine radiographs (flexion-extension) or MRI or CT scan
      will also be collected during the Week 49 visit.

      Extension Phase [Required Safety and Recommended Efficacy Assessments]: Treatment Visits
      Patients will be treated weekly with BMN110 starting at week 49, following completion of all
      applicable efficacy assessments, until BMN110 becomes commercially available in Australia.
      Patients will have vital signs, concomitant medications and AEs/SAEs collected at every
      visit. Additional blood samples for total IgE and drug specific IgE testing will be drawn and
      analyzed for patients who experience a severe IAR, experience an IAR requiring cessation of
      infusion, anaphylaxis or a serious hypersensitivity event.

      Safety Assessments: Treatment Visits [Every 4 weeks]. Body weight will be obtained every 4
      weeks after the Day 1 visit to confirm dose volume. Treatment Visits [Every 24 weeks]. In
      addition to the assessments performed at weekly treatment visits, the patients will undergo
      pregnancy test (as appropriate).

      Efficacy Assessments [Recommended every 24 weeks starting with Week 73]: Routine physical
      examination including standard neurological examination, clinical laboratory assessments,
      urine KS and creatinine levels, ECG, 6MW test, 3MSC test, RFTs and anthropometric
      measurements. The patients will also complete the APPT test, and PedsQL or SF-36
      questionnaire (as appropriate), cervical spine imaging and sleep apnea test (if applicable).
      Patients who have abnormal overnight pulse oximetry readings will be assessed for sleep
      apnea.

      End of Study Visit (EOS). The patients will be monitored for AEs and SAEs for up to 30 days
      post drug infusion. During Week 53 the EOS Visit, patients will be evaluated for AEs/SAEs and
      will have vital signs taken, routine physical examination including standard neurological
      examination will be performed, and information on concomitant medication use will be
      collected.

      Patient withdrawal: Patients may withdraw voluntarily from receiving BMN 110 at any time, in
      which case they will be encouraged to continue to undergo study assessments. Data from such
      patients will be utilized for further characterization of the natural progression of MPS IVA.
      Patients may also withdraw entirely from study participation at any time.

      Safety The study period during which all non-serious AEs and SAEs will be reported begins
      after informed consent is obtained and through 30 days after the last study visit or 30 days
      after the last drug infusion, whichever comes first. Starting on the first Screening Day and
      continuing through the end of the study or Early Termination Visit , AEs/SAEs will be
      monitored and recorded, and routine physical examination including standard neurological
      examination will be conducted in all patients. During the Initial Phase, routine physical
      examination including standard neurological examination will be conducted in all patients.
      During the Extension phase, physical examinations including neurologic examinations are
      recommended, but not required.

      Some patients may experience infusion associated reactions (IARs) associated with the
      administration of study drug, thus it will be required that prophylactic antihistamine will
      be administered prior to each study drug infusion. Antipyretic pretreatment may be given at
      the Investigator's discretion. The internal Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will monitor the
      safety of BMN 110 in patients and may review any severe or serious IARs that occur in
      patients during the study until approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration
      or the European Medicines Agency to commercialize BMN 110 is received. Vital signs will be
      measured just before, during, and immediately following the study drug infusion. Adverse
      events and changes in concomitant medication Safety assessments will be performed throughout
      the study. Physical examinations including neurological examination will be performed at
      Screening and all visits up to and including the Week 49 Visit.

      Radiographs (flexion-extension) or MRI or CT scans of the cervical spine are required at
      Screening and at Week 49. Clinical laboratory tests, Electrocardiograms (ECG) are required at
      Screening, Baseline, Weeks 25 and 49 Visits. Blood samples will be collected at Baseline,
      Weeks 25 and 49 for TAb and NAb testing. NAb will not be performed if TAb is negative.
      Samples for Total IgE will be collected at Baseline and stored for testing. For patients who
      experience a severe infusion associated reaction (IAR), experience an IAR requiring cessation
      of infusion, anaphylaxis or a serious hypersensitivity event, shortly after cessation of the
      infusion, the Baseline total IgE sample will be analyzed and additional blood samples for
      total IgE and drug-specific IgE testing will be drawn and run. Immediate testing for total
      IgE will be taken shortly after cessation of the study drug infusion. Drug-specific IgE will
      also be tested, but must be collected no sooner than 8 hours post infusion and no later than
      just before the next scheduled infusion the following week due to rhGALNS interference with
      the detection assay. A sample taken the day after the IAR, anaphylactic or serious
      hypersensitivity event would be preferred but may not be practical. If the sample is
      positive, the extra volume of serum may be used to further characterize the drug-specific IgE
      assay. As patients may experience hypersensitivity reactions associated with the
      administration of BMN 110, all patients will be pretreated with an appropriate dose of
      antihistamine medication approximately 30 minutes to 1 hour prior to infusion. Antipyretic
      medications may also be given at the discretion of the Investigator. On infusion days, vital
      signs will be measured at a minimum of: immediately before (less than 30 minutes) the
      infusion, every 30 minutes for the first hour of the infusion, every hour for the remainder
      of the infusion, and immediately (less than 30 minutes) after the infusion. Patients will
      also be monitored by continuous pulse oximetry during infusion and for at least 60 minutes
      after the infusion is completed. AEs/SAEs and changes in concomitant medication will be
      recorded throughout the study. AEs/SAEs will be graded according to the National Cancer
      Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).
    
  