
    
      In view of the emerging COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-coV-2 virus, the search for
      potential protective and therapeutic antiviral strategies is of particular and urgent
      interest. Despite the lack of clinical data, certain indications suggest that modulation of
      zinc status may be beneficial in COVID-19. The use of vitamin C could be effective in terms
      of mortality and outcomes in patients with covid-19 pneumonia. Zinc and vitamin C are the
      over the counter supplementation and other study shows the effect of this in respiratory
      tract infection. This type of study is not done in Bangladesh. So, this will give a baseline
      data for further study which will help the researcher.

      C. Related with socio-economic development: Health economic analysis will be done by total
      duration of hospital stay in comparing with total cost during admission in hospital. Benefits
      of this analysis will consider the:

        -  Reduced the severity and symptoms which will decrease the risk of mortality among the
           patients.

        -  Duration of hospital stay will reduce the treatment cost and as well the price of this
           nutrients supplements is very low.

        -  Costs are measured by the recorded number of patients and duration of hospital stay in
           both study groups. Number and duration will be recorded.

           3. Work plan:

      Methodology Types of study: Randomized double-blind placebo Controlled Trial Place of study:
      Department of pharmacology, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), Dhaka.

      Study population:

      Eligible participants for randomization are COVID-19 positive patients admitted in BSMMU

        -  Ages Eligible for Study: 18 Years and older (Adult, Older Adult)

        -  Sexes Eligible for Study: All

        -  Accepts Healthy Volunteers: No Criteria

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  ≥ 18 years presenting symptoms who test positive for COVID-19

        -  Moderate to severe patients obtained consent

        -  Hypoxic respiratory failure (saturation <90% on air at rest or increasing oxygen
           requirement)

        -  Chest examination findings of bilateral crackles on auscultation or chest x-ray showing
           bilateral infiltrates

        -  C-Reactive Protein > 50mg/L

        -  women of childbearing potential who meet the above and have a negative pregnancy test.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Pregnant women: Current known pregnancy positive pregnancy test.

        -  Lactating women.

        -  Documented history of mental illnesses

        -  Multi-organ failure

        -  Severe ARDS (requiring ventilator support on presentation in the form of invasive or
           non-invasive ventilation)

        -  Septic Shock

        -  Drug allergy/intolerance Sampling technique: Patients who meet the inclusion criteria
           and who provide consent will be randomized by online graph pad software by using
           computer.

      Sample size:

      Sample size calculation P1 (1-P1) + P2 (1-P2) × (Zα+ Zβ)2 N = (P1- P2)2 Where, N= sample size
      P1 = control group response 50 % P2= treatment group response 20% Zα = Z value at a definite
      level of significance1.96 at 5% level of significance Zβ = Z value at a definite power 1.28
      at 90 % power (when β is 0.10)

      0.5 (1-0.5) + 0.2 (1- 0.2) × (1.96+ 1.28)2 N= (0.5-0.2)2

      = 48 According to this formula sample size will be 48 in each group. We estimate that the
      drop-out rate will be 5%, total 50 patients will be in each group

      Study variables

      1. Demographic variables:

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Ethnicity

        -  Past medical history - Hypertension, use of ACEI or ARB, DM, IHD, COPD, CKD, Obesity
           (BMI) and Cancer

        -  Presenting symptoms (dry cough, productive cough, fever, sore throat, myalgia, lethargy,
           headache, breathlessness, nausea, diarrhea and any other)

        -  Baseline observations on day of initiating treatment (Day 0): oxygen saturation (SpO2),
           fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2), SpO2/FiO2 ratio, respiratory rate, body temperature,
           neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio, C-Reactive Protein & findings of bilateral infiltrates on
           chest-x-ray.

        -  Follow-up observations after randomization on Day 1,2,3,4 and 5 for SpO2/FiO2 ratio,
           respiratory rate, body temperature and C-Reactive Protein

        -  Length of stay (in days)

        -  Use of ventilator support (invasive or non-invasive ventilation)

        -  Side effects of drugs

        -  In-patient mortality

      Methods:

      Each patient will give informed consent and demographic data (age, sex) will be obtained and
      documented. All patients will receive standard routine medical care throughout the study.
      After collecting baseline data patients will be assigned to respective group randomly. A
      compliance sheet will be maintained for each patient. Regularity of drug intake will be
      ensured and recorded in the patient's compliance sheets by research assistant. Patients will
      be asked to report for any adverse effects of the medication given during the period of
      study. The study will follow the principle of the declaration of Helsinki and of the world
      medical assembly. The study will be conducted after the approval of the protocol by the
      institutional review board (IRB). Each patient will be assured that the present therapy would
      not provide harm, however in case of any untoward effect, assurance would be provided for
      proper medical treatment and care from the part of the researcher. Each patient had complete
      right to withdraw from the study at any time during the research.

      Recruitment procedure for patients according to symptoms and who consent to participate in
      the study will be randomly allocated immediately after hospital admission to one of two
      groups; intervention (I), or placebo group (P).

      Pre-designed case record form (CRF) will be used for collecting data, which will also contain
      the result of the study. The information collected in the CRF will be reviewed and
      inconsistencies will be investigated and clarified. Data from case record forms will be
      anonymized and stored securely in a secure online web-based portal. The study outline is
      presented in Figure 1.

      Study procedure:

      Randomization - After determining the sample size, patients will randomly be allocated into
      two groups to the patient's enrollment for the study. Randomization will be done by online
      graph pad software by using computer. the software automatically generated two distinct sets
      of numbers after giving necessary inputs (sample size, sets of number). The online graph pad
      calculator equally distributed the patients into two comparable groups. The randomization
      will conduct by a competent third group person, a professor of this University who has no
      relationship with this study.

      Blinding - Immediately after randomization, random numbers of the two sets will assigned as
      patients code number. One set will be designated as intervention group and another group will
      placebo group. Two sets of code number that belongs to the intervention group and placebo
      group will be written with patient's id number. this total procedure will be conducted by the
      person unrelated to this research. Thus, the participants, caregiver, outcome assessor and
      the analyst, who require being blind for such study will effectively blind.

      Allocation cancelation: In order to prevent selection bias, concealment of allocation will be
      done. Third person allocated two distinct sets of random numbers into intervention group and
      placebo group. The allocation code written in two different paper document and preserved in
      two separate pen drive which will sealed within two different envelop. The sealed enveloped
      will be preserved to another two distinguished professors. So, intervention allocation will
      not be known to any person involve in the research.
    
  