
    
      Process:

      The health professional responsible for carrying out the intervention will be the nurse of
      the pediatric consultation of the Health Center where the study will be carried out. She is
      the only nurse in this center, so she will be the only professional to perform the procedure
      on all subjects participating in the study; in this way the variability in the puncture
      technique is avoided.

      The nurse will recruit potential participants who meet inclusion criteria, informing about
      the research and answering their possible questions. Once participants wishing to be part of
      the study have signed the informed consent, they will be coded by numbers. These numerical
      codes will be linked chronologically to the random sequence previously generated by the
      sealedenvelopeTM software. Once the nurse knows the group to which the participant belongs,
      she will perform the corresponding intervention.

      The evaluation after the completion of the vaccination procedure will be carried out through
      self-administered scales (by the child for pain and fear variables, and by the caregiver for
      sociodemographic and satisfaction variables). In addition, the nurse will record data
      regarding vaccinations.

      The data collection time is estimated at 1 year and a half or until the sample size is
      reached.

      Intervention:

      The study groups will be determined by the randomization of the sample into two groups: GI
      and GC. The GI will use as a distracting measure the viewing of VR experiences adapted to
      their age with the Oculus Go VR glasses during the puncture. The GC will use habitual
      non-virtual distracting measures: being in the arms of the main caregiver or maintaining
      physical contact with him (for example, shaking hands) and / or playing or watching videos
      with the mobile phone of the parents or legal guardian.
    
  