
    
      Hypoxia is one of the worst prognostic factors of clinical outcome in glioblastomas. Today,
      it is well admitted that hypoxia is heterogeneous, variable within different tumour types and
      varied spatially and temporally. Hypoxia induced proteomic and gene expression changes that
      lead to increase angiogenesis, invasion and metastasis. So the hypoxic fraction in solid
      tumours reduces their sensitivity to conventional treatment modalities, modulating
      therapeutic response to ionizing radiation or certain chemotherapeutic agents. This is
      particularly important in glioblastomas. Hypoxic cells in solid tumours could influence local
      failure following radiotherapy and has been associated with malignant progression, loco
      regional spread and distant metastases and represents an increasing probability of
      recurrence.

      Thus, the non-invasive determination and monitoring of the oxygenation status of tumours is
      of importance to classify patients' outcome and modify therapeutic strategies in those
      tumours. Actually the oxygenation status of individual tumours is not assessed routinely.
      Numerous different approaches have been used to identify hypoxia in tumours. Eppendorf oxygen
      probe measurements (pO2 histography) may be considered as a 'gold standard' for hypoxia in
      human malignancies. However, it is an invasive method being confined to superficial, well
      accessible tumours and requires many measures. PET using [18F]Fluoro-deoxyglucose
      ([18F]-FDG), allows non-invasive imaging of glucose metabolism and takes a growing place in
      cancer staging, but [18F]-FDG can't assess correctly the oxygenation status of tumours and is
      not suitable for brain tumor. PET with appropriate radiotracers enables non-invasive
      assessment of presence and distribution of hypoxia in tumours. Nitroimidazoles are a class of
      electron affinic molecules that were shown to accumulate in hypoxic cells in cultures and in
      vivo. [18F]-FMISO is the most frequently employed tracer; its intracellular retention is
      dependent on oxygen concentration. Consequently [18F]-FMISO has been used as a non-invasive
      technique for detection of hypoxia in human. Different authors have demonstrated that it is
      suitable to localize and quantify hypoxia. Thus, [18F]-FMISO PET has been studied to evaluate
      prognosis and predict treatment response. However, some investigators report an unclear
      correlation between Eppendorf measurements and standardized uptake values (SUV). This
      observation may be explained by the structural complexity of hypoxic tumour tissues.
      Nevertheless, there is a need of standardized procedures to acquire and quantify [18F]-FMISO
      uptake. Actually the use of this tracer is very limited in clinic and the academic studies
      have included small populations of patients and suffer of the heterogeneity of technical
      procedures.

      The aim of this study is to determine the optimal acquisition protocol and treatment
      parameters enable to describe [18F]-FMISO uptake in glioblastomas known to be hardly
      influenced by hypoxia. Then, validate [18F]-FMISO-PET as a prognostic maker of recurrence.

      We will introduce a pretherapy [18F]-FMISO PET-CT in the treatment planning of patients
      suffering of different newly diagnosed glioblastoma and eligible to a radical treatment with
      curative intent, consisting of conformational radiotherapy and chemotherapy. [18F]-FMISO
      PET-CT results will not be take into account for the patient management. We will test
      different acquisition protocols and use a wild panel of quantification parameters issued from
      published studies and original ones developed by our team enable to describe [18F]-FMISO
      uptake. Patients will be followed clinically and para-clinically during one year after the
      end of the treatment according to the edited recommendations of each tumour type and grade to
      analyze outcome (failure is define as persistent disease in the primary site, progression of
      disease, locoregional relapse after complete response or distant metastasis). Thus we will be
      able to measure failure free survival and determine overall survival.
    
  