
    
      Since the introduction of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) on a large scale, it has
      been observed that approximately 30% of recipient patients are non-responsive to therapy.
      This non-responsiveness can be decreased by optimizing the device programming, particularly
      the stimulation rate, paced and sensed atrioventricular (AV) delay, and the interventricular
      (VV) delay.

      All CRT patients need a 100% rate of ventricular capture, but beyond this the achievement of
      therapy effectiveness requires the identification of the optimal pacing configuration, which
      varies among patients. The optimization of CRT systems, usually based on ultrasound imaging
      is time-consuming and the number of patients in need of multiple optimization procedures due
      to ventricular remodeling is growing rapidly.

      The mechanical effects of a more coordinated contraction result in a shortening of the
      isovolumetric contraction phase and the pre-ejection time, and an increase in LV dP/dt
      (change in left ventricular pressure over time. The concept of measuring contractility with
      an implantable accelerometer was first clinically validated through a multicenter study on a
      rate responsive pacing system (BEST - Living from SORIN Biomedica) in 1996. This study
      positively demonstrates that measurement of Peak Endocardial Acceleration signal (called PEA
      or SonR) is feasible and reliable in the long-term, both for the purpose of rate response and
      as a hemodynamic monitor of cardiac function.

      More recent clinical studies have demonstrated that optimal VV and AV Delays determined using
      algorithms based on SonR signal analysis (SonR method) are correlated with the highest
      hemodynamic improvement and lead to significant clinical benefit for the patients, thus
      reducing the rate of non-responsiveness to CRT therapy.

      Therefore, frequent and automatic AV and VV delay optimization in patients with CRT-D devices
      could benefit both patients, through increasing the percent of CRT responders, and
      clinicians, through simplifying CRT optimization.

      The inclusion phase of the "Clinical Trial of the SonRtip Lead and Automatic AV-VV
      Optimization Algorithm in the PARADYM RF SonR CRT-D" (RESPOND CRT Study, code ITSY06) has
      been completed. A total of 1039 patients have been enrolled in 125 centers in Europe,
      Australia and USA, from 13 January 2012 to 14 October 2014.

      Safety has been monitored continuously throughout the RESPOND-CRT trial by the Data Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB). The DSMB charter is to provide recommendations to the Sponsor to
      suspend or stop the study if there is clear evidence of harm or harmful side-effects related
      to the use of the device or study procedures. To date, there have been no safety concerns
      raised by the RESPOND-CRT study data and the DSMB has recommended continuation of the
      clinical study.

      Additionally, safety is supported by the European marketing history. As the SonR System is CE
      marked, RESPONDCRT is being conducted as a post-market study in Europe. Therefore in addition
      to the 1000+ patients enrolled in the RESPOND-CRT IDE, an additional 3000+ patients have
      received the SonR system outside the study.

      As a supplement to the RESPOND CRT IDE Study a Continued Access Study (CAS) is being
      conducted according to the potential public health need and preliminary evidence that the
      device is likely to be effective with no significant safety concerns for the proposed
      indication.
    
  