
    
      Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a potentially devastating disease of the newborn
      central nervous system (CNS) . Portions of the CNS are deprived of oxygen and blood flow for
      a period of time which may lead to permanent brain injury manifested as cerebral palsy as
      well as cognitive defects. Until recently no treatment has been shown to be effective for
      preventing brain damage, even though it has been demonstrated that the damage is progressive
      and that there is a window of opportunity to arrest some of the evolving brain injury.
      However, in May of 2007 the FDA approved the first device specifically designed to ameliorate
      brain damage in term babies with HIE. This head cooling device which was studied here at
      Vanderbilt under IRB protocol 990129 Brain Cooling for the treatment of perinatal hypoxic
      ischemic encephalopathy. We thus have eight years of experience of using this device in term
      infants. The results of the initial trial demonstrated a successful reduction of HIE induced
      brain injury from 66% in control infants to 55% in treated babies. There were no significant
      risks to the application of this device in term babies who are kept cool for 72 hours after
      experiencing an acute HIE event. The initial trials were limited to term babies because of
      concern that premature infants would be more at risk for hypothermia induced problems such as
      hypoglycemia,and coagulopathy. The concern about hypothermia in preterm infants remains a
      limiting consideration for doing whole body cooling in this population. We propose to apply
      the cooling cap to the heads of preterm infants who have experienced a significant HIE injury
      but maintain their body temperature in the normal range (36.1-37° C rectally). Infants will
      be cooled for up to 72 hours and will be tracked till discharge. Although this is a
      feasibility study, the participants will also be followed-up at 6, 12 and 24 months of age.
    
  