
    
      Deficits in balance and gait may lead to falls, fall-related complications, and physical
      inactivity in people with PD. These negative effects are thought to lead to a 'malignant'
      form of PD in which there is reduced quality of life and increased risk for mortality. While
      people who have had STN-DBS often experience reductions in tremor, rigidity, and
      bradykinesia, surgical management of PD may not be effective in ameliorating impairments in
      balance and gait. In fact, investigators have reported that DBS may worsen balance, which may
      accelerate an individual's decline toward 'malignant' PD. To this end, recent studies
      indicate physical activity levels did not increase after STN-DBS. This finding should not go
      unnoticed as physical activity may have a disease modifying effect, slowing the progression
      of motor disability. As of 2011, approximately 70,000 people with PD have undergone DBS, with
      the annual number of DBS procedures for PD totaling between 8,000-10,000. In addition,
      investigators are now studying the effects of STN-DBS in people with early PD. The procedure
      appears to be safe and effective in this population, which will increase the number of
      surgical candidates. With the number of people with PD expected to double to more than 8
      million by 2030, the number of those receiving DBS is expected to substantially increase.

      Given the expected rise in STN-DBS procedures and potential for worsening of postural
      instability and gait deficits, there is a clear need for interventions that prevent these
      negative complications of STN-DBS.

      Physical therapy, delivered using various treatment approaches (e.g. treadmill training,
      balance training), is effective in reducing postural instability and improving spatiotemporal
      gait characteristics among individuals with PD who do not have DBS. To our knowledge, there
      are no studies to date that assessed the impact of PT for those with PD who have DBS. In
      fact, the current standard of care following STN-DBS does not include PT. Current care
      post-DBS includes pharmacologic management and monitoring of DBS settings, which are
      optimized based on Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor subsection (UPDRS III)
      scores. Despite the introduction of substantial changes to neural activity in areas of the
      brain governing movement with DBS, formal movement training or assessment of functional
      mobility and safety are not provided after surgery. As such, patients may not experience
      significant improvements in postural stability and gait following surgery, and may be at
      increased risk for falls, fall-related complications, and development of a sedentary
      lifestyle. Physical therapy is a personalized intervention that can be used to address
      specific movement impairments that remain even when patients are on optimal regimens of
      medication and DBS. There is an urgent need to determine if PT is effective in improving
      postural stability and gait performance over time following STN-DBS. If the intervention is
      safe and feasible, future studies could evaluate the efficacy of PT for gait and balance
      deficits in this population before and/or immediately post-surgery, increasing the potential
      impact of this research.

      In this pilot randomized controlled trial, participants will be randomly assigned to either
      the physical therapy group or control group. Those in the physical therapy group will attend
      1-hour sessions of PT twice weekly with a treatment plan designed to improve balance and
      gait. Those in the control group will not be prescribed an exercise intervention.

      Each participant will undergo the same battery of balance and gait tests. Although STN-DBS
      settings are typically stable at 12 months post-surgery, participants will be allowed to
      follow up with their neurologists as needed for programming and medication adjustments. All
      changes in programming settings and medication dosages will be noted. A rater, blinded to
      group assignment, will collect all outcomes at each time point. Participants will be tested
      in the following conditions: 1) OFF stimulation and OFF medication and 2) ON stimulation and
      ON medication. Testing participants OFF stimulation/OFF medication will allow us to determine
      if the addition of PT after STN-DBS affects balance and gait independent of other treatments.
      OFF medication is defined as greater than or equal to 12 hours since the last intake of
      anti-PD medication. For OFF stimulation/OFF medication testing, participants will arrive to
      the laboratory OFF medication but with stimulators on. The stimulators will be turned OFF
      upon arrival at the laboratory and testing will commence 45 minutes after the stimulators are
      turned OFF. Stimulators will be turned back on upon completion of this testing session. The
      investigators anticipate the total time for this laboratory visit to be 2 hours. Testing ON
      stimulation/ON medication will provide insight into how participants perform on an everyday
      basis. ON medication is defined as 1-1.5 hours after medication intake. For ON stimulation/ON
      medication assessments, participants will arrive to the laboratory 1-1.5 hours after taking
      their normal anti-PD medication dose with stimulators on and stimulators will remain on
      throughout the session. Assessments will occur at baseline and at 8 (i.e. post-test) and 12
      weeks (i.e. follow up). Assessments will take place on two separate days and the order of
      testing condition (OFF medication/OFF stimulation vs. ON medication/ON stimulation) will be
      randomized. The Movement Disorders Society-Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale III
      (MDS-UPDRS III) will be administered in each condition.
    
  