
    
      The medication to be studied is 1.25% povidone-iodine solution and the control medication is
      5% natamycin ophthalmic suspension. The povidone-iodine concentration of 1.25% was chosen
      based on a study using povidone-iodine ophthalmic solution for the first week after ocular
      surgery. Initially, some patients complained of a stinging sensation when using the 2.5%
      concentration. This might prevent full compliance from some subjects. When the solution was
      diluted to 1.25%, there were no more complaints of discomfort. Therefore, in the actual
      one-week postoperative clinical trial, the 1.25 % concentration was used without any patient
      complaints and it was found to be effective. In a pilot study conducted in the Philippines,
      investigating treatment of small to medium-sized fungal corneal ulcers, 1.25% povidone-iodine
      was shown to be effective against fungal corneal ulcers including those caused by Fusarium
      solani and Mycelia sterila when treated for 7-20 days.

      The povidone-iodine 1.25% solution will be prepared by removing 1.875 ml. of solution from a
      15 ml. bottle of Balanced Salt Solution (BSS), (Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth) and
      inserting 1.875 ml. of a 10% povidone-iodine solution (Betadine solution, Purdue Frederick,
      Norwalk). Preparations will be made weekly for each subject using sterile technique and are
      to be stored in a cool dark place. The control anti-fungal will be natamycin ophthalmic
      suspension, USP 5% (Natamet, M.J. Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Mumbai, India), which represents the
      current standard of care. The subjects will be discharged home on the same randomized
      medication that they were assigned while hospitalized.

      Prospective candidates for the study, and/or their parent or guardian, will review the
      appropriate Human Subjects Consent Form, approved by the Human Subjects Protection Committee
      of the Harbor-UCLA Medical Center. After written consents, Informed and HIPPA, are obtained,
      each subject will be randomized to receive either povidone-iodine or the control drug. All
      subjects will be hospitalized for a minimum duration of 7 days for careful monitoring and
      appropriate treatment. To assure compliance, all these inpatient subjects will have their
      medications administered by medical personnel. Upon admission, the intake clinical
      examination will be recorded.

      Each infected eye will be randomly assigned by the research nurse to be treated with
      povidone-iodine 1.25% or the control, anti-fungal medication natamycin. Randomization will be
      achieved by using random number generated randomization schedules. To guarantee similar
      distribution will occur, and not be left to chance, each study site randomization schedule
      will be stratified on ulcer sizes < 3mm. and > 3mm.

      The only eye medications permitted beside povidone-iodine 1.25% ophthalmic solution and the
      control drug natamycin, will be atropine ophthalmic solution to reduce intraocular
      inflammation and prevent synechiae, and anti-glaucoma medication as needed. The atropine will
      be administered to the affected eye(s) twice a day and strength will vary according to the
      subject's age. Subjects less than 1 year of age will be given atropine 0.25%, ages 1-3 will
      be given 0.5%, and subjects greater than 3 years of age will be given 1%.

      The dosing schedule of povidone-iodine 1.25% or control medication is as follows:

        1. For the first three days, one drop of the medication will be applied every hour.

        2. Day 4 and thereafter, hourly while awake, when asleep, every three hours. Sleep is not
           to exceed 9 hours. Treat all cases with intense drop therapy for a minimum of 5 days
           unless criteria for change in therapy are met.

        3. At 5 days, decrease dosing frequency to every 2 hours while awake until "cured", only if
           no deterioration in any factor and improved in at least one factor, other than
           epithelial defect, is noted on 2 consecutive examinations.

        4. If at 10 days the status remains unchanged, the subject is to exit the study.

        5. After discharge, dosing frequency is to remain every 2 hours while awake until cured.
    
  