
    
      This open, phase 1 trial will be conducted on 15 patients with the need for root canal
      treatment. The teeth will be permanent teeth in which the need for root canal treatment was
      decided by his dentist in the dental clinic in the Barzilai medical center Ashkelon.
      Videoendoscopy of the procedure will be recorded and will include a post-op view of the
      treatment. Patients will be followed up for pain infection and any potential complications;
      immediately, at 4 weeks 12 weeks and 6 month post- op. The procedure will also be taped
      externally to document surgeon's convenience with the equipment.

      The procedures will be performed under local or general anesthesia in an ambulatory
      environment, using standard root canal equipment, which will include endodontic hand and
      rotary files, endodonically used irrigating solutions and the videoendoscopy equipment. Under
      this protocol the basic treatment will be carried out by professional well trained
      endodontist in the same way used for root canal treatment. Following the mechanical
      preparation of the canal the endoscope, connected to a video camera and monitor, is
      introduced with the help of isotonic saline irrigation. With the aid of the endoscope remains
      of soft tissue from the pulp tissue will be coagulated with the ERBOTOM ICC 80 monopolar
      fibers and removed with the irrigation, the canal will be inspected for lateral canals and
      the monoplar fibers will be used for coagulating and removal of this tissue. Er-Yag laser
      fiber connected to Erbium laser generator will be used for finalizing the canal preparation
      and preparation of the lateral canals. Actual lasing and coagulation will be performed only
      under clear vision, when the fiber is seen to be in direct contact with the tissue. Adequate
      irrigation will be maintained throughout the procedure using an intravenous bag connected to
      the irrigation port on the sheath of the endoscope.

      The endoscope device will be connected to the Erbbe diathermy ERBOTOM ICC 80 for coagulation
      monopolar fibers 0.05-0.1 mm number 20197-021-022 .

      Standard Lumenis Opus 20, dental Erbium:YAG laser available in the hospital. Lasing will
      begin at a setting of 300 mj per pulse and a pulse rate of 7 Hz.

      The same procedures performed on 15 human teeth in a lab status. The insertion of the
      instruments to the root canal will be in 2 techniques:1) Via the endoscope channel and 2) The
      instruments will be inserted parallel to the endoscope.
    
  