
    
      The temporomandibular disorder (TMD) are characterized by a set of clinical abnormalities
      involving the masticatory muscles, the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and other associated
      structures. Several studies have supported the use of physical therapy in the treatment of
      this condition, especially electrotherapy, laser therapy and manual resources. However,
      despite advances in the search for scientific evidence, it is necessary to prove to other
      commonly used clinical measures in subjects with TMD, such as the use of hyperboloid, which
      is a feature that stimulates the proprioceptive function. Thus, this project aims to assess
      the effects of treatment proprioceptive through the use of hyperboloid on the intensity of
      pain, muscle activity, severity and joint mobility in subjects with TMD. Treat will be a
      blind randomized clinical trial. Will be recruited volunteers aged between 18 and 40 years,
      with myofascial pain and arthralgia according to the Research Diagnostic Criteria for
      Temporomandibular Disorders (RDC / TMD), being randomly divided in two different groups, the
      first group constituted by treatment with hyperboloid associated with the exercise of
      proprioceptive "tongue on the hard palate" and the second group consists of treatment with
      hyperboloid. The Treatment protocols will be applied for 12 sessions, the volunteers will be
      evaluated in three stages: before applying the treatment, immediately after the first session
      and after the last session. The variables that will be investigated are: pain assessed using
      visual analog scale and algometry; muscle activity, investigated by electromyography of
      masticatory muscles; the severity of TMD, evaluated through the application of anamnestic
      index of Fonseca, and joint mobility, measured by the use of a caliper. Regarding the
      analysis of the data will be held intragroup comparisons, considering the pre-treatment,
      immediately after the first session and after ten sessions, and comparisons between groups.
      To this end it will be applied the Shapiro-Wilk test for checking the normality of data, and
      the statistical test applied consistent, then parametric or nonparametric. Is assumed a
      significance level of 5%.
    
  