
    
      High energy extracorporeal shock wave thrapy has been used to disintegrate urolithiasis for
      30 years (Chaussy et al., 1982). Low energy shock wave LESWs are used clinically to improve
      tissue regeneration at tendon- bone junctions (Wang et al., 2003) , ischemic cardiovascular
      disorders (Dimeglio et al., 2012) and erectile dysfunctions (Vardi et al., 2012).

      Furthermore, shock waves have been shown to temporarily increase tissue permeability (Lauer
      et al., 1997, Kodama et al., 2002) and increase mediated molecular and drug delivery into
      cells without consequent cytotoxicity. Kodama et al., 2002 suggested that shock waves could
      cause shear force generated by the movement of liquid relative to cells to temporarily affect
      the permeability of the plasma memberance. Shock waves can deliver molecules to 2,000,000
      molecular weight into the cystoplasm of cells without toxicity (Lauer et al., 1997).

      Instillation of drugs in the bladder provides the opportunity to locally increase drug
      concentration with a low risk of systemic side effects (Kuo et al., 2010, Hsu et al., 2013).
      Intravesical pharmacotherapy has been used to treat refractory overactive bladder and
      interstitial cystitis/ painful bladder syndrome (smith et al., 2004; Grannantoni et al.,
      2008; Boy et al., 2006). However, drug delivery to bladder tissues by intravesical route is
      constrained by urothelial impermeability. The watertight barrier is generally located at the
      umbrella cells, which are the superficial layers of bladder epithelium augmented by
      glycosaminoglycans and uroplakins (Hsu et al., 2013; Birder et al., 2005).

      Transient permeabilization of cell membranes accomplished by shock waves can deliver
      macromolecular drugs in the bladder without toxicity (Lower et al., 1997; Kodama et al.,
      2002).

      Chuang et al., (2016) demonstrated that contrast enhanced MRI can detect increased rat
      bladder permeability after LESWs. Recently, Towner et al (2015) reported increased urothelial
      permeability and contrast leakage on bladder MRI after intravesical promtamine sulfate
      instillation.

      Chen et al., (2014) found that LESWs treatment 3 and 24 hours after cyclophosphamide
      administration could attenuate cyclophosphamide induced acute cystitis in rats by decreasing
      inflammation and oxidative stress.

      In a recent study, Chuang et al., (2016) investigated the feasibiblity of using LESWs for
      intravesical botulinum toxin A delivery. They evaluated the efficacy for acetic acid included
      bladder hyperactivity in rats. They concluded that LESWs increased urothelial permeability,
      facilitate intravesical botulinum toxin A delivery and block acetic acid included hyperactive
      bladder. These results support LESWs as a promising method to deliver botulinum toxin A
      without the need for injection.

      Overactive bladder (OAB) is a condition characterized by presence of urinary urgency, usually
      accompanied by frequency and nocturia, with or without urgency urinary incontinence [UUI], in
      the absence of urinary tract infection (UTI) or other obvious pathology (Haylen BT et al
      2010). OAB is a common problem that impair the quality of life (QOL).The prevalence of OAB
      ranged from 11.8% in a population-based survey conducted across five European countries (
      Irwin DE et al, 2008 ) to 16.9% according to Epidemiological studies from North America and
      the prevalence increases with age rising to 30.9% in those over the age of 65 years.( Stewart
      WF et al 2001) Treatment goals are to reduce the occurrence of bothersome symptoms, and
      provide beneﬁts that are perceived by patients as meaningful (Brubaker L et al, 2006).
      Several treatment options are available for OAB including bladder and behavioral training ,
      pharmacologic treatment , and surgical therapies (Wein AJ et al, 2006).

      Antimuscarinics are well established as pharmacotherapy for reducing OAB symptoms and
      improving QOL (Andersson KE et al, 2009). However, their use is limited in some patients by
      insufficient response to treatment "refractory OAB", or intolerable side effects such as dry
      mouth ,blurred vision, constipation, and cognitive impairment (Benner JS et al, 2010).

      After a trial of pharmacotherapy, if the patient has not had an adequate improvement in
      symptoms, intra-vesical injection of Botox (BTX) can be offered as the next step. Botulinum
      toxin (BTX) is a neurotoxin, it contains a heavy chain that binds to the presynaptic terminal
      of the neuromuscular junction , and this then acts by inhibiting the release of acetylcholine
      from the presynaptic vesicles at the axon terminal of the motor end plate , that then result
      in the muscle that is innervated becoming ﬂaccidly paralyzed. BTX is available in different
      preparations, each of which is a distinct chemical entity. The current commercially utilized
      type is BTX type A.

      Currently, there is cumulative data supporting use of BTX in cases of refractory Deturosr
      overactivity. Intradetrusal injection of BTX is followed by a significant improvements in the
      number of voiding episodes over 24 h, incontinence episodes, urodynamic variables and
      quality-of -life scores (Mangera A et al, 2011). There is a reduction in episodes of urgency
      and incontinence by 80% and 60%, respectively. The efficacy peaks at 4 weeks ,with the effect
      lasting typically up to 9 months , and repeated treatment efficacy has been shown in up to 10
      treatment cycles. Patients should be counseled about the risk of an increased postvoid
      residual volume, occurring in 20-40% of individuals, and the need to use
      self-catheterization, with the attendant risk of UTI (14-40%) (Mangera A et al, 2011). The
      risk of general muscular weakness is considered very rare.
    
  