
    
      Patients will be asked for a brief medical history so that we may determine if he/she can
      participate in the study. If the patient is going to have partial knee replacement, he/she
      will be randomly assigned to receive either a fixed-bearing (Vanguard M, Biomet, Warsaw, IN)
      or mobile-bearing (Oxford, Biomet, Warsaw, IN) partial knee replacement. Both implant systems
      are FDA approved and Dr. Christensen is equally skilled with both systems. The fixed-bearing
      partial knee replacement is made up of a polished metal piece that is cemented to the femur
      and a metal piece that is cemented to the tibia. The plastic portion of the fixed-bearing
      partial knee replacement is attached to the tibial metal tray and does not move. The
      mobile-bearing knee replacement also has a metal pieces cemented to the femur and tibia, but
      between the two metal pieces is a small plastic piece that moves as the knee bends and
      straightens. Patients will have an equal opportunity of receiving either implant system.

      If the patient is having total knee replacement, the surgery will be the same as if he/she
      did not participate in the study, except that we will collect information from the patient
      during office visits and will ask the patient to perform the functional tests. If the
      participant is one of the healthy volunteers, he/she will not have knee surgery and will only
      be asked to perform the functional tests.

      Information collected during office visits:

      A member of our research team will ask the patient a series of questions about the knee.
      Patients will be asked to answer this series of questions a total of 4 times over the course
      of 1 year. Also, we will record how well the patient can bend and straighten the knee at
      these 4 office visits. We will have patients rate the pain in their knee and ask if they are
      satisfied with the surgery. If patients have any complications, those will also be recorded.
      Patients will have X-rays taken of your knee at your follow-up visits. This is the normal
      routine following knee replacement. The X-rays will be read by the surgeon to help determine
      the success of the surgery.

      We will also ask patients to perform 3 functional tests at each of these office visits. These
      3 tests will be performed on a raised platform that is approximately 2 inches above the
      floor. For the first test, the patient will be asked to stand still with knees straight for
      two seconds, and then be asked to stand still with knees bent to 45 degrees for two seconds.
      For the second test, the patient will be asked to stand up from a seated position. For the
      third test, the patient will be asked to step up onto a four-inch wooden box and then step
      back down onto the platform. Prior to testing, the patient will be allowed to practice each
      of these tests as many times as necessary until he/she feels comfortable. During testing, an
      investigator will help make sure that the patient is able to safely and properly perform 3
      repetitions of each test. We will not ask patients to perform one or more of the functional
      tests if they are unable to perform the test without constant use of their arms for support.
    
  