
    
      STUDY DESIGN This is a national multicenter retrospective study. Through reviewing
      angiography database in 20 CHD intervention centers of China. We will collect the data of
      2400 patients with twice of coronary angiography as well as 12-24 months interval from Jun
      2013 to Dec 2016. We will confirm the actual rate in the coronary plauqe progression of CHD
      patients in China as well as regression analysis to investigate the impact of different risk
      factors on the progression of coronary plaque, thus find the primary risk factors and
      rational strategy in secondary prevention. In this study, the included patients should not be
      replaced or withdrawal.

      STUDY POPULATION 2,400 patients who are diagnosed with CHD and have received more than 2
      times of coronary angiography within 12-24 months will be enrolled. If the number of
      angiography is more than 2 times. Patients who receive examination not in the same coronary
      intervention center will not be included.

      STUDY DURATION It will take 12 months to collect data of 2,400 cases in 20 CHD intervention
      centers of China and following 9 months to compete QCA and risk factors analysis STUDY
      PROCESS The statistical analysis will include all the materials of cases. We will describe
      the basic history characteristics of patients, test parameters and the imaging
      characteristics of coronary angiography. Continuous variables will be described by number,
      mean, standard deviation (SD), median, minimum value and maximum value. Numeric variables
      with normal distribution will be described by mean and SD. Continuous variables will be
      compared by student test (normal distribution) and Wilcoxon rank sum test (skew
      distribution). Categorical variables (nominal variables/rank variables) will be described as
      frequency and percentage, which can be compared by Chi square test or Fisher exact test.
      Logistic multiple regression can be used to evaluate the risk factors of coronary disease
      progression in Chinese patients, among which the possible risk factors selection is based on
      clinical and statistical decision. Receiver operating characteristic(ROC) curve can be used
      to establish risk evaluation model of coronary disease progression and evaluate its value.
      The incomplete data will not be analyzed.

      Data analysis will be processed by SPSS 13.0. All the analysis will be used the 2-side test
      or 2-side 95% confidence interval. There is statistical significance if 2-side P value is
      less than 0.05. This study will use descriptive analysis and finally report primary and
      secondary outcomes by graphics.
    
  