
    
      This is a monocentric prospective interventional clinical trial that will include patients
      with refractory epilepsy and for whom a hospitalization at the Centre for Neurophysiological
      Monitoring (CNM) at the University Hospital Ghent is planned for invasive video-EEG
      recording. This hospitalization is part of a pre-surgical work-up to determine if the patient
      is eligible for resective surgery. It is important to note that the decision to plan the
      patient for invasive video-EEG monitoring is made by neurologists and neurosurgeons
      specialized in refractory epilepsy and is in no way connected to this study.

      Every patient that will be admitted to the CNM for invasive video-EEG monitoring has a
      consultation with Prof. Dr. Alfred Meurs about one month before hospitalization. During this
      consultation, Prof. Meurs will ask if the patient is willing to participate in this study. If
      the patient agrees and has given informed consent, the first session of the study will take
      place directly after the consultation. However, if the patient is not available at that time,
      a new appointment will be made for the first session. The first session has to take place
      before admission to the CNM.

      The study consists of two experimental sessions. The first session takes place after giving
      informed consent and before admission to the hospital for invasive video-EEG monitoring.
      Therefore, this session is completely study-specific and may require and extra visit to the
      hospital if the patient is not available right after the consultation with Prof. Meurs.

      During this session, the patient will perform the virtual T-maze task for 20 minutes while
      scalp-EEG will be recorded simultaneously. During this task, patients will see a T-maze on a
      computer screen and have to choose at every junction whether they go left or right. Depending
      on the direction they choose, they get rewarded or not. This feedback will elicit the reward
      positivity.

      The rationale for this first session is that it is important to know whether or not the
      patient produces a normal reward positivity measured by scalp EEG, before the intracranial
      electrodes are placed.

      The second session takes place during the admission at the CNM, after the intracranial
      electrodes are placed. The invasive video-EEG monitoring is part of a pre-surgical work-up
      and is planned independently from the study. During this session, the patient will once again
      have to perform the virtual T-maze task while scalp-EEG and intracranial-EEG will
      simultaneously be recorded.

      After the two sessions, the data will be analysed using ERP analysis and the amplitude of the
      reward positivity will be calculated for every electrode. It is expected that the amplitude
      of the reward positivity ERP-component will be largest for patients with electrodes in the
      frontal lobe, located closely to the ACC. This will deliver direct evidence that the reward
      positivity is in fact generated in the ACC.
    
  