
    
      Background:

        -  Mutations involving BRCA1-Associated Protein-1 (BAP1), a nuclear deubiquitinase involved
           in epigenetic regulation of gene expression, DNA repair, and cellular energetics, have
           emerged as one of the most common somatic mutations in malignant mesotheliomas.

        -  Germline mutations involving BAP1 predispose individuals to mesothelioma as well as a
           variety of other malignancies including lung, melanoma, renal, gastric, and breast
           cholangiocarcinoma.

        -  The cancer penetrance of BAP1 is nearly 100%.

        -  Presently there are no established guidelines for surveillance of cancer patients with
           germline BAP1 mutations or of cancer-free individuals with germline BAP1 mutations.

      Objectives:

      To prospectively gather information related to the use of photon counting computed
      tomographic imaging (PCCT), together with minimally invasive surgical surveillance for early
      detection of pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma in patients with BAP1 tumor predisposition
      syndrome (TPDS)

      Eligibility:

        -  Individuals with a history of any malignancy with known or suspected germline mutation
           involving BAP1.

        -  First- or second-degree relatives of patients with documented germline BAP1 mutations,
           who are also found to carry similar germline mutations.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 30

      Design:

        -  Individuals with suspected hereditary tumor predisposition syndromes will undergo
           germline evaluation using CLIA-certified next-gen sequencing (NGS).

        -  First- and second-degree relatives of patients with germline BAP1 mutations will be
           offered similar NGS evaluation.

        -  Subjects with germline mutations in BAP1, will undergo periodic photon counting CT
           (PCCT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. Plasma cell-free DNA (cfDNA) will be
           assessed at similar intervals, and minimally invasive surveillance procedures (i.e.,
           video- assisted thoracoscopy and laparoscopy) will be performed periodically to detect
           early, subclinical malignancies that may be amenable to potentially curative local
           interventions.
    
  