
    
      Rehabilitation following total hip arthroplasty (THA) is limited in scope, and some patients
      continue to exhibit functional limitations, as well as loading asymmetries that place them at
      risk for developing osteoarthritis in contralateral joints. The purpose of this study is to
      collect preliminary data to support a larger project that will examine the effectiveness of a
      12-session functional movement retraining (FMR) program for Veterans following THA. A novel
      aspect of the FMR program is that it focuses not only on improving overall function but also
      normalizing side-to-side asymmetries in balance and strength via patient-specific tailoring
      of exercises. The program also involves telerehabilitation processes to improve access.

      Participants will be n=15 patients scheduled for THA at the Durham VAMC, identified from
      electronic medical records. Participants will complete assessments pre-operatively, then
      approximately 6-weeks post-THA, at which time FMR program will begin. The 12 FMR sessions
      will optimally be delivered twice weekly for 6 weeks. However, to account for missed visits,
      the investigators will allow for 9 total weeks to complete the 12 sessions. Therefore
      follow-up assessments will be scheduled at 15-weeks post-THA for all participants. FMR
      sessions will be a combination of: 1.) in-person, on-site visits and telephone contacts with
      a licensed physical therapist and 2.) in-home telehealth visits by a telehealth technologist
      or physical therapy assistant. The FMR program will focus on improving lower extremity
      mobility, muscle stability and functional movement patterns. Participants will be instructed
      to perform a series of stretching exercises daily and strengthening exercises three times
      weekly. Exercises for each patient will be tailored according to results of the Lower Quarter
      Y-Balance Test (conducted at baseline and mid-way through the program), which assesses
      asymmetries between limbs and between anterior vs. posterior reach. Outcomes will include
      objective functional measures (timed up-and-go, sit-to-stand, walking speed, stair climb,
      Lower Quarter Y-Balance Test), self-reported pain and activity limitations (Hip disability
      and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score), and therapist-assessed function (Harris Hip Score). Basic
      descriptive statistics will be used to compare changes in each outcome (pre-operative to
      15-week post-THA and 6-week post THA to 15-week post-THA) and inform sample size estimates
      for a larger trial. The investigators will also assess various aspects of program feasibility
      (recruitment success, adherence, telerehabilitation processes) and collect in-depth
      qualitative information from both patients and therapists to assess aspects of the
      intervention that may need to be modified prior to a larger study.
    
  