
    
      Background:

        -  Standard treatment for advanced Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is a liposomal anthracycline, plus
           antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).

        -  KS is not curable and relapses are common. Prolonged use of liposomal anthracyclines
           with cumulative dosing exceeding 550 mg/m(2) is frequently required.

        -  KS is notable for pathogenic autocrine and paracrine vascular endothelial growth factor
           (VEGF) signaling. The monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab is a rational agent for the
           treatment of KS.

        -  Preliminary results from our phase II study of bevacizumab monotherapy, 03-C0110,
           suggest that bevacizumab has promising activity in the treatment of KS.

        -  The combination of anti-angiogenic therapy with cytotoxic chemotherapy has been a
           successful strategy in KS as well as other solid tumors.

        -  This pilot study will evaluate the activity and safety of liposomal doxorubicin combined
           with bevacizumab followed by bevacizumab maintenance in patients with advanced KS. A
           goal of this combination strategy is to develop a tolerable and highly active regimen
           that would limit the need for prolonged anthracycline use.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is to estimate the overall response rate (ORR) of six cycles of
           liposomal doxorubicin combined with bevacizumab in patients with advanced KS.

        -  Secondary objectives include evaluation of the safety of the regimen, as well as
           estimation of the complete response rate after 6 cycles, the median number of cycles
           need to obtain a partial response, and 12-month progression-free survival.

      Eligibility:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18

        -  Biopsy proven KS

        -  Indication for chemotherapy

        -  Any HIV status

        -  Normal multigated acquisition scan (MUGA)

        -  Able to tolerate aspirin 81 mg

        -  systolic blood pressure (SBP) <150, diastolic blood pressure (DBP) <90

        -  Urine protein <1+ or 500mg/24hrs

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Surgery within 4 weeks

        -  Thrombo-embolic disease

        -  Chemotherapy within 3 weeks

        -  Hemoptysis or severe gastrointestinal bleeding, unless caused by KS

        -  Pregnancy or breast feeding

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, single center pilot with 2 cohorts. Cohort 1: HIV negative, HIV
           infected with stable KS despite 1 year of HAART with HIV viremic control, or HIV
           infected with progressive KS despite 4 months of HAART with HIV viremic control. Cohort
           2: All other patients with advanced AIDS-associated KS.

        -  Subjects will receive bevacizumab 15 mg/kg and liposomal doxorubicin 20 mg/m(2) every 3
           weeks until complete response (CR) or a maximum of 6 cycles. Those with stable disease
           or better will continue on bevacizumab 15 mg/kg monotherapy every 3 weeks for 11 cycles.
           HIV infected subjects will receive HAART.

        -  ORR will be calculated with 80% CI for each cohort separately. If estimates in the two
           cohorts are similar (p>0.30 by a Fisher s exact test), they may be combined to form a
           somewhat more precise estimate of ORR after 6 cycles of treatment.

        -  A total of 10 evaluable patients will be accrued in each cohort.
    
  