
    
      Patients will be recruited from Shalvata mental health center and evaluated clinically in
      Shalvata mental health center. The MEG scan will take place at Bar-Ilan University at the
      Brain Research Center. Participants will get to and from the university with one of the
      researchers. Patients from the closed ward will be taken from Shalvata mental health center
      after receiving a signed letter from a relevant staff member allowing them to leave the
      hospital for the purpose of the research. At the end of the experiment hospitalized patients
      will be returned to the hospital and non-hospitalized ones to their preferred destination.

      First stage (to take place in Shalvata): After the informed consent process a clinical
      evaluation will be performed. The evaluation will be administered to all participants and
      will include: demographic details and psychiatric history questionnaire, social functioning
      scale, handedness questionnaire, four-factor index of social statues for socioeconomic
      evaluation, Ischihara Color Blindness Test, Snellen wall chart for visual evaluation, TONI-3
      test for intelligence evaluation, Hebrew version of the Manchester Short Assessment of
      Quality of Life, Interpersonal Reaction Index for empathy evaluation, and SCID for DSM-IV. In
      addition, the PANSS questionnaire will be administered to schizophrenic and schizoaffective
      patients. Time estimation: 1-2 hours.

      Second stage (to take place at Bar-Ilan University and if necessary to be divided into two
      separate visits): Conducting a brain scan during a battery of tasks that will test neural
      mechanisms underlying visual and auditory perceptual deficits, as well as their contribution
      to affect perception deficits in schizophrenia at different levels of the visual and auditory
      processing. This stage will begin with a preparation for the scan (10-20 minutes) and then
      the following tasks will take place: Task 1. Gratings Perception task in which participants
      have to detect the 5% vertical gratings. The aim of this task is to identify the neural
      mechanisms underlying basic visual perceptual deficits in individuals with schizophrenia by
      probing the M- and P-pathways using HSF and LSF in a neutral, semantically meaningless,
      stimuli (~3 minutes); Task 2. Basic Color Processing Task - participants will have to detect
      5% of white backgrounds among 180 red, green and gray backgrounds. The aim of this task is to
      asses neural mechanisms underlying basic visual perception by probing the M- and P pathways
      using basic color stimuli (~3minutes); Task 3. Orientation Detection Task - a task designed
      to identify another level of visual processing complexity, in which participants are asked to
      detect a missing gap in a square, displaying on green, red or gray background (~2 minutes);
      Task 4. Oddball Task in which participants have to detect infrequent sounds and ignore
      frequent and novel sounds. The aim of this task is to identify the basic neural mechanisms
      underlying auditory perception in individuals with schizophrenia (~13 minutes); Task 5. High
      and low spatial frequency facial expressions perception task. In this task participants have
      to identify the facial expression of the target stimuli out of three possible expressions:
      neutral facial expression, happy facial expression and afraid facial expression. The aim of
      this task is to identify the neural mechanisms underlying neutral facial perception deficit
      as well as affect perception deficit in individuals with schizophrenia by probing the M- and
      P-pathways using HSF and LSF facial stimuli (~25 minutes including breaks). Task 6. Colored
      Face Recognition task - Face stimuli are the same as the broad band stimuli from the previous
      task with one difference: faces are colored and surrounded by red, green or gray colored
      backgrounds. Procedure is the same as in the previous task (~25 minutes including breaks);
      Task 7. Processing of Affective Human Voices task in which participants have to detect and
      identify the content of human sounds (~15 minutes). Time estimation of the second stage of
      the experiment is about two hours including breaks. Total time estimation of both
      experimental stages: Four hours.

      At the end of the experiment participants will be thanked and brought back to their
      destination (hospitalized participants will be returned to Shalvata Hospital). Participants
      will receive 200 NIS for transportation and time loss. Participants that will be screened out
      during the evaluation stage will receive 50 NIS for transportation and time loss.
    
  