
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the combined vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2
      (VEGF-R2)/platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR)-beta inhibitor BAY 43-9006/
      sorafenib can decrease interstitial fluid pressure (IFP) in soft tissue sarcomas.

      II. To investigate the effects of BAY 43-9006/sorafenib on tumor blood flow, circulating
      endothelial cells, vascular density and pericyte coverage.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of BAY 43-9006/sorafenib in sarcoma patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe any preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity. II. Assess whether there are
      any significant relationships between systemic drug exposure and drug-related toxicity or
      biological effect.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to one of two groups (group 1
      closed to accrual as of 5/30/07).

      GROUP I (SARCOMAS OF THE EXTREMITY) (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL AS OF 5/30/07): Patients receive oral
      sorafenib twice daily on days 1-14. Patients undergo surgical resection of the tumor on
      approximately day 15. Once patients recover from surgery (and radiotherapy if indicated),
      patients who demonstrate a clinically and pathologically significant response (≥ 25%
      reduction in tumor size or ≥ 25% necrosis in the surgical specimen) may continue sorafenib as
      above for a maximum of 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity and at the discretion of the principal investigator. Biopsy tissue and blood samples
      are examined for biomarkers and interstitial fluid pressure (IFP) is measured at baseline and
      immediately before surgery.

      GROUP II (METASTATIC OR INOPERABLE SARCOMAS): Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on
      days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses. Patients with responding or stable
      disease may continue sorafenib in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Biopsy tissue and blood samples are examined for biomarkers and IFP is measured at
      baseline and on days 28 and 56.

      In both groups, blood samples are drawn periodically for pharmacological studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed monthly until all study-related
      toxicities are resolved and then at the discretion of the investigator.
    
  