
    
      Standard rehabilitation protocols will be used with every subject, depending on the cause of
      their shoulder pain. The treating clinician will determine the appropriate therapy protocol
      for each subject.

      During the treatment sessions, subjects will wear a very comfortable waist belt attached with
      rubber band to anchor points on the ground (the rubber bands will be tighten to simulate the
      extra-gravity).

      Upon enrollment, the treating clinician will randomly assign the subject to one of four
      groups depending on the type of loading and exercise typology.

      The hyper-gravity will be simulated as an additional 50% of subject's body weight.

      The frequency and duration of each therapy session will be determined by the treating
      clinician (usually 45 minutes of therapy twice a week for 4 weeks).

      Before, after and 24h post therapy session, the subject will grade the pain level using a
      numeric pain scale (0 no pain; 10 unbearable pain requiring pain medication).

      As part of the rehabilitation therapy procedure, subjects will undergo shoulder range of
      motion evaluations (done by a trained clinician in approximately 3 minutes) and Computer
      Dynamic Posturography (CDP) testing on a 4" tall foam cushion with eyes closed (PSEC test -
      less than 1 minute of testing) before and after each therapy session.

      Subjects will complete the DASH and TOSSA questionnaires (the total amount of time required
      to complete these assessment is ~20 minutes), and will be tested using the modified Clinical
      Testing of Sensory Integration in Balance (mCTSIB) protocol (the subjects will be required to
      stand on a hard or compliant surface (a 4" tall foam cushion of known mechanical properties)
      in a comfortable posture, feet shoulder width, with eyes open or closed, head straight and
      arms to the side and free to move, gazing forward, and breathing normally, less than 2
      minutes testing time) at the time of enrollment and at the end of the 4 week therapy program.

      Subjects will be asked to come back for two more evaluations (questionnaires, range of motion
      assessment, and CDP testing) one month and three months after the end of the 4 week therapy
      program to identify possible long term effects of the "hyper-gravity/accentuated vertical
      loading" therapy.
    
  