
    
      Hallux valgus (HV) is the most common deformity in the adult forefoot. Characterizing and
      classifying HV primarily has been based on weightbearing radiographic imaging. Understanding
      of this pathologic process has mainly been confined to two planes, where the dominating
      modality of choice has been assessment by antero-posterior (AP) and lateral radiographs. From
      these two projections, imaging parameters have developed to define the severity of HV. With
      this understanding as the basis for describing the deformity, more than 140 operative
      techniques have been described. Although many of these techniques are of historical interest
      only, consistently favourable outcomes remain elusive even among more popular current
      techniques. HV corrective surgery is known to have mediocre results, with recurrence rate as
      high as 30-70%. Unsuccessful treatment of the condition is amongst the most common in the
      Norwegian patient injury compensation scheme (Norsk pasienterstatning, NPE). The variation in
      corrective techniques and the associated persistent and clinically significant rates of poor
      outcomes may indicate an incomplete treatment of the pathoanatomy of HV. Numerous recent
      publications have proved that the hallux valgus deformity should be viewed as a
      three-dimensional deformity. These recent studies have also pointed out new radiological
      parameters in AP and axial view, focusing on the multiplanar understanding of the deformity.
      The key challenge of the hallux valgus foot is the lack of clear guidelines for choosing the
      best treatment to these large group of patients. There is of today no guidelines nor
      consensus considering the indication for surgical treatment of the hallux valgus deformity.
      It is not known how much nuisance the patient should present before surgery could be
      worthwhile. Many studies have been made in the field of HV, but literature with the focus on
      comparing the surgical correction and the patient related clinical outcome is sparse and
      insufficient.

      In this project the investigators primary aim is to investigate radiological and clinical
      factors that predict outcome in participants operated for hallux valgus deformity.
    
  