
    
      Nuclear medicine uses ionizing radiation in order to diagnose and treat diseases and the
      different types of scans and therapies use different amounts and types of radiation which
      result in different exposures. For example in the UK the average natural background radiation
      levels is around 2.2 mSv and a Chest X-ray is about 0.014 mSv, which is equivalent to
      approximately 2.5 days of natural background radiation in the UK.

      When undergoing clinical nuclear medicine scans such as 99mTC-MDP bone scans and 18F-FDG
      PET/CT scans, two of the most common procedures within nuclear medicine the current
      information made available to patients from clinicians and current information leaflets for
      both procedures may not be detailed enough to enable patients to understand about radiation
      exposure and make an informed decision to undergo the procedures.

      With bone scans accounting for 27% of all conventional nuclear medicine procedures and
      18F-FDG PET/CT scans accounting for 78% of total number of PET/CT procedures across the trust
      and similarly across the majority of nuclear medicine departments in England, this
      questionnaire aims to capture current knowledge and awareness of patients in terms of
      radiation exposure when they are referred for a nuclear medicine scan, their views on the
      current appropriateness of leaflets provided and how would they would prefer to receive that
      information.

      This information will be used to potentially educate the medical staff on the need to
      correctly inform the patient with regards to radiation exposure; to standardize the
      information that is given to patients and to potentially design new information leaflets and
      request forms.

      The current trust leaflets across all nuclear medicine procedures involving an injection of
      radiopharmaceutical have the same explanation under "Is there any risk from the radiation?
      The amount of radiation involved is small and similar to the amount used in some x-ray
      procedures." When in actual fact the exposure from a bone scan is around 4 mSv and the
      exposure from an 18F-FDG PET/CT is around 14 mSv which is significantly differently.

      This is a cross sectional questionnaire study aimed at gaining a greater understanding of the
      patient perception and awareness of radiation exposure when undertaking a nuclear medicine
      99mTc-MDP bone scan or 18F- FDG PET/CT scan.

      Upon completion, patients will be given the fourth sheet of the cover letter with answers to
      questions on section 3. If patients have additional questions pertinent to the radiation
      exposure comparators they will be directed to the section on the cover letter where they can
      find more information regarding this subject. As appropriate questions will also be directed
      to the Principal Investigator who is Head of Radiation Protection at current Trust.
    
  