
    
      In this single-dose study conducted at at single center, 3 oral formulations of levofloxacin
      (tablet, suspension, and solution) were assessed for their bioequivalence in healthy men and
      women aged 18 to 55 years old. Subjects were assigned different treatments based on chance;
      both the researcher and the study participant knew the treatment being administered. The
      study consisted of a screening period, 3 open-label treatment periods separated by washout
      periods of at least 4 days between doses, and a post-treatment period. Subjects received a
      single dose of all 3 study formulations, administered as a single dose of each formulation on
      Day 1 of each treatment period. Blood samples were collected on Days 1, 2, and 3 of each
      treatment period immediately before dosing and at 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6, 10, 14,
      24, 30, 36, and 48 hours after dosing for measurement of levofloxacin concentration. Subjects
      were admitted to the study site prior to dosing and remained through the 48-hour measurements
      on Day 3. The post-treatment period included physical examination and clinical laboratory
      testing to ensure subject safety before being discharged from the study. Safety evaluations,
      including adverse event monitoring, standard clinical laboratory evaluations (hematology,
      serum chemistry, and urinalysis), vital sign monitoring, and physical examinations, were
      monitored throughout the study.

      Two cohorts of 36 subjects each were enrolled in the study. The first cohort received a
      single dose of study drug and completed Period 1; the study was then stopped and reinitiated.
      Subjects from the first cohort completed early termination procedures; their data were
      included in safety analyses, however, no blood samples for levofloxacin concentrations were
      analyzed or included in pharmacokinetic analysis. Thirty-four subjects in the second cohort
      completed all study procedures. Levofloxacin oral suspension (125 mg/5 mL), levofloxacin oral
      solution (125 mg/5 mL), and levofloxacin tablet (500 mg) administered on Day 1 of each
      treatment period.
    
  