
    
      In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-, exercise- and diet-controlled design, 60 subjects
      will participate in a 10-week study to determine the influence of selective protein timing on
      body composition, metabolic, and performance adaptations to resistance training. Diets will
      be individually standardized using the Cunningham equation adjusted for activity level to
      determine total maintenance calories. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins will represent 50,
      25, and 25 percent of the determined total calories. Diet counseling will occur weekly until
      stabilized and biweekly thereafter to ensure compliance with food and fluid intake. Protein
      will be distributed throughout the day as >0.30g/kg bw/meal for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
      Resistance training sessions will be supervised by research staff and occur 4 times per week
      and begin between 7 am and 5pm. Exercises will consist of single- and multi-joint exercises
      for all major muscle groups (legs, chest, back, shoulders, core, and arms), be performed for
      3-5 sets of 1-20 repetitions with 1-5 minutes rest between sets, and each muscle group will
      undergo 72-96 hours rest between training sessions within the periodized program. Protein
      supplements. In the treatment group, the casein supplement (40g calcium caseinate dissolved
      in water) will be consumed as the last meal (>2h following previous meal) before bed and the
      placebo (40g maltodextrin dissolved in water) either before resistance training, if training
      after 10am, or after resistance training, if before 10am. The control group will alternate
      consumption times of the casein supplement and placebo. The supplement (treatment group) or
      placebo (control group) will not be consumed within 3 hours of beginning or ending resistance
      training, nor will it be consumed within 3 hours of the first meal following waking. All
      groups will be provided with 0.30g/kg bw whey protein isolate immediately following training
      to facilitate recovery. Supplements will be consumed at a similar time of day on non-training
      days.
    
  