
    
      The primary aim is to test the comparative effectiveness of Programa Esperanza (Project Hope)
      a short-term culturally-modified psychosocial intervention for primarily Spanish-speaking
      Latino patients 55 years of age or older with depression and multiple medical
      conditions-compared to Enhanced Usual Care (EUC), the alternative choice in real-world care.
      The study will address the following questions:

      Primary Research Question: Among 250 low-income, primarily Spanish-speaking Latinos ≥55 years
      of age with high medical comorbidity, will Programa Esperanza improve: a) problem solving
      skills and behavior activation; b) depression-related outcomes; and b) physical functioning
      compared to EUC over the course of one year?

      Exploratory Research Questions:

        1. Do moderating conditions exist such that the intervention may be more or less effective
           for some patient subgroups compared to others?

        2. Will qualitative reports from our patient population and provider stakeholders provide
           key insights related to treatment effectiveness, acceptance and satisfaction, as well as
           adoption of the intervention within the patient-centered medical home (PCMH) setting?

        3. Among patients, interventionists, and organization leaders, are there high feasibility,
           fidelity, and acceptability of training and deployment of nontraditional
           interventionists to deliver the psychosocial treatment within the PCMH setting?

      Randomized Clinical Trial Design. The study will enroll 250 limited-English-speaking Latinos
      (55+ years) from the AltaMed Program of All Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), a
      geriatric patient-centered medical home model in Los Angeles County. Subjects who meet PHQ-9
      criteria for depression (i.e., score of 8 or greater) will be randomized to one of two study
      arms: either individually administered Problem Solving Treatment (PST) sessions (n=125)
      facilitated by bachelor's-level social workers under the supervision of a licensed clinical
      social worker; or EUC. Data collected at study enrollment will document past and baseline
      patient characteristics including baseline depression and depression severity scores.
      Assessment of depression trial outcomes, i.e., depression symptom level (PHQ-9); depression
      response and remission rates, and will be taken at 3, 6 and 12 months post randomization.

      Study Site. AltaMed is a nonprofit, federally-qualified health center and one of the oldest
      and largest providers of senior care services for older racial/ethnic minorities in the US
      for over 30 years. The sample will be recruited from enrollees across 8 licensed PACE
      treatment sites. PACE is an optional, capitated CMS managed care benefit that provides
      comprehensive medical and social services to frail people who disproportionately rely on
      Medicaid/Medicare services. Typical of other PACE programs, AltaMed offers a PCMH comprised
      of intensive health, therapeutic, and social services for adults at risk of nursing home
      institutionalization.

      Study Subjects/ Selection Criteria/ Recruitment and Enrollment. A total of 250 subjects who
      meet PHQ-9 criteria for depression (> 8 PHQ-9 score) will be selected for this randomized
      trial. for detecting major depressive disorder for cut-off scores as low as 8. Potential
      subjects will be selected from the pool of PACE enrollees and identified by AltaMed staff
      based on routine PHQ-9 screening conducted face-to-face or by telephone. Those who score
      positive for depression (> 8 PHQ-9 score) will be recruited and consented to participate in
      the study by either designated AltaMed staff or study research personnel. Inclusion criteria
      include: English- or Spanish-speaking Latino age 55 years or older; receiving services from
      any AltaMed PACE site; positive for depression (> 8 PHQ-9 score). In anticipation of
      attrition, the investigators will over-recruit subjects at enrollment by 10%.

      Procedures. Following screening of PACE enrollees by AltaMed staff, PACE study consenters
      will apprise potential subjects meeting study criteria of the study protocol and their
      eligibility and will be responsible for the initial consent procedures. Upon documented
      written consent, research personnel will conduct a face-to-face structured baseline interview
      as well as review any questions the participant may have regarding informed consent and the
      study. Randomization will be conducted at the level of the individual subject. Between 1 to 7
      days after the baseline interview, the study program coordinator will contact subjects and
      apprise them of their treatment status in the study.

      Comparators. Problem Solving Treatment. Individual, face-to-face PST sessions (as described
      above) over a span of 8 weeks will be held at PACE sites. The first session will last one
      hour while subsequent sessions will last 45 minutes. After the last PST session, each subject
      will have 3 monthly booster sessions (about 15 minutes). The PST protocol is intended to be
      highly structured, time-limited, and manual-driven; sessions include PST hand outs and
      homework as well as social and behavioral activation strategies, i.e., pleasant activities
      scheduling.

      Enhanced Usual Care. EUC patients will receive psychoeducational materials on depression and
      depression treatment of older persons. The materials are based on our prior work and are
      available in Spanish and English. EUC patients will continue to receive the full complement
      of PACE services (medical, rehabilitation, social) including referrals to specialty mental
      health services, if indicated.

      Data Collection. Consented patients will receive a 60 minute face-to-face baseline interview
      before randomization to be conducted by study personnel. Outcome interviews (60 minutes) will
      be conducted in-person by independent study interviewers. Data will be based on multiple
      sources: self-report and clinician-rendered diagnoses, anthropometric measures, medical
      records and claims data extraction.

      Qualitative study design and procedures. In order to address our secondary research questions
      the investigators will conduct in-depth and focus group interviews with our respective
      stakeholders.

      Patients: During the three post baseline assessment (and after the 3-month quantitative data
      collection) the investigators will conduct an open-ended component to assess more in-depth
      explorations of the treatment experience, and longer term issues that may emerge with PST or
      EUC. This component will be administered based on a guide/questioning route designed to
      collect in-depth information on the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention based
      on the subject's own perceptions and reactions to treatment. Dropouts as well as completers
      will be included. Providers (interventionists, AltaMed managers and executive leadership):
      The investigators will query providers based on a focus group approach: 2 separate groups of
      10 persons each.
    
  