
    
      PAST CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      The effect of the electric fields generated by the NovoTTF-100A device (TTFields) has been
      tested in two pilot trials in humans. The data from these trials suggest NovoTTF-100A may
      improve time to disease progression and overall survival of recurrent GBM patients. Although
      the number of patients in the pilot trials is small, The FDA has determined that the data
      gathered so far warrant testing of NovoTTF-100A treatment as a possible therapy for patients
      with recurrent GBM.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      Patients with GBM whose disease has recurred or progressed despite standard treatment
      (Surgery, radiation therapy, Temozolomide treatment) and meet all of the requirements for
      participation in the study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:

        1. Treatment with the NovoTTF-100A device, or

        2. Treatment with the best standard of care practiced at each of the participating centers.

      If assigned to the best standard of care group, patients will receive a chemotherapeutic
      agent chosen based on their prior treatments and the standard of care practiced at each
      treating center.

      If assigned to the NovoTTF-100A group, the patients will be treated continuously for as long
      as their disease is stable or regressing. NovoTTF-100A treatment will consist of wearing four
      electrically insulated electrodes on the head. Electrode placement will require shaving of
      the scalp before treatment. After an initial short hospitalization (24 hours) patients will
      be released to continue treatment at home where they can maintain their regular daily
      routine.

      During the trial, regardless of whether assigned to the NovoTTF-100A treatment group or the
      best standard of care group, patients will need to return once every month the hospital
      outpatient clinics where they will be examined by a physician and undergo routine laboratory
      examinations. These routine visits will continue for as long as the patient's disease is not
      progressing. After progression, if such occurs, patients will need to return once per month
      for two more months to the outpatient clinic for similar follow up examinations.

      During the visits to the clinic patients will be examined physically and neurologically.
      Additionally, routine blood tests and ECG will be performed. A routine MRI of the head will
      be performed at baseline and after 2, 4 and 6 months. After this follow up plan, patients
      will be contacted once per month by telephone to answer basic questions about their health
      status.

      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

      Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on
      metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of
      electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic
      particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

      Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues.
      TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their
      direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (200
      thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects
      on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the
      intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

      The breakthrough finding made by NovoCure was that finely tuned alternating fields of very
      low intensity, now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), cause a significant slowing in
      the growth of cancer cells. Due to the unique geometric shape of cancer cells when they are
      multiplying, TTFields cause the building blocks of these cells to move and pile up in such a
      way that the cells physically explode. In addition, cancer cells also contain miniature
      building blocks which act as tiny motors in moving essential parts of the cells from place to
      place. TTFields cause these tiny motors to fall apart since they have a special type of
      electric charge.

      As a result of these two effects, cancer tumor growth is slowed and can even reverse after
      continuous exposure to TTFields.

      Other cells in the body (normal healthy tissues) are affected much less than cancer cells
      since they multiply at a much slower rate if at all. In addition TTFields can be directed to
      a certain part of the body, leaving sensitive areas out of their reach.

      In conclusion, TTField hold the promise of serving as a brand new cancer treatment with very
      few side effects and promising affectivity in slowing or reversing this disease.
    
  