
    
      Two third of all persons with stroke have a reduced arm and hand function in the acute stage.
      Three months after the debut of stroke event, 50% of these patients will still have a
      remaining disability with chronic problems of hand function (Kwakkel et al., 2003; Lawrence
      et al., 2001). The consequences are grave for these individuals, considering arm and hand
      function to be important for independent living and related quality of life. In this context,
      an intervention, combining functional goal- and task- oriented exercises with a supportive
      orthotic device in the community-based rehabilitation unit and home environment, is
      hypothesized to increase perceived goal achievement, repetition, as well as the intensity of
      exercises. An initial feasibility study followed by a pilot randomized controlled trial could
      strengthen the evidence for the arm and hand interventions after stroke, and support the
      generalizability of the results to a larger sample.

      The exercise program is outlined in accordance with the Frequency, Intensity, Type and Time
      (FITT) principles of training. The proposed training adopts a task-oriented approach as
      practised today in the participating facilities. The program is standardized in close
      collaboration with physio- and occupational therapists on the basis of contemporary motor
      learning and exercise theories. An orthosis supporting the wrist will be used as supporting
      device, hypothetically enhancing the performance of the exercise groups.

      The intervention will be performed individually and will run for 12 weeks both at the
      community rehabilitation unit (3 times week for 3 weeks) and at home (9 weeks).

      Time: one session at the community rehabilitation unit is approximately 60 minutes with a
      focus on trunk, arm and hand training. Exercises at home will be carried out in minimum 2
      hours per day.

      Frequency: 5 days per week at home-exercises with/ without the orthotic device.

      Intensity: moderate to maximal in view of strength, muscle endurance and concentration, as
      evaluated individually by use of Borg scale.

      Type:

        1. fine motor coordination exercises such as pinch grip, writing, handling objects and
           stretching of fingers, hand, and wrist;

        2. various combined activities such as turning pages, distributing cards, washing up,
           folding laundry, sweeping floor;

        3. strengthening exercises such as gross motor exercises for trunk, arm, hand and fingers
           with and without weights.
    
  