
    
      Out of hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is major cause of morbidity and mortality around the
      world. Annually there is around 350.000 deaths in the Europe because of OHCA. Despite a great
      progress in prehospital and emergency medicine in recent years, there is no major increase in
      surviving OHCA. There are many factors which influence to the end result of OHCA. Till now we
      still don't know how to predict the outcome of cardiac arrest in early phase of
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).

      Today emergency teams use end-tidal CO2 values (etCO2) as an indirect marker of cardiac
      output and as an auxiliary indicator of return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). Higher
      values are also correlated with greater probability of ROSC.

      Studies in recent years showed that there could be another method which could help to predict
      the result of OHCA. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a noninvasive spectroscopic method,
      which uses light near to infrared electromagnetic spectrum of light. The device can, based on
      Beer-Lambert law, calculates tissue oxygenation of underlaid tissue. It is also useful in the
      states, where there is little or even no blood flow (cardiac arrest). NIRS is currently used
      in operating rooms and ICU, but there is also option to use it in prehospital environment.
      During cardiac arrest the blood flow through organs is very low or absent. This causes
      hypoxic-ischemic brain injury and also injury of other vital organs. Based on previous
      studies with NIRS, we can measure cerebral oxygenation by placing electrodes on patient's
      forehead. Patients with higher values had greater probability of ROSC. It is presumed, that
      NIRS values are indirect indicator of coronary perfusion pressure. It is known that higher
      coronary perfusion pressure is connected with higher oxygen concentration in the brain during
      cardiac arrest. NIRS can also predict re-arrest even before losing a pulse.

      Till today there are no studies which would look for correlation between cerebral and
      skeletal oxygenation during cardiac arrest.

      The investigator's study is monocentric, prospective, observational, nonrandomized taking
      place at Emergency department of University Medical Centre Ljubljana (UMC Ljubljana). There
      is also a Basic emergency first aid infirmary (Unit SNMP) of Community Health Centre
      Ljubljana, which will with it's prehospital units make the measurements. After an eyewitness
      of cardiac arrest will call on emergency number 112 a medical dispatcher will activate
      medical team with emergency doctor and send them to the location. Upon arrival the team will
      start CPR based on ALS protocol. As soon as possible one of team members will put two NIRS
      electrodes on the patient - one on the patient's forehead and the other on patient's thenar
      eminence on the hand. ALS protocol will not be modified in any way. The NIRS device (Nonin
      SenSmart Model X-100) will be turned on till the end of resuscitation or till arrival to the
      hospital (UMC Ljubljana).
    
  