
    
      This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial in which 120 patients undergoing elective
      laparoscopic colorectal resection will either undergo insufflation of the peritoneum with
      cold and dry (CD), control or warm and humidified (WH) CO2, experimental. Patients scheduled
      to undergo elective Laparoscopic Colon Resection (LCR) will be informed about the study and
      all questions answered. Consenting patients will be randomized (via envelope system) to have
      either standard cold (19-21°C) and nonhumidified (0%) CO2 or warm (37°C) and humidified (95%)
      CO2 utilized for their resection. To ensure that similar numbers of rectal resection patients
      are in each group, a separate envelop randomization will be used for colectomy and rectal
      resection cases.

      The study will be conducted at Mount Sinai West hospital. The ambient operating room
      temperature will be regulated to 70-72° F. All patients will undergo laparoscopic surgery.
      During laparoscopic surgery the camera and instruments are inserted into the abdomen via
      small incisions allowing for the surgeon to explore the whole abdominal cavity without making
      larger cuts. In order to create space for surgical procedures, insufflation with CO2 is used.
      Regarding the method of insufflation, subjects will be randomized into 2 groups: i) standard
      CD CO2 insufflation ii) Lexion Insuflow device providing warmed humidified CO2 insufflation
      (95° F and 95% relative humidity) The humidification and warming device to be used is the
      Insuflow Synergy Port (Lexion Company, FDA approved) which is a specialized 5 mm port that
      delivers warmed (95° F) and humidified (95% relative humidity) CO2, the source of which is a
      standard CO2 tank or wall source. This study was conceived and designed by the PI who
      approached Lexion seeking devices for the study. The company will provide no funds for the
      study and the data and all decision regarding presentation and publications are to be made by
      Mount Sinai West research team.

      Study patients will receive anesthesia according to the following regimen (Mount Sinai West
      anesthesia department has suggested this regimen and has agreed to abide by it for LCR
      patients unless there is a contraindication to this approach in a given patient): Induction
      anesthesia will include IV midazolam, IV fentanyl (3-5 mcg/kg), IV propofol, IV rocuronium,
      perioperative IV antibiotics, IV ondansetron for nausea prophylaxis, IV dexamethasone (8mg),
      IV acetaminophen 1000mg, and IV ketorolac 15 mg. Maintenance anesthesia will included IV
      fentanyl (1-2 mcg/kg/hr), sevoflurane or desflurane inhalational agent, and 100% oxygen.
      Fentanyl doses can be increased at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. 30-40 minutes
      before the end of the procedure, the intraoperative narcotics will be discontinued and
      hydromorphone PCA will be started. Patients will receive hydromorphone in the post anesthesia
      care unit according to the discretion of the anesthesiologist.

      Analysis: Data will be recorded by the Study RN and/or the research resident on a daily basis
      on Case Report Forms (paper) which will be entered into a HIPPA compliant dedicated study
      data base with access limited to study personnel and our data manager. The Non-parametric and
      parametric tests such as Kruskal-Wallis test and Analysis of Variance test shall be used to
      determine the impact of warm humidified vs cold dry CO2 on postoperative pain medication
      requirements as well as on other operative and short term clinical outcomes.
    
  