
    
      Nosocomial pneumonia is common in intensive care units (ICU) patients and is associated with
      increase in mortality rates by 24% to 76% in various studies. Interventions that effectively
      prevent nosocomial pneumonia are strategically important in order to reduce morbidity,
      mortality and healthcare costs. Colonization of the pharynx has been implicated as the
      reservoirs for pathogens causing nosocomial pneumonia and interventions like selective
      digestive decontamination have been tried to control this source of infection. Recently,
      colonization of the dental plaque by aerobic organisms with subsequent aspiration into the
      lower respiratory tract has received attention. Previous smaller studies using antiseptic
      agents to sterilize dental plaques in patients at risk of pneumonia have shown conflicting
      results. The present study aims to determine whether twice daily oral cleansing with 0.2%
      chlorhexidine reduces the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia in patients staying in the ICU
      for >48 hours.

      After obtaining informed consent, subjects would be randomized to treatment with either 0.2%
      chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG) solution or 0.01% potassium permanganate solution (PP) (Control
      Group), as per the protocol approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee. At baseline, the
      parameters which would be noted are: age, sex, surgical or non-surgical status,
      immunosuppression, chronic ailments, smoking and alcohol consumption, Glasgow coma scale
      score (GCS), laboratory parameters and blood gas analysis. All subjects would be followed up
      daily and the GCS, presence of nasogastric tube (feeds), endotracheal tube, tracheostomy,
      ventilator, central venous and urinary catheterization, anti-stress ulcer prophylaxis and
      prior antibiotic use will be noted. Presence or absence of nosocomial pneumonia would also be
      noted daily. Lower respiratory secretions would be obtained by the protected
      non-bronchoscopic mini-BAL technique in order to identify the causative organisms. All the
      subjects will be followed up daily until discharge from the ICU or death.

      Primary outcome variable was the development of nosocomial pneumonia during the ICU stay.
      Secondary outcome variables were hospital mortality, length of ICU stay.

      A total of 506 patients will have to be studied (approximately 253 patients in each treatment
      group). This study will have a statistical power of 75% to detect a 50% reduction in the
      incidence of nosocomial pneumonia in the intervention group with a 95% level of confidence
      assuming that incidence of pneumonia in the control group is 16%.
    
  