
    
      Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) is a rare non-Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Diagnosis of ECD
      is based on clinical symptoms, imaging and histology with infiltration of tissues by foamy
      CD68 positive+ CD1a negative histiocytes. The clinical course mainly depends on the extent
      and distribution of the disease, and ranges from asymptomatic bone lesions to
      life-threatening manifestations. The overall mortality remains high (22% of the 100 ECD
      patients seen at our institution in August 2013).

      Due to the rare nature of the disease (500 cases worldwide have been reported since 1930) no
      prospective therapeutic trial has been performed. Interferon alpha (IFN alpha), in its
      standard or pegylated forms, is the first line therapy for ECD. However, long-term IFN alpha
      treatment can lead to severe side effects. Moreover, some patients with CNS and/or
      cardiovascular infiltrations, the two lethal organ involvement, develop secondary resistance
      to high doses of IFN alpha. For refractory patients, anakinra, cladribine, tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors, or infliximab have been proposed as second line treatments. The optimal second
      line therapeutic strategy remains however to be defined, mostly because these treatments have
      been evaluated in only small numbers of patients.

      Because half of the ECD patients carry a BRAFV600E mutation, we recently proposed
      vemurafenib, an inhibitor of mutant BRAF, as a possible targeted therapy. We have treated 10
      patients with refractory ECD with life-threatening manifestations associated with the
      BRAFV600E mutation and observed a short and long term efficacy (median follow-up 9 months).

      However, vemurafenib may have several side effects and long term administration of this drug
      has not been evaluated. In other diseases such as melanoma, duration of administration is
      usually shorter, due to bad prognosis of the disease and progression despite treatment.

      As in long-term follow-up, ECD patients with vemurafenib seem to have a stable disease, we
      want to evaluate the possibility of treatment interruption as this is what we do in our
      current practice. Other BRAF inhibitors, such as dabrafenib, have recently been proposed for
      treating BRAF mutated histiocytoses.
    
  