
    
      Sepsis is a worldwide health problem, resulting in million of deaths each year. Sepsis caused
      by infectious diseases is also a common cause of death in children, and infectious diseases
      account for more than 50% of the deaths. The prevalence of sepsis and severe sepsis in
      children steadily rose in past decade. Although tremendous resources and efforts were
      consumed for the disease, the mechanism of sepsis is still unknown. However, sepsis 3.0
      recommended that sepsis should be defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a
      dysregulated host response to infection. Study found that sepsis is characterized by a
      hyperinflammatory immune response in early phase and suppression of immune system in the
      later phase of sepsis. There are 10% of the deaths in the early phase due to overwhelming
      inflammation presenting with fever, shock, and multiorgan failure, while 30% of deaths caused
      by superinfection occur in the later phase.

      Vitamin A, one of lipid soluble vitamins, plays an important role in immune system. Vitamin A
      deficiency increases the risk of infection, and vitamin A deficiency is highly prevalent
      among children, especially in developing country. Vitamin A is essential for T cells
      differentiation, induced regulatory T cells (iTregs) and Th17 cells balance, and
      orchestrating immune responses, etc, which contribute to the immune response in patients with
      sepsis.Our previous studies revealed that vitamin A deficiency presented in children with
      enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection was associated with reduced immunity and more severe
      illness.So we hypothesize that vitamin A or vitamin A deficiency may play an essential role
      in sepsis. However, data on status of vitamin A or prevalence of vitamin A deficiency in
      children with sepsis is limited.We conduct a study to to assess the status of vitamin A in
      critically ill children with sepsis and its association with the illness severity.

      There are three widely used score systems for measuring the illness severity in pediatric
      intensive care units: the pediatric risk of mortality (PRISM), the pediatric index of
      mortality (PIM) and the pediatric logistic organ dysfunction (PELOD) score. Though the three
      systems are validated in other populations, they are not commonly used in our population
      because lack of validation. We will evaluate the performance of the three tools in our
      population simultaneously in this study.
    
  