
    
      1.0 INTRODUCTION The association between parathyroidectomy and cardiovascular status
      improvement is still inconclusive. There is evidence to suggest that primary
      hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is associated with hypertension, whereas few studies show that
      hypertension does not reverse after surgical care. Moreover, left ventricular hypertrophy
      (LVH) is considered to be linearly associated with parathyroid hormone (PTH) and independent
      of hypertension. In addition, inflammatory changes in the cardiovascular system, which are
      expected to occur after parathyroidectomy, can be evaluated by assessing the levels of
      inflammation biomarkers, such as high-sensitivity C reactive protein (hs-CRP), increased
      levels of which are associated with high cardiovascular event rate. The investigators will
      evaluate cardiovascular system before and after parathyroidectomy by appraising the levels of
      hs-CRP, measuring Left Ventricular Mass Index (LVMI) and monitoring patients' blood pressure
      (BP) for 24 hours.

      Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) has also been associated with neuromuscular abnormalities.
      The typical symptoms are proximal muscle weakness and muscle atrophy, especially of type II
      fibers. Other symptoms are generalized fatigue, reduced well-being, hyperreflexia, abnormal
      gait and tongue fasciculations. Although, nowadays, most of the symptoms with which patients
      are presented are mild or completely absent probably because PHPT is detected at a
      preclinical stage. On the other hand, many "asymptomatic" patients preoperatively, report
      subjective amelioration after the surgery, with respect to muscle strength and function. The
      investigators will conduct clinical examination, focusing on neuromuscular status, assess
      motor nerve conduction velocity, using electroneurography (ENG) and muscle strength, using
      isokinetic dynamometers. Moreover, the investigators will evaluate neuromuscular junction
      with the help of electrodiagnostic techniques, such as electromyography (EMG). Finally, due
      to the fact that stapedius muscle is the smallest skeletal muscle in the human body, the
      investigators tend to measure stapedius reflex in order to test the hypothesis that there is
      association between acoustic reflex improvement and parathyroidectomy for PHPT.

      2.0 OBJECTIVES To detect and compare the changes in functional characteristics of muscles,
      which occur in patients who undergo surgery for primary hyperparathyroidism compared to
      patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and conservative treatment, patients undergoing
      thyroid surgery and healthy subjects.

      3.0 DESIGN AND STUDY POPULATION The study is designed as a prospective, multi-center,
      observational study. Any patient that has indication for a parathyroidectomy, as a
      therapeutic intervention, due to primary hyperparathyroidism will be considered eligible.

      3.1 Duration of the study The study will be conducted until all subjects of each category are
      included. It is estimated that it will take up to 12 months to enroll the patients and an
      additional 12 months to obtain the follow-up information

      4.0 STUDY PROCEDURE

      4.1 Pre-Surgery

      Procedures performed such as routine hospital examinations, antibiotic prophylactic
      treatment, anticoagulant treatment and diet will be according to the standard management
      protocol and will be recorded for the study. The following pre-surgery information will be
      recorded:

        1. Demographic information including: name, age, gender, ethnicity

        2. Height, weight, BMI and American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status
           classification system (I-VI)

        3. Behavioral history (Smoking, alcohol or drug use)

        4. Blood Pressure and Ultra Sound measurement of Left Ventricular Mass Index (LVMI)

        5. Neurological clinical examination

        6. Hearing and stapedius reflex assessment

        7. Electromyography and electroneurography

        8. Muscle strength status

        9. Preoperative labs [white blood cells (WBC), hematocrit (Ht), hemoglobin (Hgb), serum
           calcium (Ca2+), free triiodothyronine (fT3), free thyroxine (fT4), thyroid-stimulating
           hormone (TSH), PTH, vitamin D (VitD), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate
           dehydrogenase (LDH), hs-CRP]

       10. Diagnosis including clinical observations and previous imaging results

       11. Pre-operative characteristics of the adenoma

       12. Medications

       13. Questionnaire assessing subjects' physical activity

       14. Current and past history of surgical and medical comorbidities

      4.2 Intra-operative

      The surgeon will perform the preplanned operation. The following intraoperative variables
      will be recorded for all patients:

        1. Surgery date

        2. Duration of surgery

        3. Operation performed

        4. Procedure related comments

        5. Intraoperative frozen section

        6. Quick intraoperative parathyroid assay (intact PTH intra-operative values)

      4.3 Pathology data form

      The following pathology data will be recorded for all patients:

        1. Post-operative diagnosis including pathology report

        2. Weight of the adenoma

        3. Dimensions of the adenoma

      4.4 Postoperative follow-up

      Follow-up evaluation will be performed during hospitalization, at the 3rd, 6th and 12th
      month. The following information will be recorded:

        1. Postoperative labs (WBC, Ht, Hgb, Ca2+, fT3, fT4, TSH, PTH, VitD, CPK, LDH, Hs- CRP)

        2. Blood Pressure and Ultra Sound measurement of Left Ventricular Mass Index (LVMI)

        3. Neurological clinical examination

        4. Hearing and stapedius reflex assessment

        5. Electromyography and electroneurography

        6. Muscle strength status

        7. Questionnaire assessing subjects' physical activity

        8. Comments

      5.0 COMPLICATIONS AND ADVERSE EVENTS

      The investigator is required to notify the Ethics Committee of any serious adverse events,
      according to local regulations and requirements. Serious Adverse Events include:

        1. Death regardless of cause

        2. Any-life-threatening event

        3. Any hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization

        4. Any event that results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity to the
           patient.

      6.0 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The objective of this study is to detect and compare the changes in
      functional characteristics of muscles, which occur in patients who undergo surgery for
      primary hyperparathyroidism comparing with patients who do not, patients undergoing thyroid
      surgery and healthy subjects. All the subject will be matched in race, gender and age.

      Four groups will be formed:

        1. Group A, which includes patients with PHPT, undergoing parathyroidectomy, as a
           therapeutic intervention.

        2. Group B, which includes patients with PHPT, not undergoing parathyroidectomy and
           receiving conservative treatment. This group will be considered as control group.

        3. Group C, which includes patients undergoing thyroid surgery due to nontoxic multinodular
           goiter or solitary nontoxic thyroid adenoma. This group will be considered as control
           group.

        4. Group D, which includes healthy subjects. This group will be considered as control
           group.

      In order to efficiently evaluate the contribution of parathyroidectomy for PHPT in the
      functional alterations occurring after it, the investigators will search for significant
      statistical differences in pre- and postoperative alterations in muscles' functional
      characteristics in Group A, using repeated measure ANOVA for continuous variables and
      Cochran's Q test for categorical data.

      Furthermore, differences in functional characteristics of muscles between the four groups
      will be explored using ANOVA for continuous data and Fischer's Exact Test for categorical
      data. Baseline characteristics will be summarized using appropriate descriptive statistics.
      Statistical significance will be set at 0.05.

      Since the study does not have pre-specified hypotheses all statistical analyses are
      exploratory and interpretation of results should be within this context.

      7.0 DATA MONITORING PLAN The investigators are going to monitor all data accrual.
      Furthermore, the investigators will review the progress of the clinical trial including
      safety data and ensure as possible that it is conducted, recorded and reported in accordance
      with the protocol, good clinical practice and the applicable regulatory requirements.

      8.0 DATA CONFIDENTIALITY Each patient will be identified by his/her initials and a unique
      patient identification number. Source data will be stored with source documents. Only
      personnel responsible for collecting data and transcribing it into the case report forms will
      have access to the data. Records will remain on site in secure areas.

      9.0 FUNDING No additional funding for the execution of the present protocol is necessary. The
      investigators are willing to execute the present study without any additional reimbursement.

      10.0 ETHICS Prior to study institution review board (IRB) approval should be obtained. Any
      changes in the study protocol, informed consent forms, or investigator must be re-approved by
      the IRB. All patients enrolled in the study will provide their consent prior to entering the
      study. An informed consent form shall be signed and dated by the patient. The investigator
      will retain the forms as part of the study records.

      This study will be executed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, in agreement with
      the guidelines for conducting a clinical investigation in accordance with the principles of
      ICH (International Conference on Harmonization) GCP (Good Clinical Practice) outlined in the
      E6 document. By signing the present protocol, participants in the study commit themselves to
      carry it out in accordance with local legal requirements.

      11.0 INFORMED CONSENT All eligible patients should have the capacity to provide an informed
      consent. The above described inclusion and exclusion criteria were designed to ensure the
      entry of the appropriate population of patients to this study and will be approved by the
      local IRB. Screening for these criteria will be conducted by the coordinator. Eligible
      patients will be educated about the research proposal by a study investigator. To determine
      whether the patient has understood the issues, he/she will be asked to describe what the
      research entails and whether they have any questions. All questions will be addressed prior
      to enrollment. The patient can refuse participation in the study at any time. A written
      informed consent form will be generated. For each patient, a case report form (CRF) will be
      completed, providing general medical information and history.
    
  