
    
      Background:

        -  Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer death in the United States,
           claiming more than 40,000 lives each year.

        -  Incidence nearly equals mortality with just 6% of participants living five years beyond
           their diagnosis. Most patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage, but even patients
           with early stage disease have a long-term survival of less than 20%.

        -  Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare disease and just 3,000 patients are diagnosed with the
           extrahepatic form yearly. The median overall survival of patients with advanced disease
           receiving standard of care treatment is less than 1 year.

        -  Expression of mesothelin (MSLN) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) has been
           examined in several published studies and ranges from 86 to 100%. Similar incidence of
           expression has been observed in extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

        -  In addition to pancreatobiliary tumors, many other solid tumor types also express MSLN
           such as mesothelioma, colorectal, lung adenocarcinomas, epithelial ovarian, gastric and
           triple negative breast cancers, as well as some tumors of squamous cell origin.

        -  LMB-100 and a closely related immunotoxin also targeting MSLN have been studied in
           previous Phase 1 clinical studies for mesothelioma and pancreatic cancer.

        -  Results from these studies showed that almost all patients formed anti-drug-antibodies
           (ADAs) that neutralized subsequent injection of the product making it ineffective.

        -  Tofacitinib is an oral Janus Kinase-1 and -3 (JAK) inhibitor approved by the FDA for the
           treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative colitis.

        -  Pre-clinical studies have shown that tofacitinib can prevent the formation of ADAs
           against an immunotoxin closely related to LMB-100

        -  Co-administration of tofacitinib with immunotoxin increased immunotoxin serum half- life
           in mice and enhanced anti-tumor efficacy

        -  This clinical trial will investigate whether co-administration of tofacitinib with LMB-
           100 can prevent or delay the formation of ADAs and thus allow patients to receive
           additional effective cycles of LMB-100.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of the dose escalation phase of this study is to assess the safety
           and tolerability of LMB-100 given in combination with tofacitinib to patients with
           pancreatic adenocarcinoma, extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and other mesothelin-
           positive solid tumors

        -  The primary objective of the expansion phase of this study is to determine whether co-
           administration of tofacitinib delays formation of neutralizing anti-LMB-100 ADAs through
           cycle 2 of treatment (as measured by LMB-100 serum drug levels) in patients with
           pancreatobiliary cancers.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age >= 18 years

        -  Histologically confirmed solid tumor malignancy for which no curative therapy exists

        -  Participants must have received at least one prior systemic treatment regimen for their
           disease OR be ineligible to receive available standard treatments for their disease OR
           refused first-line standard systemic treatments but have been treated with other
           anti-cancer agents.

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase I study which will accrue up to 45 subjects total, accounting for screen
           failure.

        -  Participants will be co-treated for 3 cycles with tofacitinib given orally for the first
           10 days of each 21 day cycle, and LMB-100 given on days 4, 6 and 8.

        -  A 3+3 dose escalation schema will be used. Two dose levels are planned. One minus dose
           level could be utilized if dose de-escalation is necessary.

        -  Following identification of an optimal dose and schedule, an expansion phase of 15
           participants will be initiated at the optimal dose for patients with pancreatic
           adenocarcinoma and extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. At least 8 participants in the
           expansion phase must have pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

        -  Participants on the Dose Escalation and Dose Expansion Arms who appear to be obtaining
           clinical benefit from LMB-100/tofacitinib after 3 cycles of treatment may elect to
           receive additional cycles of therapy at the discretion of the PI.
    
  