
    
      Background:

        -  We generated a murine T-cell receptor (mTCR) that recognizes human thyroglobulin (hTG)
           in the context of HLA-A0201 and constructed a single retroviral vector that contains its
           alpha and beta chains and will confer hTG recognition to HLA-A0201+ PBL on transduction.

        -  In co-cultures with HLA-A0201+, hTG+ target cells, anti-TG mTCR transduced T cells
           secrete significant amounts of IFN- >= with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  To determine the safety of administering PBL transduced with this anti-TG mTCR in
           concert with preparative lymphodepletion and high dose interleukin-2 (IL-2;
           aldesleukin).

        -  Determine if these mTCR-transduced PBL can mediate the regression of TG-expressing
           tumors.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are HLA-A*0201 positive and 18 years of age or older must have

      -Advanced TG-expressing thyroid cancer (including those with bone-only disease) which has
      progressed after surgery (if indicated) and radioiodine ablation

      Patients may not have:

      -Contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  PBMC obtained by leukapheresis will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and
           aldesleukin in order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of these cells to retroviral vector supernatant
           containing replication-incompetent virus encoding the anti-TG mTCR.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  On day 0 patients will receive their PBL transduced with the anti-TG mTCR and then begin
           high dose aldesleukin.

        -  A complete evaluation of evaluable lesions will be conducted approximately 4-6 weeks
           after treatment.

        -  The study will be conducted using a Phase I/II optimal design.

        -  The objective will be to determine if the combination of high dose aldesleukin,
           lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, and anti-TG mTCR-gene engineered lymphocytes is able
           to be associated with a clinical response rate that can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor
           of a modest 20% PR + CR rate (p1=0.20).

        -  A total of up to 68 patients may be required; approximately 25 patients in the phase I
           portion of the study and 43 (41, plus an allowance of up to 2 non-evaluable) patients in
           the phase II portion of the study.
    
  