
    
      The patients will be divided in two groups using a computer generated randomization software.
      The first will be the MACPERAN group (controlled) and the other will be the NEWBUTIN group
      (variable). The controlled group will be treated with post-operative regimen in accordance
      with the standard protocol of the Chungmu Hospital, MACPERAN(Metoclopramide hydrochloride
      monohydrate 8.46 mg/2ml/A) thru IV twice in a day while the variable group will be given a
      single dose of NEWBUTIN SR 300 mg Tab orally one hour prior to the said operation time and
      another 300 mg orally as soon as the patient wakes post operatively.

      A clinical research coordinator will monitor the patient until 48 hours post-operative. First
      time frame will be from 0-2 hours once patient is transferred to the ward followed by 2 hours
      to 24 hours and 24-48 hours post ward transfer. All patients will be assessed using the
      simplified risk score of Apfel et al. to determine who have the risk factors for PONV. The
      episodes of nausea and vomiting will be recorded taking note of its intensity and frequency
      on the said three time frames. Nausea is defined as a subjectively unpleasant sensation
      associated with an awareness of the urge to vomit; vomiting is defined as the forceful
      expulsion of gastric contents through the mouth. As retching is similar to vomiting in all
      aspects, except for the expulsion of gastric contents, it was considered as vomiting. The
      efficacy of anti-emetic medication (NEWBUTIN 300 mg/tab) will be assessed by monitoring the
      frequency and severity of nausea, vomiting, and PONV (which was regarded as the primary
      outcome). The severity of nausea will be graded on a four-point scale, where 0= no nausea, 1=
      mild nausea, 2= moderate nausea, and 3= severe nausea.Then the frequency will be assessed by
      monitoring how often the patient experienced these episodes (nausea and vomiting)during the
      said time frames.
    
  