
    
      Patients with diabetes may not understand the importance of annual dilated eye examinations
      or recognize the benefits of early detection of diabetic eye disease. The goal of this study
      is to compare the efficacy of usual care to an intervention emphasizing patient education
      targeted at a multicultural adult patient population with diabetes seeking eye care in an
      academic health center. The specific aims of this study are to evaluate patient knowledge of
      preventive health strategies for diabetes as they pertain to eye health and vision care, to
      assess patient satisfaction with eye and vision care, and to promote interdisciplinary
      collaboration in the care of patients with diabetes.

      Ninety patients were randomized to two arms representing usual care and an intervention
      emphasizing patient education targeted at English-speaking adults with diabetes seeking eye
      care in an academic health center. The project was developed within the Health Professions
      Division at Nova Southeastern University.

      Participation was comprised of a comprehensive eye health and vision examination, patient
      education, and completion of study instruments described below. A demographic survey
      documenting patient age, sex, physician-reported HbA1C, education, and birthplace was
      administered to all patients at baseline. Race and ethnicity were self reported using
      categories in current use by the National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health
      (Bethesda, MD).

      Patients assigned to the intervention were provided with a written report at the conclusion
      of the examination. The triplicate form included a report of eye examination findings with a
      copy designated for the medical record, the primary care physician, and the patient. The back
      side of the patient's copy included educational materials targeted at a layperson while the
      physician's copy included information directed at a primary health care provider.

      Patients assigned to usual care received patient education at the discretion of the eye care
      provider. Following the initial examination, all medical records were reviewed with attention
      to communication with other health care providers, as well as other issues related to
      continuity and coordination of care. Patients assigned to usual care were mailed additional
      written educational materials at the conclusion of the study, after all study instruments had
      been completed.

      Patients assigned to the intervention were invited to participate in a supplementary seminar
      that reinforced the educational message delivered at the time of the initial examination. A
      multidisciplinary (optometry, pharmacy, endocrinology) patient education curriculum
      incorporating materials from the National Eye Health Education Program (NEHEP) Diabetic Eye
      Disease Public Education Program, the "ABC's of diabetes", an interactive activity, and a
      question and answer session was developed for patients randomized to the intervention.
    
  