
    
      The S2DS is a prospective observational study of people with prediabetes or T2DM recruited
      from Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and the neighbouring University Health Network Toronto
      Rehabilitation Institute Cardiac Rehabilitation Program. Participants recruited from
      Sunnybrook are receiving care from services there (e.g. Family Medicine, Endocrinology, and
      the Sunnybrook Diabetes Education Centre). Participants recruited from the Toronto Rehab are
      undertaking a 6-month stepped hybrid (home and clinic based) aerobic plus resistance exercise
      intervention as part of a program at that site (e.g. the Diabetes, Exercise, and Healthy
      Lifestyle Program).

      Study assessments are conducted at baseline, 3 months, 6 months and 18 months. Main outcomes
      include cognitive performance, assessed using a detailed neurocognitive battery, and mood
      symptoms assessed via research criteria for a depressive episode and self-report instruments.
      Other lifestyle factors are also examined, including physical activity, sleep quality, diet,
      and subjective stress. Diabetes complications and characteristics are monitored, as are all
      concomitant medications and supplements. With permission, participant data are linked
      prospectively to public health records to ascertain long-term outcomes and health services
      utilization.

      The cohort is characterized using biological, neuroimaging and biometric measures. Fasting
      morning blood and urine samples are taken at each assessment. Serum, plasma, whole blood, and
      white blood cells are bio-banked for biochemical, genetic and other analyses. The MRI study
      includes a 1.5 hr MRI scan at 3.0 T. Sequences performed include structural imaging (T1, T2,
      DTI and FLAIR) and resting state functional MRI. Two optional sub-studies are offered: a
      cerebrovascular reactivity MRI protocol, and a sleep quality and apnea protocol (baseline, 6
      month and 18 month visits). The sleep study uses an overnight wearable sleep monitor.
    
  