
    
      Optimal care of the pregnant trauma patient requires prompt and efficient care by a
      multidisciplinary team to evaluate both maternal and fetal status. Approximately 7% of
      pregnancies are complicated by trauma and traumatic injury remains the leading cause of
      non-obstetric maternal death.1-3 In the case of major or life-threatening trauma in
      pregnancy, assessment and stabilization of maternal cardiovascular and respiratory status is
      paramount and management is generally dictated by standard adult advanced cardiovascular
      support algorithms. In contrast, the evaluation and management of minor trauma in pregnancy
      is variable and often provider dependent.4-7 Regardless of the clinical and laboratory
      evaluation performed, the universal goal is to prevent maternal injury or death and optimize
      pregnancy outcomes.

      Maternal trauma has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcome, including preterm labor,
      abruptio placenta, uterine rupture and fetal death.8, 9 Traditional trauma scoring systems
      correlate well with the severity of maternal injury and are useful in triaging the mother;
      however, these scoring systems have not been predictive of adverse pregnancy outcome.10,11
      Major or life-threatening maternal trauma, which includes maternal shock, head injury
      resulting in coma, and emergency laparotomy for maternal indications is associated with a
      40-50% fetal loss rate as compared to 1-5% in pregnant women after minor trauma. The risk of
      preterm labor after maternal trauma is increased 2-fold and the prevalence of abruptio
      placenta after minor blunt abdominal trauma is reported at 8%. 3,6-9,12

      Upon initial evaluation in the obstetrical triage setting, the examination of maternal trauma
      patients is focused on detection of impending labor or abruptio placenta. This evaluation
      includes detailed history of the accident, physical examination, abdominal and transvaginal
      ultrasound to evaluate placental location and/or evidence of placental abruption and cervical
      length, external uterine contraction monitoring, continuous fetal heart rate monitoring and
      blood tests such as CBC, blood type, coagulation profile and Kleihauer-Betke staining.
      Although much has been written on the subject of trauma during pregnancy, there is little
      concrete data on objective measures which can be used to dictate triage and management
      decisions. A recent study by Cahill et al.13 has advocated for review of the extensive
      evaluations often performed after maternal trauma, specifically minor trauma, because they
      determined that none of the commonly used clinical and laboratory measures are predictive of
      adverse outcomes. Identification of laboratory measures predictive of impending delivery due
      to placental abruption will potentially enable physicians to individualize triage and
      evaluation of the maternal trauma patient, as well as direct treatment and management.

      Fetal fibronectin is an extracellular matrix protein that is normally found in the fetal
      membranes and decidua.14 It is essentially an adhesive glycoprotein or "glue" at the
      maternal-fetal interface. In a normal pregnancy, fFN is undetectable in vaginal secretions
      from weeks 22 to 35. Disruption of the maternal-fetal interface causes the release of fFN
      into cervical and vaginal secretions. Detection of fFN before the normal onset of labor is an
      indicator of preterm birth risk, allowing opportunity to provide appropriate intervention.
      According to previous studies, the clinical utility of fFN lies in its negative predictive
      value. In non-trauma patients, the sensitivity of fFN in predicting impending delivery
      (within 7 days) is greater than 90%. A negative fFN result can be used to rule out impending
      deliver with greater than 99% certainty.15

      Because abruptio placenta secondary to maternal trauma is the result of shearing forces
      separating the placenta from the uterine decidua, this outcome could potentially be predicted
      by a positive fFN result. This study is therefore undertaken to determine if the presence of
      fFN in cervicovaginal secretions is predictive of impending delivery or placental abruption
      in patients with maternal trauma. With better knowledge of the probable outcomes following
      maternal trauma and using the appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic modalities, optimal care
      following minor maternal trauma for the pregnant patient and fetus can be provided.
    
  