
    
      Hypothesis:

      CPAP application in SDB-diagnosed parturients will decrease fetal and maternal morbidity.

      Specific Aims:

      1. To screen women after their first trimester of pregnancy that are at risk for carrying
      babies with fetal growth restriction (FGR) for presence of SDB (FGR is commonly diagnosed at
      20 weeks gestation by ultrasound as standard of care) and to follow their diagnosis and
      treatment with CPAP, as per standard of care, for the remainder of their pregnancy or order
      to follow fetal and maternal outcomes.

      a. Screen = parturients affirm presence of snoring. b. Screen positive parturients are
      further assessed with 1-2 nights of ambulatory sleep and respiration monitor to confirm SDB
      b. SDB positive parturients are offered treatment, as per standard of care, with CPAP.

      c. Screen positive parturients are reassessed with 1-2 nights of ambulatory sleep monitoring
      (whether or not CPAP is eventually applied) at two more intervals during pregnancy (during
      second and third trimesters), and then 6-8 weeks after delivery.

      This study is designed as a prospective observational cohort study in order establish the
      concurrence of the disease (SDB) as it occurs with the increased "risk" or exposure to the
      vulnerable state (pregnancy) and presence of diagnosed fetal growth restriction. In addition,
      parturients who test positive for SDB will be assessed by a pulmonologist and offered
      standard of care therapy with CPAP, as appropriate. CPAP use will then be followed and
      assessed as a mitigating intervention to blunt fetal growth restriction. This study is a
      pilot in that we hope to establish the incidence of co-morbidities in order to appropriately
      plan for an adequate sample size in future intervention studies. Given the large overall
      parturient population that will be available to the study team, we believe that in one
      calendar year we will observe sufficient patients to establish the relationship of SDB during
      the antenatal pregnancy and fetal growth restriction.
    
  