
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF), the most frequently treated cardiac arrhythmia, impairs quality of
      life and increases stroke risk and mortality. Despite advances in antiarrhythmic drug
      therapy, AF remains uncontrolled in many patients. More effective measures to prevent, treat
      and potentially cure AF are needed. Ectopic foci originating from pulmonary veins (PVs)
      initiate AF in many patients. PV isolation (PVI), in which PV conduction is eliminated by
      catheter ablation, has emerged as an effective treatment in selected patients. However AF
      recurs in up to 50%, due to recovery of PV conduction. Dormant PV conduction (PV conduction
      suppressed at time of PVI with subsequent recovery) has been proposed to explain recurrences.
      We demonstrated that adenosine can restore conduction in viable PVs after attempted PVI by
      activating outward K+-currents, leading to selective hyperpolarization of PV cardiomyocytes
      and removal of voltage-dependent Na+-channel inactivation. Thus, adenosine can be used to
      differentiate permanent PV-atrial block from dormant PV conduction and to identify the need
      for additional ablation. We recently performed a pilot study in 47 patients, in whom
      adenosine was used to guide additional ablation. Results were compared to 47 historical
      controls. Dormant conduction was observed in 55% of patients undergoing PVI and additional
      adenosine-guided ablation decreased the AF recurrence rate from 49% to 21%. An
      adequately-powered prospective randomized controlled clinical trial is required to confirm
      these findings.

      The primary objective of the proposed ADVICE trial is to evaluate the impact of
      adenosine-guided PVI in preventing AF recurrences among patients with paroxysmal AF. We
      hypothesize that a PVI ablation strategy that incorporates elimination of dormant conduction
      unmasked by intravenous adenosine will decrease symptomatic AF recurrence compared to
      standard PVI, without incurring significant additional risk. This prospective randomized
      study will be conducted at 15 clinical centers in Canada, Europe and Australia. Patients with
      paroxysmal AF referred for PVI will be recruited. Standard PVI will be performed in all
      patients until elimination of PV conduction. All patients will subsequently receive
      intravenous adenosine in an attempt to unmask dormant conduction. If dormant conduction is
      elicited, patients will be randomized to no further ablation (Group 1; control) or additional
      adenosine-guided ablation until dormant conduction is abolished (Group 2; adenosine-guided
      PVI). If no dormant conduction is revealed, randomly selected patients will be followed in a
      registry to further assess the role of dormant conduction as a predictor of AF recurrence.
      Portable electrocardiographic monitors will be provided to all patients. The primary outcome
      will be the time to first documented symptomatic AF episode post-PVI based on an
      intention-to-treat analysis. Since symptomatic AF recurrence is anticipated in 45% of
      controls, 210 patients with dormant conduction are required in order to be able to detect a
      difference of 20%, with a power of at least 85%. Assuming the presence of dormant conduction
      in a minimum of 40% of patients after standard PVI, 526 patients will be enrolled in the
      study. Enrolment is expected to be completed within 12 months, with all patients followed for
      12 months.

      Demonstrated superiority of an adenosine-guided PVI ablation strategy would represent a major
      advancement in refining the interventional approach for AF. The ADVICE trial carries the
      potential, therefore, to alter the standard of care and benefit patients with AF by reducing
      arrhythmia recurrence, hospitalizations and the need for repeat interventions
    
  