
    
      Operating rooms are dynamic places where advanced technology is used, and teamwork is best
      exhibited. Operating room personnel face many biological, physical, and infectious risk
      factors. One of these risk factors is ionizing radiation. Radiation in the operating room may
      be spread from non-ionizing devices such as portable X-ray devices and lasers, as well as by
      radiological methods such as X-ray and fluoroscopy, which have been widely used in recent
      years as it shortens the duration of surgery.

      Radiation is used in many applications in operating rooms and long-term exposure to radiation
      may occur. Operation room personnel are affected by radiation in three different ways:
      direct, reflection, and leakage. Influence in the form of leakage is associated with the
      fluoroscope use and the reflection may occur by transfer from the patient's body or from the
      objects in the operating room.

      Radiation can cause serious adverse effects on hematopoietic, immune, reproductive,
      circulatory, respiratory, musculoskeletal, endocrine, nervous, digestive, and urinary
      systems. The negative effects of radiation exposure are generally defined in two ways. The
      first is acutely occurring determinant effects, and the second is later occurring
      probabilistic effects. Determinant effects occur as a result of exposure of cells to
      radiation, in addition to being directly related to cell death. These effects may result in
      infertility, cataract, leukemia, skin burns, and death. Probabilistic effects are associated
      with the absorption of radiation accumulated in tissues and may occur even at the lowest
      dose. Genetic disorders and cancer formation are some of the consequences of probabilistic
      effects.

      The use of protective equipment has a very important role in reducing radiation exposure. The
      use of masks ensures protection from respiratory hazards, the use of protective clothing
      ensures that the radioactive substance does not damage the skin and hair, and the use of
      personal dosimeters ensures the management of the duration of stay in an area with high
      radiation levels and the monitoring of accumulated doses. Accordingly, the radiation exposure
      of the operating room nurses is very high. Therefore, nurses should have sufficient
      information about radiation and protection from radiation. This study was carried out to
      evaluate the knowledge level and attitude of operating room nurses about radiation exposure.
    
  