
    
      Stroke is classically characterized as a neurological deficit attributed to an acute focal
      injury of the central nervous system by a vascular cause, including cerebral infarction,
      intracerebral haemorrhage, and subarachnoid haemorrhage, and is a major cause of disability
      and death worldwide. Stroke is the second leading cause of death and the third leading cause
      of disability. Stroke, the sudden death of some brain cells due to lack of oxygen when the
      blood flow to the brain is lost by blockage or rupture of an artery to the brain, is also a
      leading cause of dementia and depression. Stroke kills about 140,000 Americans each year
      that's 1 out of every 20 deaths. In Pakistan, the stroke incidence of 95 per 100,000 persons
      per year for the following Years 2000 to 2016, with the highest incidence being 584,000 of
      650,000, noted among individuals aged 75 to 85. The paretic upper limb is a common and
      undesirable consequence of stroke that increases activity limitation. A number of
      interventions have been published evaluating the effect of various rehabilitation methods
      improving upper extremity control and functioning. Mirror therapy is a relatively new
      therapeutic intervention which is simple, inexpensive and most importantly patient-directed
      treatment that focuses on moving the unimpaired limb. It was first introduced by Ramachandran
      and Roger Ramachandran to treat phantom limb pain after amputation.The principle of mirror
      therapy (MT) is use of a mirror to create reflective illusion of an affected limb in order to
      trick the brain into thinking movement has occurred without pain. It involves placing the
      affected limb behind a mirror, which is sited to the reflection of the opposing limb appears
      in placing of the hidden limb. During performing the tasks with the unaffected hand, the
      participants were instructed to move their affected arm synchronically in the same way while
      viewing the mirror during the practices with the unaffected arm, the participants were
      instructed to move their affected arm synchronically while viewing the mirror. Repetitive
      facilitative exercise (RFE), a combination of high repetition rate and neuro facilitation, is
      a recently developed approach to the rehabilitation of stroke-related limb impairment. The
      RFE sessions used a novel facilitation technique to elicit movements of the shoulder, elbow
      and each finger isolated from synergy and give sufficient physical stimulation, such as by
      the stretch reflex or skin-muscle reflex that is elicited immediately before or at the same
      time as when the patient makes an effort to move his hemiplegic hand or finger. Functional
      recovery of the hemiplegic upper limb and hand might depend on the repetition of voluntary
      movements elicited by the RFEs, especially when they are influenced by a synergistic pattern.
      Principles for selection and treatment included the following: (1) an emphasis on the
      proximal musculature, given its role in stabilizing distal movements, gradual increases in
      movement difficulty with a goal of maintaining movement purity and avoiding synergy; and
      consideration of the importance/nature of the movement (eg, the first and second fingers were
      trained separately and the third and fourth together to facilitate the acquisition of pinch.
      This aim of the study is to improve the function of the upper limb in post-stroke hemiparesis
      patient. Repetitive Facilitation exercise has proved beneficial effects for improving upper
      limb function on stroke patients. There is also different opinion about the effectiveness of
      Mirror therapy on upper limb function. So the purpose of my study is to investigate whether
      Mirror Therapy or Repetitive Facilitation exercise is more effective in improving upper limb
      function in Stroke patients.
    
  