
    
      Hemodialysis vascular access dysfunction continues to be a major source of morbidity and
      mortality in patients with ESRD1. After the publication of the dialysis outcome quality
      initiative guidelines, endovascular interventions gradually replaced surgical revisions as
      the primary treatment of dysfunctional dialysis access2. Although percutaneous transluminal
      angioplasty (PTA) can achieve a high success rate, recurrent stenosis and thrombosis are
      usually inevitable3, 4. As a result, repeated interventions are required and cause a
      substantial financial burden on the health care system. Intimal hyperplasia at the outflow
      vein is the most common cause of vascular access dysfunction5. Thrombosis may develop
      secondary to outflow venous stenosis, but it can also develop without underlying anatomic
      abnormalities6.

      Thrombosis is the most common cause of secondary vascular access failure (i.e., failure of
      functioning vascular access) and is associated with luminal stenosis in 60% to 80% of cases.
      However, because 20% to 40% of cases of access thrombosis occur in the absence of stenosis,
      and because not all stenotic accesses thrombose, other factors must contribute to access
      thrombosis.7 Among other factors, low-flow states secondary to low BP have been proposed to
      precipitate access thrombosis.8 These putative causes of access thrombosis make intuitive
      sense, but few studies have actually examined these factors in a systematic manner.

      The relation between blood pressure and access thrombosis is complex. Very few studies have
      addressed on this issue. Unlike in the general population, blood pressure is not linearly
      associated with adverse outcomes in hemodialysis patients. Traditionally, high blood pressure
      is a well-known risk factors of intimal hyperplasia and thrombosis. Nonetheless, lower BP may
      also lead to decreased access blood flow, which has been shown to independently predict
      subsequent access thrombosis.9 In addition to the static component of blood pressure, blood
      pressure variability (BPV) is closely associated with adverse outcomes in patients with or at
      risk of vascular disease than 'usual' BP.10 They may play a causal role in the progression of
      organ damage and in triggering vascular events. BPV is categorized as either long or short
      term, based on the time interval over which it is considered.11 Long term BPV is usually
      measured as visit-to-visit BPV and can be considered in intervals of days, weeks or months.
      In the dialysis patients, the long term BPV is typically defined on the basis of BP
      measurements taken at the start of hemodialysis treatment (inter-dialytic BPV). Short-term
      BPV is usually measured by ambulatory BP monitoring or during specified short-time intervals.
      Among dialysis patients, short-term BPV can be considered in terms of variability that
      occurred during hemodialysis treatment (intra-dialytic BPV).

      4 BP variability is known to be increased in patients with ESRD.12 Among patients undergoing
      hemodialysis, potential causes of high BP variability such as baroreceptor dysfunction,
      aortic stiffness, and variations in intravascular volume, as well as plausible outcomes such
      as cerebral small-vessel disease, cerebral hemorrhage, and cardiac sudden death are increased
      compared to the general population.13, 14 Therefore, increased BP variability may provide a
      potential explanation for access thrombosis among patients undergoing hemodialysis.
      Currently, only one study by Cheung et al has focused on the effect of BP variability. Lower
      pre-and post- dialysis SBP is associated with a higher rate of access thrombosis, consistent
      with previous studies.15, 16 More importantly, intradialytic hypotension is also a risk
      factor for access thrombosis and may account for some of the 20% to 40% of cases without
      obvious structural abnormalities.16 Nonetheless, most access thrombotic events did not occur
      during the dialysis session. It remained unclear if inter-dialysis BP variability is also a
      risk factor for vascular access thrombosis. The answer to these queries is of therapeutic
      relevance because the achievement of the recommended target BP in dialysis patients may be
      associated with higher rates of inter- or intra-dialytic hypotension.17 Accordingly, we aimed
      to investigate the effect of intra-dialysis BPV, inter-dialysis BPV, and intra-dialysis
      hypotension on thrombosis of hemodialysis vascular access.We also aimed to evaluate the
      determinants of BPV in hemodialysis patients, including medication, frailty, fluid status and
      autonomic function. The impact of autonomic function and frailty on the outcomes of vascular
      access and cardiovascular events will be evaluated as well.
    
  