
    
      Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative Colitis (UC) is the most common of the inflammatory bowel
      diseases, with approximately 146,000 sufferers in the UK (NICE, 2011). Unlike other
      inflammatory bowel diseases, the inflammation in UC affects only the large bowel, starting at
      the rectum and extending proximally (towards the mouth end of the gut). Three in four
      patients are managed with medical treatments with acceptable control of their disease, but
      patients may require surgical removal of their large bowel for several reasons. The one in
      four patients who have their colon removed (colectomy) either need an emergency operation for
      infection, perforation or bleeding, or a planned operation for failure of medical management,
      intolerance to medication, cancer or steroid dependence (1). Because the inflammation is
      confined only to the colon, this surgery is curative.

      Having removed the large bowel, there are options with regard to what to do with the end of
      the remaining small bowel, the ileum. In 1978 Professor Sir Alan Parks and Professor John
      Nicholls publicised their operation for 'restorative proctocolectomy' (RPC) folding and
      suturing together loops of small bowel to create a 'pouch' to take over the reservoir
      function of the rectum, and giving the patient the chance of continence without the need for
      a stoma (2,3). This operation has become extremely popular over the last 38 years, and is
      considered internationally to be the gold standard for 'restorative proctocolectomy' in
      patients who choose not to have a permanent stoma (4).

      The operation has been refined in the years since it's introduction (5), with roughly two
      thirds of patients enjoying acceptable function. However, the complications associated with
      creating an RPC; notably pelvic sepsis, fistulae, poor mechanical function and inflammation,
      mean that the cumulative rate of pouch failure is roughly 5% at five years, and up to 15% at
      15 years (Ryoo et al. 2014; Remzi et al. 2015; Sherman et al. 2014; R. et al. 2012;
      Papadopoulos et al. 2010).

      Pouch-Related Septic Complications St Mark's Hospital has one of the largest UK cohorts of
      patients with RPCs, and is a tertiary referral centre for pouch complications. Of the reasons
      for pouch failure, chronic pelvic sepsis is the major cause, at 50 to 60%. This is a long
      term infection in the pelvis around or near the pouch, causing inflammation and poor
      function.

      The pouch itself may become inflamed, known as pouchitis, and the cause for this is unknown,
      but it is hypothesised that the inflammation is caused by a change in the type of bacteria
      present in the pouch as opposed to the small bowel when it was in normal continuity.

      Generally speaking, the management of pelvic sepsis causing pouch function is to surgically
      or radiologically drain the pelvic collection, or eventually surgically remove the pouch. The
      management of pouchitis (primary idiopathic pouchitis) is primarily with antibiotics, but in
      prolonged cases where antibiotics have been ineffective it may be in the patient's benefit to
      treat the inflammation with steroids or 'biologic' medications. These medications act by
      suppressing the body's innate immune response, and it would be inappropriate to use these
      medications if the true cause of inflammation is ongoing sepsis in the pelvis because this
      infection would likely become significantly worse, causing systemic infection (sepsis).

      Unpublished research from St Mark's completed at the end of 2015
      http://scripties.umcg.eldoc.ub.rug.nl/root/geneeskunde/2016/PloegVvander/ showed that in 68
      patients treated for primary idiopathic pouchitis, 38% had an incidental pre-sacral
      collection identified on MRI, potentially consistent with pelvic sepsis driving the
      inflammation, rather than the inflammation rising primarily from the pouch itself.

      Five patients went on to have drainage of the pelvic sepsis, with resolution of symptoms in
      only one. Therefore, based on this series, the significance of a pre-sacral collection on MRI
      in the context of pouchitis is unknown. Beyond this, it is not known how often this finding
      may be present as a 'normal variant' in patients with normal functioning pouches. The
      proposed trial would help to guide clinical management of patients with pouchitis and
      pre-sacral collections.

      Pouch Evacuatory Dysfunction

      A different type of problem with ileal pouches is the inability to easily evacuate the pouch.
      The majority of patients with normally functioning pouches, pressure to open their bowels is
      felt just like people with normal anatomy. Some patients have difficulty evacuating the
      pouch, often without an obvious inflammatory or anatomical cause. These patients are often
      investigated with defaecating pouchography, which is an investigation using moving x-ray
      images of radio-opaque contrast material being evacuated by the patient. A study conducted at
      St Mark's and published in August 2016 (11) demonstrated that this investigation has a
      relatively poor diagnostic value, partly due to the fact that there is no established range
      of normal findings. Using moving MRI images in patients with normal anatomy (called MRI
      defaecating proctography) is replacing the use of x-ray moving images (fluoroscopy) as there
      is as much, if not greater detail on the images, and there is no radiation exposure for the
      patient.

      This study would be a pilot trial of the use of defaecating MRI in patients with pouches,
      (defaecating MRI pouchography) to establish whether the technique translates to patients with
      pouches instead of a rectum, and to establish what the range of normal findings are before
      going on to utilise the technique in patients with evacuatory dysfunction. This technique has
      not yet been described in the medical literature.
    
  