
    
      Objective and Specific Aims: The objective of this proof-of-concept study is to demonstrate
      in non-diabetic men and women age > 55 years that a sGLT2 inhibitor will increase ketone
      bodies and metabolites used for gluconeogenesis. We also hypothesize that sGLT2 inhibitor
      (empagliflozin) will increase circulating glucagon and fatty acids, decrease circulating
      amino acids, increase expression of receptors and mediators of ketone metabolism in plasma
      exosomes and change Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) brain metabolism measures.

      Experimental Design and Methods: 10 men and 10 women will be recruited for this pilot study.
      Each eligible participant will have a screen visit (Visit 0) and three additional 2-day study
      visits (Visit 1-3). On Visits 1, 2 and 3, frequent blood sampling for Beta-hydroxybutyrate
      butyrate (Beta-OHB), acetoacetate, fatty and amino acids, glucagon, insulin and glucose
      levels will be carried out; these visits will also include blood work for exosome markers and
      brain MRS. In addition, placement of a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) along with a 34-hour
      urine collection will be carried out. On Visits 1 and 2 the participants will wear the CGM
      until they return for their next visit. On Visit 3 the CGM will be removed at the end of the
      study visit. On Visit 1, no empagliflozin will be administered. Participants will return in
      13 +/- 2 days for Visit 2. Visit 2 is the same as Visit 1 except empagliflozin 25 mg will be
      administered both mornings, at least 30 minutes before eating breakfast and participants will
      continue empagliflozin 25 mg once every morning, at least 30 minutes before eating breakfast,
      at home until they return in 13 +/- 2 days for Visit 3. At the end of Visit 3, empagliflozin
      will be stopped.

      Medical Relevance and Expected Outcome: Elevating ketone bodies may bolster neuronal health
      and delay onset and progression of cognitive impairment. The expected outcome of this study
      is that we will see an increase in circulating levels of ketones, glucagon and fatty acids,
      an increased expression of receptors and mediators of ketone metabolism in plasma exosomes
      and a change in Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) brain metabolism measures, in subjects
      taking a sGLT2 inhibitor. We expect circulating amino acid levels will decrease, especially
      during the overnight hours. This study will aid in deciding whether this class of compound
      may be used in a larger study to improve cognitive function in patients with diagnosis
      consistent with declining cognitive function. We require that empagliflozin be taken for up
      to 2 weeks before returning for Visit 3, because we need to fully understand the homeostatic
      adaptations that may occur in the metabolite response to empagliflozin due to prolonged (up
      to 2 weeks) sGLT2 inhibition. It is our goal in the future to use the information gathered in
      this pilot study to design a long-term study in people who actually suffer from mild
      cognitive impairment/AD and therefore a Visit 2 (34-hour acute study) only, as outlined
      above, would not give us the full picture of the metabolic changes that might occur with
      prolonged use, especially in a non-diabetic population.
    
  