
    
      3.0 STUDY DESIGN This is a multicenter, randomized, unblinded study. Healthy infants
      attending the well-child care at outpatient clinics and due for their first dose of polio
      vaccines will be eligible for the study. Infants 8 wks ± 7 days of age will be randomized and
      allocated to three treatment groups.

      4.0 STUDY POPULATION The study will be conducted in up to 7 "vacunatorios" in Chile. Parents
      or legal guardians of healthy infants, who are receiving well-child care at designated
      outpatient clinics, will be approached to participate in the study.

      5.0 TREATMENT OF SUBJECTS 5.1 Vaccines The vaccines to be used in this study include bOPV,
      mOPV2, and IPV (see Section 14.2 for package inserts).

      5.1.1 Bivalent Oral Polio Vaccine (bOPV) Produced by Sanofi Pasteur, Lyon, France, bivalent
      OPV vaccine contains types 1 and 3 polioviruses and it is indicated for supplementary
      immunization activities in children from 0 to 5 years of age to prevent or contain outbreaks
      caused by these 2 serotypes. The vaccine contains at least 6.0 log CCID50 of LS c2ab live
      attenuated polio virus type 1; and at least 5.8 log CCID50 Leon I2aIb strain of polio virus
      type 3. The vaccine dose is 2 drops (0.1 mL) using a multi-dose dropper vial, given directly
      into the mouth. The vaccine should be stored in a freezer at -20°C, and after thawing it can
      be stored up to 6 months at refrigerated temperatures of +2 to +8°C.

      5.1.2 Monovalent Oral Polio Vaccine Type 2 (mOPV2) Monovalent OPV type 2 live attenuated
      poliomyelitis virus vaccine (mOPV2) is produced by Glaxo SmithKline, Rixensart, Belgium, as a
      sterile suspension of poliovirus serotype 2 for oral administration. Each dose (0.1 mL)
      contains not less than 105.0 CCID50 of the Sabin strain type 2 (P 712, Ch, 2ab). This will be
      the challenge OPV strain used to assess intestinal shedding and immunity. The vaccine should
      be stored in a freezer at -20°C, and after thawing it can be stored up to 6 months at
      refrigerated temperatures of +2 to +8°C.

      5.1.3 Inactivated Polio Vaccine (IPV) Inactivated poliovirus vaccine is produced by
      Sanofi-Pasteur as a sterile suspension of 3 types of poliovirus. Each dose of vaccine (0.5
      mL) contains 40 D antigen units of Mahoney strain (Type 1); 8 D antigen units of MEF-1 strain
      (Type 2); and 32 D antigen units of Saukett strain (Type 3). It also contains 0.5% of
      2-phenoxyethanol and a maximum of 0.02% of formaldehyde as preservatives. It may also contain
      5 ng of neomycin, 200 ng of streptomycin, and 25 ng of polymixin B as residuals of the
      vaccine production. The vaccine does not contain Thimerosal. The vaccine should be kept
      refrigerated at +2 to +8°C, and should never be frozen. The dose of IPV vaccine should be 0.5
      mL administered intramuscularly in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh.

      5.2 Vaccine Intervals and Administration All polio vaccine doses should be administered at
      least 4 weeks or more apart. For IPV, the administration site is restricted to the
      anterolateral aspect of the left thigh.

        -  All other intramuscular (IM) EPI routine vaccines will be administered to the
           anterolateral aspect of the right thigh (or the arm at 16 weeks when 3 vaccines are to
           be administered including IPV, pentavalent combination vaccine, and S. pneumoniae).
           These vaccines should not be injected in the gluteal area or areas where there may be a
           major nerve damage.

        -  IPV will be administered IM at Week 8 (Group 1), Weeks 8 and 16 (Group 2), or Weeks 8,
           16, and 24 (Group 3).

        -  Bivalent OPV will be administered as oral drops (2 drops for each vaccination) at Weeks
           16 and 24 (Group 1) or Week 24 (Group 2).

        -  An oral challenge dose (2 drops) of mOPV2 will be administered at Week 28.

      Prior to an injection of any vaccine, all known precautions should be taken to prevent
      adverse reactions. This includes a review of the potential participant's history with respect
      to possible allergic reactions to the vaccine or similar vaccines. Epinephrine Injection
      (1:1000) and other appropriate agents should be available to control immediate allergic
      reactions. Health-care providers should obtain the previous immunization history of the
      subject, and inquire about the current health status of the subject.

      Infants participating in the study will be provided the recommended vaccines aside from polio
      vaccine as per the National Immunization Schedule of Chile (DTPw/HBV/Hib, S. pneumoniae
      vaccine).

      In addition, a 2-dose (RotarixTM) oral rotavirus vaccine will be offered during the study at
      8 weeks and 16 weeks of age.

      Serology Testing

      Rational for each blood sample: After thorough discussions on the minimum number of serum
      samples required to obtain valid answers to our hypothesis, the research group has arrived to
      the following:

        1. Baseline serum sample at 7-8 weeks to determine antibody titers to polioviruses (and
           rotavirus) before any vaccination, required as a basis to detect seroconversion rates.

        2. Post IPV dose 1 at 16 weeks (Group 1) or IPV 2 at 24 weeks (Groups 2 and 3) to determine
           IPV/bOPV dose-dependent seroconversions for poliovirus 2 with the shortest possible
           latency after vaccination to avoid the potential confounder associated with exposure to
           circulating poliovirus 2 vaccine viruses.

        3. Post 3 doses to measure the primary objective, seroconversion and GMTs to types 1 and 3
           after the different schedules. This serum will also be used for antirotavirus antibody
           determinations in order to calculate seroconversion rates and GMCs achieved.

        4. One week post-type 2 live poliovirus vaccine challenge at 28 weeks to determine if
           infants who have not seroconverted to type 2 poliovirus after completing the series of 3
           immunizations at 8, 16, and 24 weeks in each of the 3 groups, do so rapidly within 1
           week after the challenge. Seroconversion within 1 week strongly suggests that although
           the individual had not seroconverted prior to the mOPV2 challenge, that they would do so
           rapidly should they encounter cVDPV2 in the environment; this in turn suggests that
           although they might become infected by cVDPV2, their risk of developing neuroparalytic
           disease as a consequence would nonetheless be substantially reduced.

      A total of 4 blood samples will be collected for each study subject. A maximum of 3 mL will
      be obtained by heel stick or venipuncture methods. Each blood sample will be transported
      within 24 hours in appropriate cold chain conditions to the "Central Study Laboratory" at the
      Microbiology and Mycology Program, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
      University of Chile. Sera will be obtained and 2 aliquots will be placed into cryovials,
      labeled with linked coding, and stored in a -20°C freezer. One aliquot will be shipped in
      appropriate cold chain conditions to the Polio and Picornavirus Laboratory Branch, Center for
      Disease Control and Prevention. The second aliquot will be left on repository storage at the
      study center.

      Sera will be processed following a standard protocol (see Section 14.1). Neutralizing
      antibodies against polioviruses 1, 2, and 3 will be determined using a sero-neutralization
      assay. The laboratory will be blinded with regard to the vaccination status of individuals
      contributing particular specimens, ensuring the integrity of the study. After successful
      completion of testing, duplicate specimens will be destroyed. Authorized specimens assays are
      only for antibody levels to valences included in the study vaccines. Should the case arise,
      the use of these specimens for any other assay will require the approval of the study Sponsor
      and the Principal Investigator, as well as Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Independent
      Ethics Committee (IEC) approval, as per applicable rules and regulations.

      Baseline sera and sera obtained at 28 weeks will be processed for antirotavirus IgA
      concentration as previously described at Glaxo SmithKline laboratories (26).

      5.3 Stool Samples for Poliovirus "Shedding Index" determination Stool samples (5 to 10 grams)
      will be collected at 5 times for each subject, using WHO approved protocols and kits, and
      transported and stored following the WHO procedures for detection of polioviruses. Fresh
      stools will be collected unmixed with urine in a screw-top container, placed in a cold box
      with frozen ice packs, and transported to the designated laboratory for storage in a freezer
      at -20°C. A log book of collected and stored samples will be kept by the study personnel.
      Stool samples will be used later to determine the excretion of polioviruses as per protocol
      (Section 14.1). Samples will be sent in batches to the reference laboratory for poliovirus
      culture.

      5.4 Medications/Treatments Permitted (including rescue medication) and not Permitted Before
      and/or During the Trial There will be no restrictions in using medications/treatments except
      for the following conditions: primary immune deficiency or immune deficiency subsequent to
      treatment, leukemia, lymphoma or advanced malignancy in the subject to be vaccinated or
      his/her close contact. Only medications to treat SAEs or IMEs will be documented in eCRF. All
      other medications will be captured and recorded in the source document at the investigators
      discretion at the investigational site.

      5.5 Subject Compliance Subjects are required to abide by scheduled visits and the vaccine
      schedule.
    
  