
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is estimated to be the third most common cause of
      cancer-related deaths world-wide, and the fifth most common cancer diagnosis. According to
      the National Cancer Institute (NCI), approximately 17,000 new cases of HCC are diagnosed
      annually in the U.S. In Canada, the predicted incidence for 2007 is 1,350 new cases. In
      addition, approximately 10,000 new cases are diagnosed per year in S. Korea, 35,000 in the
      E.U. and 45,000 in Japan.

      The five-year survival rate is estimated to be <10% for all HCC patients. Given the poor
      prognosis of these patients there is a desperate need for new therapies.

      Surgical resection and liver transplant are the only curative treatment for HCC. Small HCC
      tumor(s) (less than 3 cm in diameter) can be resected by hepatectomy, the most effective
      treatment. Surgery was associated with a reported 50-60% five-year survival rate, but
      unfortunately was possible in only 10-15% of cases. Liver transplant is considered for
      patients with tumors that are unresectable but that are still limited exclusively to the
      liver, have no extracapsular or vascular invasion within the liver, and for whom there are no
      medical contraindications to transplantation. Patients with unresectable HCC that cannot
      receive liver transplantation, and who do not require systemic therapy, may be administered
      percutaneous ethanol injection therapy (PEIT), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), transarterial
      chemoembolization (TACE), and/or radioembolization, depending on the size of the intrahepatic
      tumors and the underlying liver function.

      HCC may be a good target for IT injection with JX-594 because of the relatively high rate of
      accessible tumors for injection, the positive response seen in a patient with HCC in a
      recently completed Phase I study of JX-594 intratumoral injection within the liver, excellent
      tumor responses in multiple preclinical cancer models, and the lack of effective, tolerable
      therapy for most patients with HCC who cannot receive curative surgery or immediate liver
      transplantation. Furthermore, it is speculated that JX-594 replication targets the EGFR
      pathway, and that it's spread within and between tumors is dependent upon the intratumoral
      vasculature; HCC has highly activated angiogenesis and EGFR pathways in the majority of
      cases.
    
  