
    
      Objective: The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the peptide
      B27PD (Optiquel®) as a corticosteroid-sparing agent for chronic non-infectious uveitis in
      participants receiving oral corticosteroid therapy alone or combined with an
      immunosuppressive agent in a proof-of-concept clinical trial.

      Study Population: Patients with non-infectious uveitis requiring at least 20 mg but no more
      than 40 mg of oral prednisone, or equipotent dose of alternative corticosteroid medication to
      maintain a quiescent eye, will be eligible.

      Design: In this single center, Phase I/II, double-masked, randomized, placebo-controlled,
      parallel group treatment study, the safety and efficacy of the peptide B27PD will be
      investigated in 60 participants with non-infectious uveitis. Initially, 60 participants were
      to be enrolled; however, due to lack of efficacy, only 31 participants were enrolled.
      Eligible participants will be randomized to one of three treatment groups: 1 mg B27PD, 4 mg
      B27PD or placebo, to be taken three times per week for 24 weeks. All remaining participants
      will be followed through a common termination date. The common termination date will be
      established once the last enrolled participant reaches his/her Week 28 visit (four weeks
      following his/her last investigational treatment).The time to recurrence of uveitis in either
      eye occurring in the 52 weeks following the initial dosing will be evaluated in each
      treatment group. Recurrence will be defined as an increase in anterior chamber cells and/or
      vitreous haze of at least 2 steps [using the Standardization of Uveitis Nomenclature (SUN)
      grading system]. Ophthalmic examinations to assess uveitis will include visual acuity,
      intraocular pressure (IOP), slit lamp biomicroscopy, ophthalmoscopy, optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) and fluorescein angiography.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome variable is the time to recurrence of uveitis activity
      in participants of each treatment group, during or after tapering of oral prednisone to a
      dose of 7.5 mg/day, or equipotent dose of alternative corticosteroid medication. Secondary
      efficacy outcome variables include the proportion of participants determined to be a
      Treatment Failure, defined as recurrence (or flare) of uveitis (at least a 2-step increase
      using the SUN grading system) or a drop in visual acuity of ≥ 15 Early Treatment Diabetic
      Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters at 24 and 52 weeks. Other secondary efficacy outcomes
      include the reduction in exposure to corticosteroid as measured by the area under the
      dose-time curve, and changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), fluorescein angiography,
      fundus autofluorescence and high-speed indocyanine green angiography (HS-ICG). Ocular safety
      measurements include intraocular pressure (IOP) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) for
      confirmation of suspected macular edema. Systemic safety variables include adverse events,
      clinical blood chemistry and hematology, urinalysis, vital signs, weight and medical
      evaluation at baseline and at the end of the study.
    
  