
    
      Aim and Hypotheses Currently, there is no objective measure of early respiratory indicators
      for developing respiratory compromise in surgical patients. Current respiratory assessment in
      non-intubated patients relies on oximetry data and subjective clinical assessment. Pulse
      oximetry has been extremely helpful in recognizing oxygen desaturations but it is a late
      indicator of respiratory decline. New advances in technology and digital signal processing
      have led to the development of an impedance based Respiratory Volume Monitor (RVM). The RVM
      (ExSpiron™, Respiratory Motion, Inc.; Waltham, MA) has been shown to provide accurate
      real-time, continuous, non-invasive measurements of tidal volume (TV), minute ventilation
      (MV) and respiratory rate (RR) in general patient population.

      Hypotheses

      Primary:

      Low minute ventilation (LMV) defined as sustained LMV<40% minute ventilation predicted
      (MVPRED) based on IBW following opioid administration correlates with adverse clinical
      outcomes in PACU or on the floor including:

        -  O2 desaturation, atelectasis, respiratory status requiring advanced monitoring

        -  respiratory interventions such as O2 administration, continuous positive airway pressure
           CPAP, BiPAP,

        -  incidence of ICU transfer and/or increase in PACU and/or general hospital floor (GHF)
           length of stay (LOS).

      Secondary:

        -  1. Decreased MV defined as sustained MV<80% MVPRED based on IBW before opioid
           administration correlates with adverse clinical outcomes as defined above.

        -  2. Patients with decreased MV prior to opioid administration will be more likely to
           develop LMV after standard opioid administration compared to patients with normal MV
           defined as MV ≥ 81% MVPRED based on ideal body weight (IBW)

      Rationale Continuous respiratory monitoring using the ExSpiron System will be particularly
      beneficial to patients in the post-anesthesia environment. Assessment and management of
      respiratory function and early intervention when indicated is a multifaceted, complex task
      often complicated by the lack of a cohesive and continuous monitoring system to guide
      clinical decisions. The ExSpiron system is designed for these patients and is intended to
      address some of the limitations of the current generation of hospital monitors and to provide
      healthcare providers with continuous real-time data regarding the patient's respiratory
      status. Recent data has shown that stratification of patients based on the RVM's MV as % of
      predicted MV (MVPRED), prior to opioid dosing has made it possible to identify patients who
      are at risk for further decreases in MV and opioid-induced respiratory depression (OIRD).

        1. In the spontaneously breathing, non-ventilated patient, current monitoring devices do
           not provide continuous, objective non-invasive, continuous real time information of the
           important respiratory parameters TV, MV & RR.

        2. Current monitoring of non-intubated patients mostly relies on subjective clinical
           assessment, oximetry data, and rarely end-tidal carbon dioxide CO2 measurements. In
           appropriate clinical settings, the ExSpiron system can provide direct quantitative
           measure of ventilation parameters for use in clinical assessment and trend prediction as
           well as response to medications and other interventions to allow for more efficient
           clinical decision making.

        3. Current technologies do not provide for a continuity of care between the PACU and the
           general hospital floor.
    
  