
    
      The HyPOINT (HyperPOlarized Imaging for New Therapies) trial is a multicenter prospective,
      two phase study involving four sites with proven expertise 129Xe MRI and CF clinical care.
      The study sites are: University of Virginia, University of Wisconsin, and SickKids in
      Toronto, Canada. University of Virginia and University of Wisconsin sites will be reliant on
      CCHMC's IRB. SickKids in Toronto, Canada, will submit their review through their
      institution's Research Ethics Board (REB).

      Phase 1 will include implementation of a centralized analysis program of repeated 129Xe MRI
      scanning in CF patients with mild lung disease to define the intra-subject variability of the
      primary outcome ventilation defect percentage (VDP). Patients will undergo baseline 129Xe MRI
      scanning and repeated measurements the same day, as well as at 28 days (± 7 days). Phase 1
      will establish the intra-subject reproducibility to facilitate future use of 129Xe MRI in
      multi-site studies. Furthermore, the reproducibility limits defined will inform the overall
      design of future studies and will compare to established pulmonary function and
      multiple-breath washout testing (via measurement of the lung clearance index, LCI).

      Safety of 129Xe MRI will be assessed by recording adverse events during the study visit (see
      8.3 Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events), which will be followed until resolved. Vital
      signs (heart rate, SPO2) will be recorded before, immediately following inhalation, and 2
      minutes after each 129Xe inhalation; O2 saturation will be monitored continuously throughout
      the 129Xe portion of the MRI, and the time and duration of nadir will be recorded.

      Phase 2 will be an observational study of patients assessed before and after the clinical
      initiation of triple-combination modulator therapy (after presumed FDA and Health Canada
      approval). The primary endpoint for Phase 2 is the change of VDP after 28 days of
      triple-combination modulator therapy. Within Phase 2, this study will also address how
      highly-effective modulator therapies affect lung function trajectories by measuring 129Xe MRI
      at 28 days (± 7 days), 6 months (± 28 days), and 12 months (± 28 days) after start of therapy
      (paralleling time points of the PROMISE study). Finally, to understand how 129Xe MRI can be
      used in combination with existing measures of lung function (e.g. spirometry, multiple breath
      washout), Investigators will directly compare the repeated data collected in both Phase 1 and
      Phase 2 to these established measures of lung function that are currently used in
      observational and interventional studies.

      The overarching goal of this study is to define the role of structural and functional MRI
      imaging to facilitate future CF research studies.
    
  