
    
      BAY1217389 is a potent and highly selective inhibitor of monopolar spindle 1 (MPS1) kinase
      activity. Human MPS1 is a serine threonine kinase, which functions as a core component of the
      spindle-assembly checkpoint (SAC), a key surveillance mechanism that monitors the attachment
      of spindle microtubules to the kinetochores of the chromosomes during pro-metaphase and halts
      the transitions to anaphase until all chromosomes are bi-oriented, fully attached, and
      correctly tensed at the metaphase plate. MPS1 is expressed in the mitosis phase of the cell
      cycle in proliferating cells. Overexpression of MPS1 has been observed in several cancer cell
      lines and tumor types, including lung and breast cancers.

      Established anti-mitotic drugs such as vinca alkaloids, taxanes, or epothilones activate the
      SAC either by destabilizing or stabilizing spindle microtubules resulting in mitotic arrest.
      Prolonged arrest in mitosis forces a cell either into a mitotic exit without cytokinesis or
      into a mitotic catastrophe leading to cell death. In contrast, MPS1 inhibitors inactivate the
      SAC and accelerate progression of cells through mitosis eventually resulting in severe
      chromosomal missegregation, mitotic catastrophe, and cell death. Consequently, MPS1
      inhibition leads to failure of cells to arrest in mitosis in response to anti-mitotic drugs.
      Thus, the combination of microtubule-interfering agents and MPS1 inhibition strongly
      increases chromosomal segregation errors and cell death and therefore, constitutes an
      efficient strategy for selectively eliminating tumor cells.

      MPS1 inhibition in combination with microtubule-interfering agents is expected to improve
      therapeutic efficacy of anti-mitotic drugs and to overcome paclitaxel resistance.

      The primary objectives of this study are to:

        -  Determine the safety, tolerability, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and recommended Phase
           2 dose (RP2D) of oral BAY1217389 given in combination with intravenous (IV) paclitaxel
           using an intermittent dosing schedule (2 days on / 5 days off) in subjects with advanced
           malignancies.

        -  Characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of oral BAY1217389 and IV paclitaxel.

      The exploratory objectives of this study are to:

        -  Determine any preliminary clinical efficacy of oral BAY1217389 given in combination with
           IV paclitaxel compared to paclitaxel given alone.

        -  Determine pharmacodynamic (PD) target modulation effects (decrease in phosphorylated
           kinetochore-associated protein pKNL1 and potentially other biomarkers like activation of
           the p53 system) of oral BAY1217389 in mandatory paired fresh tumor biopsies (or in
           mandatory paired fresh skin punch biopsies depending on the status of the subject and
           the accessibility of the tumor) taken on Day 2 of Cycle 1 (C1D2) and on C1D3.

        -  Evaluate the effect of oral BAY1217389 on the activation of p53 in blood samples as PD
           biomarker (blood samples will be taken as a mandatory procedure to monitor PD effects on
           C1D 4, C1D 3, and C1D 2).

        -  Evaluate the effect of BAY1217389 on levels of tumor-derived free circulating
           deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in blood samples taken before the first dose of study
           treatment and on C1D3, C1D8, and C1D15
    
  