
    
      Control Group The control group will comprise those who are not eligible as they are
      registered with a GP in the London borough of Islington. Islington residents have been chosen
      as a control group as currently there is no ESD service for patients to be referred to.
      Rehabilitation therefore takes place as an inpatient with community follow up. The boroughs
      of Camden and Islington are comparable in terms of ethnic diversity, size, stroke prevalence
      and age (SEPHO, 2013.) The control group will not be matched to demographics such as age and
      gender due to the fact that we are unable to predict this information. We will gather
      information regarding type of stroke, stroke severity and demographics so that this can be
      compared as much as possible during the analysis.

      Consent will be obtained to collect outcome measure data from the control group and their
      carer's. Local agreement is in place to share their anonymised data for the purposes of the
      research. The data will be collected by staff on the Acute Stroke Units and by a link
      individual within Islington Community Services. The outcome measures collected are the same
      as those currently being collected along the stroke pathway in London. The Caregiver Strain
      Index and EQ5D are not routinely collected.

      A similar number of patients will be identified over the same timescale as the research group
      and will be subject to the same battery of outcomes due to standardisation across the stroke
      pathway in London hospitals. Local agreement will be met regarding the six month review
      outcomes.

      Data will be collected within five days post stroke, at approximately nine weeks post stroke
      and at six months post stroke.

      Cost savings The management of acute stroke and ACS has been revolutionised in Camden over
      the last 5 years. Patients, when identified are transferred by London Ambulance service to
      UCLH or Royal Free acute trusts. Since the centralisation of Hyper Acute services, the
      mortality and morbidity for both conditions has dropped (Hunter et al, 2013.) The study will
      include a comprehensive assessment of cost effectiveness which will include direct and
      indirect health care costs and social care costs.

      Locally the Enhanced ESD service could release acute stroke resources and free monies
      associated with these, improve access to specialist stroke rehab in people's homes (thus
      improving patient choice) and thus compliance with national guidelines (including the RCP
      stroke guidelines, 2012.) Bed days saved from both HASU's and SU will be calculated in terms
      of financial saving. Actual therapy and care costs will be calculated for comparison. The
      rehabilitation care costs for this project are £15,924 per patient or £318,472 for the cohort
      of 20 patients.

      The project has been set up using the predicted costs of a complex needs stroke survivor
      spending four weeks in an acute stroke unit (tariff £4,646) then transferred for further
      inpatient rehabilitation for 56 days at the cost of £280 per day . This equates to £20,326
      per patient for direct in-patient care costs.

      Although the overall project costs of this study exceed this figure, the service costs which
      would be recurrent if the model is deemed clinically and economically viable are less.
    
  