
    
      This study uses a prospective, randomized, open-label cross-over design to evaluate the
      responses to recombinant human AT (rhAT) and/or supplemental heparin for restoration of
      heparin-responsiveness in the presence of biomarkers of acute inflammation, so called acute
      phase reactants. Our ultimate goal is, of course, to apply this knowledge to optimize
      perioperative management of anticoagulation in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass.

      We will first identify enrolled patients with altered heparin responsiveness (AHR) as defined
      by an ACT < 450 seconds (the MGH standard target ACT after the initial dose of heparin for
      CPB). Patients who achieve an ACT > 450 sec will not enter the randomization phase of the
      study, their participation in the study will be complete and their routine clinical care will
      continue unaltered. Those with AHR (post-heparin ACT < 450 sec) will be randomized to receive
      either supplemental heparin or supplemental AT. Those that fail to achieve an adequate ACT
      after the first supplementation will cross-over to receive the alternate supplement. Blood
      samples (totaling at most 20 ml) will be taken at each step to measure heparin level, AT
      level, AT activity. Once a patient is placed onto cardiopulmonary bypass their participation
      in the study will be complete.

      By design, this study replicates routine clinical management of heparin anticoagulation for
      cardiopulmonary bypass at the MGH. Most patients (80%) coming to cardiac surgery who will
      undergo CPB respond adequately to a routine initial bolus dose of heparin (ACT > 450 after
      350 U/kg); as noted, subjects in this study that achieve the target ACT will be managed
      according to routine clinical practice without further testing or intervention.

      Under routine care, patients with an inadequate initial response to heparin receive either
      supplemental heparin (150 U/kg) or pooled human antithrombin (1000 Units), or both. In this
      study, subjects with inadequate heparin response (ACT < 450) after the initial heparin bolus,
      will be randomly assigned to two comparison groups; half will receive supplemental heparin
      (150 U/kg) and half will receive AT (1000 IU). Subjects who fail to respond to their assigned
      first intervention will cross-over to receive the alternate intervention.

      Some subjects may not achieve the target ACT despite receiving both supplemental heparin and
      AT comprising a group of patients with "true heparin resistance" whose coagulation profiles
      can be further characterized to better understand the mechanisms of the resistance. These
      subjects will be considered to have completed the study even though they are not yet on
      cardiopulmonary bypass and will be managed according to the best clinical judgment of their
      physicians. They may receive additional heparin, additional AT, fresh-frozen plasma, or any
      combination of these. These patients may be at risk for thrombotic complications during the
      post-operative period. Accordingly, when clinically appropriate, these individuals may be
      referred for further evaluation of their coagulation status, but these evaluations will not
      be done as part of this study.

      This is a pathophysiological risk-factor association study that seeks to better understand
      the phenomenon of altered heparin responsiveness. Accordingly, there is no specific study
      endpoint apart from achieving an ACT of > 450 sec. In all enrolled subjects we will measure
      the levels of three acute phase reactants, Factor VIII, fibrinogen and CRP, heparin levels
      (anti Xa), AT level (immunofixation) and AT activity after the initial heparin dose. For all
      subjects who do not achieve and ACT of > 450 we will also measure additional heparin levels
      (anti Xa), AT level (immunofixation), and AT activity after each intervention in the
      randomization/crossover phase. The total amount of blood taken for the research-specific
      laboratory test is less than 20 ml.
    
  