
    
      Zoech (2009) treated in a feasibility study a total of n=18 patients affected by 21 ulcers in
      Stage IA or IIA (according to Armstrong and colleagues, Diabetes Care 1998;21:855-859) with
      repetitive radial extracorporeal shock wave therapy (rESWT) using the Swiss DolorClast device
      (Electro Medical Systems S.A., Nyon, Switzerland). The wounds had been observed for more than
      6 weeks. In nine cases the wounds were located in non-loaded areas such as the edge of the
      foot, or appeared after previous toe amputation. In 12 cases the wounds were located on the
      sole, the toes or the heel; in these cases the average area of the wounds was 351 mm^2 (116
      to 599 mm^2). Local wound treatment consisted of regular debridement by scalpel, followed by
      disinfection with sterile saline solution and application of wet treatment adequate to the
      stage of the wounds. Depending on the amount of secretion, the depth of the ulcer and the
      healing stages, different bandage materials were used. Besides this, rESWT was applied at
      intervals depending on the size and the depth of the ulcers, once or twice a week for three
      to six weeks, with 1,000 impulses per cm^2 and treatment session with positive energy flux
      density (EFD) of 0.1 mJ/mm^2. To this end ulcers were covered with sterile drape in order to
      avoid direct contact of ultrasound jelly and the handpiece of the rESWT device with the
      ulcers. After further disinfection with sterile saline solution, bandage was applied. The
      state of the ulcers was documented photographically at regular intervals and the size of the
      ulcers were evaluated with digital image analysis. Wounds were evaluated after the first,
      second and third week. Zoech (2009) noted that rESWT caused no pain, and neither local or
      generalized infections were observed throughout the observation period. Sixteen out of the 21
      wounds healed within a mean period of six weeks (range: 3 to 9 weeks). In three cases,
      sufficient granulation tissue was formed after eight weeks on average, allowing for wound
      covering by gap tissue transplant. On average the size of the ulcers was reduced to 67%
      (20-100%) after the first week, 53% (15-90%) after the second week and 35% (9-78%) after the
      third week compared to baseline. These data indicate that the application of repetitive rESWT
      using the Swiss DolorClast is a low-effort and effective complement to standard therapy in
      diabetic foot ulcers without signs of infection or ischemia. In the study by Zoech (2009)
      patients were specifically very satisfied by the good tolerability and the absence of any
      significant side effects.

      However, Zoech (2009) did not investigate a control group. Accordingly, it is currently
      unknown whether rESWT as performed by Zoech (2009) is more effective than sham-treatment of
      chronic soft tissue wounds. The present study was designed to answer this question.
    
  