
    
      Adherence to medications is critical in managing chronic disease, yet it remains an issue
      across chronic conditions. Poor medication adherence leads to deteriorating health and
      subsequently to increased costs as a result of higher hospitalizations rates. Medication
      adherence in chronic kidney disease (CKD) is especially important because successful
      treatment can slow the progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), yet little research has
      focused on adherence in patients with early CKD. Numerous barriers to medication adherence
      exist, including the prescription of complex medication regimens, the often asymptomatic
      nature of early CKD, and the lack of social support for treatment adherence. While technology
      and support-based interventions show promise, there currently is no gold-standard approach to
      improving medication adherence. Thus, it is essential to pursue novel interventions that
      address barriers for patients with CKD to improve medication adherence and slow the
      progression to ESRD.

      The long-range goal of this application is to improve medication adherence in chronic illness
      through the development of effective interventions that capitalize on patients'
      medication-taking context. The objective of this application, which is the next step to
      achieving that goal, is to pilot test the impact and acceptability of the MedMinder, a
      pillbox device that transmits medication-taking data via a secure internet-interface to
      patients, family members, and care managers, in a group of adult, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care
      (HPHC) members with CKD. To achieve this objective, in partnership with HPHC, we will recruit
      120 members with diagnosed CKD stage III or IV to participate in a 6-month pre-post
      randomized-controlled trial. Participants will be randomized to either receive use of the
      MedMinder over a six-month period with access to telephone care management, or receive usual
      care of regular pillboxes with access to telephone care management.

      Our primary aim is to test the feasibility and acceptability of the MedMinder intervention.
      The main components of the intervention include: (1) a plastic weekly pill box with
      programmable visual and auditory cues to prompt medication use, (2) generation of missed-dose
      alerts that can be sent via email, text message, or telephone to patients, family members,
      and HPHC care managers, (3) a secure internet site that permits customization of alerts and
      has graphical representations of medication use, and (4) aggregate adherence reports
      available to CKD care managers for patients who are participating in HPHC care management.

      Our secondary aim is to assess the impact and acceptability of family and friend involvement
      in CKD member medication taking. We will document family and friend activities related to
      medication taking, the acceptability of family and friend involvement in member medication
      taking, and the impact such involvement has on medication use.

      Findings of this proposed project would provide information on the feasibility of a
      technology-based adherence intervention, with medication-taking support, in patients with
      chronic disease. The results from this pilot will inform a future application for a more
      adequately powered study examining the intervention and measurement of structured support
      from others in medication taking.
    
  