
    
      The incidence of Head and neck cancer (HNC) is approximately 6% of all cases with a world
      annual incidence and nearly 90 to 95% of HNC is squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). [1] For
      patients with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC (R/M HNSCC), cytotoxic-based chemotherapy remains
      the standard therapeutic option. The median survival of these patients treated with
      cytotoxic-based chemotherapy, however, is only 6 to 10 months. For those who are not
      candidates for chemotherapy, the prognosis is even worse with median survival of 3 to 6
      months. [2-4] Thus, new therapeutic options for these patients are needed to improve the
      treatment outcomes.

      We hypothesize that durvalumab plus tremelimumab combined with proton therapy would be
      effective in R/M HNSCC.

      The combination of immunotherapy and RT can be effective regimen because immunologic response
      might be enhanced by RT through the alteration of microenvironment within the irradiated
      field, tumor antigen release and "abscopal effect" at distant metastatic sites. In addition,
      the benefit of proton therapy is to deliver RT dose just to target lesion. The irradiated
      volume can be significantly reduced with proton therapy compared to X-ray treatment, thus
      proton therapy will provide better quality of life compared to X-ray during palliative RT.

      Patients in the durvalumab (MEDI4736) + tremelimumab combination therapy treatment group will
      receive durvalumab (MEDI4736) (1500mg Q4W) in combination with tremelimumab (75 mg IV Q4W)
      for up to 4 doses/cycles each, followed by durvalumab (MEDI4736) 1500mg Q4W until confirmed
      disease progression unless there is unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or another
      discontinuation criterion is met. The first durvalumab (MEDI4736) monotherapy dose at 1500mg
      Q4W will be 4 weeks after the final dose of durvalumab (MEDI4736) in combination with
      tremelimumab.

      Tremelimumab will be administered first; the durvalumab (MEDI4736) infusion will start
      approximately 1 hour (maximum 2 hours) after the end of the tremelimumab infusion. If there
      are no clinically significant concerns after the first cycle, then, at the discretion of the
      Investigator, all other cycles of durvalumab (MEDI4736) can be given immediately after the
      tremelimumab infusion has finished.
    
  