
    
      Background. Opioid-agonist medications (methadone and buprenorphine) are the most effective
      treatments available for opioid addiction. However, they are not effective in all cases, and
      with the vast number of people requiring treatment in the current crisis, even a modest
      increase in the percentage of people who respond to treatment would represent a substantial
      benefit in public health. Recent advances in neuropsychopharmacology have led to the
      discovery of a new class of opioid agonists that are functionally selective. That is, they
      are biased towards specific post-receptor pathways and in theory can produce therapeutic
      opioid effects (analgesia, withdrawal relief) while minimizing side effects (sedation,
      respiratory depression) that can lead people to discontinue treatment with methadone or
      buprenorphine.

      Objective. Our goal is to assess the efficacy and tolerability of a biased opioid agonist for
      suppressing or reversing opioid withdrawal.

      Participant population. Adults who are physically dependent on opioids and already receiving
      chronic daily methadone treatment (up to 53 enrolled; up to 30 completers, plus three to run
      in an initial unpowered dose-finding pilot). Target enrollment will include 40% women and 60%
      minorities (mostly African-American), reflecting the demographics of the relevant local
      population.

      Experimental design. A double-blind within-subject randomized placebo-controlled experiment
      will be used to test whether a biased opioid agonist suppresses withdrawal when given about
      52 h after discontinuing methadone. TRV734 (capsule form), a biased opioid agonist with good
      oral bioavailability, will be compared to placebo and to oxycodone (positive control) in
      matching capsules. A signal of efficacy and safety in the proposed laboratory study will be
      our cue to embark on a larger clinical trial.

      Methods. Participants will stay at the inpatient unit for 13-21 consecutive nights to help
      ensure that participants use no additional opioids during a 52-hr opioid abstinence period
      prior to each test session. The first three participants will be enrolled in an unpowered
      dose-finding five-session pilot study (18-26 consecutive nights) to test placebo, oxycodone,
      and a range of doses of TRV734, starting on the high side of the analgesic dose range. The
      highest dose that relieves withdrawal symptoms with no appreciable adverse effects will be
      used as the higher of two doses for the participants in the main study. To help demonstrate
      that TRV734 s effects are dose-related, we will also select a lower dose with
      withdrawal-relief efficacy intermediate between placebo and the higher dose. For participants
      in the main study, there will be four experimental sessions: one each with placebo,
      oxycodone, and the two doses of TRV734. Safety and research measures will be collected before
      (baseline) and for 4 hours after administration of study drugs. The participant s usual
      methadone dose will be administered after each session.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome will be suppression of withdrawal symptoms, to be
      assessed by the SOWS (Subjective Opioid Withdrawal Scale). Secondary outcomes will include
      safety, specificity of effects (e.g., absence of psychomotor slowing), tolerability, and
      suppression of objective signs of withdrawal. Instruments used for these assessments will
      include the COWS (Clinical Opioid Withdrawal Scale), scales for opioid effects, psychomotor
      assessments, and differential dropout across sessions. We hypothesize that the higher dose of
      TRV734 will be superior to placebo in therapeutic effects and have lower adverse effects
      (including effects on alertness and psychomotor performance) compared to oxycodone.
    
  