
    
      Intravitreous anti-VEGF injection has been the most common procedure performed at eye clinics
      worldwide. It becomes the gold standard treatment for many macular diseases, such as diabetic
      macular edema and neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD). One of the most serious
      complication after intravitreous injection is post-injection endophthalmitis. There is no
      proven preventive strategy of post-injection endophthalmitis except the use of povidone
      iodine. However, a number of physicians around the world prescribe topical antibiotics after
      the injection, despite the lack of evidence to support the benefit of topical antibiotics to
      prevent the occurence of endophthalmitis. Recently, many large trials from the US including
      the Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network (DRCR.net), the Comparison of AMD
      Treatment Trials (CATT) study have reported the incidence of post-injection endophthalmitis
      comparing between eyes receiving versus not receiving post-injection antibiotics, and the
      results of all studies suggested that topical antibiotics does not help reduce the incidence
      of post-injection endophthalmitis. In addition, the results suggested that eyes receiving
      antibiotics had higher rate of endophthalmitis comparing to those not receiving antibiotics.
      Therefore, a majority of physicians in the United States have stopped prescribing antibiotics
      drops following the injection. However, a majority of physicians in Asia-Pacific region still
      prescribe antibiotics drops following the injection (according to the Preferences and Trends
      (PAT) survey by the American Society of Retina Specialists in 2014).

      Due to the limited evidence from Asian literature whether there is difference between
      incidence of endophthalmitis following intravitreous anti-VEGF injection between eyes
      receiving antibiotics drops versus not receiving antibiotics drops in the Asian setting, the
      investigators conducted this study to determine the incidence of endophthalmitis after
      intravitreous anti-VEGF injection, comparing between eyes receiving post-injection
      antibiotics versus not receiving. Results from this study would be beneficial to guide an
      appropriate practice for physicians in the Asian region.
    
  