
    
      Voriconazole (Vfend(Registered Trademark), Pfizer) has achieved common usage at the NIH
      (National Institutes of Health) Clinical Research Center for the treatment of fungal
      infections in immunosuppressed patients. Toxicity includes relatively frequent but reversible
      changes in vision and more infrequent, potentially serious hepatotoxicity, decreased
      cognitive function and rash. Incidence of these more serious adverse events has been
      difficult to ascertain because of the morbidity of underlying disease in patients receiving
      voriconazole, but a minimum estimate is 10 percent. It is known that voriconazole plasma
      concentrations vary between patients over a fifty-fold range but it is not known whether
      toxicity is related to plasma drug exposure. The reason for the differing voriconazole plasma
      concentrations between normal individuals is partly due to genetic variations in hepatic
      cytochrome enzymes CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 (Cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 9
      and 19, respectively). In patients with underlying illness, drug interactions and decreased
      hepatic drug clearance may contribute to variability.

      The purpose of the study is to record prospectively the adverse effects of voriconazole in
      Clinical Center patients who have been prescribed the drug by their primary physician. We
      will ask the primary physician to order a trough voriconazole plasma levels once a week. The
      test will not be reported to the physician. Because interpretation of the test is unknown,
      the physicians will be blinded to the report. Rather, the primary objective of the study is
      to analyze the voriconazole plasma concentrations when the study is completed to determine if
      there is a concentration and duration of drug exposure that correlates with toxicity. A
      secondary objective is to determine the 2C9 and 2C19 genotype of patients and search for
      possible correlations between genotype and plasma voriconazole concentrations. Administration
      of other drugs given to the patient will be tracked to analyze whether any previously unknown
      drug interactions seem to have changed the voriconazole plasma concentration. The study will
      also determine the incidence of adverse effects of voriconazole in our patient population.
    
  