
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD), a disease in which blood vessels become clogged by a build-up
      of plaque, is the leading cause of heart failure, a condition in which the heart can no
      longer pump enough blood to the rest of the body. People with heart failure caused by CAD are
      said to have ischemic cardiomyopathy. Normal treatment for CAD involves coronary artery
      bypass grafting (in which a vein from another part of the body is grafted around an artery
      that has become blocked) or coronary angioplasty and stent placement (in which a blocked
      artery is opened and a small tube is placed to keep the artery open). However, some people
      with ischemic cardiomyopathy, such as those with substantial scar tissue on the heart wall or
      those with a particular heart structure, may not be eligible for these treatments. An
      alternative treatment being developed is therapeutic angiogenesis, which involves stimulating
      the growth of new blood vessels. Recent research has shown that withdrawing stem cells from
      bone marrow and implanting the cells into heart tissue may be an effective way to achieve
      therapeutic angiogenesis. This study will determine the safety and effectiveness of using
      stem cells to stimulate new blood vessel growth in the hearts of people with ischemic
      cardiomyopathy.

      Participation in this study, including follow-up visits and phone calls, will last 60 months.
      Participants will first undergo 3 to 4 days of screening procedures that will include a
      physical examination, multiple lab tests, and a battery of tests on heart health. Next,
      participants will be randomized to receive either active stem cell injections or placebo
      injections. The injections and related procedures will be performed in a hospital and last
      approximately 72 hours. During this time, participants in both groups will first undergo a
      bone marrow aspiration procedure. Participants receiving active stem cells will also undergo
      NOGA electromechanical cardiac mapping, which involves inserting a monitoring device through
      a catheter and into the heart. Injections of stem cells will then be made to 15 damaged sites
      on the heart through a special catheter. Participants receiving placebo injections will
      receive 15 injections of an inactive, saline-based solution. After the injection procedures,
      all participants will undergo two echocardiograms, an electrocardiogram, blood tests, and
      overnight monitoring in a telemetry unit.

      After the hospital stay, all participants will attend five study visits that will occur 1
      week and 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the injection procedures. At all study visits,
      participants will undergo an electrocardiogram, lab tests, and a review of adverse health
      events. On all but the last study visit, participants will have cardiac markers assessed, and
      they will wear a 24-hour Holter monitor to track heart activity. At the last three visits,
      participants will also complete quality of life questionnaires. All participants will then
      receive four follow-up telephone calls that will occur 2, 3, 4, and 5 years after the
      injection procedures.
    
  