
    
      If you agree to take part in this study we will ask you to undergo some screening tests and
      procedures to confirm that you are eligible. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to
      be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that you do not take part
      in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may
      or may not have to be repeated. The screening process will include the following: a medical
      history, performance status, physical examination, scans and x-rays, blood samples, blood
      pregnancy test, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram. If these tests show that you are eligible
      to participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet
      the eligibility criteria you will not be able to participate in this research study.

      Before beginning study treatment you will undergo a tumor biopsy and have photographs of your
      tumor taken to assess the response of your tumor to the study treatment.

      On the first day of study treatment (Week 1, Day 1) with trastuzumab and pertuzumab, you will
      receive an intravenous infusion of trastuzumab over about 90 minutes, followed by a 60
      minutes observation period. If the trastuzumab infusion is tolerated, you will receive the
      rest of your study treatment, the pertuzumab. This will also be given as an intravenous
      infusion over about 60 minutes with you being observed for a further 60 minutes. Thus, the
      total duration of infusion and observation periods for the first dose of study treatment
      (Week 1, Day 1) is about 5 hours. If the drugs are well tolerated at Week 1, the duration of
      the infusion with trastuzumab and pertuzumab may be shortened for subsequent doses.

      Prior to starting Week 2, you will undergo a second research biopsy of your breast. The
      biopsy will be performed either prior to Week 2, Day 8 or on the same day. You will then
      receive an infusion of trastuzumab and begin chemotherapy. If the infusion of trastuzumab was
      tolerated on Week 1, Day 1, then the infusion time is reduced to about 30 minutes. You will
      then be pre-medicated with drugs to reduce the chance of having a sensitivity reaction to
      paclitaxel. This takes approximately 30 minutes. The paclitaxel is give by intravenous
      infusion over about 60 minutes. If you tolerate the paclitaxel infusions, then the
      pre-medication can be changed by your doctor.

      The pertuzumab is given every 3 weeks beginning on Week 1 and continues until paclitaxel
      administration is complete. Trastuzumab is given weekly beginning on Week 1 and continues
      until paclitaxel administration is complete. Paclitaxel is given weekly for a total of 16
      doses beginning on Week 2. After completing 16 doses of paclitaxel, trastuzumab and
      pertuzumab may be continued every 3 weeks until surgery.

      Study treatment visits will occur at regular intervals during the period of study treatment,
      beginning on Week 1. During these study treatment visits the following will be done: physical
      exam, performance status, blood samples, heart function tests.

      After completing 16 doses of paclitaxel in combination with pertuzumab and trastuzumab, you
      will undergo surgery for removal of your breast cancer. This will occur approximately 4-5
      weeks after your last paclitaxel infusion. Prior to surgery, you will have the following
      assessments: a repeat breast MRI, PET scan (if necessary), physical exam, vital signs,
      performance status, blood tests, tumor tissue tests.

      Approximately 4-5 weeks after surgery, when you are well-healed, you will have two options
      for treatment (at your physician's discretion):

      Option 1: Doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC), every 2-3 weeks x 4 cycles. This is standard
      chemotherapy for IBC. Followed by trastuzumab and pertuzumab every 3 weeks to complete 12
      months of HER2-directed therapy.

      Option 2: Continue trastuzumab and pertuzumab every 3 weeks to complete 12 months of
      HER2-directed therapy.

      Doxorubicin is given by vein over about 5-10 minutes. This is followed by cyclophosphamide by
      vein given about 30 minutes. Anti-nausea medicine is given first under the direction of your
      doctor.

      Approximately 4-5 weeks after finishing the AC treatment if you pursue Option 1 (or 4-5 weeks
      after surgery if you pursue Option 2), you will receive radiation therapy to the mastectomy
      site and the surrounding lymph nodes. This will be given daily, Monday through Friday for
      approximately 6-7 weeks. This will be administered as standard of care for IBC.

      Approximately 3-4 weeks following the completion of AC if you pursue Option 1 (or 3-4 weeks
      after surgery if you pursue Option 2), you will begin maintenance therapy with trastuzumab
      and pertuzumab. As with Week 1, Day 1, you will receive an intravenous infusion of
      trastuzumab over about 90 minutes followed by a 60 minute observation period. If the
      trastuzumab infusion is tolerated, you will receive the rest of your study treatment, the
      pertuzumab. This will also be given as an intravenous infusion over about 60 minutes with
      your being observed for a further 60 minutes. Thus, the total duration of infusion and
      observation periods for the first day of maintenance study treatment is about 5 hours. If the
      study drugs are well tolerated, the duration of the infusion with trastuzumab and pertuzumab
      may be shortened for subsequent doses. Both trastuzumab and pertuzumab will be given every 3
      weeks to complete a 12 month duration of HER2-directed therapy. Every 9 weeks (every third
      dose of trastuzumab and pertuzumab) you will undergo the same procedure as taht described
      above in Study Treatment visits.

      About one month after your last dose of study treatment, you will be asked to return to the
      clinic. At this visit tests will be done to check your physical condition and to check that
      you have recovered from any side effects of study treatment. During this visit the following
      will be done: physical exam, vital signs, performance status and blood tests.

      You will be asked to attend regular follow up visits to check if you are experiencing any
      long term side effects and to check taht the cancer has not come back. We plan to follow
      participants for up to 13 years after the start of teh study. During these visits the
      following will be done: physical exam and questions about your health/medications you have
      taken (every 3 months for the first year, every 6 months for the next 4 years, yearly until
      the end of study follow up); blood draws (every 6 months for the first 4 years, yearly after
      that); mammograms will be performed annually, other scans may be performed as needed.
    
  