
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory-destructive joint disease for which up to date
      etiopathogenetical causes are lacking. In recent years, numerous new therapeutic concepts
      have been developed in the form of targeted antibody therapies that can block various
      inflammatory mechanisms. Although better treatment successes in comparison with conventional
      therapies were achieved, patients respond to the new therapies in very different ways. As a
      result the optimal drug needs to be identified for each patient through individual treatment
      trials. So far, no healings have been achieved and the progression of the disease can be
      stopped only by permanent suppression of the inflammatory response. In addition to different
      immunological mechanisms and genetic predispositions, interactions with the microbiome of the
      intestine are increasingly being discussed in recent years. A dysbiotic intestinal flora,
      characterized by the loss of beneficial bacteria and a concomitant increase in potentially
      pathogenic microbes, is associated with chronic inflammatory syndromes.

      Modified fasting (up to 500 kcal energy intake per day) for 7-10 days leads to an improvement
      of the symptoms in many patients with rheumatoid arthritis and is regularly used by the
      applicants for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Several clinical studies have shown
      that therapeutic fasting produces anti-inflammatory effects. However, so far no standardized
      method for long-term stabilization of corresponding effects after resumption of nutrition has
      been established.

      Recent transcriptome analyzes have not only revealed numerous new potential markers, but also
      increasingly allow conclusions to be drawn from these extensive datasets that suggest
      immunological relationships between specific genes. In preliminary studies within the
      framework of a project of the same study group, it was possible to identify inflammatory
      profiles of individual foods and to identify molecular markers of disease activity in
      rheumatoid arthritis whose diagnostic value has been tested and interpreted under the
      influence of fasting. These markers will now be clinically evaluated in this study in
      collaboration with both centers.

      The hypothesis is that a combination of fasting and subsequent diagnosis-specific diet change
      will improve the rheumatic symptoms. In this context, it will also be analyzed, which meaning
      of the changes 1) of the metabolism and 2) of the microbiome, mediated by fasting and
      nutrition, belongs. This will be demonstrated by using already identified markers for
      genotypic traits, gene expression traits, characteristics of protein expression, protein
      activities, and antigen-specific immunological response patterns.

      The present research project aims to combine the different aspects of a possible
      anti-rheumatic nutrition and to evaluate the nutritherapeutic concept in an RCT. We suggest
      that a part of the anti-inflammatory effects of fasting and best practice diets may be due to
      a change in the composition of the intestinal flora mediated. Thus this study contributes to
      the extended therapy of rheumatoid arthritis.
    
  