
    
      BACKGROUND Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis and affects 4.5 % of the
      Danish population. The knee is one of the most affected joints and 45 % of all OA-related
      hospital contacts are related to the knee. OA has a long 'pre-clinical' phase with joint
      changes without symptoms. Then comes a symptomatic phase with pain and functional
      limitations. This is sometimes accompanied by structural changes visible on plain X-ray
      examination and other pathological changes like focal areas of damage to the articular
      cartilage, centered on load-bearing areas. After this, new bone formation at the joint
      margins (osteophytosis) develops along with changes in the subchondral bone, variable degrees
      of mild synovitis, and thickening of the joint capsule.

      The meniscus plays an important role in the development of osteoarthritis. Meniscus tears can
      be both a risk factor for knee OA as well as a sign of disease . Both meniscus injury and a
      meniscectomy contribute to the development of knee OA. The surgical removal of the damaged
      parts of a meniscus tear puts the knee at high risk of later developing OA . Surgical
      resection also leads to increased joint cartilage contact stress through altered load
      transmission, decreased shock absorption, and decreased joint stability .

      The current standard treatment for a degenerative meniscus tear is arthroscopic partial
      meniscectomy (APM). Arthroscopic surgery is one of the most frequent orthopaedic procedures
      with approximately 10,000 APM procedures being done per year in Denmark .

      The benefit from an APM procedure is, however, uncertain and needs to be further
      investigated. As mentioned above, it significantly increases the risk of developing knee OA.
      The investigators also know that a significant placebo effect is present in arthroscopic knee
      surgery including the APM procedure . It has furthermore been shown that patients with a
      degenerative meniscus tear can recover without surgery and by exercise alone , . The recovery
      period after an APM procedure is also much longer than most surgeons realize, with disability
      still evident after 3 months.

      The investigators need to investigate the placebo effect in younger patients with a
      degenerative meniscus tear but without knee OA by implementing additional well-designed,
      randomized, placebo controlled trials to reveal the true effects of the APM procedure on a
      short-and long-term basis.

      The benefit, on a short- and long term basis of APM are firstly described in non-controlled
      studies from the 1980-90's. , , when arthroscopic surgery were gaining entry. But poorly
      designed studies (retrospective, use of non-validated outcome scores, small patient
      populations) and the lack of randomised studies has not shown the true effect of the APM
      procedure. A Cochrane review from 2000(withdrawn due to age) concludes:"…lack of randomised
      trials means that no conclusions can be drawn on the issue of surgical versus non-surgical
      treatment of meniscus injuries". This is up to this point no studies that shows a positive
      benefit from APM compared to other treatment modalities. Those studies that exist beyond this
      point (Moseley 2003, Herrlin 2007, Kirkley 2008) has not shown APM to be better than other
      treatments (placebo, physiotherapy, medication or exercise). The patients though in these
      studies were of older age (mean 52 to 62 years) and had already developed symptomatic knee
      OA. There is but one study of recent age of non-surgical treatment of meniscus tears on
      younger patients (n32) which recommends an initial course of non-operative treatment. The
      investigators wish to examine whether the same conditions which applies to the elder patients
      with knee OA also apply to the younger patients without knee OA.

      A mathematical model has been proposed to identify which patients will receive a benefit or
      not from the APM procedure because, according to the author, an RCT would be controversial
      with reluctance and lack of equipoise from both surgeons and patients . Meanwhile several
      editorials suggest that the use of sham procedures should play a larger role in orthopaedic
      surgery research , , . Furthermore, a recent study of vertebroplasty showed the need for
      placebo-controlled surgical trials to avoid widespread adoption of new unnecessary
      interventions in routine care.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS The first thought that comes to many people when introduced to this
      protocol is: "Is it ethical to perform placebo-controlled RCTs of surgery? However, the
      initial precept in medicine is "First, do no harm". For example, one cannot imagine a new
      pharmaceutical product to be marketed without its being compared with a placebo or at least
      to a similar drug. The investigators assume this process has been undertaken, in spite of the
      likely adverse effects from any drug.

      An equally valid question is, 'Is it ethical not to perform placebo-controlled RCTs within
      orthopaedics and instead, potentially perform under-researched operations which may not
      benefit the patient, or actually, do harm?' As mentioned earlier, a recent study of
      vertebroplasty has effectively shown how a placebo-controlled surgical trial can evaluate a
      given procedure that has been adopted widely despite an absence of robust evidence.

      There are three reasons to perform another placebo-controlled arthroscopy study apart from
      Moseley's (2003). First, this study will focus on younger patients, second these patients are
      yet to develop knee OA but are at risk of doing so, and third, a replication study is
      required to make Moseley's evidence convincing.

      A multistep process has been proposed to ensure that sham-controlled surgical trials are
      performed in an ethical manner :

        1. There is scepticism regarding the therapeutic merits of a particular surgical treatment

        2. There are disagreements about the perceived benefits of a particular procedure compared
           with the placebo.

        3. Benefits might be due to the "experience of surgery" and the postoperative care regimen.

        4. Risks are reduced as far as possible in the sham surgery arm without compromising trial
           design.

        5. There is a lack of a superior alternative therapy.

           Using the model above, our study would have the following basis:

           Ad 1) The APM procedure is controversial. The investigators know that it will lead to
           knee OA.

           Substantial disability has been shown after the APM procedure. Ad 2) Earlier studies
           have shown a significant placebo effect in arthroscopic surgery for knee OA. Other
           studies have shown no difference in surgical or non-surgical treatment of degenerative
           meniscus tears.

           Ad 3) As has been shown patients can recover even from degenerative meniscus tears with
           mechanical symptoms suggesting that the benefit from a surgical intervention can be due
           to the "experience of surgery" and the usual postoperative regime.

           Ad 4) The risk is minimized to a skin incision and general anaesthesia. The overall
           complication risk from a knee arthroscopy is 0.5% . Only relatively healthy patients
           eligible for outpatient surgery are included to avoid an increased risk during the
           anaesthesia.

           Ad 5) Alternative therapies are medical treatment and/or exercise, but the literature
           has not yet shown superiority over the APM procedure.

           PURPOSE The overall purpose of this study is to test whether the benefit from an APM in
           patients aged 35-55 with knee pain and a meniscus lesion, is due to the surgery or to
           the placebo effect. Demonstration of no additional benefit from this surgery may reduce
           the development of surgically-related osteoarthritis in middle-aged patients.

           The investigators hypothesize that the benefit from an arthroscopic partial meniscectomy
           measured on self-reported outcomes is due to the placebo effect, and that meniscectomy
           contributes to the development of knee osteoarthritis seen on radiography.

           PROJECT DESIGN The study is designed as a prospective double-blinded randomized
           placebo-controlled multicentre trial. Patients will be randomized to receive either an
           APM or placebo (sham) procedure. The patients will furthermore be stratified into those
           with and without mechanical symptoms.

           Patients referred from general practitioners will be screened initially. If eligible,
           written information about the study including a 10 minute video will be given to the
           patients to view at home. They will also be handed the questionnaires to fill out at
           home. At the second contact the patients will receive an MRI scan of the affected knee
           and perform a physical function test. After this the patients are informed of the MR
           findings. If MRI confirms medial meniscus lesion the patient will be included in the
           study and signed up for surgery.

           At 3 months, the patients will be called in for a follow-up which will include a
           physical function test, an objective examination and a request to fill out a
           questionnaire. At 2 years, a new follow-up will take place under the same conditions.

           Postoperative regime All patients in both intervention groups will be given a folder
           including an exercise program for postoperative patients after knee arthroscopy. The
           folder gives a presentation of 7 different non-weight bearing exercises (for the first
           week after surgery) and a further 3 weight bearing exercises thereafter. The exercises
           are for the patients to carry out at home. The patients are also recommended to start
           unloaded cycling, swimming or walking after 1 week and after 2-3 weeks the patients are
           recommended jogging or loaded cycling.

           Considerations regarding anaesthesia:

           In this study all patients will be given general anaesthesia. Considerations about
           minimizing the patient risk in the placebo group have been either to induce deep
           sedation or general anaesthesia. In Moseley's study the patients in the placebo group
           were only sedated to minimize the risk. This is a lot like in an endoscopy setting,
           where the use of deep sedation with Propofol has been in wider use. In that setting the
           goal is to complete the procedure without the need for an anesthesiologist thus reducing
           the costs of the procedure. There are still complications associated with deep sedation
           . No study exists which compares the complication risk of general anaesthesia with deep
           sedation, but the incidence of complications in deep sedation in an endoscopy setting
           compared with general anaesthesia in an arthroscopy setting seems the same . In this
           study there is no account to the cost of the procedure only to the risk of the patient.
           Therefore general anaesthesia with superior airway control versus deep sedation and also
           with no risk of compromising the study design has been chosen.

           A surgical checklist has previously shown to decrease mortality and will be used for all
           patients in this study to insure safety. An attending anesthesiologist will be
           responsible for the anesthesia either directly or as a supervisor. All patients will be
           fully sedated with Ultiva/Propofol and a larynx mask will be applied. The overall risk
           of death by anesthesia is 1:250.00 in healthy patients and in Denmark 3 deaths per year
           have been reported due to anesthesia There are 3 reasons why regional anesthesia has not
           been chosen. First, blinding the patient will be much more difficult if he is awake, due
           to the manipulation of the knee, the time perspective and none the less the "acting"
           from the operational staff which is required. Second, no outpatient clinic in Hospital
           South, Region Zealand offers regional anesthesia at this moment. Third, study design may
           be compromised by having a non-homogenous group of patients receiving different kind of
           anesthesia. Studies have shown that though regional anesthesia is a preferable option in
           outpatient arthroscopic surgery it has not been shown to be less in healthy individuals
           .

           Patient characteristics and baseline At baseline, a registration of gender, weight,
           height, working status and level of education will be collected.

           After surgery the patients will be asked which procedure they think they have been
           through. Likewise patients will be asked of their expectations to the surgical procedure
           and afterwards if these expectations were fulfilled.

           A questionnaire of patient self-efficacy modified after the Danish Arthritis
           Self-Efficacy Score will be included.

           Objective and subjective mechanical findings (decreased range of motion, clicks,
           locking) will be registered.

           All patients will receive:

             1. A clinical examination (joint line tenderness, range of motion, swelling,
                mechanical findings, McMurray test)

             2. Weight-bearing x-rays of both knees

             3. MRI of the affected knee

             4. A functionality test

             5. Questionnaires (see "Outcome")

           RADIOLOGY All MRI's will be conducted at the same location and reviewed by the same
           radiologist. A meniscus tear, maceration, and/or destruction are graded according to the
           Whole-Organ MRI Score (WORMS) method (28). The anterior horn, body segment, and the
           posterior horn of the medial and lateral menisci were graded separately on a scale of
           0-4, where 0 = intact, 1 = minor radial or parrot-beak tear, 2 = non-displaced tear
           (breaking 2 or more surfaces), 3 = displaced tear or partial maceration or destruction,
           and 4 = complete maceration or destruction. The readers regarded an increased
           intra-meniscus signal (often a linear signal within the meniscus) as a meniscus tear
           when it communicated with the inferior or superior margin of the meniscus on at least 2
           slices.

           X-ray of both knees with the patient standing will be taken at a fixed flexion angle
           using the Synarflexer. Classification of osteoarthrosis will be according to
           Kellgren-Lawrence classification:

           Grade 0 No radiographic findings of osteoarthritis Grade 1 Minute osteophytes of
           doubtful clinical significance Grade 2 Definite osteophytes with unimpaired joint space
           Grade 3 Definite osteophytes with moderate joint space narrowing Grade 4 Definite
           osteophytes with severe joint space narrowing and subchondral sclerosis

           All patients will be asked for reasons to participate in the study, or to decline, and
           in either case they will be asked which material was helpful in making that decision
           (written information, the video or other) and other reason for their choice (e.g.
           wanting to contribute to the research, not wanting a sham procedure etc.).

           PHYSICAL FUNCTION TEST Single leg hop test The investigators will include a single leg
           hop test, the one-leg hop . Subjects will perform 2 practice trials and then two test
           trials on each leg. The best of the two test trials will be used. Symmetry indices will
           be calculated for the one-leg hop test as (injured side/uninjured side) x 100.

           Knee-bending test The investigators will also include maximum number of knee-bends
           performed in 30 seconds as a third test for physical function. This test has been used
           on similar patient groups in other studies , , and has been found to be a reliable test
           .

           Muscle strength test A handheld dynamometer (Powertrack Commander) will be used to
           evaluate the quadriceps muscle performance by measuring the knee-extension strength.
           Isometric muscle testing is commonly used in the literature and the reliability for the
           isometric muscle tests with a hand held dynamometer have previously been reported to be
           satisfactory .

           Prior to the muscle and functional tests, subjects will warm up on a stationary bicycle
           for approximately 10 minutes. The responsible test facilitator will be blinded to which
           knee is affected by led the patient wear a neoprene sleeve over both knees. In order to
           decide which leg is tested first the patient will be randomized at each visit to avoid
           bias from the effect of learning.

           ADVERSE EVENTS

           All complications or adverse events associated with both interventions will be
           registered; Infection (deep or superficial), deep-vein thrombosis, nerve or vessel
           injury or compartment syndrome. An adverse event is defined as any unwanted event. A
           serious adverse event is defined as an event that could lead to:

             1. Death

             2. A threat to life

             3. Hospitalization

             4. Some form of handicap

             5. Congenital defects

             6. A significant medical condition

           Expected adverse events are:

           Superficial infection, Nerve or vessel injury, Deep infection, Compartment syndrome,
           Deep venous thrombosis, Myocardial infarction, Stroke, Death.

           All adverse events (including those not anticipated in the table above) will be gathered
           from journal review, from the national database index and from the follow-ups at 3 and
           24 months.

           SAMPLE SIZE This is based on a superiority study. A sample size calculation was done
           using a standard formula. SD,the standard deviation is defined as 15, in order to make
           this study comparable with other studies using the KOOS score.

           Z, the standard normal distribution with a probability of a Type I (here 0.05) and Type
           II error (usually between 0.05 and 0.20. Here decided on 0.1 = a power of 90%. D is the
           clinical importance or relevant difference. In these calculations 10/100 points for the
           KOOS questionnaire subscales is chosen as a clinical important or relevant difference.

           Based on above forty patients are needed in each group. With an expected drop-out rate
           of about 20 %, the investigators intend to recruit 50 patients for each group resulting
           in a total of 100 patients.

           RANDOMIZATION The investigators will use a computer-generated randomization schedule
           where annotations for treatment according to meniscectomy (A) or placebo (B) will be
           used. To ensure an equal distribution in the two groups, the investigators will use a
           block randomization, using blocks of 4 and 6. Participants will be stratified to each
           treatment center.

           To ensure concealment of the assigned intervention, the surgeon will obtain the sealed
           envelope containing the participant's assigned intervention after the patient is in the
           operating suite and has been fully sedated. The envelope will be retrieved from a
           briefcase located at the actual operating theatre.

           The allocation sequence will be generated by an external co-investigator, the enrollment
           will be performed by the author and the assignment will be at the operating room when
           the envelopes will be opened by the surgeon.

           The treating surgeon will have no other role in the trial.

           BLINDING The RCT will be a double-blinded study. All study personnel and participants
           will be blinded to the intervention except for the surgeons, who do not have any other
           role in the study and the external statistician who will be presented to the unblinded
           data.

           STATISTICAL METHOD All subjects assigned to treatment will be included in the efficacy
           analyses (i.e. intention to treat analysis). Between-group comparisons of the primary
           end point will be made with the use of a random effects model. 10/100 points for the
           KOOS questionnaire subscales are chosen as a clinical important or relevant difference,
           thus a confidence interval excluding differences greater than 10 units between groups is
           interpreted as indicating the absence of a clinically meaningful difference.
    
  