
    
      Tinostamustine is a new chemical entity, a first-in-class fusion molecule of an alkylator,
      bendamustine and a histone-deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi), vorinostat. It is anticipated that
      tinostamustine may have activity in various hematological malignancies and solid tumors.

      The study consists of 2 stages:

        -  Stage 1: Dose Escalation to determine Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) at the optimal
           infusion time and the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles; is expected to enroll between 21
           and 48 patients. Stage 1 has now been completed.

        -  Stage 2: Expansion in five Cohorts, in which approximately 12-16 patients will be
           enrolled per cohort, for a maximum of 70 patients.

      In Stage 1, tinostamustine doses were escalated following the standard 3+3 design. The
      decision to escalate to the next dose level occurred after all cohort patients completed 3
      weeks (21 days) of observation and have been evaluated for safety and toxicity.The starting
      dose was a 1 hour infusion of 20 mg/m2, and the maximum dose level was 150 mg/m2. Reduced
      infusion times of 45 minutes and 30 minutes were assessed once the maximum tolerated dose at
      a 1-hour infusion was determined.

      In Stage 2, five cohorts of patients (with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM);
      relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma; relapsed/refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma
      (PTCL); relapsed/refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL); and relapsed/refractory T-cell
      Prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) will be enrolled and treated at the recommended Phase 2 dose
      (RP2D) based on results of Stage 1. For MM patients, treatment will occur on Day 1 and Day 15
      of a 28 day cycle. For lymphoma patients, treatment will occur on Day 1 of a 21 day cycle.
      Patients in each stage of the study are expected to receive a median of four Cycles of
      therapy, and the maximum number of treatment Cycles allowed is 12.
    
  