
    
      Birth asphyxia (defined as "failure to initiate and sustain breathing at birth") has been
      identified by the WHO as the most frequent cause of early deaths worldwide, accounting for
      about 20% of neonatal mortality. Although prompt resuscitation after birth can prevent many
      of the deaths and reduce disabilities in survivors from birth asphyxia, the WHO has concluded
      that resuscitation is often not initiated or the methods used are inadequate or wrong. The
      Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP) has been universally accepted in the developed world but
      has had limited dissemination in many developing countries. The primary hypothesis of this
      randomized controlled trial is that implementation of the combined Neonatal Resuscitation
      Program/WHO Essential Newborn Care (ENC) Program, compared to basic neonatal care education
      of health care providers (ENC only) will result in reduced neonatal 7 day mortality.

      The study design will include education and training of personnel at the community level and
      implementation of an NRP intervention to assure validity, accuracy, and precision of the
      estimate of the treatment effects. The primary hypothesis is that implementation of the NRP
      educational programs will result in a decrease in neonatal mortality. The primary outcome
      will be a decrease in all cause early (7 day) neonatal mortality, mortality due to any cause,
      in the NRP trained communities when compared to the non-NRP trained communities. Secondary
      outcomes will include early (7 day) neonatal mortality associated with perinatal asphyxia,
      mortality or hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) at 7 days, need for advanced
      resuscitation, and Apgar scores at 5 minutes as well as providers' self-efficacy, knowledge,
      competence, and performance in neonatal resuscitation.

      This cluster randomized trial will be performed in communities of the Global Network (GN)
      sites. One half of the communities will be randomized to Early Training and Intervention with
      NRP; the other half will be randomized to Late Training and Intervention. Data collection
      will be obtained at baseline for both groups in order to establish baseline data including
      neonatal mortality and asphyxia. Following the baseline data collection period, training of
      the health care providers with the WHO Integrated Management of Pregnancy and Childbirth:
      Pregnancy, Postpartum, and Newborn Care Guide for Essential Practice (2003): Essential
      Newborn Care Program (ENC) will be performed using a train-the-trainer system. Following this
      training, communities will be randomized to Early or Late Training and Intervention with ENC.
      Initially, the Early Training and Intervention sites will have a program of
      train-the-trainers in NRP. Following a 12-month period of intervention (NRP vs. control), the
      providers of the Late Training and Intervention sites will have training in NRP.

      Based on the early (first 7 days after birth) neonatal mortality data collected in
      preparation for this protocol, we estimate that there are 25 neonatal deaths/1000 live
      births. The trial is designed to identify a relative risk reduction of at least 20% (absolute
      risk reduction of 5% or 5/1000 live births, from 25/1000 to 20/1000 live births) in the
      treatment group as compared to the control group. The sample size necessary for the 20%
      relative risk reduction will be at least 32 communities with an average number of births of
      >500 per year; however, we plan to randomize at least 40 communities to account for potential
      drop-out. The proposed enrollment period for the randomized intervention will last one year.
    
  