
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major worldwide health burden. Currently,
      it is the fourth leading cause of death worldwide, and is the only leading cause of death
      that is rising, and will likely become the third cause of death by 2020. COPD is
      characterized by progressive destruction in the elastic tissue within the lung, causing
      respiratory failure.

      Patients with COPD may experience acute exacerbations with severe hypercapnic respiratory
      failure. Hypercapnia results from acute worsening of expiratory flow limitation caused by the
      increased small airway resistance with consequent development of dynamic alveolar
      hyperinflation and intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP). In the most severe
      cases, these may be refractory to conventional therapies and mechanical ventilation, becoming
      life-threatening.

      Extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal (ECCO2R) represents an attractive approach in this
      setting. The last decade has seen an increasing interest in the provision of extracorporeal
      support for respiratory failure, as demonstrated by the progressively increasing number of
      scientific publications on this topic. In particular, remarkable interest has been focused on
      extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal (ECCO2R), due to the relative ease and efficiency in
      blood CO2 clearance granted by extracorporeal gas exchangers as compared to oxygen delivery.

      In recent years, a new generation of ECCO2R devices has been developed. More efficient
      veno-venous (VV)-ECCO2R devices have become available and have replaced the arterio-venous
      approach, having the advantage of not requiring arterial puncture.

      The new VV-ECCO2R devices offer lower resistance to blood flow, have smaller priming volumes,
      and provide a much more efficient gas exchange with relatively low extracorporeal blood flows
      (0.4-1 L/min). The technology of these devices is now comparable to that of renal dialysis
      and has been experimented in several animal and human studies, demonstrating a significant
      reduction in arterial CO2 and improvement in the work of breathing.

      In summary, minimally invasive ECCO2R appears very promising for patients with acute
      exacerbation of obstructive diseases refractory to conventional treatment, but systematic
      evaluation is needed to prove its clinical efficacy.
    
  