
    
      Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) have proliferated at a rapid rate since their
      introduction into the US market in 2007, and their use as a form of nicotine delivery far
      outpaced the science base (1, 2). Although the design of these devices continues to evolve,
      we have previously described nicotine intake, systemic retention, pharmacokinetics, and
      vaping behavior associated with self-administration of e-cigarettes (3, 4) . We demonstrated
      that while the shape of the plasma nicotine concentration-time curve for e-cigarettes is
      similar to tobacco cigarettes, the maximum plasma nicotine concentration is, on average,
      lower for e-cigarettes. During ad libitum access, e-cigarettes were vaped intermittently in
      groups of 2-5 puffs or single puffs such that plasma nicotine levels rose gradually and
      peaked at the end of the 90-minute session. This differs from the rapid increase in plasma
      nicotine observed during controlled use of e-cigarettes or during tobacco cigarette smoking.
      Taken together, these results indicate that e-cigarettes have the potential to produce and
      sustain nicotine addiction but their use and abuse liability may differ from tobacco
      cigarettes.

      The study is designed as a within-subjects, single-blinded crossover study. Fourteen smokers
      of tobacco cigarettes and cannabis will switch between three conditions, namely: (a) vaping
      cannabis leaf, (b) vaping tobacco containing nicotine and (c) vaping a combination of
      cannabis leaf and tobacco containing nicotine. All participants will vape each product with
      the PAX loose-leaf vaporizer, which will be purchased by the study team. The cannabis leaf
      will be obtained through the National Institute on Drug Abuse Drug Supply Program. The
      tobacco-containing nicotine, used in conditions (b) and (c) will come from commercially
      available Marlboro brand cigarettes. The same amount of cannabis or tobacco will be used in
      all conditions.

      The study will be conducted during three outpatient visits separated by at least 48 hours.
      The order of treatment (cannabis leaf, tobacco with nicotine, cannabis leaf & tobacco with
      nicotine) will be counterbalanced between subjects. Subjects will be blinded to the content
      of the vaporizer on the study day but will be told during screening that they will vape
      cannabis alone, tobacco alone, and cannabis plus tobacco with nicotine.

      While scientists struggle to keep up with the latest electronic cigarette trends, the use of
      these devices for cannabis rather than nicotine is increasingly prevalent. electronic
      cigarette use is not restricted to nicotine. Marijuana, the most widely used illicit drug (5)
      has traditionally been combusted but the vaping of loose-leaf marijuana and THC oil has been
      increasing (6). the latest national data show that 7.6% of current marijuana users (past 30
      days) and 9.9% of ever cannabis users (lifetime) administered THC through a vaporizer or
      electronic device (6) (the study did not differentiate between vaporizers and electronic
      devices like e-cigarettes). The prevalence of vaped marijuana or THC is higher among younger
      adults. Prevalence of vaped marijuana/THC among 18-24 and 25-34 year-old ever marijuana users
      was 19.3% and 16.3%, respectively, compared to 8.8% for 35-49 year-olds and 5.7% for those 50
      years and over (6). A recent study also showed high rates of cannabis vaping among high
      school students (18.0% among ever e-cigarette users) (7). Smoking of a combination of tobacco
      and marijuana in cigarette form is also common, particularly in Europe (8) (9). However, very
      little is known about the safety and pharmacokinetics of this co-administration making it a
      critical area of research.
    
  