
    
      The patients who fulfilled the described criteria were randomly assigned to groups P or E
      using sequentially numbered containers for concealed randomization. Those in group P received
      the continuous infusion of parenteral glutamine dipeptide supplement (Dipeptiven 100ml,
      Fresenius Kabi) and were fed enterally with a standard commercial enteral polymeric diet
      without added glutamine (Ensure, Abbott Ross). The patients in group E received the enteral
      glutamine supplement as continuous administration of a standard commercial enteral diet
      supplemented with glutamine (Alitraq, Abbott Ross). The dose of the enteral glutamine, in a
      form of a free acid in this diet, depended on the volume of enteral food. Both groups of
      patients were treated with the glutamine supplement for five days. The other therapeutic
      procedures did not differ between the groups. All the patients were on continuous gastric
      feeding for 20 hours daily, starting with 20ml/hour. The enteral nutrition was started in 24
      hours following admission. The gastric residual was measured three times daily, and when less
      than 250ml, the feeding volume was gradually increased up to 100ml/hour. If needed from day
      two onwards, the patients in all three groups received additional parenteral amino acid and
      glucose solutions to reach the goal 20kcal/kg/day and 0.15g nitrogen/kg/day.

      Intestinal permeability (IP) was measured on day 4 using the lactulose/mannitol (L/M) test.
      For the study purpose, the patients were fasted 6 hours before the test. The test was
      performed with 5g of mannitol (M) and 10g of lactulose (L) mixed in 100ml of water. The
      mixture was given as a bolus via nasogastric tube. At the same time, 4ml of 20% chlorhexidine
      was added into an empty urine bag. The urine was collected in this bag for six hours. Then
      5ml of urine was sampled from the bag and stored at -20˚C until analysis. Two hours after the
      test enteral feeding via nasogastric tube was started. Urinary L and M were determined
      simultaneously with thin-layer chromatography14, a new method in our laboratory for lactulose
      and mannitol determination. The method enabled determination of lactulose and mannitol in
      urine on the same amino HPTLC plate after densitometric quantification of lactulose by use of
      fluorescence mode, and mannitol by use of absorption mode after detection with AgNO3 reagent.
      The new method resulted in shorter analysis time, lower consumption of chemicals and HPTLC
      plates, increased sensitivity (lower limits of detection) and fewer problems with interfering
      compounds at determination of lactulose than the previously used two separate methods for
      determination of both analytes.14 The separation and quantification using this method are
      highly reproducible, yielding standard errors of less than 2.5% for retention times and less
      than 3.5% for quantitation.15,16 The investigators in the laboratory were blinded for the
      study groups. L/M index was calculated from urinary concentrations (c) of L and M using the
      following formula: L/M = c L / (c M x 2). L/M test was not performed at the beginning of the
      study because unstable trauma and septic patients were also included in the study, and at
      these patients, urine collection is difficult to perform.

      Nosocomial infections were recorded during the entire ICU stay as recommended by the Centre
      for Disease Control in Atlanta.17,18 Nosocomial pneumonia was diagnosed when
      Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia Risk Index was 6 or more.19 The infections that were present upon
      admission or diagnosed within the first two days of ICU treatment were marked as acquired
      before ICU admission. All diagnosed infections were treated according to the results of
      microbiological tests and/or according to infection control guidelines. Acute inflammatory
      response was measured with C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. The blood samples for its
      determination were obtained at baseline and the end of the study.

      Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) score was calculated upon
      admission. Each patient's ICU and hospital length of stay (LOS) and six month survival was
      recorded.

      All participants were blinded to interventions. The ICU-staff was not blinded to group
      assignment, but they did not take part in the outcome assessment and on the other hand, the
      outcome assessors and laboratory personnel were blinded to group assignment.
    
  