
    
      Background

      Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a public health problem with an annual incidence of 1 per 1000.
      Besides the acute risk of potentially fatal pulmonary embolism or phlegmasia cerulea dolens,
      these patients are at increased risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism, and in the long
      term 20-40% of them develop a post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS). PTS mainly develops in patients
      with DVT affecting the ilio-femoral veins, adversely affects the quality of life and causes
      important health care costs to the society. There's evidence that the early removal of the
      obstructing thrombus reduces the risk of developing a PTS, and a higher degree of
      thrombolysis is associated with lower incidence of PTS, better quality of life and lower risk
      of recurrent venous thromboembolism. Therefore, in addition to standard anticoagulation
      therapy, the latest international guidelines recommend catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT)
      as first-line treatment for patients with ilio-femoral DVT and low bleeding risk. CDT refers
      to the infusion of thrombolytic drugs directly into the thrombus via a multisidehole catheter
      which is embedded in the thrombus using imaging guidance. A further development is
      ultrasound-enhanced thrombolysis combining CDT with a sophisticated catheter system that
      employs high-frequency, low-dose ultrasound. In vitro experiments showed that adding
      Ultrasound to thrombolytic drugs accelerates thrombolysis while Ultrasound exposure alone
      results in no thrombolysis. Although ultrasound-enhanced thrombolysis is now widely used to
      treat ilio-femoral DVT or high-risk pulmonary embolism, it is currently not known if this
      technique is superior to standard CDT.

      Objective

      To determine if the addition of intravascular high-frequency/low-dose ultrasound to standard
      CDT increases the percentage of clot lysis compared to CDT alone after treatment duration of
      15 hours in patients with symptomatic ilio-femoral DVT and low bleeding risk

      Methods

      Study design: open-label (with blinding of data-analyzing physicians), randomized,
      controlled, single center clinical trial with a follow-up period of 12 months.

      Subjects: total of 20 patients (10 in each study group) of 18-75 years of age with acute,
      symptomatic, objectively confirmed ilio-femoral DVT and a low bleeding risk.

      Intervention: CDT using the EkoSonic Endovascular System with (CDT+US group) or without
      (CDT-US group) intravascular high-frequency, low-power ultrasound for 15 hours.
    
  