
    
      Currently, there are an estimated 300-600 adults living in Switzerland with congenital heart
      disease (CHD) and a right ventricle (RV) in subaortic (systemic) position. This includes
      adults with prior atrial switch operations for complete transposition of the great arteries
      (D-TGA) and adults with congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (ccTGA).
      Although midterm survival is favourable, late outcome is compromised by ventricular
      dysfunction of the systemic RV, end-stage heart failure, and premature death. Medical heart
      failure therapy (ACE-inhibitors, beta-blockers, aldosterone antagonists) has been shown to
      improve ventricular function and survival in patients with left heart failure from acquired
      heart disease. Unfortunately, case-reports and studies failed to show similar clinical
      benefits of these drugs in adults with a failing systemic RV. Currently, the only established
      end-stage therapy for a failing systemic RV is heart transplantation. Given the ubiquitous
      shortage of donor organs and the number of adults at risk, medical options to improve the
      fate of patients with a systemic RV are urgently needed.

      The RV and left ventricle (LV) have different embryological origins, myocardial architecture
      and contractile properties. In response to increased afterload, as in an RV in systemic
      position, the RV expresses a fetal gene pattern, with an increase in phosphodiesterase
      (PDE)-5 expression. PDE-5 is not expressed in the normal RV, but is up-regulated in the
      hypertrophied RV. PDE-5 inhibition increases contractility in experimental models of RV
      hypertrophy, but not in the normal RV. In clinical practice, the effects of PDE-5 inhibition
      on systemic RV function and exercise capacity in adults with TGA have not been tested.

      This study assesses in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multi-center pilot
      trial the effect of PDE-5 inhibition with Tadalafil on RV size and function, exercise
      capacity and neurohumoral activation in adults with a systemic RV over a 3-year follow-up
      period.
    
  