
    
      Injury to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) results in a threat to an active lifestyle and
      exposes the patient to risk of osteoarthritis. ACL reconstruction is typically chosen by
      individuals to allow a return to their previous work and sports activities. The results of
      primary ACL reconstruction have in general been good at restoring functional stability.
      Primary ACL reconstruction has a graft failure rate ranging from approximately 2%-8%.
      Consensus amongst surgeons and low-level evidence (retrospective case series) indicate a
      worse outcome following revision ACL reconstruction compared to primary reconstruction. The
      typical surgeon performs less than 10 revision ACL reconstructions per year. Thus, the
      ability of any single surgeon or small group of surgeons to accumulate enough cases to
      effectively analyze predictors for worse outcome is impossible.

      With this in mind, the Multi-Center ACL Revision Study (MARS) group was established as a
      multi-center surgeon group to perform a prospective longitudinal cohort analysis of revision
      ACL reconstruction. This is a mixed group of academic and private practice physicians and has
      been supported and endorsed by the American Orthopedic Society for Sports Medicine (AOSSM).

      This study focuses on the predictors for ACL revision outcome at 2, 6, and 10 years following
      a patient's revision ACL reconstruction. This will be accomplished by three Specific Aims.
      Specific Aim 1 will determine the independent predictors of patient-reported quality of life,
      utilizing a general (SF-36) and knee-specific (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score -
      KOOS) validated outcome instrument. Specific Aim 2 will determine the independent predictors
      of sports function utilizing three validated outcome instruments (the Marx activity level,
      International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective form - IKDC, and the KOOS sports and
      recreation subscale). Specific Aim 3 will identify those independent modifiable predictors
      measured at the time of the revision ACL reconstruction associated with symptoms of early
      osteoarthritis at 2, 6, and 10 years post-surgery. Symptoms will be quantified using the
      validated survey instrument the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis
      Index (WOMAC). Once the predictors for these worse outcomes are identified, surgeons can be
      educated in potential modifiable variables to improve the outcome.
    
  