
    
      This double blind, placebo-controlled trial will be conducted at approximately 26 Alzheimer's
      Disease Cooperative Study (ADCS) clinical centers. One hundred twenty (120) patients with
      mild to moderate dementia due to probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be randomly assigned
      to treatment (1:1) with resveratrol starting at 500 mg once daily or matching placebo,
      increasing at 13 week intervals to a maximum of 1 gram twice daily (divided into two 500 mg
      capsules taken orally) taken with or without food. Participants will be treated for 52 weeks,
      and will undergo venous blood draws for biomarker analysis at Baseline and at 52 weeks;
      participants will also undergo two lumbar punctures for biomarker analyses of cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) at Baseline and at Week 52. Participants will undergo magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) to measure rate of whole-brain and regional atrophy at Screening, Week 13 and Week 52
      visits. Randomization will be stratified by site. For monitoring of potential toxicities of
      the study drug - particularly nephrotoxicity - subjects will undergo physical examination,
      neurological examination, adverse event review, blood chemistries to include blood urea
      nitrogen (BUN) and Creatinine (Cr), pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses for resveratrol and its
      metabolites, and urinalysis every 6-7 weeks during the study. Clinical, Cognitive and
      Functional effects of resveratrol and insulin and glucose metabolism will also be assessed.

      A subgroup of approximately 15 subjects enrolled will be randomized 4:1 (N = 15, 12 treated +
      3 placebo) for more detailed 24-hour PK analysis. For these individuals, blood samples will
      be collected at 15 different time points. Measurements will include levels of resveratrol and
      its major metabolites (sulfated- and glucuronidated-resveratrol). These subjects will
      complete the detailed PK with each dosage step. This 24-hour PK sampling in the subgroup will
      occur after the first dose following Baseline, after the first dose at each dose increment
      (Weeks 13, 26 and 39), and after the final dose (Week 52).

      Enrollment will be restricted to individuals who are able to abstain from ingesting large
      quantities of resveratrol-containing foods (including red wine). 1-2 glasses of red wine or
      red grape juice and 1 serving of red grapes daily is acceptable. Subjects must also be able
      to abstain from ingesting herbal/natural preparations or dietary supplements containing
      resveratrol.
    
  