
    
      Study Title:

      An observational study of the Nutritional status in locally advanced or metastatic solid
      cancer patients while receiving immunotherapy in Spain: the NutriOncoSearch (NOS) study.

      Research Question:

      What is the current nutritional status in advanced cancer patients receiving immunotherapy or
      any other targeted therapies in Spain?

      Study Background & Rationale:

      Malnutrition is a common medical problem in oncology patients. Between 15 and 40% of patients
      with cancer present weight loss at diagnosis and the incidence of malnutrition increases over
      the course of the disease until 80% of all cancer patients. It is well known that the
      presence of malnutrition negatively affects patients' evolution and their quality of life,
      increasing the incidence of infection, hospital stay, and mortality.

      The new knowledge of cancer biology has made it possible to know the mechanisms of cancer
      progression. These mechanisms include:

        1. Self-sufficiency in growth signals.

        2. Insensitivity to anti-growth signals.

        3. Evading apoptosis.

        4. No breaks in the replicate potential

        5. Sustained angiogenesis. New treatments have been developed thanks to this knowledge
           including molecular target treatments aimed at these cancer mechanics and to reverse the
           anti-tumor capacity of the immune system. However, these treatments have different
           toxicities than classic and anachronistic treatments such as chemotherapy and
           radiotherapy, including alterations in glucose metabolism, endocrinopathies,
           rhabdomyolysis, etc. that can alter both the patient's nutritional status and quality of
           life. Additionally, a deficient nutritional status can have an impact on the intestinal
           microbiota, compromising the efficacy of the new anti-tumor treatments.

      Regarding the nutritional status of cancer patients, some studies have been developed. In
      France, a 1-day prospective prevalence survey was carried out in 154 public or private
      hospital wards in 24 French cities. The investigators were to include all patients with
      cancer who were present at the hospital on the day of the survey and who agreed to
      participate. The results of this study showed a high prevalence of malnutrition (39%) and a
      high rate of malnourished patients not receiving nutrition support (42.4%). Recently, the
      PreMio study (Italy) assessed the nutritional status of cancer patients on their first visit
      for care. Findings showed that first-visit PreMiO patients were often malnourished or at risk
      for malnutrition when they entered the study- 40% to 80% of patients had signs and indicators
      of nutritional impairment- even in early disease stages, particularly in gastroesophageal,
      pancreatic, head and neck, and colorectal cancer patients.

      In Spain, two old studies analyzed the nutritional situation of Spanish oncology patients.
      The first one is a multicentric study published in 2005 with data from outpatients and
      hospitalized patients. In this study, the scored PG-SGA indicated that 52% of the patients
      were moderately or severely malnourished and, of the total population analyzed, 97.6%
      required some form of nutritional recommendation to prevent, or reverse malnutrition. Since
      then, only the sub-analysis of the PREDYCES study gave information on the nutritional status
      of cancer patients (hospitalized) in our country (8). This analysis revealed that 36.4% of
      hospitalized oncology patients were at nutritional risk at the time of hospital discharge. It
      also demonstrated its significant association with longer hospital stays and higher
      healthcare costs. Despite all of this, only 1/3 of patients at nutritional risk received
      nutritional support. There are little data on the nutritional status of non-hospitalized
      oncology patients and, to our knowledge, none of them analyzed the effects of new target
      therapies. As these new therapies represent the future of oncology, it´s of most importance
      to understand what this effect is. The aim of this observational study is to determine the
      prevalence of malnutrition (or risk of malnutrition) in the Spanish population of outpatients
      that receive immunotherapy or any other targeted therapies For that end the investigators
      would like to explore nutritional status using validated tools like NutriScore, and Global
      Subjective assessment, Spanish version.

      Study Design

      Study Type: Clinical Non-Interventional

      Condition to be studied and incidence: Nutritional status

      Due to the epidemiologic characteristics of this study, the investigators don´t ask about
      adverse events or their relationship with specific drugs: the investigators will ask for
      generic groups of agents or treatments.

      Study Population (ages, gender, relevant disease states): Adult patients, both sexes, Stages
      III-IV all solid cancers.

      Duration of subject participation: This a descriptive, prospective and analytic study.
      Patients will be asked once, and no more.

      The total number of subjects to be enrolled: 610 subjects.

        -  The number of study or comparison groups: two 2:1 relation. 408 patients with
           immunotherapy with or without chemotherapy or radiotherapy and 204 with chemotherapy or
           radiotherapy alone, both of them in the first line of treatment,

        -  The study will be performed on multiple different days: the recruitment will be
           concomitant and limited to a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 70 patients depending on the
           number of patients the center deals with. The estimation is that each center will
           dedicate from one to two weeks to recruit the total number of patients.

      Specific details of Treatment/Intervention: (prescription and/or therapy, devices, equipment,
      solutions, product to be used in conducting the study:

      Not applicable.

      Efficacy Assessments Not applicable.

      Statistical Methods (for analyzing primary & secondary endpoints):

      Descriptive statistics like clinical and sociodemographic characteristics of the studied
      population will be expressed by means and SDs for the continuous variables and frequency
      distribution for the qualitative variables. The investigators will use the ӽ2 test and Fisher
      exact test for the qualitative data set and Student t-test for quantitative data, with a
      significance level of .05 and a confidence interval of 95%. Multivariate logistic regression
      analysis and odds ratios can be efficiently conducted as a measure of statistical correlation
      to link nutrition status and associated factors.

      Based on the number of cancer diagnoses in 2019 in Spain (REDECAN), there will be an
      incidence of 277.234 new cases, with a prevalence of 772.853 cases (5-years projection). With
      this population the investigators calculate a proportion estimation, with a confidence
      interval 1-α of 99%, d= 3%, p= 0,5, the sample size is 504, with an expected loss of (R=)15%
      sample size is 610 subjects. Investigators propose a stratification in two groups, in a 2:1
      proportion, 408 patients in the immunotherapy-only group and 204 patients in the control,
      chemotherapy-in-combination group.
    
  