
    
      Among head and neck cancer (HNC) patients, 92% report fatigue and 73% have pain. A 10%
      increase in fatigue or pain is associated with a 10-25% reduction in HNC survival. During the
      critical transition period from the end of active treatment to 6 months post-treatment,
      untreated physical symptoms negatively impact functional status (ADL) and quality of life
      (QOL). Fatigue and musculoskeletal pain are known to improve in response to physical activity
      (PA). However, 51% of HNC survivors rarely engage in any type of PA because of complicated PA
      barriers. Our overall objective is to test an intervention to overcome these PA barriers for
      HNC patients during the critical transition period to self-management. PAfitME, a
      personalized Physical Activity intervention with fitness graded Motion Exergames, is a
      telehealth program built on Social Cognitive Theory and the exercise principle of adaptation.
      PAfitME, delivered via a tested mix of FaceTime calls and home visits, uses commercially
      available exergaming platforms (Wii Fit and Xbox Kinect). We propose the following specific
      aims: (1) When compared to an attention control group, determine the effect of PAfitME on
      fatigue and musculoskeletal pain at week 6, when controlling for age and sex; (2) when
      compared to an attention control group, determine the effect of PAfitME on functional status
      and QOL at week 6, when controlling for age and sex; and (3) explore if PA self-efficacy, PA
      enjoyment, and exergame minutes mediate the effect of PAfitME on fatigue and musculoskeletal
      pain. This study will evaluate 150 post-treatment (radiation, chemotherapy, or
      chemoradiation) HNC patients in an RCT with an attention control. For 6 weeks, the
      experimental (PAfitME) group will receive the PAfitME intervention, and the attention control
      group will receive NCI-based survivorship education and exergame equipment. For Aims 1 and 2,
      using an intention-to-treat framework, we will fit a series of linear mixed-effects models
      with each of the outcome variables. For Aim 3, we will conduct our exploratory analyses in
      ml_mediation (STATA 15), which will compute direct and indirect effects for multi-level data.
      This study aligns with the NCI Cancer Moonshot goal to minimize cancer treatment-associated
      side effects and the key recommendation in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Clinical
      Guidelines of the need for evidence-based non- pharmacological fatigue/pain treatments
      (National Priority).
    
  