
    
      Innovation and expected results: As the classical PK approach typically requires 11 samples,
      which can be a burden to the patient, specific subgroups of individuals are often excluded
      from analysis-including children, elderly and critical care patients. As WAPPS-Hemo is the
      largest database of individual PK data, a large subgroup of pediatric patients and patients
      with inhibitors are available for investigation, allowing for analysis of variability in
      previously unavailable groups. Determining predictors of variability within patient outcome
      will allow us to improve the current models used to estimate individual PK, resulting in
      better individual care and use of resources.

      Eligibility criteria: All valid data in the WAPPS-Hemo database will be used. All factor
      concentrates will be included. All available covariates will be analyzed.

      Patients: Individuals with hemophilia A or B, any severity, who are registered on WAPPS-Hemo
      and for whom infusion and/or PK data are available. Both adult and pediatric patients will be
      included. Patients with history of inhibitors will be included as a separate subgroup.

      Available covariates: age, sex, weight, height, dose and type of factor administered (as
      total and IU/kg), blood group, baseline factor level, positive history of inhibitors,
      hematocrit, hemoglobin, serum creatinine and laboratory methods used to measure factor VIII
      and factor IX.

      Design: retrospective data analysis

      Study database: The WAPPS-Hemo database will be used for the study. WAPPS-Hemo is a web
      accessible platform developed and run by the Health Information Research Unit (HiRU) at
      McMaster University. Data have been provided from participating hemophilia treatment centers
      worldwide to the scope of obtaining individual PK estimates. Data collected are completely
      anonymized, and re-use of the data for modelling and validation purposes was agreed upon by
      the inputting physicians, who committed to inform their patients about use of their data for
      system improvement.

      Data extraction procedure: Data will be extracted from the WAPPS-Hemo database after
      transforming the centre name into a numeric code. The data extracted will include: patient
      age, sex, weight, height, dose and type of factor administered (as total and IU/kg), blood
      group, baseline factor level, positive history of inhibitors, hematocrit, hemoglobin, serum
      creatinine, laboratory methods used to measure factor VIII and factor IX, infused dose,
      post-infusion measurement of plasma factor activity level, estimated terminal half-life and
      time to 0.01, 0.02, and 0.05 IU/mL, with their credibility intervals, area under the curve
      (AUC), central volume, and clearance. Once extracted, the data will be stored in a secure
      server, located within the local network of the HiRU, protected by a proxy server and
      firewall.

      Data cleaning: Once extracted, the data will be cleaned. Duplicate submissions will be
      removed, and all original data that has been duplicated from merged infusions will be
      deleted. Any data not valid for modelling, such as user input errors, insufficient data, or
      conditions that exclude use of patient data (such as use of inhibitors) will be removed and
      excluded from analysis. The dataset will be analyzed to search for outliers. Input errors
      missed at the source will be corrected where the incorrect measurement has been used (i.e.
      weight, height).

      Data Analysis: Multivariate hierarchical analysis will be performed on various factors (age,
      sex, weight, height, dose and type of factor administered (as total and IU/kg), blood group,
      baseline factor level, positive history of inhibitors, hematocrit, hemoglobin, and serum
      creatinine, laboratory methods used to measure factor VIII and factor IX) to explore sources
      of variability in patient outcome. Significant predictors will be used as covariates in
      improvement of the model.
    
  