
    
      The age incidence of colorectal cancer is above fifty years old world wide .But, when
      comparing the incidence and clinicopathological features of colorectal cancer in western
      countries and countries with constrained resources as Egypt , there is significant lower
      median age of incidence. In Egypt reports showed that CRC was detected in 11-15% of patients
      who underwent colonoscopy and diagnosed in 29-31% of patients aged 40 years or younger .
      Similar data come from other highly populated resource-constrained countries in Asia . This
      early onset rectal cancer is mainly poorly differentiated, advanced at prognosis, sporadic
      with no familial predisposition.Young patients with microsatellite high (MSI-h ) proximal
      cancer colon are with good prognosis but there is lacking data about the prognostic and
      predictive role of these genes in young patients with irradiated rectal cancer. As those
      young aged patients show worse outcome in term of progression free survival and higher rates
      of metastatic events , we hypothesize that colorectal cancer stem cells (CR-CSC) may have a
      role in this dismal outcome.CD133 is one of the best-characterized markers of CR-CSCs, many
      studies have demonstrated that CD133 expression was correlated with survival, recurrence,
      metastasis and chemotherapy resistance in colorectal cancer.

      So the study is trying to establish a correlation between the MS status and enrichment with
      CR-CSC and if this proposed relationship may have implication of disease outcome and
      treatment results.

      Patients and methods:

      The investigators will enroll about 30 patients and will examine the pre- treatment
      colonoscopic biopsy for

        -  Type and grade of carcinoma under light microscopy after staining with haematoxylin and
           eosin.

        -  Immunocytochemistry performed on 4 µ-thick sections from paraffin blocks using the
           streptavidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. The sections will be routinely deparaffinized,
           rehydrated through graded alcohols to distilled water. Deparaffinized sections will be
           treated with 0.3% hydrogen peroxide for 10 min. Suitable antigen retrieval will be
           carried out. Blocking serum will be applied for 10 min. The sections will be incubated
           with antibody raised against

             1. MMR proteins : MLH1, MSH2, or MSH6,PMS-2 .

             2. CD133. Then the investigators will collect the blocks from the same patients after
                receiving neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and underwent surgery and examine

             1. Under light microscope after staining for :Type and grade of carcinoma
                Angiovascular invasion Degree of immune response Pattern and depth of invasion
                Lymph node status.

             2. CD 133 positive cell count with the same previously reported technique . The
                resulting immune complex will be detected by a universal staining kit following the
                instructions attached with the kit. Slides will be washed several times in
                phosphate buffer saline and will be placed in it for 5 minutes between each step
                except after peroxidase reagent the washing will be by distilled water. Negative
                and positive controls will be included in each staining series. Immunohistochemical
                evaluation will be done according to Ren F et al and Zhang X et al . Digital images
                will be obtained with a digital camera system
    
  