
    
      Kienbock'sdisease is defined as avascular necrosis of the lunate bone, which may ultimately
      progress to lunate sclerosis, collapse, and wrist instability. Incidence is highest in males
      20-40 years of age, although it may occur in any age group. Kienbock's disease is uncommon in
      skeletally immature patients. The cause of Kienbock's disease is likely multi factorial, but
      potential risk factors have been identified including variant lunate arterial supply and
      ulnar negative variance. In fewer than 20% of patients, the dorsal blood supply is absent and
      the lunate is supplied by the palmar radiocarpal arch only; this may represent a risk factor
      for Kienbock's disease .

      Negative ulnar variance may also predispose to Kienbock's disease due to abnormal force
      loading on the lunate.

      Kienbock's disease may be staged according to radiologic appearance using Lichtman
      classification Stage I is defined as normal radiographic appearance of the lunate with marrow
      edema present on MRI.

      In Stage II disease, there is sclerosis of the lunate, with or without a fracture line, but
      without lunate collapse.

      Stage III, defined as presence of lunate articular surface collapse, may be divided further
      into three subcategories.

      In Stage IIIA, there is no scaphoid rotation; in Stage IIIB, there is fixed scaphoid rotatory
      subluxation, and in Stage IIIC, a coronal fracture of the lunate is present in addition to
      scaphoid rotation. Stage III C in 2010 as an addition to the classification scheme.

      Stage IV disease is present when secondary radiocarpal or midcarpal osteoarthritis is present
      in addition to Stage III findings.

      An alternate classification of Kienbock's disease, the Bain and Begg

      The assessment and management of Kienböck Disease (KD) has always been conundrum. The
      Lichtman classification has traditionally been used to guide treatment based on imaging.
      Arthroscopy provides a direct visualization of the articular surface,allows probing of the
      surfaces, and enables minimally invasive techniques to be performed. The Lichtman-Bain
      classification is a new classification that takes into account the osseous, vascular, and
      cartilage aspects of the lunate and the secondary effects on the wrist. It identifies the
      important prognostic factors including age, the status of the lunate, and the status of the
      wrist.

      With arthroscopy, the articular surfaces of the lunate can be assessed to better understand
      the status of the lunate. The lunate can be defined as intact, compromised,or not
      reconstructable. If the lunate is intact then lunate decompression (forage) and arthroscopic
      assisted bone grafting can be performed. If the lunate facet and capitate are functional,
      then proximal carpectomy can be performed.

      Assessment of the wrist includes assessment of the adjacent articular surfaces of the central
      column articulations (radiocarpal and midcarpal articulations). Instability of the proximal
      carpal row can also be assessed. The radioscaphoid articulation is often preserved except in
      late KD, which allows the scaphocapitate fusion to be a good surgical option. This can now be
      performed as an arthroscopic procedure. Once the radioscaphoid articulation is degenerate, a
      salvage procedure is required Wrist arthroscopy is a commonly used procedure that has
      undergone many modifications and improvements since it was first described. The advent of new
      portals (both dorsal and volar) means that the wrist joint can be viewed from virtually any
      perspective ("box concept"). Indications for wrist arthroscopy have continued to expand and
      include diagnostic and reparative procedures and, more recently, reconstructive, soft-tissue,
      and bony procedures. Arthroscopic grading of Kienböck's disease better describes articular
      damage compared with plain radiographs and can help guide surgical treatment options This
      grading system assists in classifying the severity of the disease and better directs the
      surgeon toward the reconstructive surgical options grade 0 disorder could be treated with an
      extra-articular procedure, such as a joint-leveling procedure or revascularization of the
      lunate. Patients with grade 1or 2a can be treated with a radio-scapho-lunate fusion Patients
      with grade 1 or 2b can be treated with aproximal-row carpectomy, whereas those with grade 3or
      4 require salvage procedures (such as wrist arthrodesis or arthoplasty) Menth-Chiari et al.15
      reported on the use of arthroscopic debridement for Kienböck's disease. They
      reportedexcellent pain relief and improved range of motion in all grades of patients with up
      to 2 years of follow-up.
    
  