
    
      BACKGROUND. Abnormalities in lipid metabolism are present in 50-80% of patients with a kidney
      transplant, as a consequence of both the primary cause of end-stage renal disease, its
      complications and immunosuppressive therapy. Concurrent comorbidities and cardiovascular risk
      factors put kidney transplant recipients at high-risk for cardiovascular disease, therefore
      the target LDL-cholesterol was set to below 2.6 mmol/l (< 100 mg/dl) by the guidelines. First
      line lipid-lowering therapy in this population is pharmacological, namely with HMG-CoA
      reductase inhibitors (statins), which have potential interactions with immunosuppressive
      drugs and increased risk of adverse effects. There is a paucity of data on the efficacy of
      therapeutic lifestyle modification for cardiovascular risk management in the kidney
      transplant recipient. Studies in the general population showed a significant effect of mostly
      plant-based nutrition on lowering lipid levels, achieving approximately 10-15% reduction in
      both total and LDL-cholesterol, while the effect on cardiovascular protection of such
      nutritional intervention remains hypothetical. The aim of the present study is to confirm
      efficacy, safety and feasibility of nutritional intervention for lowering cardiovascular risk
      factors in kidney transplant recipients. METHODS. Investigators will conduct a randomized
      controlled trial on the effects of a low-fat, unrefined, plant-based diet compared to the
      currently recommended diet based on the Mediterranean dietary pattern and complying with
      current nutrition guidelines for general population to lower LDL-cholesterol. Duration of
      dietary intervention will be 6 weeks with further extension of intervention and assessment of
      end-points after additional 3 months. Final follow-up is scheduled after 12 months regardless
      of continuation of the intervention as decided by subjects themselves. Subjects in the
      experimental group will receive a meal plan based on low-fat, unrefined, plant based foods
      with the goal macronutrient intake of approximately 15% protein, <15 % fats and 70-75% of
      carbohydrates, and will additionally receive polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA n-3) supplement
      (daily dose 840 mg) to ensure daily recommended intake. Subjects in the control group will
      receive a meal plan in accordance with recommendations by the Task Force for the Management
      of Dyslipidaemias of the European Society of Cardiology and European Atherosclerosis Society
      incorporating foods according to the Mediterranean dietary pattern including the usage of
      (but not limited to) olive oil, fatty-fish and low-fat dairy products. To promote adherence
      to the meal plan, subjects will receive dietary counselling and will be invited to attend
      weekly peer-group meetings together with a next of kin. Both diets will be allowed to be
      eaten at libitum and no calorie counts will be made. A random 24-hour recall, announced
      prospective 3-day food diary analysis and analysis of a 24-hour urine collection to determine
      adherence to the prescribed meal plan will be performed. To ensure safety, periodically
      monitoring of basic serum electrolyte concentrations, body weight and composition, and
      adjustment of antihypertensive and antihyperglycemic medications will be allowed. No change
      of lipid lowering agents will be allowed for the first 6-week study period. Feasibility of
      the intervention will be assessed by adherence monitoring as described above and with the
      Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form questionnaire. Analysis of covariance with baseline
      parameter value used as a covariate will be used for primary statistical analysis. Based on
      expected effect of nutritional intervention on lowering LDL-cholesterol by 0.6 mmol/l (23
      mg/dl) in the study population by the end of intervention period, standard deviation of
      LDL-cholesterol of 0.6 mmol/l (23 mg/dl) in the study population with the expected drop-out
      rate of 15 %, the required sample size of 43 participants in each group to achieve a
      statistical significance p < 0.05 and statistical power of 80% is defined.
    
  