
    
      Choice of design: The study is a single arm mechanistic intervention study.

      Study population: The subject must have enrolled in the commercial Zoe testing program in
      order to apply for participation in the PREDICT 3 research program.

      Screening Assessment: The study eligibility criteria listed below closely match to the
      commercial eligibility criteria, which Zoe users consent to before enrolling in the
      commercial program.

      Study duration: Each participant will take part in the study for 6-14 days.

      Dietary intervention: The dietary intervention will be carried out on up to 6 days with the
      option to continue monitoring for a total study period of 14-days. On day one, participants
      will be asked to fit glucose monitor. Over the following consecutive days, each participant
      will be instructed to eat 2 standardized meals. Participants are free to eat whatever they
      wish at all other times. The standardized meals will be provided to all participants by the
      study team via post. The foods included as part of these meals will be foods that are
      commonly consumed and can be made from products sold in US supermarkets. Participants will be
      asked to consume the entire amount of food indicated for the standardized meals and to record
      any left-over food via a digital app for which training will be provided at the start of the
      study. Following completion of standardized meal period, participants are free to eat and
      drink whatever they wish and will be asked to track all meals, snacks and drinks on their
      digital app. Participants will also be advised not to change their physical activity patterns
      during the course of the study.

      Regular contact will be made with the participants via phone, their app and text messages for
      the period of the intervention to encourage compliance and answer any queries.

      Anthropometry: The participant will be instructed to report height and weight.

      Dietary and Lifestyle: Participants will be asked to complete a baseline questionnaire
      online, as well as a diet history questionnaire with portion sizes about the month preceding
      their study period. They will be asked to record on a daily basis their dietary, activity,
      and psychological data (e.g. hunger) using a digital mobile phone app. Training in all apps
      and equipment will be given through written and online instructions and via communications
      with the study support staff.

      Digital devices: Participants will be asked to record daily dietary and activity information
      using digital apps and lifestyle information will be monitored using a wearable device. The
      continuous glucose monitor (Freestyle Libre, CGM) provides continuous glucose profiles for up
      to 14 days. The CGM will be inserted on the back of the upper arm, one day before
      participants begin dietary intervention. This will measure subcutaneous interstitial fluid
      glucose concentrations every 5 minutes. The CGM will be removed at the end of the
      intervention period by the participant. A contact number will be made available to
      participants for any inquiries or if any problems arise. Data from the CGM will be
      downloaded, and glucose profiles will be evaluated on the basis of data collected.

      Meal responses: As a product user, the participant will consume standardized meals an
      additional day to the study intervention.

      Blood samples: As a product user, the participant will collect postprandial blood on 1 day
      using finger-prick blood sampling.

      Stool sample: As a product user, the participant will collect a stool sample on 1 day.

      Digital app: As product users, participants will be asked to download an app designed
      specifically for this study, which provides diet logging functionality similar to widely used
      existing apps such as MyFitnessPal.

      Participants will be asked to record and monitor the following information via the digital
      app:

        -  All food and drink they consume, with serving sizes and photos

        -  Sleep and physical activity patterns, including exercise

        -  Hunger and alertness ratings

        -  Psychological feeling of energy and mood

        -  Prescription and over-the-counter drug consumption

      The app will be available in versions for iOS operating systems. The app will synchronize
      remotely with backend database servers, over an encrypted and authenticated API, and will
      support offline operation for when patients wish to record an entry without network coverage.
      This continuous background synchronization means that it will not be necessary to explicitly
      download data from the phone at the end of the study.

      Following the 2020 pandemic of COVID-19, participants are asked to use the COVID-19 Symptom
      Tracker app to record their physical health symptoms, or lack thereof, attributable to
      COVID-19, as well as demographic and other health information to track the spread of disease
      in real time, and to potentially reveal risk factors for infection and severe illness.

      Subcohort: An opt-in follow-on study will be offered to participants to follow dietary
      guidance from the ZOE app based on their Predict 3 results. During the first 4 weeks,
      participants will be given dietary guidance to follow from the ZOE app. Thereafter, for a
      period of up to 12 months, participants will be asked to report on outcome measures at
      regular intervals (monthly). Outcome measures will be reported before, during and after the 4
      week period and include weight, bristol stool, bowel habits, hunger, energy, adherence to
      dietary advice, and app usage.

      The data will be used to test the efficacy of the ZOE dietary advice in promoting weight loss
      and improvement of overall health, and may be stratified by age, sex, BMI, adherence and/or
      motivation to take part in the PREDICT 3 study.
    
  