
    
      The objectives of this patient registry, which collects data on the Cardiogenesis Laser
      System, include: provide further information on the disease characteristics of the population
      being treated, examine TMR usage characteristics, monitor 30-day postoperative mortality and
      MACE rates, and assess preoperative and operative risk factors for adverse events.

      To limit the potential for bias, all patients eligible for TMR treatment who meet the
      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria are to be offered the opportunity to enroll in the study at
      participating centers. Patient consent indicates approval to allow collection of their
      confidential data; nonetheless, their identity will not be disclosed in any publication of
      this study.

      The primary endpoint to be assessed in this study is:

      • All-cause 30-day mortality

      Additional endpoints to be assessed in this study are:

      • Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) rate, defined as the incidence of
      cardiac-related death, myocardial infarction (Q-wave and non Q-wave), congestive heart
      failure, cerebrovascular accident, and serious arrhythmia in the 30-day postoperative period.

      The definitions for these events are as follows:

      Cardiac-related death: any death that is not clearly attributable to a non-cardiac cause and
      includes death due to any of the following: acute myocardial infarction, heart failure,
      cardiogenic shock, pulmonary edema, cardiac tamponade, arrhythmia, or post-procedural
      complications (i.e., bleeding).

      Q-wave myocardial infarction: the appearance of new Q waves of 40 or more milliseconds in 2
      or more contiguous leads and elevation of CK-MB.

      Non Q-wave myocardial infarction: the elevation of total CK more than twice normal with
      elevated CK-MB.

      Congestive heart failure: Symptoms of pulmonary vascular congestion or a low output state
      that is due to left ventricular failure and is new in onset or results in re-hospitalization.

      Cerebrovascular accident: Any sudden development of neurological deficits due to vascular
      lesions of the brain such as hemorrhage, embolism, or thrombosis that persists for > 24
      hours.

      Serious arrhythmia: Supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias that require sustained
      intravenous pharmacologic treatment, temporary or permanent pacing, or immediate electrical
      cardioversion or defibrillation. Arrhythmias resulting in syncope, myocardial ischemia, or
      death are also classified as serious.

      Any other serious operative complications related to the procedure: example: major bleeding
      requiring transfusion.

      Each contributing site is required to complete the Enrollment Failure Log Form for all
      patients undergoing TMR, but not enrolled into the registry due to inclusion/exclusion
      criteria failure or did not consent for registry participation. If the decision to perform
      TMR is done intra-operatively, the patient will be approached for participation in the
      registry after the procedure. No data should be collected prior to patient consent to take
      part in the registry.

      All data collected must be supported by source documents found at the site. Patient medical
      records, hospital charts, operative reports, laboratory and diagnostic testing results,
      office visits, source document worksheets as supplied by the Sponsor, etc. will be utilized
      for collection of relevant data. All data is subject to 100% source document review by
      Sponsor personnel and/or a representative of the Sponsor at Sponsor's discretion.
    
  