
    
      The number of patients with oesophageal cancer is rising dramatically in the UK. Curative
      cancer surgery (oesophagectomy) is offered to around 40% of affected patients. However,
      oesophagectomy is a major operation with a high risk of complications. Around 1 in 3 patients
      will suffer such a complication after surgery, mostly due to heart or lung problems. Most
      complications are not due to the surgery itself, but related to the patient's physical
      fitness before their operation. Studies in other surgeries, but not oesophagectomy, have
      shown that complications may be reduced by improving a patient's physical fitness before
      their operation. The ExPO team has developed a pre-operative Personalised Exercise Programme
      (my-PEP), specifically for patients undergoing oesophagectomy. my-PEP has 4 main components:
      three are exercise modalities (aerobic exercise, breathing exercises and muscle
      strengthening); the fourth is where a participant's potential barriers to exercise are
      assessed and behavioural change techniques (BCTs) are suggested to improve exercise
      engagement in the trial. In total, 32 patients who are due to undergo oesophagectomy at the
      Norfolk and Norwich Hospital will be recruited and then randomly divided into 2 arms of 16
      each. One arm will receive my-PEP in the standard 3-4 months prior to surgery, the other will
      receive standard care advice to exercise at home. The research objectives are to obtain
      feasibility data on whether my-PEP is acceptable, adhered to and safe, and whether it
      improves patient fitness above standard care. Follow up will be 90 days after surgery to
      obtain a preliminary imprecise estimate of whether my-PEP reduces complications. If the ExPO
      trial shows promise in these areas, this will inform and justify a future large multi-centre
      trial to definitively answer whether my-PEP can reduce complications after oesophagectomy. If
      so, my-PEP could potentially change and improve the pre-operative management of oesophageal
      cancer patients across the NHS.
    
  