
    
      Acute renal failure (ARF) and the need for renal replacement therapy (RRT) is a major
      complication after cardiac surgery, associated with mortality and an increased risk to
      develop end-stage renal disease. Cardiac surgery patients are at increased risk to develop
      acute kidney failure due to ischaemia-reperfusion injury, cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB)
      induced inflammation and haemolysis, hemodynamic alterations, vasoconstriction and resulting
      reduced renal perfusion. According to the current literature, AKI occurs in average in 20-30%
      after cardiac surgery with an incidence of RRT in 1-5%. Several reviews revealed the
      literature and concluded that , inter alia, euvolemia, adequate nutrition, the avoidance of
      nephrotoxic drugs and anemia optimization belong to the most effective prevention strategies.

      Patients are instructed to follow the nil per os (NPO) guidelines, including abstinence of
      clear liquids for >2 hours preoperative as well as fasting time of light foods for > 6 hours
      and fatty foods for >8 hours prior to surgery. However, these guidelines encourage patients
      to continue PO hydration until 2 h before surgery in order to optimize the volume status.
      Besides the fact that NPO lasts in average critically longer than required, surgery delay is
      a common issue and may lead to an exceedance of NPO up to twice as long as required.

      Data about the exact mechanism is still sparse, but preoperative iv hydration may correct or
      even expand intravascular volume, improve renal perfusion and induce diuresis, stimulate
      endogenous natriuretic peptides release and inactivate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
      system (RAAS).

      Large trials on this very relevant topic in these high risk cardiac surgery patients are
      absolutely missing. Therefore, this prospective observational study aims to investigate the
      influence of varied preoperative fluid and food intake in cardiac surgery patients on the
      development of postoperative AKI.
    
  