
    
      Primary Objectives: To determine the prevalence of HIV and other related infections such as
      Hepatitis C, along with associated risk behaviors, in patients with severe mental illness
      (SMI).

      Secondary Objectives: To identify the implications for mental health and medical services and
      to obtain a better understanding of the contextual factors that affect the health problems
      associated with HIV risk behavior.

      Primary Outcomes: The primary outcome variables are HIV seroprevalence, prevalence of HIV
      risk behaviors including injection drug use and sexual promiscuity, personal and
      social-contextual factors, comorbid mental disorders, and health service use among SMI
      persons in each group, veterans versus non-veterans.

      Intervention: N/A

      Study Abstract: It is suspected, but not well documented, that persons with severe mental
      illness represent a significant transmission source of serious infectious diseases. SMI
      diagnoses are defined as schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, bipolar disorder, or
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Severely mentally ill persons are at high risk for
      Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS). To assess the
      risk of HIV and related infections among these individuals, the National Institute of Mental
      Health (NIMH) Office on AIDS funded the HIV/SMI five site collaborative study "Assessing
      HIV/AIDS and Associated Health Risks in People with Severe Mental Illness". This Durham ERIC
      study supplements the NIMH HIV/SMI study with a four-year longitudinal cohort study of
      300-plus SMI veterans in order to estimate the prevalence of HIV risk behaviors and HIV
      infection, as well as to measure utilization of health services over time. The Durham VA is
      the only VA site represented in the study and is collaborating with four non-VA sites
      including Dartmouth, University of New Hampshire, University of Connecticut and Duke
      University. As such, we have the additional goals of investigating health and
      health-care-service issues relevant to veterans with SMI and of establishing a database for
      the longitudinal study of veterans with SMI.

      Study participation consisted of a one-hour structured HIV-risk behavior interview and a
      blood and urine sample. These samples are being tested for HIV, syphilis, hepatitis B and C,
      cytomegalovirus, gonorrhea, and chlamydia at the Durham VA Microbiology Laboratory. Subject
      enrollment for this study concluded 6/30/2000 with 399 total subjects enrolled. Of these 399
      enrolled, 111 subjects were re-tested and re-interviewed. The percentage of subjects enrolled
      at the Durham VAMC with infectious diseases is as follows: 2.6% with HIV infection; 21% with
      Hepatitis B core antibodies; and, 18% with Hepatitis C antibodies. Clinical management of
      subjects with positive serology continues to be administered according to the procedures
      developed by Richard Frothingham, M.D.

      Final Results: The initial manuscript for the study was published in American Journal of
      Public Health in January, 2001 and analyses for additional publications are underway. Final
      Report to be submitted to Durham ERIC within 90 days of study end date (3/31/02).
    
  