
    
      Discharge from hospital has been highlighted as a critical time in the care of individuals
      with mental illness. The peak period of risk for readmission for individuals with severe
      mental illness is in the first month and the highest risk for post-discharge suicide is
      within the first 2 weeks with discontinuity of contact with providers highlighted as a key
      risk factor. One half of individuals with schizophrenia miss their first-scheduled outpatient
      appointment following discharge and this time is a key period of risk for medication
      non-compliance. Common problems that occur at the time of discharge from psychiatric care
      settings include poor communication between inpatient and outpatient providers and inadequate
      involvement and support of families. The research literature on effective practices linked
      with discharge is strikingly sparse given the evidence that this is a period of heightened
      risk.

      The investigators hypothesize that the Welcome Basket intervention will improve the
      discharge-related outcomes of individuals with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder with
      psychotic features compared to treatment as usual. Investigators will also explore the
      outcomes of an abbreviated, 2-visit version of the intervention. This study will employ a
      randomized, controlled trial design. Inpatient clients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia
      spectrum mental illness or bipolar disorder with psychotic features will be randomized with a
      2:2:1 ratio to: treatment as usual, the full welcome basket intervention, and the abbreviated
      intervention. Measures will include re-hospitalization, symptomatology, quality of life, and
      community functioning. Assessments at baseline, 4 weeks post-discharge, and 6 months
      post-discharge will facilitate studies of relative effectiveness and sustainment of gains.
      This design will facilitate an examination of both overall outcomes as well as some
      preliminary dismantling of mechanisms of action.
    
  