
    
      The use of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT) in groups of patients previously
      unsuitable because of age is progressively increasing. Nowadays, allogeneic SCT in patients
      aged over 60 years represents approximately 18%. In the European SCT database, the number of
      patients aged > 65 years was <1% up to 2000 and 6.7% after 2000. This trend is the consequent
      to a growing clinical need caused to the progressive global aging of general population and
      to the increasing proportion of subjects with good performance status among elderly patients.

      Fitness to transplantation is currently measured by the absence of the major comorbidities
      assessed by Sorror's Comorbidity Index score (HCT-CI). The score correlates with the outcome
      after transplant and provides clear indications on the intensity of the chemotherapy to be
      administered in pre-transplant phase in order to reduce Non Relapse Mortality (NRM).NRM is
      the mortality not due to the recovery of the disease; it can arise from three orders of
      complications: immunological (Graft versus Host Disease -GVHD-); infectious (opportunistic
      infections) and toxic (organ toxicity related to chemotherapy). The intensity of conditioning
      regimen is reduced consequently in presence of comorbidity and in the elderly patient, more
      frequently affected by comorbidities. But reducing the intensity of conditioning regimen also
      means significantly increasing the probability of relapse of haematological disease and
      therefore this reduction must be made on the basis of indexes of aging and comorbidity, as
      mentioned above (HCT-CI), in order to not overly reduce the curative potential of the
      transplant.This study aims to apply innovative markers of biological age for the evaluation
      of SCT patients. Biological age assessment is a rapidly expanding research area that has
      produced very promising results. Biological age is an index composed of molecular markers
      (such as DNA methylation of nucleated blood cells or the level of glycans associated with
      circulating proteins); it is strongly related to chronological age, but is capable of
      expressing the speed of aging of the single subject and consequently is able to highlight the
      risks for health associated with aging, with more emphasis than chronological age. The recent
      literature clearly indicates that DNA is also present in the non-cellular fraction, in the
      form of free DNA that it is largely contained in the compartment of nanovesicles. In
      particular, it is interesting to study if nanovesicles DNA can provide useful data regarding
      the epigenome and to verify how the epigenome is linked with the presence of exogenous DNA,
      that is the microbiome.This entity includes all the bacterial and viral species that coexist
      with every human, mostly located in the gastrointestinal tract, and which are increasingly
      determining to understand the pathogenesis of inflammatory and/or metabolic diseases, as well
      as the biological bases of aging. In this regard, the recent literature shows a close
      relationship between GVHD, viroma and intestinal microbiome.Epigenetics does not specifically
      deal with the modification of the sequence of the subject's DNA but with all the regulatory
      processes that influence gene expression. In particular, methylation is an epigenetic
      modification of DNA. Therefore, epigenetic studies differ from classical genetic studies in
      which the analysis of the exact DNA sequence of the subjects is carried out. In this
      protocol, the investigators will refer to the "study of DNA" as the study of its
      modifications in the methylation status and not in its sequence.

      Primary objective of the study:

      - Study of DNA in samples of patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation. In particular, DNA will be extracted from leukocytes and plasma
      extracellular nanovesicles. DNA will be assessed for the extent of methylation, which will be
      also in relationship with circulating exogenous DNA (i.e the microbiome).

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Study of DNA in urine and faeces samples of the same subjects to describe further
           elements of the systemic microbiome - namely the urinary virome and the intestinal
           microbiome-.

        -  Correlation of circulating epigenome and systemic microbiome with clinical outcomes
           (overall survival, GVHD, incidence of infections) and comorbidity index (HCT-CI).

      Exclusion criteria:

      - Absence of signed informed consent.

      No treatment is provided; patients will be treated and followed according to normal clinical
      practice and according to international guidelines.

      The visits and evaluations are those of routine practice will not be modified. Samples of
      different biological materials will be taken at the start of recovery, at day -1, +1, and
      after 1, 3, 6, 9, 12 months after transplantation. After discharge, all patients will be
      followed as usual by the Day Hospital of the Transplant Unit of the Hematology Institute,
      where the prospective collection of samples at defined times will continue.

      The primary objective of the study is descriptive. The evaluation of the main clinical
      variables is done with descriptive analysis (mean, median, range, etc.). Survival analysis
      will be performed according to Kaplan-Meier methodology for censored data. Regression
      analysis for censored data will be performed using Cox proportional risk models.

      The DNA methylation is expressed in terms of continuous variables, as a percentage of
      methylation of the different analyzed gene loci. The analysis of methylation data will be
      performed through a pipeline of algorithms developed by the proponents. The viromic data are
      nominal variables (presence/absence of viral species).

      The study is of exploratory nature and it is expected to enroll 50 patients.
    
  