
    
      Rocuronium is a non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent with intermediate duration of
      action and without significant cumulative properties, suitable for continuous infusion. This
      study was designed to determine the dose requirements for rocuronium, administered by
      continuous infusion to maintain a stable 90-99% T1 depression (depression of the first twitch
      in the train-of-four, TOF) in adult, elderly and different sex patients under sufentanil and
      propoful, sevoflurane, or propoful + sevoflurane anaesthesia.

      Methods Two hundred and ten patients, ASA physical status group I and II undergoing elective
      surgical procedures were studied. Pateients with neuromuscular and metabolic diseases, morbid
      obesity or receiving medication known to influence neuromuscular transmission were excluded
      from the study.

      Anaesthesia Patients will be assigned at random to receive propofuol, sevolurane or
      propoful+sevoflurane anaesthesia. All patients will induced with midazolam, 0.1 mg/kg,
      sufentnail, 0.5 μg/kg, etomidate, 0.3 mg/kg and rocuronium, 0.6 mg/kg. In the propoful group,
      anaesthesia will be continued with propoful and sufentanil. The doseage of propotul and
      sufentanil will be adjusted by the blood pressure and heart rate of the patients. In the
      sevoflurane group, anaesthesia will be continued with sevoflurane (2%) and sufentanil. The
      doseage of sufentanil will be adjusted by the blood pressure and heart rate of the patients.
      The doseage of propoful and sufentanil will be adjusted by the blood pressure and heart rate
      of the patients.

      Heart rate, invasive blood pressure, pulse and core body temperature were monitored
      throughout the procedure. The core body temperature was main tained between 36°C and 37°C
      using a warming blanket. Positive pressure ventilation was used to maintain the end-tidal CO2
      between 4.5 kPa and 5.5 kPa. The inspired and end-tidal concentrations of carbon dioxide and
      volatile anaesthestics were monitored by a multigas monitor.

      Neuromuscular transmission was monitored by recording the electromyographic (EMG) activity of
      the adductor pollicis muscle resulting from the supra- maximal stimulation of the ulnar nerve
      with train-of- four (TOF), 2 Hz for 2 s, applied at 10-s intervals. The ulnar nerve was
      stimulated through surface electrodes applied at the wrist, using square-wave currents of 0.2
      ms duration. Ten minutes were allowed for the stabilization of anaesthesia and the EMG
      tracing before the intubating dose of rocuronium, 0.6 mg/kg, was given by the
      anaesthesiologist.

      Rocuronium infusion A personal computer, working in a closed-loop system with the Relaxograph
      and a syringe infusion pump was used to administer rocuronium at the rate necessary for a
      stable 90-99% block of the first twitch response (1%<T1<10%). The infusion of rocuronium was
      started automatically when T1 returned to 5% of the control value. The initial infusion rate
      was set at 10 mg/kg/min, and subsequently adjusted by the computer. Every 10 s the computer
      received data (T1 value) from the Relaxograph. If T1 increased above 10%, the infusion rate
      was increased by 2/3. If T1 increased above 15%, a bolus dose (0.06 mg/kg) was administered
      automatically to avoid an undesirable return of the muscle strength during surgery. The
      neuromuscular block was considered stable if T1 changed by no more than 2% over a 10-min
      observation period. The rocuronium infusion was automatically stopped if three consecutive T1
      values equalled 0. The working mode (automatic or manual), the last six T1 values and the
      15-min T1 trend could be observed on screen. The anaesthesiologist could override the
      computer-set infusion rate at any time, by changing the working mode from automatic to
      manual, and stop the infusion when the surgery was completed.

      All neuromuscular transmission data, as well as the data on the infusion rate during the
      closed-loop system feed-back infusion of the relaxant, were saved in a Microsoft Excel
      compatible computer file.
    
  