
    
      Cervical radiculopathy is a distinct consideration in the evaluation of any patients who have
      neck pain and may be defined simply as an abnormality of a nerve root which originates in the
      cervical spine. The initial approach to the management of cervical spondylopathic
      radiculopathy is nearly the same as that of nonspecific neck or back pain that can be found
      in most patients. Conservative treatments include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs), narcotics, muscle relaxants, physical therapy and transcutaneous electrical nerve
      stimulation (TENS). The main objectives of conservative treatments are to relieve pain,
      improve function and improve health-related quality of life. However, these treatments for
      cervical radiculopathy are limited by their modest effectiveness. Surgical treatment for
      cervical disc disease is indicated when symptoms are refractory to conservative treatments
      and neurological symptoms are progressive. In terms of pharmacotherapy, there is generally no
      randomized, placebo-controlled trial available comparing standard nonsurgical treatment.
      Therefore, care plans should be designed principally based on accumulated experience, the
      services available locally, and the respective preferences of patients. Treatment plans are
      developed to alleviate pain, improve function, and prevent recurrences.

      As a complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), herbal medicines have the potential to
      avoid the adverse effects of medications and surgery.According to the basic theory of
      traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), the obstruction of Qi flow and blood circulation in the
      neck area caused by pathogenic factors, such as "Feng"(wind), "Han"(cold), "Shi"(dampness),
      invading the neck induces cervical degenerative disc diseases which are the cause of cervical
      radiculopathy. According to the four traditional methods of diagnosis -observation,
      listening, interrogation, and pulse-taking, TCM doctors can analyze the specific pathogenic
      factors which cause neck pain. Accordingly they can then prescribe herbal formulae based on
      the effect and the main indications according to the principles of Chinese medicine. Natural
      substances, including herbal medicines, have been used to promote healing and alleviate neck
      pain in western countries. Previous studies have demonstrated that some active substances in
      herbal medicine can promote Qi flow and blood circulation to alleviate pain.
    
  