
    
      ustification: Before the treatment was with Cryotherapy and the standard gold is the laser,
      however the retina tissue is destroyed, and there is loss of visual field and as this
      procedure has need to be with general anesthesia, there may be trans and post surgical
      complications. Currently the intravitreal antiangiogenics are been employed (that inhibit the
      VEGF), specially the Bevacizumab, it's a quickly procedure with topic anesthesia and low
      price, with a good results.

      It's known that intravitreal bevacizumab arrives blood and there aren't reports of secondary
      efects in this moment, however, we want demonstrate that for the weight and volume of the
      premature baby's eye, we need a low dosis and then we will have less sistemic effect.

      HYPOTHESIS:The injection of 0.500 mg of Bevacizumab intravitreal it isnt lower that 0.625 mg
      of Bevacizumab intravitreal for the regression of ROP type 1 OBJECTIVE: Demonstrate that
      0.500mg of Bevacizumab intravitreal isn't inferior that 0.625mg in the resolution of ROP type
      1.

      METHODOLOGY: No inferiority study. ECCA. We are going to include premature patients
      prematures with less of 32SDG and/or 1500g and less of 36SDG with factors risk. They are
      going to be examined in the week fourth, with de diagnosis for ROP type 1, we are going to
      inject intravitreal Bevacizumab, with the dosis randomized (0.500mg and 0.625mg) and they are
      going to be examined another time at first week, two weeks, first month, and for the second
      to sixth month after the treatment, for warrant la resolution of ROP. The size simple is 30
      patients for group (Dosis A and Dosis B).

      We are going to describe the date of the infection, and the age of the baby when the
      bevacizumab was inyected. When the ROP have been in regression, we are going to describe the
      date, and finally we are going to describe the age is going to be the baby she the ROP have
      been in regression.

      It is going to be important determine the concept of exit and failure. And finally
      demonstrate if the two dosage have a good result
    
  