
    
      This will be a single center, prospective, single blind, randomized controlled trial of hip,
      glenohumeral joint, peri-tendinous biceps brachii, and subacromial/subdeltoid bursa
      injections comparing the efficacy of particulate (triamcinolone, betamethasone) versus
      non-particulate (dexamethasone) corticosteroids.

      Participants will be recruited for the study by trained physicians and physician extenders at
      Stanford orthopedic and PM&R clinics only after they have already opted for corticosteroid
      injection as a part of their routine medical care. The initial decision to pursue steroid
      injection will be based entirely on joint decision making between the patient and their
      medical provider prior to mention of the study.

      After consenting, basic demographic data, average numeric pain score (NRS) over the past
      week, and information on other medical interventions tried for their pain (including
      medication use, physical therapy, chiropractic care, and massage) will be collected. The
      participant will then be randomized to receive either a particulate (triamcinolone or
      betamethasone) or non-particulate (dexamethasone) corticosteroid, both of which are within
      current standards of care. Ultrasound or fluoroscopic guided injection will then be completed
      using sterile technique as per current clinic practice.

      After the injection, patients will follow up in clinic or over the phone at 2 weeks, 3
      months, and 6 months and will be asked their average NRS over the past week, functional
      questionnaires appropriate to pertinent body parts (WOMAC, ASES, QDASH), other treatments
      they have tried in the interim, and for any side effects they have experienced. In addition
      to obtaining outcome measures, the treating physicians may order repeat injections,
      medications, or refer the subject to surgery, at their discretion based upon the patient's
      pain and functional limitations. Up to a total of three injections to the same
      musculoskeletal structure are allowed during the 6 month study period. Any injection into a
      separate space (i.e. glenohumeral joint followed by subdeltoid bursa) will be considered
      different structures, and follow up for the new anatomical site will begin at the time of
      that injection. Data collection and follow up on the previous anatomical injection site will
      continue on the same timeline. Data on number and timing of repeat injections, surgeries,
      side effects, and medications will be recorded as part of the study.
    
  