
    
      Major depressive disorder is a disabling condition which adversely affects a person's family,
      work or school life, sleeping and eating habits, and general health.

      Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is a recommended treatment for depression, with a large
      number of clinical trials supporting its efficacy. However, despite the success of CBT
      relative to other treatments, only 40-58 % of patients receiving CBT may be classified as
      recovered using clinical significant change assessed by the Beck Depression Inventory.
      Moreover, research demonstrates that only between one-third and one quarter of patients
      receiving CBT remain recovered at 18 months follow-up.

      A new treatment approach to MDD is Meta-Cognitive Therapy. In this treatment approach, MDD is
      conceptualized as being maintained by rumination and meta-cognitions. Treatment seeks to
      challenge and change specific meta-cognitions and rumination, through behavioural experiments
      and verbal reattribution. No randomized controlled studies have compared the effectiveness of
      MCT to a waiting-list condition for MDD. Related to this, no study has examined the specific
      elements of therapy that are hypothesized to be of most importance for changing rumination,
      leading to positive treatment outcomes.

      The purpose of this trial is to investigate the efficacy of Wells' MCT for Major Depressive
      Disorder (MDD). Another aim will be to examine the in-treatment processes associated with
      positive treatment outcomes.

      The study will be a randomized controlled, trial comprising 50 patients with a primary
      diagnosis of major depressive disorder (DSM-IV; APA, 1994). Experienced diagnosticians will
      assess all patients by using structural interviews such as SCID-I, SCID II and the Hamilton
      Rating Scale for Depression.

      All patients will be randomized in blocks to two groups in order to compare the following
      conditions: MCT and a wait list control condition. After the waiting period of 10 weeks, the
      patients in the wait-list condition will be allocated to the treatment condition. Both
      between-subjects and within-subjects comparisons will be conducted.

      The research trial will be conducted at the outpatient-clinic at the Department of
      Psychology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim, Norway.

      Questions that will be addressed:

        1. Are the effects of MCT possible to replicate by a separate research group (other
           clinical groups than those that developed the method)?

        2. Is MCT better than a waitlist condition?

        3. Is change in positive and negative appraisals of rumination predictive of treatment
           outcome?

        4. What is the effect size of MCT for depression? How is the relapse prevention of MCT?

        5. Does the treatment have an effect on co-morbid anxiety disorder (s)?

        6. What treatment elements predict outcome in MCT?

        7. What effect does the treatment have on stable personality traits linked to depression
           and anxiety (e.g., neuroticism)?

      The meta-cognitive treatment program is based on Wells' manual. The patients who are
      receiving meta-cognitive therapy will be treated up to maximum 10 sessions, with weekly
      session of 45-60 minute duration.

      In the first treatment session, an idiosyncratic case formulation based on the MCT model of
      depression is built and shared with each patient. Socialization to the model then follows,
      which emphasizes how rumination and a high level of self focus (e.g., focusing on negative
      thoughts and feelings) maintains depression. At the end of the first treatment session,
      attention training (ATT) is introduced as a method of counteracting excessive self-focus, and
      to help patients' switch to a meta-cognitive mode of processing. ATT is an auditory attention
      task consisting of three stages; selective attention, attention switching and divided
      attention. The task takes approximately 10 minutes, and once practiced in session, patients
      are asked to implement ATT daily as a homework assignment. In-session practice of ATT is used
      throughout treatment.

      In the next sessions, treatment focuses on a careful identification of rumination, and on
      modifying related positive and negative beliefs. Verbal reattribution strategies are used to
      modify negative beliefs concerning the uncontrollable nature of rumination. This is followed
      by training patients in 'detached mindfulness', coupled with rumination postponement
      experiments which challenge the belief that rumination is uncontrollable. Patients are asked
      whether they have ever noticed their negative thoughts, but chosen to not engage with them.
      In this context, engagement means rumination, analysis of the thought, cognitive avoidance or
      any form of further processing of the thought. Patients may still be motivated to use
      rumination as a coping strategy if positive beliefs about rumination remain. To counteract
      positive beliefs, an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of rumination is undertaken
      to demonstrate that rumination maintains depression and is not an effective method of coping.

      The final treatment sessions focused on relapse prevention and further modification of
      positive and negative meta-cognitive beliefs, including erroneous beliefs about the
      recurrence of emotion and deviations in mood. Relapse prevention further involves the
      development of a therapy blueprint which includes a written and diagrammatic formulation of
      the meta-cognitive model of depression. A detailed account of the main therapeutic strategies
      used during treatment is provided, along with a specific plan for the patient to implement in
      guiding their thinking and behavioral style in responses to future negative moods. Patients
      are encouraged to implement these strategies to maintain and strengthen the gains made over
      the course of treatment.

      The treatment will be administered according to the originators published treatment protocols
      for MCT. Independent assessors will assess adherence and quality of treatment.

      Independent experts will assess the quality of treatment by inspection of a sampling of
      video-recorded treatments. Using checklists session-by-session will ensure adherence of the
      therapy. Responsible investigator and supervisors will be using video of all treatment
      sessions to assess adherence to the treatment condition.

        1. All patients referred to the university clinic will be consecutively assessed at intake
           (SCID-I + II, HDRS-17). Based on diagnosis and criteria for inclusion and exclusion, the
           patients will be asked to volunteer to participate in the study and confirm by signing a
           form of consent.

        2. Patients will be randomized to one of two conditions.

        3. Patients will be asked to self-rate symptoms on a battery of self-report questionnaires.

        4. Meta-cognitive therapy will be given to patients in group 1, while group 2 is a waiting
           list control. Waiting list controls will be rated but not treated and will wait for
           treatment for 10 weeks.

        5. After 10 weeks the waiting list controls will transferred to the treatment group.

        6. The patients will be assessed prior to treatment, by 10 weeks in treatment, and at six
           months and at , one and two years of follow-up.

        7. Reassessment of the diagnosis and symptom severity is made by post-treatment.

      Criteria for recovery will be: Jacobsen criteria of a minimum change and patients crossing
      the cut-off point on two measures: The HDRS-17 and BDI. Other outcome measures will include:

        -  Reduction of depressive symptoms as measured by self-report questionnaires

        -  Number of patients with no MDD diagnosis based on SCID-I after treatment

        -  Relapse rate during six months and at , one and two years follow-up

      The proportion of responders as measured by the HDRS-17 and BDI and those who no longer
      fulfil the conditions for a MDD diagnosis at post-treatment and by 6 months and one and two
      years follow-up.

      The secondary efficacy variables will be the proportion of responders at post-treatment and
      six months and by , one and two years follow-up as measured by the other symptom measures. In
      addition, the proportions of responders as measured by MDD-S and the relapse rates during two
      one years of follow-up are selected to be one of the secondary efficacy variables.

      A comparison between the two groups of patients will be conducted at post-treatment and there
      will be 6 month and at one- and two years of follow up for the treatment condition. The null
      hypothesis is assumed. A within group analyses will be conducted in order to estimate effect
      sizes and significant clinical change estimates.

      Participants will be randomized in blocks of 17 patients divided on three conditions in a 1:2
      ratio. Two factors are controlled for in the randomization. First, gender, second the number
      of previous depressive episodes (DSM-IV, APA 1994). A computer provided by NTNU will generate
      the randomization list.
    
  