
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) results from a perinatal brain injury and is one of the most prevalent
      and costly pediatric neurologic conditions in the United States that often results in
      mobility deficits. The investigator's extensive experimental work has been focused on
      developing a therapeutic gait training protocol that will improve the long-term mobility of
      adolescents and young adults with CP. Despite the major breakthroughs, it is apparent across
      the investigations that some patients have vast improvements in their mobility after
      treatment, while others are clearly non-responders. This response variability represents one
      of the major Gordian knots in the treatment outcomes seen in adolescents and young adults
      with CP. The investigator will address this knowledge gap with a multimodal approach that
      blends the investigator's expertise in MEG/EEG brain imaging, MRI spinal cord imaging, and
      assessments of the spinal cord interneuronal circuitry to probe the neurophysiological
      differences in participants that are classified as responders and non-responders after
      therapeutic gait training. The Specific Aims of this study will: (1) identify if responders
      and non-responders have differences in the strength of the sensorimotor cortical oscillations
      involved in the planning and execution of a leg motor action, (2) determine if responders and
      non-responders have differences in the neural synchrony within the somatosensory cortices,
      following stimulation of the foot mechanoreceptors, and (3) decipher if responders and
      non-responders have differences in the spinal cord microstructure and circuitry dynamics. (4)
      Secondary aim: assess cognitive related changes induced via physical therapy. Briefly, the
      study design consists of a cohort of adolescents and young adults with CP that will initially
      undergo MEG/EEG brain imaging, MRI spinal cord imaging, neurophysiological tests of the
      spinal cord interneuronal circuitry, cognitive testing, and clinical mobility assessments.
      After completing the baseline tests, the participants will undergo the therapeutic gait
      training protocol. Upon completion of the treatment program, the participants will repeat the
      same assessments that were completed at baseline. Separation of the participants into
      responders and non-responders to treatment will be based on the criteria for a clinically
      relevant change in the 10-meter walking speed test. The new data derived from this project
      will provide unparalleled insight on the potential neurophysiological origins of the diverse
      mobility outcomes seen in adolescents and young adults with CP after treatment. Finally, an
      additional cohort of neurotypical adolescents and young adults of similar age and sex will
      also complete the mobility, MEG/EEG, spinal cord imaging, and Hoffmann reflex protocols for
      comparative purposes.
    
  