
    
      Background and Rationale

      Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a minimally invasive treatment option for
      patients suffering from severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Superiority of TAVI over medical
      treatment has been shown in the randomized PARTNER B trial followed by the PARTNER A trial
      showing non-inferiority over a more invasive open-heart surgical aortic valve replacement in
      high-risk patients. Over the last years, many patients have been successfully treated with
      TAVI worldwide.

      Peri- and post-procedural morbidity differed considerably between the surgical and
      interventional treatment group in the PARTNER A trial: while major bleeding (19.5% vs 9.3% at
      30 days) and new onset atrial fibrillation (16% vs 8.6% at 30 days) occur more often in
      surgically treated patients, vascular access complications (3.8 vs 17% at 30 days) and
      neurologic events (5.5% vs 2.4% at 30 days) are more frequently encountered in the TAVI
      population. The higher rate of neurologic events in the TAVI group was of particular concern,
      given its association with a higher mortality and the clinical impact of major neurologic
      events on patient's quality of life and daily functioning. Only about 40-50% of strokes occur
      intra-procedurally, followed by a higher hazard rate in the first week and a constant hazard
      thereafter. After 30 months, the surgical group experienced a numerically higher stroke rate,
      although not statistically significant. Measures to reduce procedural and post-procedural
      stroke rate were and are still looked for.

      While procedural strokes can be most likely reduced by improvements in valve delivery systems
      (smaller delivery systems) and more operator experience, cerebral protection devices are
      currently tested in trials but preliminary results are rather disappointing. Risk factors for
      post-procedural strokes after TAVI are a previous history of stroke, more extensive
      peripheral vascular disease, and higher functional class.

      A subgroup of patients of particular concern are patients suffering from atrial fibrillation:
      predictor of early (day 1-30) cerebrovascular events was new-onset atrial fibrillation (OR
      2.76), whereas chronic atrial fibrillation was a predictor (OR 2.84) for the occurrence of
      late (>30 days) cerebrovascular events. Amat-Santos reported a higher rate of
      strokes/systemic embolism in patients with in hospital new onset atrial fibrillation after
      TAVI (13.6% vs 3.2% after 30 days). Patients diagnosed with new onset atrial fibrillation
      during or after the procedure in which no anticoagulation was initiated experienced an
      alarmingly high 30-day stroke rate of 40%.

      Despite these results and the high prevalence of atrial fibrillation (AF) of about 33% in the
      overall TAVI population, only 30% of AF patients were on vitamin K antagonists (VKA) before,
      and only 70% after TAVI. While oral anticoagulation is an effective medical treatment for
      ischemic stroke prevention in these patients, it is often withheld from patients given their
      high risk of bleeding. TAVI patients typically not only suffer from much co-morbidity and are
      poly-medicated, but also suffer from a lot of bleeding risk factors. The bleeding risk score
      (HASBLED score) expresses the risk of major bleeding with a scoring system consisting of 9
      individual risk factors for bleeding; a patient is at high risk for bleeding, if 3 or more
      factors are present. The stroke risk score (CHA2DS2-Vasc score) comprises of 9 individual
      risk scores for stroke in patients suffering from atrial fibrillation. Both risk scores share
      common risk factors, such as age, hypertension and previous stroke. It is therefore not
      surprising that patients at highest risk for stroke are at the same time at highest risk for
      major bleedings. The TAVI population forms such a high risk group with a high prevalence of
      the above risk factors: average patients age in the PARTNER trial was 84 years, with 11%
      showing severe renal impairment, about 75% had an indication for concomitant acetylsalicylic
      acid use and all suffered per definition from heart failure. In Stortecky's study on TAVI
      patients suffering AF, the average CHA2DS2-Vasc score was 4.5, with >95% of patients having a
      score >3.

      Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO) allows avoiding oral anticoagulation and provides at
      the same time an at least equally good protection from strokes and peripheral embolism. It
      may therefore be an attractive alternative to oral anticoagulation in the TAVI patient
      population: the concept of LAAO is based on the fact that thrombus formation in atrial
      fibrillation occurs in >90% in the left atrial appendage (LAA). Mechanical occlusion of the
      LAA reduces the stroke risk by eliminating the source of thrombus formation.

      Clinical studies proved this concept to be true: the PROTECT-AF study randomized >700
      patients to either LAA occlusion or medical therapy (VKA). At one year, non-inferiority of
      LAAO was proven, with numerically less embolic events in the LAAO group. At a European
      conference (EuroPCR conference) 2013, Holmes (principal investigator of the PROTECT-AF trial)
      reported 4-year follow-up data with a significant 40% reduction of the composite of
      stroke/peripheral embolism/cardiovascular death and a 34% reduction of all cause mortality in
      the LAAO group as compared to oral anticoagulation. By reducing bleeding complications, it
      can be anticipated that morbidity and mortality will continue to diverge between the two
      groups. Comparable results from a large registry using Amplatzer devices (St. Jude Medical,
      St. Paul, USA) for LAAO were reported: after an average follow-up of 32 months,
      cardiovascular death, stroke, and peripheral embolism occurred in 7% of patients. In the
      latter study, oral anticoagulation was instantly stopped after LAAO in all patients.

      In the here proposed "Randomized Comparison of Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion versus
      Standard Medical Therapy of Atrial Fibrillation in Patients Undergoing Transfemoral
      Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation", study the investigators test the hypothesis, that
      LAAO is superior to standard medical therapy in the high-risk TAVI population. This
      hypothesis has not been investigated by previous studies so far. The design is an
      investigator-initiated, randomized, multicenter, non-blinded, all-comers study. It is
      understood, that this is a pilot trial with the intention to prove safety, but which is
      underpowered to show superiority over medical therapy.
    
  