
    
      The investigators propose a pilot randomized controlled trial to evaluate antihypertensive
      treatment among people living with HIV (PLWH) with pre-hypertension (pre-HTN) at GHESKIO.
      This study will provide critical data on the feasibility, benefits and risks of
      antihypertensive treatment for cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention among PLWH with
      pre-HTN that will inform a future definitive trial powered for incident CVD events.

      For the pilot study, the investigators will enroll 250 PLWH (18-65 years of age) who have
      been on antiretroviral therapy (ART) for ≥ 1 years with viral suppression within past 12
      months and SBP 120-139 or DBP 80-89 mm Hg and no current antihypertensive treatment;
      randomize them to "early HTN treatment" or the current standard of care (SOC); and follow
      them for 12 months. Amlodipine is the recommended first-line anti-hypertensive medication
      according to Haiti's new primary care HTN guidelines. Participants in the early HTN treatment
      arm will initiate amlodipine 5 mg immediately, increasing to 10 mg if SBP >130 mm Hg after 1
      month. Participants in the SOC arm will initiate amlodipine only if they develop HTN (SBP
      ≥140 or DBP ≥90 mm Hg).

      Participants that meet study eligibility criteria will proceed to study enrollment visit (~90
      min). Participants will be randomized to early HTN treatment vs. SOC in a 1:1 ratio using a
      computer-generated random assignment. The research nurse will collect demographic and
      clinical data, administer a baseline questionnaire, measure unobserved BP, and perform an
      ECG. The questionnaire includes a CVD medical history, family history, medications, CVD
      health behaviors (smoking, alcohol, physical activity, and diet) using validated questions
      that have been used at GHESKIO and are comparable to those used in US cohorts. Enrollment
      labs (~15ml of venous blood) including HgbA1c, total cholesterol, high density cholesterol,
      CD4 cell count, and HIV viral load (unless available from electronic medical record in the
      past 6 months) will be collected. Samples of serum and plasma will be stored for future
      studies, with documented consent from participants. The study physician will interpret the
      ECG and perform an echocardiogram and vascular ultrasound.

      Study drug will be dispensed to participants randomized to the early treatment arm with
      appropriate education and counseling on adherence and potential side effects. Amlodipine will
      be started at 5mg at enrollment and increased to 10mg if SBP >130 mm Hg after 1 month for
      participants in the early treatment arm. Locator and contact information will be verified and
      follow up appointment given.

      After enrollment and randomization assignment (including amlodipine initiation), participants
      will have follow-up visits either at GHESKIO (months 0.5-1, 3, 6, 9, 12) or in the community
      / home with community health workers (months 2, 5, 8). All visits will include BP
      measurement, lifestyle counseling, adherence encouragement, and assessment of adverse events.
      The GHESKIO visits will also include a physical exam. Participants in the early intervention
      arm will receive monthly amlodipine refills. Participants in the SOC arm will initiate
      amlodipine only if they develop hypertension (SBP >140 or DBP >90 mm Hg).

      At the 12-month study visit, participants will also complete a brief questionnaire about
      changes in health behaviors and have viral load measured. Participants may return to the HIV
      clinic at any time for symptoms, questions, or other concerns, and a BP measurement will be
      taken at each of these encounters. Adverse events will be assessed at each visit. Medical
      record abstraction will be done by research staff for any hospitalization or death among a
      participant.
    
  