
    
      Family well-being, which has been conceptualized as "family-life satisfaction", "sense of
      well-being" and "family function", is associated with outcomes such as hypertension,
      self-rated health, depression, and self-esteem in family members. Interpersonal harmony in
      the family is believed to be crucial for the Chinese who see it as contributing not only to
      each individual member's welfare but also to a well-organized and peaceful world. According
      to traditional Confucius ideals, family harmony is the basis for an individual's happiness.
      The investigators qualitative studies in Hong Kong have also found that family health,
      happiness and harmony (3Hs) are three major themes of family well-being. Family health
      includes physical and mental health of family members, which is strongly related to
      psychological capital and family unity. Family happiness can be enhanced by spending time
      with family members and building connection with friends and relatives. Family harmony means
      absence of conflicts and effective communication with family members. Forbearance and
      spending time with family are important in forming a harmonious family.

      Learning Families Project was initiated based on the social ecological model. Social
      ecological model is a framework to examine the dynamic interrelations among various personal
      and environmental factors. This model emphasizes people's behaviors are affected by factors
      of different levels including intra-personal, inter-personal, community and societal factors.
      These programs promoted the concepts of Learning Family and family 3Hs to the participants
      (intra-personal level). The concepts of Learning Family indicated that family relationship
      could be improved when family members learnt something together. These programs also provided
      a platform for family members to learn together and communicate with each other
      (inter-personal level), as well as for residents to interact in these community activities
      (community level).
    
  