
    
      This would be a community-based randomized controlled trial (RCT) among the individuals
      diagnosed as having CKD with stage 1-3 who agreed to participate.

      Registration/Enrolment of participants:

      Community health workers (CHWs) will perform home -visits to obtain written informed consent,
      perform physical examination, and interview the respondents administering field tested
      questionnaires.

      Interviewing by administering a structured questionnaire: if changed from Study 1: Age,
      gender, marital status, occupation, educational background, income/month, participant's
      current medical history including medication use, past medical history, sleeping hours, and
      family history (3rd generation) including current and immediate past medical history.

      Physical examinations will be performed to measure: Blood pressure, pulse, height, weight,
      waist circumference, hip circumference, triceps skin fold (TSF), mid-upper arm circumference
      (MUAC), body mass index (BMI) and mid-arm muscle circumference (MAMC).

      Blood sample (at hospital) Serum creatinine (estimate eGFR), serum albumin, Hb%, FBS, HbA1C,
      lipid profile (TP, HDL-c, LDL-c, triglyceride, and ratio: estimate non-HDL), serum uric acid,
      Urea (BUN).

      Urine specimens (at hospital) Albumin to creatinine ratio (ACR), urine RME, urine Na
      (calculate sodium intake)

      Questionnaires/Interviewing :

      Chronic Kidney Disease Knowledge Questionnaire (24 questions) Awareness question (1 question)
      QOL (5 EURO-QOL questionnaire) Randomisation: A simple randomization (1:1) either
      intervention group or control group will be undertaken following a computer-generated random
      number sequence. An experienced statistician, who will not be involved in the study in any
      way, will prepare the randomization table and list of study participants' numbers with
      corresponding intervention allocations for CKD individual in serially numbered sealed
      envelopes according to randomization schedule to correspond to the serial number of the CKD
      individuals. These envelopes will be kept in an office locker. Allocation will be concealed
      in identical sealed envelopes that will only be opened when the study participant is ready
      for enrolment. This will take place after a CKD individual has been enrolled in the study
      following obtaining voluntarily informed written consent and assigning a study number.
      Necessary attempts will be made to keep CHWs unaware about case/control status of the
      participants. Similar approach will also be followed at the time of data analysis.

      Study contents:

      The intervention group will receive health education through CKD campaign and mHealth
      technology. During the half day CKD campaign, health education materials (leaflet and short
      textbook and recording notebook) will be provided to the study participants. A nephrologist
      will facilitate the campaign and contents (Annex-3) of the text book and leaflet (Annex-4)
      will be discussed. Important message from the text book (such as stage, risk factor,
      preventive measures) will be used to develop the leaflet. In addition, education through
      mHealth will be provided by Short Message Service (SMS) during the study period. The contents
      of the SMS are: 1). Reduce salt intake; 2) Do exercise and take medicine regularly; 3).
      Control blood pressure (if hypertensive) and blood sugar (if diabetic); and 4) Avoid
      painkiller and smoking will be sent to the participants using mobile phone once a week for
      first 2.5 months and once a 2-week for next 3 months.

      The CKD knowledge questionnaire consisted a total of 24 questions with the multiple-choice
      options 'true', 'false' and 'I don't know'. The validated questionnaire will be adapted
      according to Bangldesh context and will be pre-tested before starting the study. The quality
      of life will be assessed using an adapted and validated Bangla version of the 5 EURO-QOL
      questionnaire. It has five domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort,
      and anxiety/depression.

      Sample size calculation:

      Assuming that proportion of knowledge and awareness among CKD patients at baseline as 30%;
      and at the end of six months it will increase to 70% (intervention group) and 40% (control
      group). Therefore, considering 90% power and 20% loss to follow-up the total sample size will
      be 136 (68 in each group).

      Data analysis:

      The descriptive statistics will be expressed as frequency, mean, median, cross tabulation,
      and standard deviation. Chi-square test, t-test or Mann-Whitney U-test will be performed to
      see the differences between intervention group and control group at baseline, 3 and 6 months.
      Multiple comparisons will be performed by ANOVA test for evaluation of the outcome variables
      such as CKD knowledge and awareness questionnaire and QOL at baseline, 3 and 6 months. Data
      will be analyzed using SPSS ver. 22.0 (IBM Co., Armonk, NY) and the significance level will
      be set at the level of p < 5%.
    
  