
    
      The B3 for NMD creates a streamlined approach to develop the Bench (preclinical and
      laboratory characterization) to Bedside (clinical and imaging assessment) and Back
      (biomarker, diagnostics and therapy development) approach to develop transformative therapies
      for patients with rare NMDs. This study focuses on assessing current diagnostic techniques
      and disease characterization of difficult-to-diagnose NMDs including Motor Neuron Disease
      (e.g. ALS), Neuromuscular Junction Disorders, Neuropathies, Myopathies.

      Activity 1: Improve Diagnosis: Identification of rare and novel genes causing NMD with next
      generation sequencing and develop imaging modalities and biomarkers to aid in diagnosis.

      A collaborative research team of clinicians, informaticians, and scientists has been formed
      to rapidly identify the genes and the autoimmune antibodies responsible for a wide spectrum
      of NMD present in the Canadian population, as well as to explore mechanisms causing these
      disorders. In addition, novel genetic and biomarker approaches are needed to facilitate
      diagnosis and permit the identification of mutations in novel genes, leading to discovery of
      the molecular mechanisms underlying the NMD disease state. Novel diagnostic techniques that
      examine thousands of genes (e.g. exome/genome sequencing), protein expression (e.g. RNA
      sequencing) and/or serum biomarkers (e.g. exosomes) will be assessed to provide a more rapid
      diagnosis for patients with NMD. In addition, imaging characteristics for these rare diseases
      (MRI, Muscle/Nerve Ultrasound/nerve conduction studies) need to be assessed and compared in
      order to provide an efficient, effective and cost-savings approach to diagnosis for patients
      with inherited or sporadic NMD.

      Activity 2. Disease Characterization: Identifying pathophysiological mechanisms in NMD

      Preclinical research provides the foundation for discoveries that improve lives for patients
      with NMD. The identification of cellular and molecular events that govern normal muscle and
      nerve differentiation drives the development of regenerative-based therapies, whereas the
      characterization of the disease state uncovers new therapeutic targets for disease
      intervention. Although many NMDs were previously incurable, recent breakthroughs in the
      molecular pathogenesis of monogenic and acquired disorders are now revealing potential
      targeted disease-modifying therapies that may improve muscle health and prevent disability.
      The goal is to assess clinical samples such as blood, skin/muscle biopsies, cerebrospinal
      fluid obtained through collaboration with NMC clinicians and researchers to help develop
      effective novel/known drug compounds that may act as promising therapies that, in the future,
      can be rapidly moved into local and multicenter clinical trials.
    
  