
    
      Therapeutic intervention

        -  Surgeons who have performed a minimum of five (5) PG and PJ procedures can include
           patients in this randomized trial.

        -  Any dissection device or technique is allowed.

        -  Pancreatic anastomosis (PG or PJ)

             -  1-layer or 2-layer anastomosis is allowed but has to be registered

             -  mono-filament and/or poly-filament suture material is allowed but has to be
                registered

             -  no pancreatic stent will be placed

        -  Drainage: one (1) or more closed drain(s) with or without suction is allowed in the
           vicinity of the pancreatic anastomosis

        -  Enteral tube feeding (tube positioned in the jejunum at the time of surgery, and distal
           to the pancreatic anastomosis) as well as total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is allowed

        -  Gastrostomy tube (percutaneous) is allowed

        -  Somatostatin: start intra-operatively and administered for seven (7) days after surgery
           at a dose of 6 mg/d

        -  Prophylactic use of antibiotics during 24h post-operatively

        -  Prophylactic use of Ranitidine as well as any PPI (proton pump inhibitor) is allowed to
           prevent peptic ulcer

      Clinical evaluation and assessment criteria

        -  The number and type of POPF will be recorded according to the ISGPF guidelines and based
           on findings on day 3 (three) after surgery

        -  The number and type of postoperative complications will be recorded. The
           therapy-oriented severity grading system (TOSGS) of complications will be used and
           complications will be allocated to surgical (SSC) and non-surgical site (NSSC)
           complications

        -  The adequacy of the surgical resection margins (pR0) and the magnitude of the
           tumour-free resection margin (millimetres) will be monitored

        -  Postoperative length of hospital stay (LOS) will be registered

      Patient randomization and registration procedure (randomization lists attached)

        -  This is a multicentric randomized controlled trial.

        -  Patient randomization will be done intra-operatively since a substantial number of
           patients could be dropped out intra-operatively because of the presence of unexpected
           intra-abdominal metastases at the time of surgery.

        -  Patient stratification will be performed for each centre and will be based on the
           diameter of the pancreatic duct. A pancreatic duct at the level of the surgical
           transsection margin measuring 3 millimetres or less in diameter is defined as being a
           "soft pancreas". A pancreatic duct measuring more than 3 millimetres is defined as a
           "hard pancreas".

        -  A prospective registration of following parameters will be performed: intra-operative
           diameter of the pancreatic duct at the surgical transection margin, diameter of the
           pancreas at the surgical transection margin, pancreatic tissue consistency assessed by
           the surgeon: soft vs. hard, post-operative pathology parameters.

      Statistical analysis and sample size calculation based on a stratified design

        -  40% of patients are expected to have a hard pancreas and 60% a soft pancreas.

        -  It is assumed that the magnitude of the effect of the intervention (PJ vs. PG) on the
           POPF rate, expressed as an odds ratio (OR), is similar in both strata.

        -  The needed sample size is calculated to have 80% power to detect a common odds ratio of
           2.7. POPF rates of 12% and 20% are assumed after PJ within the hard and soft pancreas
           stratum respectively (yielding 4.8% and 8.4% after PG). Note that, given the unequal
           size strata, this leads to an expected POPF rate of 16.8% after PJ and 7% after PG (≈12%
           POPF overall).

        -  A 2-sided (with alpha=5%) Mantel-Haenszel test of OR=1 for stratified 2x2 tables is
           planned

        -  168 patients are required per group (total patient population 336)

        -  Expected duration of recruitment: 3-4 years

        -  An interim analysis will be performed annually (i.e. after inclusion of 1/3 and 2/3 of
           the patients) to to allow early stop of the study (or accrual of patients in a specific
           treatment group) due to rejection of the null hypothesis. Using the O'Brien-Fleming
           method (O'Brien and Fleming 1979) results in respectively |3.471|, |2.454| and |2.004|
           as critical values for the Z-statistic at the three analysis moments. Otherwise stated,
           p-values are declared significant if <.00052, <0.0141 and <0.0451 at respectively the
           first interim analysis, the second interim analysis and at the final analysis.

        -  Exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for the POPF and post-operative
           complication rates within each stratum. A stratified Mann-Whitney U test will be used
           for the TOSGS grading.

      Translational research: optional Prognostic relevance of gene expression profiling in
      pancreatic cancer: analyses will be performed at UZ.Leuven/KU.Leuven (project coordinator
      B.Topal)

        -  Fresh tissue samples from pancreatic cancer and from non-tumoral pancreatic tissue will
           be stored in RNA-later (samples in 2 separate tubes; 5-10 volumes of RNA-later)

        -  Sample tubes will be transported (or picked up by the coördinator's research team),
           within 3 days from sampling, to be stored in -80°C for further analyses
    
  