
    
      Background:

        -  Adoptive T cell therapies are being used to treat patients with cancer and hematological
           malignancies. Some of these therapies require that the patients T cells be expanded over
           100-fold.

        -  This cell expansion can be accomplished by culturing autologous T cells with peripheral
           blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) collected from healthy subjects. This process is known
           as the Rapid Expansion Protocol (REP) and makes use of pooled irradiated

      PBMCs from healthy subjects.

      Objectives:

        -  To provide a mechanism for the collection of PBMCs from healthy subjects to use for the
           expansion of autologous T cells from patients with cancer.

        -  To improve and develop new methods to isolate PBMCs and to expand T cells for adoptive
           cellular therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects must be greater than or equal to 18 years old and able to provide informed
           consent

        -  Subjects must have adequate clinical parameters (all of the following):

             -  Afebrile (temperature less than or equal to 37.5 degree C)

             -  Systolic blood pressure less than or equal to 180 mmHg

             -  Diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 100 mmHg

             -  Weight greater than or equal to 110 lbs

             -  Heart rate between 50-100 beats/minute

             -  Adequate bilateral antecubital venous access for a 2 arm apheresis procedure

        -  Females of child-bearing potential should not be pregnant

      Design:

        -  This protocol will provide a mechanism for banking frozen PBMCs that can be used for the
           expansion of clinical T cell therapies and for developing new expansion procedures.

        -  The PBMCs will be collected in the Dowling Apheresis Clinic and processed in the Cell
           Processing Section (CPS) Laboratory both of which are located in the Department of
           Transfusion Medicine (DTM), Clinical Center following their established procedures.

        -  After the PBMCs are collected and processed, they will be cryopreserved. When needed,
           they will be thawed in the Cell Processing Laboratory, irradiated, pooled and used for
           the expansion of patient T cells over 2 to 3 weeks.

        -  Up to 500 subjects for PBMC collection will be enrolled in this study.
    
  