
    
      Objectives:

        -  Our main objective is to measure the rate of suicidal re attempt (SR) in a population of
           young adults aged 18 to 25 years.

        -  Our secondary objectives are to identify sociodemographic, clinical and biological
           characteristics of a population of suicidal young people, in an attempt to highlight
           potential risk factors. We will try to highlight correlations between the reiteration of
           the suicidal act and:

             1. socio-demographic criteria: level of urbanity, socio-economic level, social and
                family context, date and place of birth, religion, sexual orientation, name and
                contact details of the general practitioner, previous access to care

             2. scores on the scales of various psychiatric pathologies, existing or in formation
                (eg depression, anxiety disorders, psychosis)

             3. alterations at the peripheral level

        -  on the stress response system: cortisolemia and capillary cortisol levels

        -  on the total and mature serum BDNF

      In addition, DNA and RNA genetic samples will be taken in order to constitute a biological
      collection for later research.

      Type of study: This is an interventional research with minimal risks and constraints (2 °
      study), multicenter prospective cohort.

      Number of centers: 2 Suicide Prevention Center at the Le Vinatier Hospital Center and the
      Post Crisis Unit at the Edouard Herriot Hospital of the Hospices Civils de Lyon.

      Description of the study / experimental plan:

      This is a prospective cohort study that will be divided into two groups: "repeat suicide
      attempt" and "no repeat attempt"

      Primary judgment criterion:

      This is the occurrence of repeating a suicide attempt (over a period of 3 months after the
      initial attempt.

      In this project, a suicide attempt is defined according to WHO criteria as "non-fatal
      suicidal behavior, self-inflicted injury with a desire to end one's life that does not lead
      to death".

      Number of subjects:

      Our study will include 200 patients at the Le Vinatier CH Suicide Prevention Center and the
      Post Crisis Unit at Edouard Herriot Hospital.

      inclusion criteria: between the ages of 18 and 25

        -  a first suicide attempt

        -  Master French sufficient

      Exclusion Criteria:

      -Majors protected: under curatorship or under guardianship

      Course of the study :

      -Inclusion will take place immediately after the first suicide attempt at the Post Crisis
      Unit at Edouard Herriot Hospital and the Suicide Prevention Center.

      An anamnestic collection of social and demographic data will be carried out: level of
      urbanity, professional activity, level of study, access to care, and previous care received,
      socio-economic level, social and family context (notably existing conflict with parents or
      love break-up). The patient's telephone number will be collected as well as the patient's
      psychiatric and addiction history, and the means used for the suicide attempt.

      Different scales of assessments, by means of self-questionnaires, will be given to the
      patient and an investigator will provide the C-SSRS scale assessment for the suicidal risk
      severity. Finally a venous blood sample will be performed with a measure of total and mature
      serum BDNF and cortisolemia. Capillary cortisol will also be measured.

      After obtaining the patient's consent, two blood samples (DNA and RNA) will be collected and
      stored at -80 degrees to create a biological collection for later research.

      An orientation in the course of care will then be given to the subject who will receive the
      appropriate care as well as a phone call made by the Suicide Prevention Center.

      -At 3 months: A phone call will be made to check the presence or absence of the main
      evaluation criterion: the repetition of a suicide attempt. In addition, the patient will be
      asked about life events during these three months and the care received since inclusion.

      Benefits and risks of this study:

      The expected benefits of this study are: a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying
      the recurrence of the suicidal act, which could allow an optimal patient management and an
      adapted orientation in the care network, this for a setting in place in the near future.

      In addition, patients included in the study will benefit from follow-up.

      The foreseeable risk is the SR that can lead to suicide. To minimize this risk, each patient
      included in this protocol will benefit from a clinical evaluation performed by a trained
      investigator. At the end of this evaluation, according to the observed suicidal risk, an
      orientation in the course of care will be proposed. Each patient will be informed of the
      different modalities of psychiatry consultations and how to challenge the network. In
      addition, all patients will receive a phone call from the Suicide Prevention Center.

      No serious adverse effects that could be attributed to the project are expected as part of
      this research.

      Indeed, the blood test is carried out systematically as part of a post-suicide treatment and
      no other invasive examination is scheduled. The only undesirable events that can occur after
      a venous blood collection are: a hematoma at the point of puncture, pain during the bite,
      vagal discomfort or rare cases of infectious risks. These risks are greatly minimized by
      means of sterile single-use equipment and qualified medical personnel, and can not be
      considered as a serious expected adverse effect.
    
  