
    
      Heart disease and failure are the major causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide, despite
      significant advances in medical technologies in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease.
      Cardiovascular disease may arise for various reasons including the steadily increasing
      incidence of obesity, type 2 diabetes, genetic, environmental, dietary and lifestyle factors.
      Besides all these, there is much evidence suggetsing that inflammation is an important player
      in the pathogenesis of heart disease, as well as atherogenesis and atherosclerosis(1,2).
      Clinically, patients with rheumatologic diseases have been found to suffer from coronary
      heart disease; thus, regular monitoring for Cardiovascular disease should be included as a
      routine assessment for patients with rheumatologic diseases (3). A most common systemic
      inflammatory disease is inflammatory bowel disease , which is a collection of ulcerative
      colitis and Crohn's disease, a chronic intestinal disease that may arise due to different
      factors, and is precipitated by environmental and genetic susceptibility (4,5). Ulcerative
      colitis and Crohn's disease are characterized by chronic intestinal inflammation, with
      gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea, blood and pus in stools, abdominal pain, fever
      and weight loss. The incidence of inflammatory bowel disease is on the increase in Canada
      (6), Europe (7) and Asia (8

      ). In ulcerative colitis, inflammation is mostly limited to mucosal layer of the colon and
      involves rectum and other parts of colon (9). On the other hand, Crohn's disease shows
      characteristic transmural inflammation and fibrosis and occurs as patchy lesions throughout
      the gastrointestinal tract (10).

      Although inflammatory bowel disease is associated with venous vascular problems such as deep
      venous thrombosis (11), the extent of risk for the patients with inflammatory bowel disease
      to develop Cardiovascular disease, in particular coronary artery disease is not well
      understood. inflammatory bowel disease patients have a 2 to 3-fold higher risk of venous
      thromboembolism than the general population (12), and this risk is high during acute disease
      flare, as active inflammation tilts the balance between pro-coagulants and anticoagulants,
      which leads to the characteristic hypofibrinolysis seen in inflammatory bowel disease (13)
    
  