
    
      Up to 65% of hospitalized older adults will lose the ability to ambulate independently during
      their hospital stay. Loss of independent ambulation has been identified as a
      hospital-acquired disability and is a critical patient safety concern, resulting in permanent
      loss of function for 50% of older adults one-year post discharge. Functional loss is
      associated with multiple negative outcomes including a 33% increase in new nursing home
      placement, increase in length of hospital stay, need for home health services, falls,
      caregiver burden, decreased quality of life, and increased mortality. Given the rapid
      increase in the elderly population, loss of independent ambulation primarily due to the
      process of care in hospital settings may significantly increase future healthcare costs and
      further exacerbate concerns related to patient care quality.

      Lack of walking during hospitalization has been directly linked to loss of independent
      ambulation in older adults. Nurses are responsible for promoting and maintaining patient
      independent mobility. However, the investigators research has identified multiple personal
      and organizational barriers that prevent nurses from walking patients. The investigators have
      developed and pilot tested a novel systems based multi-component intervention to improve
      ambulation of older adult patients, Mobilizing Older adult patients Via a systems-based
      INtervention (MOVIN). MOVIN is comprised of five components: 1) psychomotor skills training;
      2) communication tools; 3) ambulation pathways; 4) ambulation resources; and 5) unit
      ambulation culture. The Investigators pilot study of MOVIN demonstrated a statistically
      significant increase in frequency and weekly distance of patient ambulation as well as
      changes in nursing practice and unit culture. Notably, these changes have been sustained for
      greater than two years after completion of the study.

      The investigators' goal is to eliminate loss of independent ambulation in hospitalized older
      adults. In pursuit of this goal, the specific aims are to:

        1. Test the effectiveness of MOVIN to improve functional ability of older adult patients at
           discharge, and 1, 3 and 6 months post discharge;

        2. Test the effectiveness of MOVIN to reduce healthcare utilization of older adults at
           discharge, and 1, 3 and 6 months post discharge;

        3. Measure change in nurse behaviors and unit culture and identify ongoing systems barriers
           that impact translation of MOVIN across inpatient units and different hospitals.
    
  