
    
      Diabetes is the fifth leading cause of death in the most high-income countries and there is
      substantial evidence that it is epidemic in many low- and middle-income countries.
      Complications from diabetes, such as coronary artery and peripheral vascular disease, stroke,
      diabetic neuropathy, amputations, renal failure and blindness results in disability, reduced
      life expectancy and enormous health costs.The global age standardized prevalence of diabetes
      has nearly doubled since 1980, rising from 4.7% to 8.5% in the adult population.In Nepal,
      there is a lack of reliable and representative data on the prevalence of type 2
      diabetes.Various small studies from different parts of the country have shown prevalence
      rates ranging from 6.3% to 8.5%.The burden of diabetes in terms of disability adjusted life
      years has increased almost 100% from 1990 to 2010. A pilot study in an industrial setting
      showed a prevalence of 4% diabetes and 31% pre-diabetes among adult employees.The prevention
      of type 2 diabetes through lifestyle intervention has been established by several clinical
      trials.These studies had a strong focus on increased physical activity and dietary
      modification as well as weight reduction among overweight participants. The US Diabetes
      Prevention Program clinical trial demonstrated that structured lifestyle interventions-such
      as training people with pre-diabetes to achieve modest weight loss through diet and physical
      activity-reduced three-year diabetes incidence by 58 percent. Studies have shown that simple
      modifications to the physical environment can be important in increasing physical activity
      and altering dietary habits. However, the translation of the knowledge to the real world
      setting is a challenge. Strategies to translate the preventive measures by innovative and
      culturally specific environmental and individual level intervention are lacking.

      Work-site could be an effective platform to translate this knowledge into action as employed
      adults spend most of their workday waking hours at workplaces.Workplaces have additional
      advantages because of convenience to reach people; social support; existing formal and
      informal communication networks; and possible corporate behavior network.Studies have shown
      positive impact of diabetes prevention at work-site and other
      settings.Additionally,environmental changes to the work-sites can achieve modest improvement
      in employees' health risks, including weight and body mass index ( BMI) measures, in one year
      and reduced glycated hemoglobin(HbA1c) among pre-diabetic adult employee. In 2013,
      investigators conducted a survey of cardiovascular disease risk factors among employees of a
      wire industry in the eastern Nepal. The study showed that about a third of the employees were
      pre-diabetic and 4% had diabetes. Investigators established an ongoing work-site screening
      and preventive cardiovascular disease care program in the wire industry in January 2016.
      Furthermore, investigators conducted a qualitative study to understand willingness,
      facilitators and barriers to promote healthy diet in the industry cafeteria (unpublished).
      Building on these ground works, investigators propose implementing and evaluating the
      effectiveness of a work-site based lifestyle modification - an environmental modification in
      cafeterias and a lifestyle change education package.Investigators propose a pre-post trial
      with a control period to assess the effectiveness of the individual level lifestyle
      intervention on diabetes risk reduction among pre-diabetic (HbA1c of 5.7 to 6.4%) employees
      of two industries in Nepal.Investigators will provide lifestyle education to half of the
      randomly selected participants after 6 to 14 months of control period. Additionally,
      cafeteria intervention will be provided to all the pre-diabetic participants. The study aims
      to:

      Aim 1: To measure the effectiveness of an environmental-level cafeteria intervention on
      diabetes risk.

      Aim 2: To measure the effectiveness of an individual-level lifestyle education on the risk of
      diabetes prevention.

      If the program is shown to be effective at these work-sites, the results of this study will
      be used to recommend and disseminate a sustainable environment and lifestyle interventions at
      work-sites to improve the health of workers, other Nepali work-sites, and to Nepal's national
      program for prevention and control of non- communicable disease. Furthermore, lessons from
      this study can be used to make recommendations or plan studies of similar work-site programs
      in the U.S. and other settings outside of Nepal.
    
  