
    
      PURPOSE

      The purpose of this multi-centre randomized clinical trial is to compare two bowel
      preparation regimens for patients who fail to cleanse their colon during their index
      colonoscopy. Although many clinical trials already exist examining the optimal bowel
      preparation for colonoscopy in general, surprisingly none address patients who failed bowel
      preparation in the past. Failure to achieve bowel preparation is a result of complex factors,
      including underlying colonic dysmotility, co-morbidities, and concurrent medication usage and
      is rarely the result of patient non-compliance.(1) Given the frequency of inadequate bowel
      preparation, its negative impact on colonoscopy quality, the increased risk for an adverse
      event, and the need to repeat the procedure, an important public health need exists to
      address this question urgently.(1) This study will use many of the same methodology and
      investigators as an ongoing Canadian multicenter study titled, "The Bowel CLEAnsing: a
      National initiative ( B-CLEAN) " but on a smaller scale to answer this question.

      BACKGROUND

      Adequate bowel preparation is a prerequisite for high quality colonoscopy and is needed to
      maximize visualization of the colonic mucosa.(1-4) Unfortunately, inadequate bowel
      preparation is common and reported to occur in 4% to 17% of cases.(5-12) Procedures with poor
      preparation are more likely to be incomplete, have an adverse event, and are less likely to
      detect polyps.(1, 9, 13) Repeat colonoscopies within one year have shown a 36% miss rate for
      advanced adenomas in these patients.(12) Recognizing the importance of high quality
      colonoscopy, Cancer Care Ontario and other provincial health authorities now track adequacy
      rates for bowel preparation.

      In cases of poor bowel preparation, the colonoscopy must be repeated, exposing patients to
      another invasive procedure and adding additional costs to the healthcare system. Although
      health economic data regarding colonoscopy utilization in Canada is sparse, an illustrative
      example from the United States is possible. Assuming 14.2 million screening colonoscopies are
      performed annually in the United States (14) of which 5% have inadequate bowel preparation
      (6, 8), a total of 710,000 colonoscopies have to be repeated at a cost of $763 million
      dollars, based on a per case cost of $1,075.(15) This is likely an underestimation of the
      true cost due to exclusion of non-screening colonoscopies in the calculation and the use of a
      low colonoscopy cost estimate based on the Nationwide Colonoscopy Program for the
      Uninsured.(15)

      There are numerous definitions of inadequate bowel preparation and the term's lack of
      specificity contributes to the varied incidence of inadequate bowel preparation reported in
      the literature. The Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS) is a user friendly validated
      measure that is based on three colonic segment scores (right, transverse, left, each scored
      between 0 - 3) and is summed for a total score between 0 - 9.(16, 17)(Appendix A) Adequacy
      was recently formally defined in a large study involving 2,516 patients undergoing
      colonoscopies at 36 centres as a total score ≥6 and/or all segment scores ≥2.(18)

      The optimal bowel preparation to use for repeat colonoscopy in patients who failed the
      initial preparation is unknown. However, a combination of a stimulant, such as bisacodyl, and
      a larger volume of an electrolyte and fluid balanced osmotic laxative, such as PEG, is often
      used. In a recent case series, Ibanez et al.(19) identified 83 patients with inadequate bowel
      preparation at their index colonoscopy. 51 patients agreed to a repeat colonoscopy using an
      'intensive' regimen consisting of a low fibre diet, bisacodyl, and 3L split dose polyethylene
      glycol (PEG). Using this regimen, 90% had adequate bowel preparation at the second
      colonoscopy. However, the bowel preparation at the index colonoscopy was not given in a split
      dose manner in the majority of patients, which is now the standard of practice due to
      superior cleansing, and the lack of a control group makes an accurate assessment of efficacy
      impossible.(1) In another study, patients with inadequate bowel preparation after split dose
      PEG (4L) were offered a repeat colonoscopy the same day after ingestion of another 2L of PEG
      or a colonoscopy 1 week later using a low fibre diet, bisacodyl, and 4L split dose PEG.(20)
      There was no difference in adequacy of bowel preparation although 20% of cases were still
      inadequate and the lack of randomization and blinding threaten the validity of these results.

      To date, no consensus exists regarding the optimal bowel preparation regimen to use in
      patients with inadequate cleansing due to the absence of clinical trials. Given 4% to 17% of
      colonoscopies have inadequate bowel preparation, there is a significant public health need to
      address this issue.(5-12, 21-23) A highly efficacious yet tolerable bowel preparation regimen
      is needed for these patients to ensure adequate cleansing for their next procedure. The
      objective of this multi-centre randomized clinical trial will be to compare the efficacy of
      two regimens in achieving adequate bowel preparation after failing to cleanse at the index
      colonoscopy.

      PROJECT DESCRIPTION

      3.1 Study Design, Randomization, and Blinding This multi-centre randomized clinical trial
      will compare two bowel preparation regimens for patients who have already failed bowel
      preparation at their index colonoscopy, defined as inadequate visualization to detect lesions
      > 5 mm and requiring a shortened colonoscopy interval as a result. This clinical definition
      of failed bowel preparation was chosen instead of the BBPS since the latter may not be
      available from the index colonoscopy depending on the endoscopist. However, where possible,
      the BBPS at the index colonoscopy will be recorded. A total of four centres from the original
      B-CLEAN study group have agreed to participate (Appendix E).

      Subjects will be randomized to one of 2 arms (see '3.2 Selection of Bowel Preparation
      Regimens' for details). Randomization will be performed centrally using Research Electronic
      Data Capture (REDCap) in a 1:1 allocation in blocks of varying sizes stratified by site. In
      addition, data entry will be performed online through REDCap.

      Blinding of the endoscopist will be strictly enforced. Endoscopists are required to remain
      blinded to the subject's bowel preparation until after completing the bowel cleanliness
      section of the CRF. Subjects will be asked to not discuss the bowel preparation with any
      endoscopy unit staff except for research personnel until the colonoscopy preparation rating
      has been completed by the endoscopist. Unfortunately, blinding of the patient (ie. double
      blinding) is impossible due to the volume differences between the two bowel preparation
      regimens.

      3.2 Selection of Bowel Preparation Regimens Regimen A: 4L PegLyte + 15 mg bisacodyl Regimen
      B: 6L PegLyte + 15 mg bisacodyl

      There is no standard bowel preparation utilized after a colonoscopy with failed bowel
      preparation. Regimen A was adapted from Ibanez et al.(19) who used a regimen consisting of 3L
      polyethylene glycol (PEG) and 10 mg bisacodyl with reasonable effectiveness. In our study, 4L
      PEG is used instead of 3L to avoid reducing the amount of PEG consumed by those who were
      originally prepped with 4L PegLyte at their index colonoscopy. 15 mg bisacodyl was used
      instead of 10 mg for consistency with dosing used in BiPegLyte. This regimen is modestly more
      intensive than standard bowel preparation due to an additional 2L PEG compared to BiPegLyte
      and 15 mg bisacodyl compared to 4L PegLyte.

      Regimen B was adapted from Kim et al.(20) as a more intensive yet tolerable regimen. In this
      regimen, 6L of PEG is combined with 15 mg of bisacodyl.

      3.3 Bowel Preparation & Colonoscopy Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 allocation to either
      regimen A or B. Regardless of randomization, subjects will be instructed to follow a low
      fibre diet for 2 days followed by clear fluid diet for 24 hours prior to the scheduled
      colonoscopy. The time and amount of PEG the subjects will consume will depend on
      randomization.(APPENDIX B) To optimize patient adherence, all participants will receive a
      handout with their specific bowel preparation instructions based on their randomization.

      All colonoscopies will be performed within 12 weeks of randomization but not within 2 weeks
      of index colonoscopy (ie. washout period from the index bowel preparation). Procedures will
      be performed according to local standard operating procedures. All participating endoscopists
      will complete standardized training and calibration in the use of the Boston Bowel
      Preparation Scale prior to the start of the study at
      http://www.bmc.org/gastroenterology/research.htm. A record of training will be sent to the
      coordinating centre.

      For subjects who do not present for their colonoscopy after randomization (ie. forgot
      appointment), they may remain in the study and be prepped with the same regimen again as long
      as their next colonoscopy is not scheduled within the next two weeks. For subjects who
      decline ongoing study participation, they can withdraw and follow up with their physician.

      3.4 Baseline Data Collection

        1. Age

        2. Gender

        3. Weight

        4. Height

        5. Primary Language

        6. Highest level of education

        7. Patient's ability to understand and follow the bowel preparation directives at home as
           deemed by the research personnel (Y/N)

        8. Charlson co-morbidity index score (24)

      7. Irritable bowel syndrome according to ROME III criteria (25) 8. Functional constipation
      according to ROME III criteria (25) 9. Neurologic disorders: Parkinson's disease, multiple
      sclerosis, cerebral palsy, other 10. Previous abdominal/pelvic surgery 11. Established
      diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease. 12. Medication usage 13. Information regarding index
      colonoscopy

        1. Method of communication for index colonoscopy

        2. Bowel preparation used

        3. Use of split dose bowel preparation (Y/N)

        4. Did patient followed the diet as prescribed (Y/N)

        5. Did patient take bowel preparation medication as prescribed (Y/N)

        6. Subject willingness to repeat the index bowel preparation

        7. Subject incontinence & travel time with index bowel preparation 14. Indication for index
           colonoscopy (screening, surveillance, diagnostic)

      3.5 Statistical Considerations Sample size was calculated as follows. Assuming 70% adequacy
      among those randomized to regimen A, 87.5% adequacy among those randomized to regimen B,
      significance of 0.05, and power of 0.8, 85 patients are required in each group (total = 170).
      An adequacy rate of 70% was selected based on the existing literature.(19, 20) Additional
      factors considered in arriving at this figure include the lack of split dosing used at the
      index colonoscopy (19), inadequate intake of PEG at the index colonoscopy (20), and the
      performance of the second colonoscopy within a week of the first.(20) An adequacy rate of
      87.5% was selected based on a 25% relative increase in adequacy to be considered clinically
      significant. Based on a target sample size of 170 and a conservative 15% dropout, 196
      subjects are required for the study.

      Descriptive statistics will be reported as mean (SD), median (range), and proportions as
      appropriate. Data will be analyzed as intention-to-treat and hypothesis testing performed
      with t-test, chi-square, and Fisher's exact test as appropriate. Pre-planned secondary
      analyses will include per-protocol analysis, stratification by timing of colonoscopy (ie.
      morning versus afternoon procedures), and stratification by initial bowel preparation used.
    
  