
    
      Although anti-retroviral therapy (ART) enhances life expectancy and overall quality of life
      (QoL), HIV-infected individuals are increasingly vulnerable to non-AIDS-related diseases
      including HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). Inflammation is a primary mechanism
      in the pathogenesis of HAND and tobacco use may further exacerbate inflammation. Conversely,
      nicotine alone has anti-inflammatory effects suggesting that stimulating the cholinergic
      pathway via pharmacological treatment [e.g., galantamine (GAL)] may suppress inflammation and
      reverse or prevent neurocognitive deficits in HIV-1 infection. In this double-blind,
      placebo-controlled crossover study, HIV-infected individuals (N=120; 60 smokers, 60
      nonsmokers) will be randomized to 12 weeks of GAL or placebo, followed by a 4-week washout,
      then 12 weeks of GAL or placebo (arms switched). All subjects will be stable on ART and the
      GAL dose will follow FDA guidelines. At the beginning and end of each treatment phase,
      inflammatory biomarkers and viral load will be assessed. Monocyte transcriptomics will also
      be assessed on a subset of the sample (n=60; 30/group). Neurocognition and clinical outcomes
      (e.g., QoL) will be measured at baseline and at 4-week intervals during each treatment phase.
      The primary outcomes are monocyte/macrophage and T-cell activation (CD16, CD163, and CC
      chemokine receptor type 2 or CCR2 expression; plasma CC chemokine ligand type 2 or CCL2
      [MCP-1 or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1], sCD14; CD38/HLA-DR [cluster of differentiation
      38/Human Leukocyte Antigen- antigen D Related] on CD8 [cluster of differentiation 8] cells)
      and neurocognitive performance (processing speed, verbal learning/memory, executive
      function). Exploratory outcomes include monocyte gene expression patterns and broad plasma
      cytokine analysis. This study will provide insight into the interactions among nAChR
      activation, HIV immune activation and pathogenesis, and tobacco use and has translational and
      therapeutic implications that could improve health outcomes among HIV-infected individuals.
    
  