
    
      Generally, subjects will be followed at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9 and 12-months after activation with
      the RENOVA System.

      The study will be conducted according the following phases:

        -  Recruitment, baseline assessment and compatibility test: Subjects fulfilling all
           inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be enrolled to the trial. Study
           candidates will sign an informed consent form, complete a standard 3-Day voiding diary,
           a quality of life questionnaire and global response assessment. Beck Depression
           Inventory II and General quality of life questionnaires will be completed in selected
           geographies. Study eligible subjects that have not experienced Posterior Tibial Nerve
           Stimulation treatment in the past will undergo a compatibility test to assure proper
           nerve conductivity. Data collected will serve as baseline.

        -  Implantation: Patients with positive response to the compatibility test (or that
           received Posterior Tibial Nerve Stimulation treatment in the past) will undergo
           unilateral implantation 4±1 weeks following recruitment with the BlueWind RENOVA System.
           Intra-operative sensory/motor response will be tested to confirm accurate location of
           the implant.

        -  Sensation assessment and activation: After a recovery period of approximately 30±7 days,
           subjects will complete a Brief 3-Day voiding diary and a quality of life questionnaire
           and a sensation assessment will be conducted: subjects will undergo an acute stimulation
           session of the tibial nerve to evaluate their sensory reaction to stimulation and
           parameters setting will be performed according to their individual sensations.
           Eventually, patients will be trained for system home use treatment. Therapy will be
           delivered daily for a minimum of 30 minutes once a day and maximum of 1 hour per day (in
           2 sessions of 30 minutes), per physician discretion. Following activation of the device,
           patient will complete Brief 3-day voiding diaries once a week until the 1 month
           follow-up visit.

        -  Follow-ups (1-, 2-, and 3-months post-device activation): A 3-Day voiding diary and QoL
           questionnaire will be collected (brief 3-Day diaries on 1-, and 2-months follow up
           visits; and a 3-Day standard voiding diary on the 3-month follow up). Global Response
           Assessment and Beck Depression Inventory II will be collected on the 3-month follow-up
           visit (Beck Depression Inventory in selected geographies). Stimulation parameters will
           be checked and adjusted as needed by: (a) changing current amplitude; and/or (b)
           changing stimulation frequency; and/or changing pulse width; and/or (c) changing the
           number of daily treatment sessions. Location of paresthesia will be recorded in each of
           the clinic visits. The visit at 2 months will be performed by phone call to assess the
           patient status. Clinic visit may be followed at the discretion of the clinical team.

        -  Continued follow-ups: All subjects in the trial will undergo 4 additional visits (at 4-,
           6- ,9- and 12-months post-device activation) until the end of the study at the 12-month
           visit. Similar to the visit at 2 months, the visit at 4 months will be performed by
           phone call to assess the patient status. Clinic visit may be followed at the discretion
           of the clinical team. Three-Day voiding diary, Quality of Life questionnaire, Global
           Response Assessment and Beck Depression Inventory II and General quality of life
           questionnaires (at selected geographies) will be collected at each of those visits
           (except for the 4- and 9-months visit in which only a 3-Day Brief voiding diary will be
           collected). General quality of life questionnaire will be completed at the 12-month
           visit in selected geographies. Stimulation parameters will be checked and adjusted as
           needed. Location of paresthesia will be recorded in each of the clinic visits
    
  