
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct a phase I dose escalation trial, to determine the safety and the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD), of oral (po) IPdR (ropidoxuridine) given daily for 28 consecutive days
      with concurrent intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) in patients with advanced
      gastrointestinal cancers treated with palliative radiation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To establish the pharmacokinetics of daily
      po dosing of IPdR x 28 days. III. To assess, for patients treated at the MTD, for biochemical
      evidence of IPdR effect in normal tissue (circulating granulocytes) and tumor tissue (in
      patients with accessible tumor tissue) by measuring %iododeoxyuridine (IUdR)-deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) cellular incorporation by flow cytometry and high-pressure liquid chromatography
      (HPLC) analyses.

      IV. To assess the use of %IUdR-DNA cellular incorporation (measured by the investigational
      laboratory assays of flow cytometry and HPLC) as an exploratory biomarker of IPdR for the
      following effects: the %IUdR-DNA tumor cell incorporation from day 8 tumor biopsies in
      gastrointestinal (GI) cancer patients receiving MTD doses of IPdR as an exploratory biomarker
      of tumor radiosensitization using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
      criteria.

      V. To assess the use of %IUdR-DNA cellular incorporation (measured by the investigational
      laboratory assays of flow cytometry and HPLC) as an exploratory biomarker of IPdR for the
      following effects: the %IUdR-DNA cellular incorporation in patients' circulating granulocytes
      taken weekly during the 28-day IPdR MTD dose, on day 29, and week 8 as an exploratory
      biomarker of IPdR systemic toxicities to bone marrow as measured by complete blood count
      (CBC)/differential values.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ropidoxuridine.

      Beginning 30 minutes to 2 hours before radiation therapy, patients receive ropidoxuridine PO
      once daily (QD) on days 1-28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Beginning on day 8, patients undergo IMRT 5 days a week for 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  