
    
      The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between trunk control and lower
      extremity selective motor control and balance problems during the movement of sit to stand
      (STS) frequently encountered in children with cerebral palsy (CP) in daily life and to
      compare the STS performance of in children with CP and typical developing children. CP
      patients have difficulty in daily life activities due to muscle weakness, lack of muscle
      coordination, balance and postural control disorders. STS activity, which is one of the most
      frequently used activities in daily life, is a biomechanical activity in children with CP,
      requiring neuromuscular coordination and postural control outside of muscle strength. It is
      not enough to evaluate the muscle strength to evaluate the STS movement which is very
      important for these group, it is necessary to evaluate the balance of this movement of
      children with CP and the isolated muscle strengths (selective motor controls) of the lower
      extremity that we believe may affect this movement. There is not enough information about
      whether there is a relationship between the trunk controls and the selective motor controls
      of the lower extremities during the STS movement in children with CP. The information in the
      literature is limited to the fact that trunk control and muscle strength affect the balance
      during the STS movement. However, there is no study examining the relationship between
      selective motor control and trunk control during STS movement in children with CP.

      This study, which includes selective motor control and trunk control, aims to eliminate this
      deficiency in the literature. In addition, the performance of the participants STS movement
      will be evaluated objectively with the test of the computerized balance device planned to be
      applied. In this study, to in children with CP; "Modified Ashworth Scale" to evaluate
      spasticity in the hip, knee and ankle, "Gross Motor Function Classification System" to
      determine gross motor levels, "Trunk Control Measurement Scale" to measure dynamic and static
      balance, "Gross Motor Function Measure-88's sitting sub-test" to assess seating function",
      "Selective Control Assesment of Lower Extremity" to assess the selective motor control of the
      knee and ankle muscles, the sit to stand test of the computerized postural analysis device
      will be applied to assess the duration of the STS movement and the deviations during the
      movement. The application time of the tests varies between 5-30 minutes.

      For typical developing children, all tests except the Modified Ashworth Scale and the Gross
      Motor Function Classification System will be applied from tests applied to children with CP.

      This study will evaluate the independence of children with CP in daily life activities and
      contribute to the correct planning of rehabilitation goals.
    
  