
    
      Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is an ultra-rare, acquired, life-threatening,
      progressive clonal blood disease that is developed as a result of the expansion of one or
      more clones of hematopoietic stem cells with a somatic PIG A gene mutation. The main
      pathogenic mechanism of PNH development is a dysregulation of the complement system, in which
      there are no complement inhibitors CD55 and CD59 that are bounded by the GPI-anchor on the
      surface of blood cells, or there is a deficiency of them.

      Eculizumab is the first drug for the pathogenetic therapy of PNH, a recombinant humanized
      monoclonal antibody against the C5 component of complement. Binding with high affinity to C5,
      eculizumab prevents the cleavage of C5 into C5a and C5b, thereby inhibiting the formation of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines (via C5a) and Membrane attack complex (MAC) (via C5b).

      Using of eculizumab in patients with PNH leads to a significant decrease in hemolysis, the
      incidence of thrombosis and increasing of the quality of life of patients. It increases life
      expectancy with long-term using of eculizumab.

      The drug Eculizumab, developed by JSC "GENERIUM", Russia, is a biological analogue
      (biosimilar) of the original drug Soliris®.

      The population of the study is the patients with an established diagnosis of PNH who have
      indications for pathogenic treatment and are receiving Elizaria®.

      The study duration for each patient will be at least 54 weeks for previously treated
      patients, and 58 weeks for previously untreated patients, including the Screening period and
      the observation period.

      The study will include the Screening Period and the Observation Period:

        -  Screening Period - 2 weeks (Days 1 - 14);

        -  Follow-up is 52 weeks for previously treated patients and 56 weeks for previously
           untreated patients.

      The screening period can be extended until the results of laboratory and instrumental studies
      are obtained, but no more than 14 days.

      During the observation period, for the purpose of routine examination, it is planned to
      conduct a number of intermediate visits, approximately every 8 weeks (an acceptable interval
      of 6-10 weeks) between the Screening Visit (Visit 1) and the Study End Visit (Visit 13) in
      accordance with the plan of the dispensary observation of the patient. Additional visits and
      examinations may be carried out by the decision of the research physician.

      If the patient is previously untreated, the patient undergoes induction therapy with
      Elizaria® at a dose of 600 mg weekly for 4 weeks with a further transition to maintenance
      therapy at a dose of 900 mg from the 5th week and then every 2 weeks.
    
  