
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition. To date there is no treatment to improve
      outcome. There is limited regenerative capacity of the central nervous system (CNS), such
      that damaged neurons and severed axons are not replaced.

      A substantial body of evidence suggests that olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) obtained from
      olfactory bulbs (OBs) facilitate neuronal regeneration in rodents and humans with SCI.
      Indeed, transplanting autologous OECs from an OB into the injury site improved neurological
      outcome in a patient with SCI.

      Harvesting autologous OBs to culture OECs has several disadvantages:

        1. If the OECs do not grow in vitro, the transplantation is abandoned;

        2. The retrieval procedure exposes a paralysed patient to the risks of craniotomy;

        3. Excising an OB can impair the sense of smell; and

        4. The number of OECs obtained is limited to one OB.

      Investigators will collect human OECs from suitable donors which we have defined as two
      groups. Group 1 patients will be brain dead donors identified by the neuro-intensive care
      team as potential candidates for solid organ donation. The OBs will be retrieved as near to
      death as possible. Group 2 patients will be living donors undergoing elective neurosurgery in
      which the olfactory nerve is sacrificed as part of that procedure.

      There are two OBs located at the anterior skull base, responsible for transmitting the
      sensation of smell from the nose to the brain. Obtaining OECs requires a craniotomy (opening
      the skull) to remove the OBs.

      PHASE 1 will be divided into 2 stages. In stage 1 we will culture OECs and characterise them
      in the central laboratory. We aim to determine how the yield of OECs and their regenerative
      properties are affected by freeze-thaw, time left at room temperature and time left at 40C
      before culture as well as patient age. Each harvested sample will be transferred to the lab
      for further processing. Processing includes but is not limited to histological fixation,
      sectioning and staining, cell culture and storage. Some OECs will be frozen in liquid
      nitrogen to determine whether they can indeed be stored. In stage 2 we will transfer OECs
      outside St. George's to a GMP facility (to be determined). In the GMP facility, the OECs will
      be processed and stored according to the optimised conditions we have determined.

      In PHASE 2, the OECs will be transplanted into patients with SCI.
    
  