
    
      Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) is common in the intensive care unit (ICU); VTE leads to
      significant morbidity and is fatal in 30% of undiagnosed pulmonary emboli and 8% when PE is
      appropriately treated. Intensive care unit (ICU) patients have multiple risk factors for VTE
      and tend to be at higher risk than non-ICU patients. Risk factors specific to ICU patients
      include immobility, central venous catheters, sepsis or infection, need for vasopressors,
      mechanical ventilation, surgery, trauma, and increasing age. Guidelines exist for the
      prevention of VTE, and VTE prophylaxis is strongly recommended. Given the high rate of VTE
      and the attendant morbidity and mortality, most ICU's routinely provide VTE prophylaxis which
      is individualized according to risk-benefit analysis with respect to thrombosis and bleeding
      risk. Prophylaxis for patients at risk of bleeding is accomplished by using mechanical
      compression devices while those without bleeding risk are administered medical prophylaxis
      which is felt to be more effective.

      Recently, it has become apparent that medical prophylaxis is not without risk and that the
      risk-benefit analysis should also include the risk of developing heparin induced
      thrombocytopenia (HIT) or heparin induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT).

      Unfractionated heparin (UFH) and low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) are commonly used to
      prevent VTE in ICU and non-ICU patients. HIT, an untoward consequence of exposure to heparin
      is an immune disorder that may develop in patients treated with heparin products. HIT is
      antibody mediated, usually due to IgG antibodies directed against epitopes on the platelet
      surface comprised of the heparin-platelet factor 4 complex. HIT is generally characterized by
      a decrease in platelet count to less than 100 X 109/L, or a 50% decrease from baseline, after
      exposure to heparin. HIT is typically observed after 5 to 10 days of treatment.
      Alternatively, patients with previous exposure to heparin can develop HIT in two days while
      heparin naive patients may develop HIT in about 10 days. The platelet count usually returns
      to normal several days after discontinuing heparin with or without therapy, though the risk
      for thrombosis persists for up to 3 months due to the persistence of antibodies.

      Using an ELISA assay heparin-induced antibody formation is found in up to 50% of patients
      exposed to UFH. However, the serotonin release assay (SRA) which is believed to be more
      specific for HIT detects antibody formation in about 20% of patients. Five percent of
      patients receiving UFH develop thrombocytopenia (HIT) and half of these patients go on to
      develop heparin induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) which results in venous and
      arterial complications which can be life threatening, or result in loss of extremities.

      The occurrence of HIT varies widely between clinical populations and is dependent on the type
      of heparin used, i.e. UFH vs. LMWH. The highest incidence reported to date has been in the
      cardiac and orthopedic populations and is unknown in the ICU population. Warkentin, et al
      found in a study of 655 hip surgery patients that 2.7% randomized to UFH developed HIT while
      none receiving enoxaparin (LMWH) developed HIT. This variability in development of antibodies
      and the HIT syndrome makes it critically important to understand heparin induced antibody
      formation as a precursor to HIT and HITT.

      Determining the prevalence of HIT and its relationship to preventive and therapeutic UFH and
      LMWH will help clinicians more appropriately choose methods of VTE prophylaxis and treatment
      in the critically ill, ICU population.

      Objectives To determine the prevalence of heparin-induced antibodies on admission to the ICU
      and the development of new heparin-antibodies during the first 7 +/- 2 days of
      hospitalization. Secondary objectives include: determining the incidence of heparin antibody
      formation in patients treated with UFH, LMWH and mechanical prophylaxis (MPX); and to compare
      the incidence of heparin antibodies between different ICU populations.
    
  