
    
      This study aims to evaluate the if the administration of dexamethasone both around the nerve
      and in the vein (perineural and intravenous (IV)) will prolong the duration of pain relief
      from ropivacaine when compared with ropivacaine local block alone or when administered along
      with IV dexamethasone in patients undergoing hand surgery. Individuals who have hand surgery
      scheduled will be evaluated for eligibility in this study. Eligible and consenting patients
      will be randomly assigned to one of three groups (1:1:1) as follows: • Group A (IV
      dexamethasone): Perineural (30ml of 0.75% ropivacaine + 0.5 ml normal saline) and IV (9.0 ml
      normal saline + 1 ml of 10 mg/ml Dexamethasone) • Group B (IV + perineural dexamethasone):
      Perineural (30ml of 0.75% ropivacaine + 0.5 ml of 10 mg/ml Dexamethasone) and IV (9.5 ml
      normal saline + 0.5 ml of 10 mg/ml Dexamethasone) • Group C (control with no adjuvant
      dexamethasone): Perineural (30ml of 0.75 ropivacaine + 0.5 ml normal saline) and IV (10 ml
      normal saline) This study is single-blind, so the subjects will not know to which group they
      have been assigned. All subjects will receive at least a nerve block with a local anesthetic,
      or numbing agent. After written, informed consent is obtained and on the day of surgery, the
      research staff will collect information about the subject's medical history including
      allergies (seasonal and drug related), demographics (gender, age, height, weight), history of
      drug use, pain and nausea scores, and vital signs. All medication taken 1 month prior to
      treatment day will be recorded. Information will be collected from the physical examination
      performed by the surgeon, which is a standard procedure for the pre-operative visit,
      regardless of participation in the study. After being put under light sedation according to
      standardized sedation, as written in the protocol, one group will receive a local nerve block
      and numbing agent. The other two groups will receive either the nerve block and local
      anesthetic with intravenous dexamethasone or the nerve block and local anesthetic with both
      intravenous and perineural (local) dexamethasone, as described above. Details regarding the
      subject's surgery and anesthesia will be collected, and after your surgery, a member of the
      research team will provide the subject with a diary to document level of pain, movement, any
      episodes of nausea/vomiting, and the number of pain medicine tablets taken for up to 48 hours
      after surgery. The subjects will receive a follow up phone call 48 hours after the nerve
      block from the research team to collect the information already documented in the diary. Thus
      far, no evidence of dexamethasone toxicity around the nerve has been shown and no neurologic
      complications or infections have been reported. Only one study reported blood glucose
      elevations [1]. There is a potential benefit of enhancing the duration of the nerve block and
      therefore pain management. The results of this study will help clarify if use of
      dexamethasone as an adjuvant in nerve block will prolong the effect of the nerve block and
      reduce the heightened sensitivity to pain and burning sensation as the block wears off.
    
  