
    
      Visit 1: Consent/Assent will be obtained before any study related procedures are performed.
      Once consent is obtained subjects will be assessed to determine eligibility based on study
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. A history and physical with possible neurological examination
      will be conducted. Cognitive impairment will be assessed by having the subject complete the
      Folstein Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE).

      Qualifying subjects who wish to participate in the study will be scheduled to return for a
      study orientation visit. Subjects are required to have a study partner. Subjects will be
      given a copy of the study partner informed consent form (ICF) to take home with them. A
      potential study partner(s) must attend the orientation visit with the subject.

      Visit 2: Study Orientation: ICF will be obtained from subject study partner(s). Subjects and
      their study partner(s) will be given information about what is required for the study. They
      will be given the patient logs that are to be kept at home between sessions and discussed
      with study staff at the following session. Subjects and study partners will be trained to
      become proficient in checking their blood sugar with one of the common blood glucose meters
      as well as how to use a supply of glucose which can cover any potential hypoglycemic
      reaction. Subjects and/or their study partners will be oriented to the location where the
      controlled pulsatile IV insulin infusion therapy will be performed. They will be instructed
      on where to park and where to go when they arrive.

      Visit 3: Pre-Therapy Amyloid PET scan

      Visits 4 - 28: Insulin Therapy Visits: Subjects will complete 25 insulin therapy sessions
      which will occur on a weekly basis, over 6 months. Prior to insulin treatment the following
      assessments will be completed: MMSE, CDT, QOLS, and CGI. Also prior to insulin therapy, as
      well as between insulin therapy treatments, basal O2 and C O2 measurements will be obtained.

      Pre labs will be collected at visit 4, mid labs at visit 16, and post labs at visit 28.

      Visit 29: Post-therapy Amyloid PET Scan

      Visit 30: The final study visit will be conducted in the Psychopharmacology Research Clinic
      within one month of the subject completing the last insulin treatment.
    
  