
    
      BACKGROUND

      Upper esophageal sphincter is a high pressure zone, behind the cricoid cartilage, which
      protects airway from aspiration. It consists on striated muscle fibers distributed in two
      zones: rapid twich oblique fibers correspondent to tyropharyngeal muscle and rapid but mostly
      slow twich horizontal fibers belonging to cricopharyngeal muscle. This permits sphincter
      maintain a constant basal tone but, at the same time, respond quickly to reflexes (1).

      Upper esophageal sphincter pressure is distributed asymmetrically being greater
      anteroposteriorly than laterally. Peak anterior pressure is located more cranially than peak
      posterior pressure (2).

      This makes manometric measurements difficult and some unreliable, unless high resolution
      manometry is used. Upper esophageal sphincter pressure is labile: it decreases with age and
      deterioration of the level of consciousness; while increases with stress, anxiety,
      inspiration and phonation. Patients referring dysphagia or gastroesophageal reflux may
      present altered manometric measurements (3).

      Upper esophageal sphincter has a dynamic function, taking part during burps, in deglutition,
      and airway reflexes such as: esophagus-sphincter reflex, glottic- pharynx reflex and coughing
      ( 3).

      Studies using propofol and sevoflurane at subhypnotic concentrations have shown a decrease in
      upper esophageal sphincter pressure, as well as pharynx descoordination (4). Midazolam at
      sedative doses was implicated in lowering upper esophageal sphincter pressure. Vanner et al
      made an anesthesia induction using midazolam, thiopental or ketamine, concluding that, except
      for the last one, all drugs caused a decrease in upper esophageal sphincter pressure. In
      another study of the same working group, inhalational anesthesia using protoxide and
      halothane was compared to intravenous anesthesia with thiopental. Upper esophageal sphincter
      pressure only descended under thiopental (5,6).

      Since aspiration depends not only on upper esophageal sphincter but also on lower esophageal
      sphincter and barrier pressure, it is important to know how drugs affect them: Thiopental,
      opiates, dexmedetomidine and propofol may diminish lower esophageal sphincter tone (7).

      Thörn K. et al studied the effect of sevoflurane on lower esophageal sphincter pressure and
      barrier pressure, objecting a statistically significant descend in both of them (8).

      Some studies do not find an implication of propofol in lowering upper esophageal pressure
      (9).

      Propofol, etomidate, and thiopental effect on upper esophageal sphincter pressure was
      evaluated in this study. All of them potentiate the inhibitory effect of GABA
      (gamma-amino-butiric acid) neurotransmisor; etomidate and thiopental also depress ascending
      activating reticular system. To measure how they affect level of consciousness, entropy, a
      parameter obtained from electroencephalic signal registration, has been used. Specifically,
      State Entropy (SE) was used, which computes over the frequency range of 0,8 to 32 Hz. Entropy
      monitoring has been validated using different hypnotics, being compared to other types of EEG
      records , as Bispectral Index (BIS) (10).

      General anesthesia procedure for patients undergoing urgent surgery is usually done following
      a "rapid sequence technique". In addition to the possibility of existing full stomach, airway
      protection mechanisms may be altered during induction. That is why, finding a hypnotic, not
      to affect or in a lesser manner, upper esophageal sphincter, would be of interest.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS Duly approved by the ethics comitee of Clínico San Carlos Hospital of
      Madrid in their meeting on the 8th of june of 2016 (act 6.1/16) the study was carried out
      between january of 2017 and july of 2019. 43 patients to be going under general anesthesia
      for programmed surgery were included, of which: 15 rejected taking part of the study; 3 did
      not pass dysphagia or reflux tests; 5 patients were lost due to different causes (2 did not
      tolerate the probe; in 2 cases the protocol failed; in 1 case there was a bias in manometric
      measurements).

      Finally, the study was reduced to 20 patients: 12 men and 8 women, aged between 39 and 84
      years old; mean age was 65,05 (13,13). In reference to anesthetic risk, 15% of patients were
      ASA I, 55% ASA II, and 30% were ASA III. Mean (sd) Body Mass Index was 26.70 (4.24) kg/m2.

      Written informed consent was explained to all patients who freely signed it after having
      understood and accepted it. Patients were distributed randomly in 3 groups depending on the
      hypnotics they were receiving. During the progress of the investigation, given the
      difficulties to find people who wanted to participate in the study, the comparative was
      reduced to only 2 groups: propofol and etomidate. This explains the definitive distribution:
      8 patients in propofol group; 9 in etomidate group; 3 in thiopental group.

      Two anesthesiologists worked as research collaborators during each case. One of them was in
      charge of proceeding with the induction as the protocol dictated, and another research
      collaborator was exclusivelly dedicated to the informatic registry of all the parameters,
      recording all together for each patient in a single archive corresponding to each
      participant. A doctor specialized in gastroenterology, expert on manometry, was responsible
      for introducing the manometric probe and making the consequent measurements, synchronizing
      his work with that of the other two research collaborators mentioned above.

      Once all data had been recorded, the main investigator, who ignored which medication had been
      given to each patient, gathered all the information together. Each hypnotic had been assigned
      to a different color so each patient was associated to a color and a number. In this way, any
      influence on the interpretation of the results was avoided.

      The protocol was as follows: After 6-8 hours fast, patients were monitored with entropy
      (spectral entropy monitoring module, Healthcare Technologies ®), electrocardiogram, pulse
      oximetry, and sphingomanometry (hemodynamic and respiratory monitoring module for S/5Avance®,
      General Electric). A lubricated manometric probe was introduced through the nostril to locate
      it from the pharynx to the stomach using no sedation. After 1 minute to permit the patient
      get used to the probe and be calm. while receiving oxygen at 10 lpm through a face mask., an
      initial (basal) manometric measure was noted. In this moment, the hypnotic was administered
      during 30 s. (to emulate rapid-sequence induction) at the following doses: 2 mg/kg for
      propofol, 0.4 mg/kg for etomidate or 4 mg/kg for thiopental. Afterwards, once entropy reached
      a value of 60, a second measure of upper esophageal sphincter pressure was noted. In case
      entropy did not fall to 60 or less, it was waited the necessary time for the hypnotic to make
      its effect on level of consciousness (clinical signs such as loss of response, loss of eyelid
      reflex, absence of sympathetic system activation such as tachycardia or hypertension were
      indications of the patient´s state of consciousness in those cases). All measurements except
      for manometry were recorded with an interval of 1 second through Datex-OhmedaTM S/5 Collect®
      and data were collected in an excel chart. Later, it is all analized combining manometric,
      entropy, hemodynamic and respiratory measurements. In case of oxygen saturation values of 93%
      or less or mean arterial pressure descending 20% or more from basal, the record was stopped.

      Statistical analysis Quantitative variables are described as median and interquartile range
      due to their no normal distribution in this study. Due to the small size of the sample no
      parametric tests are used. The study of the change that hypnotics cause on quantitative
      variables is carried out through Wilcoxon test. Analizing differences between groups,
      thiopental group is not taken into account given the small size of it. As a result,
      statistical tests used to compare variables between different hypnotics do not include
      thiopental group. Homogeneity of propofol and etomidate group is checked out through Mann-
      Whitney or Chi squared test depending on the type of variable under study, quantitative or
      cualitative, respectively. The study of parameters of interest (upper esophageal sphincter
      pressure; entropy) drop is done through the percentage of change they experiment after the
      hypnotic has been administered. The relationship of these two variables between both groups
      of hypnotics is analyzed by Mann- Whitney test. Level of significance is considered of 5%.
      Statistical software used was IBM SPSS Statistics v21.
    
  