
    
      The overall goal in this pilot project is to implement and evaluate a new method for
      isolating Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) strains from young children, and to compare these
      isolates with those obtained from adults from the same population. This is part I of the
      study, and part II is described in the Division of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
      protocol 06-0004. The transition from childhood colonization to adult disease state may be
      affected by multiple factors including evolution of genotypes of colonizing H. pylori strains
      themselves, driven in part by the host response to infection. The hypothesis is that H.
      pylori strains from Gambian children will differ genetically from the strains of chronically
      colonized adults from the same community. Genetic and phenotypic characterization of
      pediatric and adult H. pylori isolates will test for fundamental differences between strains
      circulating in these 2 age groups, and thereby help evaluate the importance of strain
      selection and/or genome evolution in such high risk societies. Specific objectives are: to
      compare the range of genotypes obtained from H. pylori cultured from gastric biopsies from
      Gambian adults and children undergoing diagnostic upper endoscopy, with those obtained by
      culture of gastric juice aspirates from the same subjects. This will allow interpretation of
      results obtained from culture of nasogastric aspirates from children who do not require
      diagnostic endoscopy, when compared to gastric biopsy-derived H. pylori isolates. Most
      genotyping will entail polymerase chain reaction tests for virulence markers, limited
      (focused) DNA sequencing, and tests for susceptibility to metronidazole and frequency of
      forward mutation. The study population will consist of residents of The Gambia, West Africa.
      Up to seventy five adults of both sexes and all ages, who are undergoing diagnostic endoscopy
      as part of their clinical management, and 20 malnourished children of both sexes and less
      than 2 years of age, who are undergoing diagnostic endoscopy as part of their clinical
      management, will be studied. All subjects will be studied at the Medical Research Council of
      Great Britain research laboratories and clinical facility in Fajara, The Gambia. The main
      outcome measure will be the degree of relatedness between bacterial isolates. This will be
      assessed by visual comparison between random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) results,
      by comparison of genotype for alleles of interest, and definitively by sequencing of
      housekeeping genes to construct phylogenetic trees of relatedness, using the STAR program (a
      computer program for putting DNA sequences together for analysis) and multiple locus sequence
      typing (MLST) database. There are no outcome measures for human subjects. All laboratory
      investigations will be conducted upon bacterial isolates.
    
  