
    
      -  background Immune activation plays an important role in atherogenesis. In HIV-1
           infection, the immune system is chronically hyperactivated. There also seems to be an
           increased incidence of cardiovascular disease in untreated HIV-1 infection. Mycophenol
           mofetil (MMF) will be used to treat this immune activation in untreated HIV-1 infected
           patients in the MAN2-study (see elsewhere in this ClinicalTrials.gov database).

        -  Hypothesis T-cell inhibition with MMF attenuates T-cell number, T-cell activation and
           T-cell - monocyte interaction, thereby minimizing the T-cell-driven inflammatory
           amplification loop.

      In addition, MMF reduces expression of adhesion molecules on endothelial cells and
      leucocytes, thereby attenuating recruitment of circulating leucocytes to the atherosclerotic
      plaque. Combining these effects MMF treatment will improve anti-atherogenic defence
      mechanisms, such as improvement of endothelial function and attenuation of the
      pro-inflammatory state.

      *design This will be a substudy of of the multi-center, double-blind, randomized, trial
      "Mycophenol mofetil in Antiretroviral Naïve patients 2 (MAN2 study)" (called the main study
      hereafter). The aim of the substudy is to evaluate the effects of mycophenolate mofetil on
      ´surrogate markers´ for atherosclerosis in a group of HIV-1 infected patients. All 90
      patients to be included in the main study will be asked to participate in this substudy. A
      separate informed consent is needed.

      Patients participating in this substudy will undergo study procedures for the substudy only
      on day 0 and week 48 of the main study (i.e. before the first dose of MMF and after 48 weeks
      of MMF treatment for the patients randomized to MMF treatment). Extra blood will be drawn to
      measure several biochemical markers associated with atherosclerosis and will be measured.
      Furthermore measurements of the condition of the blood vessels will be performed (using
      ultrasound, amongst others).
    
  