
    
      The study will be conducted according to the principles of the Helsinki Declaration (reviewed
      in 2013). Appropriate measures will be taken for the protection of patient data. The study
      was approved by Instituto Universitário Egas Moniz (IUEM) Scientific Council on 3 July 2019
      and the approval of the Ethics Committee of Egas Moniz was received on 24 July 2019.
      Authorization was also obtained by the Clinical Direction of Egas Moniz Dental Clinic to
      carry out research work at the Clinic of the University.

      The study will consist of two groups, the first consisting of patients with peri-implantitis
      (bleeding and / or suppuration on probing, probing depth (PD) equal or greater than 6mm and
      bone loss equal to or greater than 3mm) and the second group (control group) formed by
      patients with peri-implant health (peri implant mucosa without inflammatory signs and absence
      of peri-implant bone loss). The definition of peri-implantitis and peri-implant health will
      be in accordance with the new classification of periodontal and peri-implant diseases
      (American Academy of Periodontology (AAP) and European Federation of Periodontology (EFP)
      2017)

      A peri-implant probing examination (6 locations with a CP12 graduated periodontal probe) and
      evaluation of plaque accumulation and gingival indexes (4 locations) will be performed as
      usual at implant maintenance appointments. The presence of bleeding on probing or pus will
      also be evaluated. An implant control radiograph will be taken in cases where there is a
      probing depth more than 6mm. All clinical data will be collected by the same examiner. Prior
      to the study, a training and calibration exercise will be performed for PD measurements using
      patients not included in the study.

      The periodontal condition of the patients will be also evaluated. To consider periodontal
      health, patients should have the following clinical characteristics: up to 10% of locations
      with bleeding on probing, absence of erythema and edema, absence of patient symptoms, absence
      of clinical attachment loss and bone loss and PD < 3mm (AAP and EFP 2017). A patient is a
      periodontitis case if: interdental clinical attachment loss is detectable at least 2
      non-adjacent teeth, or buccal or oral clinical attachment loss >3mm with pocketing >3mm is
      detectable at least 2 teeth. The classification of periodontitis will be done on a
      multi-dimensional staging and grading system.

      In the case of a peri-implant health situation, plaque control measures will be taken, while
      in cases of peri-implantitis the patient will be referred for a specific treatment
      appointment. In situations of patients with more than one implant affected by
      peri-implantitis, the one with the greatest bone loss will be chosen for the study.

      The genetic analysis will be done at the IUEM Molecular Biology Laboratory with the DNA
      extraction technique followed by polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment
      length polymorphism.

      For the biochemical analysis the paper strips will be inserted into the peri-implant sulcus/
      pocket until resistance is felt, waiting 30 seconds before removal. Visually contaminated
      samples (blood) will be discarded. Subsequently paper strips will be placed on Periotron®
      8000 (Periotron Ide-interstate, NY, USA) for quantification of the collected peri-implant
      crevicular fluid volume. The strips of paper will then be placed in eppendorf tubes with
      filter and frozen at -80ºC until shipment to the Universidad Complutense de Madrid. At this
      university, the concentration of inflammatory mediators IL-1 beta and TNF alpha will be
      analyzed using multiplexed fluorescent sphere immunoassays using the Luminex® 100/200™ system
      and PGE2 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

      The prevalence of IL-1 gene group polymorphisms in patients with peri-implantitis and healthy
      ones will be compared by using appropriate inferential statistics methodologies (bivariate
      analysis/association tests), taking into account several sociodemographic and clinical
      variables: smoking status, gender, age and history of periodontitis. Based on a medium effect
      size (w=0.3), with 80% power and a 5% alpha level, the sample size for this study was
      calculated as n=88, thus, n= 44 for each group (periimplantitis and peri-implant health).
      Further, a multivariable regression logistic model will be constructed in order to evaluate
      the effect of those covariables and quantify the risk, through determination of the
      correspondent adjusted Odds Ratio (OR), towards the presence of peri-implantitis.
      Additionally, the levels of the inflammatory response markers IL-1 beta, PGE2 and TNF-alpha,
      present in the peri-implant crevicular fluid, will be compared between the group of patients
      with peri-implantitis and the patients with healthy oral implants, taking into account the
      above mentioned variables, by using appropriate inferential statistics methodologies
      (parametric/non parametric tests). All inferential analysis will be performed at a 5%
      significance level.
    
  