
    
      STUDY PROCEDURE

      U.S. patients prescribed a commercially available WCD (ZOLL LifeVest) will be approached by a
      letter from the sponsor which summarized the study purpose and procedure. Once a patient
      signs a consent form to participate the study, he or she will receive three questionnaire
      from University of Rochester, the coordination and data center for the WEARIT registry, at
      the time enrollment, at 3 month and 12 month follow-up, respectively. At 3 and 12-month
      follow-up, the physician of the patient will be contacted to provide information on
      arrhythmias, and interim events (ICD, CRT or LVAD implantation, heart failure episode,
      death), and to send us related hospital reports and echocardiogram reports to assess the
      improvement in left ventricular function.

      STUDY DESIGN

      WEARIT-III is a prospective observational patient registry. Optimal pharmacologic and/or
      implanted device therapy is anticipated, and the Registry physicians will not be involved in
      any medical care of the subjects, only collecting information on the standard care of these
      patients. In WEARIT-III we will also retrieve hospital records/echocardiogram reports of the
      subjects during follow-up using an authorization form signed by the study subjects and
      contact their physician to collect information on improvement of the left ventricular
      function whenever it is available.

      DATA MANAGEMENT, DATA STORAGE

      Once consented, device recordings and prescribing information will be obtained from the
      device provider. Data from the subject-completed questionnaire will also be obtained. Data
      will be entered into our web-based, password-protected clinical data-management system. That
      data will then be doubled-checked for accuracy by personnel working on the Registry. All
      study documents will be kept in a locked file room. All computers are password-protected and
      kept in a locked area.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Routine patient clinical data as well as WCD data and clinical outcome during 1 year of
      follow-up will be recorded on all study patients and entered into a study-specific data-
      management system using our existing data management systems in the Heart Research Follow-up
      Program.

      All analyses will be performed based on the primary and secondary objectives. Patient's
      clinical characteristics will be recorded and presented by descriptive statistics. Change in
      the clinical course will be recorded by descriptive statistics and compared to pre- WCD and
      post-WCD. Time-to-event analysis will be performed to assess the time until medication
      optimization. Clinical event will be presented as person-time rate and will be compared to
      previous WCD studies. Adverse events will be evaluated by raw counts and percentages.
      Compliance will be analyzed by mean and median of length of use and daily wear time.
    
  