
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response rate to the combination of cixutumumab and
      temsirolimus in patients with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma,
      rhabdomyosarcoma, or non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma.

      II. To further describe the toxicities (including dose-limiting toxicities) of cixutumumab
      and temsirolimus administered on this schedule.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression-free survival for patients treated in each disease stratum with
      this drug combination.

      II. To assess the incidence of insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R), insulin
      receptor, ERK, RON, and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway activation in archival
      tumor material, and correlate with response.

      III. To evaluate minimal residual disease and IGF-1R tumor cell expression in the blood and
      bone marrow of Ewing sarcoma patients using flow cytometry.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to diagnosis
      (osteosarcoma vs Ewing sarcoma/PNET vs rhabdomyosarcoma vs non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue
      sarcoma).

      Patients receive cixutumumab IV over 1 hour and temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8,
      15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 25 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Archived tumor tissue samples from most recent biopsy are collected and analyzed for IGF-1R,
      insulin receptor, AKT, ERK, mTOR, and S6 kinase pathway activation by immunohistochemistry
      (IHC) and banked for future correlative studies. Blood and bone marrow samples, from patients
      with Ewing sarcoma, may be collected at baseline and periodically during treatment for
      minimal residual disease analysis by flow cytometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    
  