
    
      Both PIs and oral contraceptives are metabolized by the same pathway, which significantly
      decreases the effectiveness of oral contraceptives and limits the contraceptive choices
      available to HIV infected women. More effective hormonal contraceptive methods are necessary
      for preventing unintended pregnancy in women taking highly active antiretroviral therapy
      (HAART). Ortho Evra is a contraceptive patch that was approved by the FDA in 2001; it uses a
      transdermal contraceptive system, and higher rates of compliance have been associated with
      its use, compared to oral contraceptives. Because Ortho Evra is administered as a
      contraceptive patch worn on the skin, it may bypass the metabolic pathway common to both PIs
      and oral contraceptives, making it a viable contraceptive option for HIV infected women on
      PI-based regimens. The purpose of the study is to examine the interaction between a PI-based
      regimen containing LPV/r and two forms of contraceptive medications, Ortho Evra and an oral
      contraceptive, Ortho Novum (ON 1/35), in HIV infected women.

      Participants will be enrolled in this study for 6 weeks and will be assigned to one of two
      study arms, depending on their HAART regimen at study entry. Participants in both arms will
      also be stratified by age. Arm A participants will receive 400 mg/100 mg LPV/r twice daily
      along with two or more nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). Arm B
      participants will receive a regimen containing only NRTIs or no HAART. HAART will not be
      provided by this study. All patients will receive a single dose of ON 1/35 on Day 1 and will
      start the Ortho Evra contraceptive patch on Day 3. A physical exam, pap smear, pregnancy
      test, viral load test, CD4 and CD8 counts, and blood collection will occur at or before study
      entry and on Day 24. Pharmacokinetic analyses will occur on Days 1 through 3, 17 through 19,
      and 24.
    
  