
    
      1. Methodological design

           Type: Experimental, randomized clinical trial (RCT).

           1.1 Study population. Students of Science Rehabilitation Faculty (SRF) of Andrés Bello
           University constituted by the careers of Kinesiology, Occupational Therapy and Speech
           Therapy.

           1.2 Ethical aspects of research. Study was approved by ethics committee of Metropolitan
           East Health Service (SSMO),Santiago de Chile, to ensure compliance with bioethical
           regulations. Study was approved by Bioethics Committee on June 26, 2018. An informed
           consent will be applied to participants in which the study and intervention procedures
           will be explained.

        2. Variables. 2.1 Conceptual definition of the variables • Pain pressure threshold (PPT):
           magnitude of pain in Kg/cm2 reported by participants when performing algometry test in
           upper trapezius muscle.

             -  Pain Intensity (PI): magnitude of pain in millimeters (mm) referred by participants
                when performing the pressure algometry test in MTrP of upper trapezius muscle.

             -  Percutaneous Microelectrolysis (MEP): application of direct current through an
                acupuncture needle with intensities in microamps (μA) in the MTrP of upper
                trapezius muscle. Acupuncture needle will correspond to negative electrode or
                cathode. Intensity will be 610μA at MTrP.

             -  Therapeutic ultrasound: conventional ultrasound application (US) on MTrP with a
                1MHz treatment frequency, 1.5W/cm2, 5cm2 ERA, 100% duty cycle, 15 minutes treatment
                time. US therapy was applied to both groups equally as baseline traetment.

           2.2 Operational definition of the variables

           • Pain pressure threshold (PPT): pressure trough algometry in MTrPs of upper trapezius
           muscle. UPD values will be recorded in Kg/cm2. PPT will be evaluated through the
           BASELINE® pressure algometer.

           • Pain Intensity: Evaluated through Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) at moment of performing
           pressure algometry in MTrPs of upper trapezius muscle.

           2.3 Type of variable definition

           • Pain pressure threshold (PPT): Dependent, quantitative, reason variable.

           • Pain intensity (ID): Dependent, quantitative, interval variable.

           • Percutaneous Microelectrolysis (MEP): independent, quantitative, interval variable.

           • Therapeutic ultrasound: independent variable, quantitative, reason.

           3.1 Investigation place Study will be conducted at the physioterapy laboratory of SRF,
           building C5 room 401 of Andrés Bello University, Avenue Fernández Concha 700, Las
           Condes.

           3.2 Inclusion criteria

           - Participants over 18 years old.

           - Students of SRF.

           - Positive hypersensitive MTrPs. A PPT less than 3Kg/cm2 was considered as positive
           MTrP.

           3.3 Exclusion criteria

             -  Neck or shoulders pathologies in the last 6 months (as fractures, sprains,
                tendinopathies, dislocations or muscle tears).

             -  Cervical pain, sensitivity alterations such as hyposthesia, anesthesia or
                hyperesthesia in neck, shoulders and/or arms.

             -  Wounds or skin alterations in shoulder as psoriasis, scars or keloids.

             -  Fear to electrotherapy application.

             -  Analgesic pharmacological treatment at recruitment time (non-steroidal
                anti-inflammatory or steroidal drugs).

           3.4 Elimination Criteria

             -  Non-tolerance electrotherapy intervention

             -  Non-completion of evaluation protocol

      4. Material and Methods Present design represents a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
      Study was approved on June 18, 2019 by Eastern Metropolitan Health Service of Santiago (SSMO)
      ethics committee. Study was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Participants were divided
      in two groups assessed in both presences of MTrPS in shorter upper trapezius muscle. It was
      recording the PPT and PI before and after intervention. Both groups received therapeutic
      ultrasound as baseline treatment. Experimental group received microelectrolysis additionally.
      A reassessment of PPT and PI was done on day one, three and seven post intervention.

      Subjects. forty-eight healthy volunteers were recruited (23 men, 25 women, average age 22
      years). Participants were students of Science Rehabilitation Faculty (SRF) of Andrés Bello
      University, Santiago de Chile. Number of participants was selected by convenience. An
      invitation was extended to students through formal communication channels (mailing), student
      representatives and social networks, summoning two hundred and seven potential participants.
      Selection was based on a survey whose first part was structured in relation to general
      demographic participant's data, including name, age, sex, body mass index (BMI), career year,
      and personal information contact (e-mail and cell phone number). Second part of survey
      consisted of closed questions constructed by eligibility criteria. Secondary variables as
      short upper trapezius muscle laterality (SUTL) and sex were represented as frequencies, while
      MTrP location distance (MLD) and age was represented as median and BMI in averages. Primary
      variables included PPT and PI pre-intervention (PPTpre and PIpre) were expressed as averages
      with their corresponding standard deviation (x, SD). Data were analyzed to compare
      homogeneity of groups with STATAv.13 program.

      Equipment. GYMNA´s COMBI 500 electric stimulator was used for ultrasound application at 1MHz,
      1.5Watts/cm2, 100% duty cycle, 5cm2 ERA and 15 minutes.24 SVELTIA´s DC equipment was used for
      MEP application. It was used a dispersing electrode (area 28.26cm2) and an acupuncture needle
      (0.3x25millimeters). Circuit was closed by placing dispersing electrode in contralateral arm
      to trapezius muscle to be treated. Current intensity was 600µA at the needle (current density
      of 1.71mA/cm2).

      Measurement tools. BASELINE® pressure algometer was used to measure PPT (1cm2 surface
      area).25 Algometry was applied after shortness upper trapezius assessment by placing
      algometer at the MTrP exerting a perpendicular pressure until user reported pain. Kilograms
      of pressure per square centimeter (Kg/cm2) was registered. PI was evaluated with VAS. VAS was
      applied after algometry recording pain perceived with algometry test.

      Procedure.

        1. Participants 207 surveys were analyzed obtaining 59 potential participants, dropping out
           five. 54 participants agreed to participate and gave their written consent. Six
           participants were excluded due absence of MTrPS, obtaining 48 participants (23 men, 25
           women). Principal investigator assigned a number to each participant to perform
           randomization. Conformation of groups was carried out by simple randomization by dark
           envelopes. Participants didn´t know assigned group and were individually cited in
           following two weeks to physiotherapy laboratory of SRF to be evaluated.

        2. Groups. Sample was divided by a simple randomization process performed with a random
           number table, assigned participants to one of two study groups. Sequence of
           randomization and participants of each group was only known by principal investigator.
           Working groups were designated as experimental (MEP group, n = 24) and control group (n
           = 24). None subjects knew the treatment that would be applied. Each participant was
           evaluated registering their age, BMI and SUTL. Location of MTrP was determined at
           shortness trapezius muscle, taking as reference a line between superior acromion´s
           midpoint surface and C7 spinous process (PE-AC distance). Algometry and VAS was
           subsequently applied obtaining the PPT and PI pre intervention (PPTpre y PIpre).
           Variables described were compared between groups to assess the homogeneity of them. Data
           obtained reflect the homogeneity of groups at the beginning of the study.

        3. Pain pressure threshold (PPTpre) and pain intensity (PIpre) preintervention evaluation.

           A blinded physiotherapist registered PPT and PI before and after participant's
           intervention. Evaluation station consisted of a chair and a table with the algometer and
           VAS. The subjects sat with their backs supported with both feet on the floor. Evaluator
           proceeded to measure both upper trapezius muscles length manually, choosing the
           shortest. Subsequently a line was drawn between C7 spinous process and upper acromion
           midpoint face of ipsilateral shoulder. Most sensitive palpation´s point was searched on
           the line and then marked with a cross measuring distance from C7 to this point.
           Algometry was applied at selected point exerting a perpendicular pressure until the user
           referred pain. Participants were instructed to raise slightly contralateral hand when
           feeling pain in algometry test. A PPT less than 3Kg/cm2 was recorded as a positive MTrP.
           This was same protocol used for participants pre-selection where 6 of 54 were excluded.
           Next pain intensity was assessed with VAS, recording pain magnitude in millimeters
           produced by algometry. PPTpre and PIpre data were tabulated in Microsoft excel® program
           sheet.

        4. Therapeutic ultrasound application. Participants of both groups received a therapeutic
           ultrasound treatment. Experimental group received first ultrasound and subsequently MEP,
           while control group was treated only with ultrasound. Ultrasound intervention protocol
           was performed in the same way for both groups. Application was performed in an adjoining
           room by another physiotherapist who didn´t know groups. Treatment was carried out with
           participant in sitting position applying ultrasound at sensitive point marked by
           examiner of evaluation station. Ultrasound therapy was delivery at 1MHz, 1.5 Watts/cm2,
           100% duty cycle (SATP: 1.5Watts/cm2 and SATA:1.5W/cm2), ERA 5cm2 and 15 minutes.24 Once
           ultrasound intervention was finished, participants of MEP group were taken to
           microelectrolysis box, while participants of control group returned to evaluation
           station.

        5. Microelectrolysis application. Microelectrolysis was performed by another
           physiotherapist. Before intervention, puncture area was cleaned with alcohol. Procedure
           was performed with latex gloves. Acupuncture needle was introduced perpendicular to
           demarcated point of trapezius with 0.14mA intensity. Dispersing electrode was placed in
           external surface of contralateral arm once chosen trapezius muscle. Inside tissue
           intensity was raised to 0.6mA. Each participant was instructed to indicate to
           physiotherapist appearance of burning, pain or great local pressure in order to pause
           emission. Emission time was recorded until symptoms appeared, indicating T1 time,
           pausing emission for 30 seconds. Then a second emission was made until participant
           referred again discomfort symptoms. Second emission time was recorded as T2, pausing
           application again for 30 seconds. Third and last emission was delivered for same time
           obtained for T2 or if discomfort appeared before completing that time.

        6. Pain pressure threshold (PPTpre) and pain intensity (PIpre) postintervention evaluation.

      Completing intervention, participants returned to evaluation station. Evaluator repeated the
      same assessment protocol made before ultrasound and MEP application, recording PPT and PI
      postintervention. Variables PPTdiff1-1 and PIdiff1-1 were created based on differences
      between algometry and pain intensity measurements before and after intervention. Participants
      were cited for a reevaluation on day three and seven obtained variables PPT2, PI2, PPT3 and
      PI3. This allowed to create PPTdiff2-1, PPT3-1, PIdiff2-1 and PIdiff3-1 variables, that
      represented differences obtained between the measurements of days three and seven with those
      obtained on day one before intervention.
    
  