
    
      Background:

        -  Rare tumors constitute a heterogeneous group of cancers associated with limited
           treatment options and poor outcomes. Due to their rarity, there are few good models for
           these diseases to support preclinical evaluation of new anticancer agents. To address
           these challenges, DCTD s Patient-Derived Models Repository (PDMR) is generating
           patient-derived xenograft models of adult and pediatric rare cancers and has screened
           combinations of approved and investigational anticancer agents in these models.

        -  Based on preclinical activity, drug combinations are being tested in patients with rare
           cancers in a series of connected Phase 2 clinical trials (Rapid Analysis and Response
           Evaluation of Combination Anti-Neoplastic Agents in Rare Tumors [RARE CANCER]);
           responses may trigger further evaluation of a treatment in that rare cancer type to
           further evaluate response rate and mechanism-of-action. Patients who progress will be
           offered another RARE CANCER trial.

        -  The agents used in this trial are the BCR-Abl kinase inhibitor nilotinib and the
           anti-tubulin agent paclitaxel, which showed greater than additive activity in
           combination in preclinical xenograft models and subsequently demonstrated clinical
           efficacy (including partial responses) in patients with solid tumors on the Phase 1
           trial 15-C-0086 (NCT02379416).

      Primary Objectives:

      - To evaluate the proportion of patients with advanced rare cancers who have objective
      responses (OR) to treatment with nilotinib and paclitaxel

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months on study
           agents

        -  To identify genomic and transcriptomic determinants of response and resistance in tumor
           biopsy specimens

        -  To examine genomic alterations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and circulating tumor
           cells (CTCs) that may be associated with response or resistance

        -  To evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of the combination on biomarkers of cell death
           and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in tumor tissue and CTCs

      Eligibility:

        -  Study participants must have a histologically confirmed solid tumor meeting the RARECARE
           definition of rare tumor that has progressed on standard therapy known to prolong
           survival or for which no standard treatment options exist

        -  Age >= 18

        -  No major surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy within 3 weeks prior to entering the study
           (6 weeks for nitrosoureas and mitomycin C) or 5 half-lives of the agent, whichever is
           shorter; toxicity from prior treatment must have recovered to eligibility levels.

        -  Adequate organ function; performance status ECOG 0-2

      Study Design:

        -  Nilotinib will be administered at 300 mg orally BID and paclitaxel will be administered
           IV at 80 mg/m2 on Days 1, 8, and 15 in 28-day cycles.

        -  A single-stage design will be used with a target accrual of 30 eligible patients. If at
           least 4/30 patients experience an objective response (PR or CR by RECIST 1.1), the
           combination of nilotinib and paclitaxel will be considered promising. The accrual
           ceiling is 34 patients.
    
  