
    
      Primary Objective:

      To assess the Quality of Life impact of treatments' side effects (radical prostatectomy,
      external beam radiotherapy and prostate brachytherapy) on patients with localized prostate
      cancer at short, mid and long-term follow-up.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess biochemical disease-free survival by treatment and risk group, at mid and
           long-term follow-up.

        -  To assess overall survival by treatment and risk group, at mid and long-term follow-up.

        -  To assess prostate cancer-specific survival by treatment and risk group, at long-term
           follow-up.

        -  To assess disease-free survival by treatment and risk group, at long-term follow-up.

        -  To assess perceived general health and cancer-specific quality of life by treatment and
           risk group, at short, mid and long-term follow-up.

        -  To calculate the resource use and cost of the three primary treatments.

        -  To assess preferences with direct and indirect methods.

      Outline:

      This is a prospective observational study of a cohort with clinically localized prostate
      cancer treated with either radical retropubic prostatectomy, three-dimensional external-beam
      radiotherapy, or interstitial brachytherapy.

      Participants are consecutively recruited in 10 Spanish hospital departments (located in five
      autonomous communities). Patients eligible for inclusion were those in stage T1 or T2,
      treated in one of the participating centers and without previous prostate transurethral
      resection. Patients are staged according to the 1992 American Joint Committee on Cancer
      clinical staging guidelines using a directed history and physical examination. The decision
      regarding treatment is made jointly by patients and health professionals.

      Demographic and clinical characteristics at baseline are recorded at clinical sites and
      include age, Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), Gleason grading, prostate volume, risk group
      and use of neoadjuvant hormonal treatment. According tho the national health guidelines
      participants are visited every 6-12 months after treatment.

      Quality of Life questionnaires are administered centrally by telephone interview before
      treatment and during follow-up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment the first year, then
      annually until 10 years, and every 5 years thereafter. Quality of Life evaluations are
      gathered using computer-assisted telephone administration and include: (1) the Expanded
      Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), specifically designed to measure the impact of the
      different treatments; (2) SF-36 Health Survey Questionnaire; (3) Functional Assessment of
      cancer Therapy, General and Prostate specific (FACT-G and FACT-P, respectively); (4)
      International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS); and (5) International Index of Erectile Function
      (IIES).

      A total of 120 patients was calculated to be required in each treatment group to detect
      between-treatment group differences of 5-points on the urinary irritative-obstructive score
      of the EPIC questionnaire given a standard deviation of 18.99 and a statistical power of at
      least 80% at a significance level of 5%, with an expected loss to follow-up of 10%. The
      analyst is blinded to treatment assignation.
    
  