
    
      Treatment of children with short stature with recombinant human growth hormone is widespread
      practice. However, the growth response to growth hormone treatment is highly variable,
      particularly for those children who do not have classic growth hormone deficiency. The
      availability of a biomarker of efficacy that can be measured early in treatment would be
      beneficial.

      C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) plays a critical role in linear growth. CNP is produced in
      the growth plate and signals through a paracrine mechanism. Its bioinactive amino-terminal
      propeptide (NTproCNP) is easily measurable in plasma and levels reflect rate of CNP
      biosynthesis. Previous studies in lambs and children have shown that the plasma concentration
      of NTproCNP correlates with linear growth velocity and the investigators have also shown that
      levels are increased during growth hormone therapy. The investigators have proposed that
      NTproCNP is a biomarker for linear growth and consider it the first "growth plate function
      test." Such a growth biomarker is likely to reflect efficacy of growth hormone therapy soon
      after starting growth hormone, possibly as soon as a few days. Before the clinical utility of
      this can be determined, the investigators need to ascertain the pharmacodynamics of CNP and
      NTproCNP in response to growth hormone.

      The goal of this study is to describe the pharmacodynamics of the CNP response to the
      initiation of growth hormone in two sets of children with short stature, those with growth
      hormone deficiency and those in whom normal growth hormone secretion (idiopathic short
      stature) and to compare these data to the pharmacodynamics of other peptides previously
      identified as potential biomarkers. The investigators hypothesize that plasma NTproCNP levels
      will increase within four days of starting growth hormone therapy and that the response in
      children with growth hormone deficiency will be more prompt and greater than those with
      idiopathic short stature. The investigators second hypothesis is that the increase in
      NTproCNP in response to growth hormone will correlate with the increase in growth velocity
      after six and twelve months of treatment.

      The study is a prospective observational study of children with growth hormone deficiency
      (n=10) and with idiopathic short stature (n=10) being started on rhGH therapy. The study
      consists of frequent monitoring of analyte levels over one year of treatment.

      This is a two site study, Nemours Children's Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida and Children's
      Hospital Los Angeles.
    
  