
    
      Background

      Globally, 300,000 women and 5 million children die each year in relation to childbirth. Most
      would have survived had they been given proper care.

      Multiple clinical guidelines have been developed to improve maternity care in low-resource
      settings. However, they are often incompatible with the contextual realities. Maternity units
      in low-resource settings often deal with limited capacity, high turnover of staff and an
      unworkable ratio of labouring women per birth attendant. This often makes it impossible to
      adhere to international clinical guidelines and calls for research on effective development,
      implementation and upscaling of achievable clinical guidelines for such settings.

      The PartoMa project's focus on generating evidence-based and respectful childbirth care is a
      key priority to reach the Sustainable Development Goals - particularly on birth-related
      survival and gender equality, but also in regards to societal development and poverty
      reduction. Also, the PartoMa project might serve as an example of context-tailored
      development and implementation of guidelines for other areas of health care.

      The PartoMa Dar es Salaam intervention study will be carried out in the five highest volume
      maternity units in the fast growing urban center of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania: Amana Hospital,
      Temeke Hospital, Mwanyamala Hospital, Sinza Health Centre, and Mbagala R. Health Centre. A
      total of 50,000 births occur in these five facilities each year, providing a typical example
      of overburdened urban maternity units in low-income countries. In these contexts, quality of
      care is negatively impacted by lack of staff, persistent increases in births due to
      urbanization, and increased demand for facility birth. These facilities primarily serve women
      of lower socioeconomic background. Each birth attendant typically takes care of at least 3-6
      labouring women simultaneously.

      Study objectives

      To analyze barriers, facilitators, effects and costs of implementing context-modified
      clinical guidelines and low-dose, high-frequency training to improve the quality of care and
      survival during birth in five urban, low-resource and high-volume maternity units in
      Tanzania.

      The specific objectives include:

      I. To carry out a mixed-methods intrapartum care assessment in five maternity units, focusing
      on the present and past structures within which care is given, processes of care provision
      and birth outcomes.

      II. To explore and develop necessary context-modifications for the PartoMa intervention of
      clinical guidelines and training to reflect birth attendants and labouring women's needs and
      circumstances in the five maternity units, and to assess whether and how the resources and
      experiences that hospital stakeholders bring to the process are informing and steering the
      process.

      III. To assess the impact of the context-modified PartoMa intervention on perceptions,
      knowledge and skills among birth attendants, quality of care and birth outcomes in the five
      maternity units, and its cost-effectiveness as well as opportunities and barriers in the
      process.

      IV. To develop a toolkit for co-creating and implementing clinical guidelines and associated
      training that may be of relevance within and beyond maternal health.

      Methodology

      We will assess the structure within which care is provided, processes of care delivery and
      birth outcome indicators will be analysed. Structural indicators will be assessed through
      structured questionnaires for birth attendants and a checklist for each facility. To assess
      the process of intrapartum clinical decision making, a case-control study will be conducted
      of intrahospital stillbirths (positive foetal heart rate on admission) and neonatal deaths,
      weighing at least 1000g, compared to randomly selected women with healthy perinatal outcomes
      (Apgar score 7-10). Furthermore, to assess quality of routine clinical data collection and
      use, the translations from clinical assessments to case file recordings (including partograph
      use) and from case files to hospital registers will be analysed, by direct, structured
      observations and reviews of case files and registers. Finally, a broader assessment of
      outcomes and modes of birth will be conducted for all births during six months.

      Co-creation process

      The PartoMa intervention from Zanzibar, including guidelines and training, will be modified
      in accordance with birth attendants' and pregnant women's needs and circumstances in the Dar
      es Salaam context. Based on the results of the situational analysis, a first draft of the
      modified intervention will be developed by the research team and shared with co-creators,
      including skilled birth attendants, hospital management and women who have given birth at the
      facilities. Through focus group discussions, co-creators will share their perspectives, which
      will inform further modifications of the guidelines and training content, and possibly
      changes to the training implementation strategy.

      The first implementation month in the first maternity unit to receive the intervention will
      function as pilot testing and might lead to further modifications.

      Intervention implementation and evaluation

      The overall implementation design will be a pragmatic stepped wedge cluster-randomized trial
      where each of the five maternity units represents a cluster receiving the intervention at the
      cluster-level. In a random order, the maternity units will receive the intervention with
      three-month intervals. Informed by the logical pathway, the evaluation levels follow the
      Kirkpatrick model, including birth attendants' perceptions and reactions, their changes in
      learning and clinical care practices, and resulting changes in birth outcomes. The cost of
      co-creation and implementation will be collected alongside the entire study to analyze the
      incremental cost-effectiveness.

      Quantitative evaluation

      During the training seminars, participants' perceptions, return rate and learning over time
      will be assessed by providing all attendants with a unique research number. As no per diems
      or allowances are paid and the seminars happen outside working hours, attendance will be
      considered an indicator of interest and motivation to learn about the intervention. At each
      quarterly seminar that health providers choose to attend, they will be asked to fill in a
      Likert-scale questionnaire-based evaluation on their experiences of the intervention and a
      questionnaire-based knowledge and partograph skills test (before and after the seminar).

      The primary and secondary birth outcome variables will be prospectively measured from
      baseline and until 12 months after the last facility receives the intervention, including
      stillbirths weighing at least 1000g with positive foetal heart rate on admission, Apgar score
      1-6, and mode of birth. The outcome data will be gathered daily from hospital registers and
      medical records, and cross-checked with the facilities' routinely kept birth registers. Women
      referred to other facilities during labour will be followed up.

      During baseline and the 5th and 10th implementation months, the structure for care delivery,
      usage of the PartoMa guidelines and elements of (dis)respectful care will be assessed by
      structured observations. To assess potential changes in quality of intrapartum care,
      criterion-based audits of case files will be conducted at each facility during baseline and
      the 9th-12th implementation months, among a randomly-selected subgroup of labouring women,
      and among births by emergency caesarean section and vacuum extraction. Case files will be
      identified and included during the continual daily collection of birth outcome data. Results
      of the situational analysis will inform final sample size calculations.

      Qualitative evaluation

      Relevant pathways and contextual factors contributing to the potential measurable changes in
      care and outcomes related to the PartoMa intervention will be unpacked. As in the situational
      analysis, this investigation will initially be limited to two of the facilities, but may
      broaden if emerging findings suggest relevance of studying other of the facilities (e.g.
      major differences in intervention use). This component will engage birth attendants and
      hospital leadership using different qualitative methods, a qualitative researcher will
      facilitate a series of task-based investigations: i. examine barriers and facilitators in the
      implementation of the intervention through individual interviews; ii. elicit 'stories of
      change' through photography and diary keeping; and iii. unpack collective experiences and
      perspectives on the strengths and limitations of the PartoMa guidelines and associated
      activities through focus group discussions.

      Economic evaluation

      A pragmatic cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted from a health care and societal
      perspective, considering incremental costs and effects related to the intervention. Cost data
      will be collected for both the intervention co-creation and the implementation. Cost will
      relate to transport, time, commodities for trainings as well as running and capital costs for
      training facilities. Data will be collected by participant questionnaires and original
      receipts for direct and indirect costs as well as daily reports on activities of
      facilitators, trainers and experts throughout co-creation and implementation. Fixed hourly
      rates based on national salary scales will be used to calculate the costs per hour. Costs
      will be adjusted by fixed-time exchange rates and purchasing power parity. Effects will be
      measured in natural units related to maternal complications, intrahospital stillbirths, Apgar
      score below 7 and non-medically indicated caesarean sections. A discount rate of 3% will be
      applied to both costs and effect. Changes in birth outcomes (stillbirths and low Apgar score)
      will be transformed to Disability-Adjusted Life Years' (DALY's) of a birth cohort by using
      latest Burden of Disease disability weights and construction of a Markov model to estimate
      DALYs lost or averted in a lifetime perspective. Finally, the incremental cost-effectiveness
      ratio (ICER) will be calculated and related to alternative strategies for improving care
      during birth in a low-resource context, including the frequently used World Health
      Organization threshold of three times national Gross Domestic Product per DALY to estimate
      cost-effectiveness. Sub-group analysis will be conducted for mode of birth (vaginal,
      caesarian section, instrumental delivery). Base case of costs and effect will be explored in
      univariate sensitivity analysis. Non-parametric bootstrap method will be used to estimate the
      sampling distribution of the ICER and subsequently compute the cost-effectiveness
      acceptability curve across a range of cost-effectiveness thresholds.
    
  