
    
      Background

        -  In vivo experiments have documented the ability of anti-vascular endothelial growth
           factor (VEGF) antibodies like bevacizumab to inhibit tumor growth in various preclinical
           tumor models, including gliomas.

        -  Given the pronounced neovasculature associated with over-expression of VEGF in malignant
           gliomas, and abundant published data demonstrating the dependence of glioma growth on
           the maintenance and proliferation of this neovasculature, bevacizumab represents a
           potentially promising new therapeutic approach to these otherwise refractory tumors.

      Objective

        -  To establish data regarding the anti-tumor activity of bevacizumab in patients with
           recurrent high-grade gliomas as determined by progression-free-survival.

        -  To obtain information regarding the safety of bevacizumab administered to patients with
           recurrent high-grade gliomas.

      Eligibility

        -  Adult patients with histologically proven intracranial malignant glioma

        -  Patients must have evidence for tumor progression by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
           scan

        -  Patients must have progressed after radiation therapy and must have an interval of
           greater than or equal to 4 weeks from the completion of radiation therapy to study entry

      Design

        -  Patients will be treated with bevacizumab by intravenous injection at a dose of 10mg/kg
           every two weeks on a 4-week cycle.

        -  Prior to the first dose of bevacizumab and at the completion of the first 4-weeks of
           treatment, patients will undergo a fludeoxyglucose 18F -positron emission tomography
           (FDG-PET) scan (in cycle one only and then as needed) and a MRI perfusion scan.

        -  Peripheral blood circulating endothelial progenitor cells will be collected at the time
           of each MRI-perfusion scan. Additionally, patients will undergo a MRI perfusion scan
           within 48-96 hours of their first dose of bevacizumab (in cycle one only).

        -  For patients who are clinically/neurologically stable and with stable or responding
           radiographic disease at the end of each treatment cycle, treatment will continue with
           bevacizumab every 2 weeks, repeating MRI-perfusion scans at the conclusion (e.g. prior
           to another administration of bevacizumab) of each 4 week cycle.

      A total of 88 patients will be enrolled on this study.
    
  