
    
      The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th ed. (DSM-5) describes delirium
      as a "disturbance in attention (i.e., reduced ability to direct, focus, sustain, and shift
      attention) and awareness (reduced orientation to the environment)". In addition, a
      "disturbance in cognition (e.g., memory deficit, disorientation, language, visuospatial
      ability, or perception)" occurs. The deficits cannot be explained by other neurocognitive
      disorders.

      Delirium develops within hours to a few days and can fluctuate in severity during the day.
      Acute delirium lasts a few hours or days, whereas persistent delirium lasts for weeks or
      months. In a hospital setting, delirium hardly ever lasts longer than a week but some
      symptoms can persist for months after the patient was discharged.

      According to the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health
      Problems, 10th rev. (ICD-10), delirium is a pathologic brain disorder, which consists of a
      disturbance in consciousness, attention, perception, memory, psychomotor functions, emotional
      stability, and circadian rhythm. The severity can range from mild to very severe POD occurs
      in connection with a surgical procedure within the first four days after an intervention.
      10-70% of all surgical patients above the age of 65 years are affected.

      Delirium is not only a burden to the patient and their family by increasing functional and
      cognitive damages, and increasing mortality, it has a high impact on the economy, as well. A
      patient with delirium has a longer length of hospital stay, more complications, and often
      requires long-term care after being discharged from the hospital. All these aspects show the
      need for prevention of delirium.

      There are various preoperative risk factors that influence the development of POD. Advanced
      age, preexisting cognitive impairment, depression and other psychopathologic symptoms, intake
      of psychotropic substances, sensory impairment like decrease in visual or auditory
      perception, impairment in daily life activities, dehydration, malnutrition, metabolic
      dysfunctions, urinary catheters, severe diseases and different comorbidities such as chronic
      cardiac insufficiency, atrial fibrillation, or previous history of stroke or infections favor
      the development of delirium.

      The incidence of POD after major noncardiac surgery and the burden to patients and healthcare
      systems in general is high.

      This research project is an observational cohort study by retrospective chart review of
      patients that underwent major noncardiac surgery at University Hospital Basel, Switzerland,
      in the years 2011-2015. The PODMAS study aims to identify risk factors for POD in a general
      surgical population.
    
  