
    
      Background information Immune check point inhibitors (ICPI) have revolutionized the treatment
      of a growing number of cancer forms resulting in a rapidly increasing number of patients
      treated with these drugs within the very recent years. The aim is to allow and boost an
      immune response towards the neoantigens of neoplastic cells, but the blockage of inhibitory
      signals might also interfere with normal barriers against the development of autoimmunity or
      autoimmune-like reactions and thus lead to a number of immune-related adverse events (IrAEs).
      Gastrointestinal inflammation - typically colitis - is the most common IrAE among ICPI
      treated patients. Vedolizumab, a integrin antibody, has been shown to be highly effective in
      treating ICPI induced colitis with remission rates of 85%. Vedolizumab has a better safety
      profile than anti-tumor necrosis factor antibodies, including infliximab, with lower risk of
      infections and tumor development in inflammatory bowel disease patients. Moreover,
      vedolizumab does not seem to inhibit tumor specific T cell responses in vitro, suggesting
      that this treatment is also beneficial with regards to tumor response.

      The hypothesis

      Vedolizumab induction and maintenance treatment of patients with ICPI related intestinal
      symptoms and evidence of colitis:

        1. Is effective in inducing remission of the colitis

        2. Reduces the risk of progression from grade 2 to grade 3 or 4 colitis

        3. Reduces the need of systemic corticosteroid

        4. Is not associated with increased risk of tumor progression or other serious adverse
           events including serious infections

        5. Allows reintroduction/continuation of ICPI treatment.

      Further it is hypothesized that ICPI induced colitis can be diagnosed and monitored by
      intestinal bowel ultrasound and treatment response is associated with multi-omics changes in
      intestinal tissue, tumor tissue, feces, blood, and urine, e.g. peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMCs) RNAseq profiles, profiles of single cell RNAseq from isolated immune cells from
      standard pinch biopsies from the inflamed colon and composition of the microbiota. Lastly, it
      is hypothesized, that anti-tumor T-cell function is affected in vivo by the medication used
      to treat ICPI induced colitis, and that this can be assessed by changes in single cell RNAseq
      profiles of tumor resident T-cells (isolated from tumor biopsies).
    
  