
    
      Diabetes and depression are chronic diseases that affect the quality of life of people and
      they increase disability and reduced life expectancy. The World Health Organization estimates
      there will be 300 million people with diabetes worldwide. The International Diabetes
      Federation warns that there are currently 382 million diabetics and may increase to 471
      million in 2035 if it fails to make an international preventive action.

      Furthermore, depression and anxiety disorders are the most common mental disorders worldwide.
      It is estimated that in 2030, depression will be the principal cause of all diseases
      worldwide; while anxiety disorders are related to other mental and medical conditions that
      prolong disability.

      For these reasons, researchers have developed brief psychotherapeutic treatments with good
      results (Cognitive and Behavioural Therapy, Interpersonal therapy, and others) but with
      limitations due to lack of trained personnel for such interventions. However, the need for
      the care of people with diabetes with depression and anxiety symptoms are increasing, and
      pharmacological and therapeutic treatments are not enough. In other countries are using the
      Problem Solving Therapy (PST) as a brief technique to support the patient for possible
      solutions for daily problems which will generate emotional distress and depressive and
      anxiety symptoms. PST focuses on learning to cope with specific problems areas and where
      therapist and patient work collaboratively to identify and prioritise key problem areas, to
      break problems down into specific, manageable tasks, problem solve, and develop appropriate
      coping behaviours for problems. World Health Organization recommends the PST for depression
      treatment, which act "in the here and now" that helps identify a relationship between
      physical and emotional symptoms. Previous studies have shown the efficacy of the PST in
      reducing depressive and anxiety symptoms. The therapist may be a general practitioner, nurse,
      psychologist, social worker, etc., which serves as "advisor or counselor" while the patient
      is an active entity to solve their problems.

      Objective The aim of this study is apply a Brief Intervention (PST) in Diabetic and Obesity
      patients in primary care centers of Mexico City to improve their depressive and anxious
      symptoms and assess their impact on treatment and stabilization of metabolic variables.

      Method First Stage: Training medical students who are in last part of their education of
      medicine.

      Second Stage: Application of brief intervention (PST) in patients with diagnosis of Diabetes
      and Obesity.

      Stage Three: Analysis of results and publication of the study. Study design. A randomized,
      longitudinal, comparative clinical trial will be used.

      Patients:

      The study population will be 70 patients (35 experimental and 35 controls) of 11 primary care
      centers in Mexico City, with diagnosis of type II diabetes mellitus and / or obesity.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. 35-70 years old

        2. Female and male

        3. Type II Diabetes Mellitus

        4. Obesity (BMI ≥ 30)

        5. K-10 ≥ 21 points

        6. Beck Depression Inventory 13 to ≤ 28 points

        7. Beck Anxiety Inventory 7 to ≤ 25 points

        8. Informed consent accepted and signed

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Severe depression or suicidal ideation

        2. Type I Diabetes Mellitus

      Procedure. Patients with K-10 ≥ 21 will invited to participate in the project; sign the
      informed consent and complete the Depression and Anxiety Beck Inventory; randomly, each
      subject will be assigned to the experimental or control group. Patients in the experimental
      group will receive the PST while the control group will receive usual treatment.

      Metabolic variables: Glucose, weight, blood pressure, body mass index, total cholesterol,
      triglycerides and waist circumference at baseline, at 6 weeks and 4 months will be evaluated
      during the study.

      Statistical Analysis. Percentages, means, standard deviation, Chi square, t student for
      independent samples and analysis of variance for repeated measures will be used.
    
  