
    
      In this study, the investigators aim determine whether patients with Parkinson's disease (PD)
      have altered perceptual decision-making. The results of these experiments will shed important
      light on some of the enigmatic symptoms seen in patients with disorders of movement.

      In this study the subjects perform a computer generated visual task which involves reporting
      the direction of an arrow that is more or less difficult to see on the computer screen. Eye
      movements will be monitored using a video eye tracker. The system is completely non-invasive
      and positioned in front, out of the subject's line of sight to avoid interfering with their
      ability to perform the task.

      Subjects will report their decision with either an eye movement in the same direction as the
      perception of the arrow direction. Trials will proceed as follows: a central point will
      appear on the screen. Subjects are asked to look at the fixation point. After this random
      delay time, a patch of spots will appear in place of the center fixation spot, embedded in
      the patch will be an arrow. The contrast between the arrow and the patch will vary from high
      values to low. At high contrasts the direction at which the arrow points will be very clear
      and at low contrasts it will be unclear. The task of the subject is to make a rapid eye
      movement as soon as they decide which direction the arrow points. A sound will be played to
      indicate a correct choice. On trials in which the sensory information is ambiguous subjects
      will be told to 'make their best guess' to which target the arrow points. Unknown to the
      subject the investigators will manipulate the probability that one of the targets is the
      correct one. This latter manipulation will test whether subjects can use probability
      information to inform their decisions. The investigators are particularly interested in
      whether this probability information is used preferentially when the sensory information is
      ambiguous.

      The total number of subjects to be enrolled in the study is approximately 120. Subject groups
      are as follows: Healthy humans between the ages of 30 and 80 and those with PD (between ages
      of 45 and 80), dystonia (ages 30-80) and cerebellar lesions (ages 30-80) including those who
      have undergone DBS surgery to treat their PD or dystonia. The total duration of each session
      is approximately 2 hours. Each patient group including those with DBS will perform two
      sessions of the same task - one while on medication and one while off medication, hence the
      total duration of the study will be 4 hours for these groups (2 different sessions during
      different days). These patient groups are free to do these sessions at the same time as their
      routine physician visits or any other time that works best for them.
    
  