
    
      Malignant effusions are the 2nd commonest cause of exudative effusions and 75% are due to
      lung, breast and lymphoma primaries. It is estimated that effusions take up about 20% of
      pulmonologists' work. About 15% of lung cancers have effusions at presentation and 50% will
      develop effusions during the course of the illness.

      The current standard care of a symptomatic malignant effusion is to perform medical
      thoracoscopy and talc poudrage pleurodesis to prevent recurrence. Reported pleurodesis
      success with this technique is about 78%. However, this success rate is limited by the
      presence of lung entrapment that prevents lung re-expansion and effective pleurodesis. Lung
      entrapment occurs when there is a visceral pleural tumour peel encasing the lungs or when
      endobronchial tumour causes lung/lobar collapse. Thoracoscopic pleurodesis also results in
      significant hospital length of stay as chest tubes must stay in situ until the pleural space
      is dry.

      There is also established data on the use of outpatient tunnelled pleural catheters in
      malignant effusions. Besides providing effective drainage in cases with entrapped lungs,
      these catheters also result in spontaneous pleurodesis in 42 to 70% of cases. The attraction
      of the catheters is that it enables early discharge of patients who already have a terminal
      illness and an extremely poor prognosis (Prognosis is usually about 3-8 months depending on
      the primary) However, the pleural catheters do not allow biopsies to be taken from the pleura
      and the pleurodesis rate is both lower and slower than with talc poudrage.

      This project hopes to capitalize on the strengths of both methods ie. talc poudrage via
      thoracoscopy and indwelling pleural catheters, to increase the success of pleurodesis and to
      decrease hospital stay. Indwelling catheters may improve the success data by draining
      effusions associated with entrapped lungs that do not usually achieve pleurodesis with talc
      poudrage alone. These catheters can be left in patients on a long term basis i.e. > 6 months.
      The attraction of the PleurxTM tunnelled catheter system is the low risk of infections, air
      leaks (because of a one-way valve) and slippage.4-5 This type of study involving combining
      both modalities has never been reported in the literature. There is no such trial registered
      under clinicaltrials.gov. Pilot data (<20 patients) has been previously presented at the
      American College of Chest Physicians Conference 2006 from Harvard University with promising
      results.

      Current data from our thoracoscopy service in SGH (Jan 2004 to June 2007), shows that our
      pleurodesis success rate is 78.2%. However, complete success was achieved in 38.1%.7 This
      data is in keeping with the reported literature and the failures/incomplete successes are
      attributed to lung entrapment.3 Our data for hospital length of stay is 9.0 ± 4.0 (range 4 to
      21) days.

      We hypothesized that by combining thoracoscopic talc poudrage with tunnelled catheters, the
      pleurodesis success rate could be improved by 15% to 93%, complete success to >75 % and
      hospital length of stay approximately halved to 5 days or less. To test this hypothesis, we
      want to conduct a prospective, randomized controlled trial comparing thoracoscopic talc
      poudrage (standard care) to combined talc poudrage with tunnelled pleural catheters.

      Procedure:

      Patients who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will be screened by investigators and trial
      coordinators. After informed consent has been taken, patients will be randomized to either of
      the study arms. Randomization will be done through a computer generated random list. Baseline
      data and quality of life scores will be computed.

      Patients will then undergo standard medical thoracoscopy in the endoscopy center including
      the use of moderate sedation, prophylactic antibiotics for 1 week and 20F chest tube
      insertion at the end of the procedure. The standard of 4-6 g of sterilized talc will be used
      for talc poudrage.

      In the combined procedure group, a PleurxTM tunnelled catheter will be inserted under
      ultrasound guidance. As this procedure will be done concurrently with thoracoscopy, there is
      no estimated increase in endoscopy time. If either group of patients is found to have no
      gross evidence of malignancy at the time of thoracoscopy (ie. empyemas or tuberculous
      pleurisy), then they will be withdrawn from the study and notified appropriately.

      Patients in the standard therapy arm will emerge from the procedure with a chest tube while
      the intervention arm will have both a chest tube and a tunnelled catheter. In the standard
      therapy arm, the chest tube will be removed when there is no further air leak and when
      drainage drops to ≤ 150 ml/day. After chest tube removal, the patient is fit for discharge.
      In the intervention arm, the chest tube is removed when air leak stops. There will be no need
      to wait for fluid drainage to decrease and theoretically, the patient can go home on day 3 or
      4 with the tunnelled pleural catheter.

      Patients in the thoracoscopy only arm will be reviewed at 1 week in the outpatient clinic by
      the investigators for suture removal and then again at 1 month for evaluation of radiological
      success. This is the current standard practice. Quality of life assessment will be also done
      at the one month visit by the trial coordinator. Subsequent follow-ups will be with medical
      oncology as per standard practice including visits at about 3 months, 6 months and 1 year.

      Concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy will be allowed as per current standard of care.
      Concurrent therapy is unlikely to impact our results because non-small cell lung cancers
      which form the majority of our referrals have poor pleural effusion response to treatment.
      This is the basis of why pleurodesis is the current standard of care. Chemosensitive tumours
      like small cell lung cancers, ovarian cancers and lymphomas are seldom referred for symptom
      management of pleural effusions unless they are refractory to chemotherapy. Again, these
      patients will not be affected by concurrent 2nd/3rd line therapy. The small group of patients
      who may be affected by simultaneous oncological management are those who have a first time
      diagnosis of a chemosensitive tumour like small cell lung cancer or those with a sensitive
      adenocarcinoma who are managed with Epidermal Growth Factor Tyrosine-kinase (EGRF)
      inhibitors. These patients comprise <5% of our referrals and will have to analyzed separately
      in subsets to determine their impact on our data. In our pilot review of SGH thoracoscopy
      data, these cases formed a tiny proportion (1-2 cases) which prevented any meaningful pilot
      study analysis.

      The patients in the intervention combined treatment arm will be reviewed at outpatient clinic
      either the next day or within 48 hours. They will undergo drainage via the tunnelled
      catheter. If drainage is less than 150 ml, the PleurxTM catheter will be removed. Otherwise,
      the patient will be recalled over the next 24-48 hours till such drainage is achieved. If
      drainage persists for greater than 5 visits, then these patients will be deemed to have an
      entrapped lung and will need long term pleural catheterization. Subsequent management will be
      billed to the patient as part of their usual care. In the rare occurrence of a blocked
      pleural catheter, a fibrinolytic flush (using streptokinase or alteplase) will be used. This
      will be done using established protocols for management of blocked catheters.

      The primary end points will be pleurodesis/pleural catheter success. Complete success is
      defined in the literature to be no or minimal re-accumulation of pleural fluid at 30 days.
      Partial success is defined as partial (≤ 50%) re-accumulation of fluid with some resolution
      of symptoms and the absence of any further therapeutic interventions at 30 days. If any of
      these conditions are not met then the procedure is deemed to be a failure.

      Secondary endpoints are

        1. Hospital length of stay. This will be determined primarily by the primary attending
           physician based on the patient's medical condition. Patients will be considered
           'pleurodesis fit for discharge' the day the chest tube is removed. The chest tube will
           be removed in the absence of pleural space infection or air-leak (i.e. complications) if
           the effusion drainage drops to ≤ 150 ml/day and if there is lung re-expansion.

        2. Complication rates for infections, bleeding, air-leaks/pneumothorax, tumor seeding of
           the track

        3. Pain scores

        4. Analgesia/sedation requirements

        5. Talc dose required

        6. Quality of life analysis using St George's respiratory questionnaire (pre and post),
           Borg's scale, ECOG and Karnofsky score.

        7. Re-admission and repeat procedure rates for complications related to pleurodesis or
           re-accumulation of fluid. We aim to track the patients for 1 year.
    
  