
    
      Despite the frequent use of therapies in acute bronchitis, encouraged by the over-the-counter
      availability in pharmacies, the evidence of their benefit is scarce, since only a few
      clinical trials have been published, with low sample sizes, poor methodological quality and
      mainly in children. The objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of 3
      symptomatic therapies (dextromethorphan, ipratropium and honey) associated with usual care
      and the usual care in adults with acute bronchitis. This will be a multicentre, pragmatic,
      parallel group, open randomised trial. Patients aged 18 or over with uncomplicated acute
      bronchitis, with cough for less than three weeks as the main symptom, scoring ≥ 4 in either
      daytime or nocturnal cough on a 7-point Likert scale, will be randomised to one of the
      following four groups: usual care, usual care + dextromethorphan 30 mg t.i.d., usual care +
      ipratropium bromide inhaler 20 µg 2 puffs t.i.d, or usual care + 30 mg (a spoonful) of honey
      t.i.d., all taken for up to 14 days. The exclusion criteria will be: pneumonia, criteria for
      hospital admission, pregnancy or lactation, concomitant pulmonary disease, associated
      significant comorbidity, allergy, intolerance or contraindication to any of the study drugs,
      admitted to a long-term residence, or inability to give informed consent. Sample: 668
      patients. The primary outcome will be the number of days with moderate-severe cough in the
      intention-to-treat (ITT) population, i.e., the number of days from the randomisation visit
      until the last day the patient scores three or more in either daytime or nocturnal cough in
      the symptom diary. All patients will be given a symptom diary to be self-administered while
      symptoms are present. A second visit will be scheduled at day 2-3 for assessing evolution,
      with two more visits at days 15 and 29 for clinical assessment, evaluation of adverse
      effects, re-attendance and complications. Patients still with symptoms at day 29 will be
      called six weeks after the baseline visit.
    
  