
    
      Hip fracture is an important cause of disability, functional risk and death in the adult
      population, being more significant in the elderly, it also entails high costs for the health
      system. Although it is usually rare before the sixth decade of life and is very rare in young
      people, patients who present a hip fracture functional risk can be very important, reaching
      prostration in up to 8% of cases when Your surgical management is delayed. It is known that
      the time elapsed between diagnosis and treatment that affects the survival of patients,
      because every two days of surgical waiting doubles the probability of death due to secondary
      complications such as infections and cardiovascular complications, which impacts on
      flexibility and quality. of the patient's life. In addition, it should be borne in mind that
      in occasions it is necessary to stabilize chronic pathologies of the patient, preventing this
      sea intervened in a timely manner.

      At present there is no consensus on the intervention time of these fractures; However,
      previous studies have found that better results are obtained when surgical treatment is
      performed within the first 24 hours. In Colombia there are few published studies describing
      epidemiological characteristics, estimated time from admission to the surgical procedure, and
      the factors that specific to such delay. Due to the above and considering that hip fracture
      is considered a public health problem, it is important to identify sociodemographic factors
      and medical conditions that may be related to the postoperative complications, morbidity and
      mortality of these patients to help with the taking of therapeutic and administrative
      decisions that lead to improving the care provided and final results in the patient.

      The general objective of this study is to identify the main causes of delay in surgical
      intervention in patients with a diagnosis of hip fracture of the San José university hospital
      during 2019 and its relationship with morbidity and mortality.

      The research team has also proposed the following specific objectives to carry out this
      study:

        1. Describe socio-demographically the patients with a diagnosis of hip fracture, underwent
           surgery at the San José University hospital since 2019.

        2. Identify the reason that delay in surgical intervention.

        3. Quantify the main outcomes in morbidity and mortality during the 6 months after surgery,
           associated with the delay in surgery in the study population.

        4. Assess the quality of post-surgical life in the patient operated on for hip fracture.

        5. Correlate the delay in surgical intervention with complications and mortality in
           patients operated for hip fracture since 2019.

      It is estimated to include 80 patients during the first year of recruitment. For the
      collection of information there is a sociodemographic survey, the EQ5D5L quality of life
      survey and comorbidity is evaluated taking into account the Charlson index.
    
  