
    
      This study is a Multicenter, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trial on preoperative oral
      antibiotics prophylaxis in colorectal surgery.

      INCLUSION & EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

      All consecutive patients undergoing elective colorectal resection should be included in the
      trial.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Emergency procedures

        -  Appendicectomy (unless procedure involves a right hemicolectomy)

        -  Primarily urological/gynecological or vascular procedure - e.g. ileal conduit,
           Hartmann's during ovarian surgery, resection during abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.

        -  Diagnostic laparotomy/laparoscopy without intestinal resection.

        -  Surgery involving multi-visceral surgery - e.g. pelvic exenteratio

        -  Controindication for mechanical preparation

        -  Allergy to used drugs

        -  Patients who refuse to participate in the study

        -  Patients with intra-abdominal sepsis before surgery (abscess).

        -  Patients who received antibiotics for any reason within two weeks prior to surgery.

        -  Patients who do not comply strictly with the assigned prophylaxis regimen.

        -  Patients who cannot be followed at least 4 weeks after surgery.

      Patients recruitment:

      Consecutive eligible patients will be recruited at the outpatient clinic in the participating
      center by the involved physician (surgeon). All patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria
      will be informed about the study by the physician. After consent is given, central data
      acquisition will take place web-based and patients will be randomized in 2 groups and treated
      according to the study protocol. Patients unable or refusing to provide informed consent will
      be treated according to current clinical practice.

      Primary Outcome:

      - Incidence of surgical site infections (superficial or deep)

      Secondary Outcomes:

        -  Perioperative complication

        -  Anastomotic dehiscence

        -  Post-operative ileus

        -  Extra-abdominal complications

        -  Readmission

        -  Reoperation

        -  Length of hospital stay

        -  Mortality

        -  Adverse effects of antibiotics (diarrhea, C. difficile infection)

      Covariates:

      In addition to demographic, procedure and outcome data, the following data will be collected
      as confounding variables to permit accurate risk adjustment of outcomes.

        -  The American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score

        -  Cardiovascular and metabolic co-morbidities (includes chronic obstructive pulmonary
           disease (COPD), chronic kidney disease (CKD), peripheral vascular disease (PVD) and
           diabetes mellitus)

        -  History of previous abdominal surgery

        -  Preoperative administration of immunosuppressive/steroid therapy

        -  Preoperative Chemo-RadioTherapy

        -  Preoperative Albumin Serum Level (g/dL)

      Follow-up:

        -  Patients will be followed for 30 days after surgery. All secondary outcome measures will
           be recorded if they occurred at any point from post-operative day 0 (day of surgery) to
           Day 30.

        -  No change to normal follow-up should take place.

        -  The follow-up of patients includes a clinical evaluation 30 days after surgical
           intervention supported by blood analysis (WBC count and CRP), to completely exclude the
           presence of any infectious complication. Presence of fever and/or WBC count/CRP
           elevation will require further investigation with radiological imaging and will be
           considered an infectious post operative complication (SSI or not).

      PROJECT TIMELINE:

      Data collection will take place in two years. Follow-up data will also be collected for up to
      30 days after surgery.

      Data Collection and Governance:

      Data will be collected and stored online. Communication between the clients and the Server
      where is hosted the online platform is secured under TLS protocol with an encryption
      certificate SHA256 with RSA 2048 bits (e 65537). In order to maximize the data protection,
      the physical HD where is sored the database is encrypted too. Access to the online platform
      will be possible only previous Login. Each device logged in will be identified and the user
      will be able to ban the access from a specific device. Each physician will be able to see and
      modify only the data of patients added from his center. The online platform will check the
      validity and the correct format of the fields and will generate an excel table to import to
      the statistic software.

      Intervention strategies:

      Patients will be randomized to intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis alone or oral antibiotics
      prepara-tion in association with intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis.

      In the group of patients not treated with oral antibiotics standard intravenous prophylaxis
      will be administered at the time of induction of anesthesia, redosing with prolonged surgery:
      amoxicil-lin/clavulanic acid 2000/200 mg or, in the event of allergy to penicillin,
      clindamycin 600 mg + gen-tamycin 2 mg/kg. In case of Chronic Renal Failure dose adjustment
      will be necessary in presence of Creatinine Clearance respectively <30 ml/min and <60 ml/min
      in accordance to pharmacologic recommendations.

      In the other group oral prophylaxis consists of Bimixin (Neomicin + Bacitracin tablet) 25000
      UI + 2500 UI). In the postoperative period no more doses will be administered because the
      drug is not absorbed by gastrointestinal mucosa and its progression from the stomach to the
      colon is slowed down by post-operative ileus. In this group of patient standard intravenous
      antibiotic prophylaxis will be administered at induction of anesthesia.

      Any mechanical bowel preparation will be administered, as indicated by each center. Surgeon,
      anesthesiologist and nurse will know if patient had assumed oral antibiotics and intrave-nous
      antibiotics or intravenous prophylaxis alone. Data concerning SSI rate, infectious
      complica-tion other than SSI and not infectious complications will be collected during
      hospital stay. 30 days after the operation blood tests (WBC, CRP) and clinical evaluation
      will confirm the absence of any infectious complication.
    
  