
    
      Difficult endotracheal intubation is a major reason for anesthesia related adverse events.
      Videolaryngoscopy has become an important part of the anesthesiological standard of care for
      difficult airway management in the past decades. Still, medical preconditions, as well as
      procedural and technical factors related with difficult videolaryngoscopy have not been
      systematically investigated, and a standardized comprehensive classification system for the
      severity of videolaryngoscopic intubation has yet to be specified. The primary objective of
      this study is to identify independent factors associated with difficult videolaryngoscopic
      intubation in patients undergoing ENT or OMF surgery.

      Patients with conditions of the ENT and OMF spectrum have a predisposition for difficult
      airway management and are at high risk for adverse events during endotracheal intubation.
      However, current recommendations for preoperative screening for difficult intubation rarely
      consider space consuming lesions of the laryngopharyngeal region. Comprehensive data
      identifying the predictive value of preoperative flexible nasal videoendoscopy as a
      diagnostic measure to anticipate difficult airway management still lack. Thus, secondary aim
      of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic value and clinical significance of preoperative
      flexible nasal videoendoscopy to predict difficult videolaryngoscopic intubation in these
      patients.

      Study design:

      The investigators conduct a prospective observational study, which includes 400 patients with
      predicted difficult airway and confirmed indication for flexible nasal videoendoscopy and
      videolaryngoscopic intubation undergoing ENT or OMF surgery.

      Procedural and surgical data as well as medical preconditions will be assessed
      systematically. The handling anesthetist and two independent observers will be surveyed
      (structured questionnaire) in order to assess procedural and technical factors related with
      videolaryngoscopic intubation.
    
  