
    
      The participating females will be randomly allocated using computer generated randomizer
      program (http://www.randomizer.org) into one of 3 groups.

      Group (C) / (I): 20 patients (control group):

      Patient will receive 20 ml 0.25% levobupivacaine into interfascial plane below erector spinae
      muscle at level of T5 and T7.

      Group (K) / (II): 20 patients (Ketamine group):

      Patient will receive 20ml 0.25% levobupivacaine as above + 2 mg /kg ketamine.

      Group (M) / (III): 20 patients (magnesium sulphate group):

      Patient will receive 20ml 0.25% levobupivacaine as above + 2mg/kg MgSo4.

      Study protocol:

      Premedication will be given, after complete fasting hours after applying standard monitors
      (noninvasive blood pressure, pulse oximetery. ECG, temp, and capnography), an intravenous
      cannula will be placed and secured in the opposite side to surgery.

      Ultrasound guided Erector spinae plane (ESP) block will be given with patient in sitting
      position depending on surgical site (lt. or Rt.) ESP block will be given using high frequency
      linear u/s transducer, the probe is placed in longitudinal orientation lateral to thoracic
      fifth and seventh spinous process, then Trapezious m., Rhomboideus major muscle, and erector
      spinae muscle, are identified from surface, we will deposite 20 ml of 0.25% levobupivacairen
      into interfacial plane below erector spinae muscle.

      General anesthesia will be induced with lμg/kg fentanyl, 2mg/kg propofol, 0.5 mg/kg
      atracurium inhalational anesthesia (isoflurane or sevoflurane)

      1gm paracetamol after induction No other narcotic, analgesic or sedative will be
      administrated during operative period.

      Standard monitor (MABP, HR , SaO2 & EtCo2) will be observed and recorded every 30 min till
      end of surgery Post-operative ; the patient will be transferred to the post anesthesia care
      unit (PACU). In PACU the following data included heart rate, mean blood pressure, respiratory
      rate and oxygen saturation and VAS scores (at rest and after movement in the form of
      abduction of ipsilateral arm ) at baseline,2,4,6,12,24 and 48 hours post-operatively to
      evaluate acute pain will be observed and recorded. The attending anesthesiologist, surgeon
      and the data collecting personal will be unaware of the patient assignment.

      Rescue post-operative analgesia in the form of morphine Patient controlled analgesia (PCA )
      with an initial bolus of 0.1 mg/ kg morphine once pain is expressed followed by 1mg bolus
      with a locked period of 15 minutes with no back ground infusion allowed. The time to first
      request of analgesia and the total analgesic consumption in the 1st 48 hour will be observed
      and recorded. Postoperative adverse effects will be observed and treated
    
  