
    
      Knee pain and stiffness is a common problem which can sometimes be improved by inserting a
      replacement knee joint. An anaesthetist is a doctor who specialises in looking after patients
      undergoing surgery, and there are a variety of different anaesthetics which can be used for
      knee replacement surgery. These include general anaesthesia (going to sleep), and spinal or
      epidural anaesthesia (where pain killers are injected into the back, resulting in temporarily
      numb legs). Pain killers can also be injected around the nerves which supply the leg, or
      around the site of the operation itself, combined with general or spinal anaesthesia if
      required.

      Over the years, multiple different combinations of these techniques have been tried. All have
      advantages and disadvantages. Generally, those which completely numb the leg after the
      operation often cause weakness which interferes with movement. Although the patient will have
      no pain, getting up and around with the physiotherapist is crucial and the weakness can delay
      recovery. However, excessive pain can also interfere with movement. There is therefore a
      balance to be struck between pain and weakness, and the choice of anaesthetic technique is
      key.

      Researchers previously conducted a study at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital which
      compared the effects of two techniques; the use of diamorphine in a spinal injection, and the
      injection of pain killer around a nerve supplying the leg (femoral nerve block, FNB). Whilst
      the research showed that FNB gave better pain relief, there are still concerns that it causes
      weakness which may interfere with movement. A newer technique has evolved over recent years
      in which pain killer is injected directly around the knee during the operation. This is known
      as local infiltration analgesia (LIA) and the potential advantages are that it is simple,
      safe and does not cause leg weakness.

      If research shows that LIA provides adequate pain relief without weakness, it may be a better
      option to use routinely, rather than FNB. The primary outcome measure is the amount of
      morphine used in the first 48 hours. The secondary outcome measures are the Total Pain Relief
      Score (TOTPAR), post operative pain scores, the ability to achieve set rehabilitation goals,
      readiness for discharge and qualitative data on patient recovery and satisfaction.
    
  