
    
      The protocol aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of an intervention geared to significantly
      improve functional competence for preterm infants with fetal growth restriction (FGR).
      Incidence of FGR is estimated to be as high as 5% of the general obstetric population.
      Preterms with FGR are doubly jeopardized. Aside from much higher mortality rates they also
      show significantly increased morbidity rates, including significant learning disabilities and
      school failure (>50%). The intervention's underlying premise holds that it is far more
      effective to support the immature brain, which is compromised by FGR, to develop optimally
      before the infant reaches full term rather than to attempt to ameliorate increasingly deviant
      development after deviance has occurred. The goal of the project is to show the effectiveness
      of individualized developmental care and intervention, which begins with the FGR preterm
      infant's admission to the newborn intensive care unit (NICU) and extends to 2 weeks (w) after
      full term equivalent age or 2w CA (corrected age for prematurity). Intervention in the NICU
      is considered more advantageous for the infant's later development than delay of intervention
      until after discharge home. The proposal maintains that the last trimester of gestation is a
      critical period for brain development, especially when compromised by FGR. In-NICU
      intervention at this critical brain development time is expected to reduce the infants'
      hypersensitivity and reactivity while in the NICU, and to lead to reduction of the high
      incidence of behavioral problems in infancy, which frequently foreshadows later behavioral
      and learning problems as well as school failure.

      The study aims to test three related hypotheses:

        1. Individualized developmental NICU care and intervention will enhance FGR preterm
           infants' brain development both functionally and structurally.

        2. The in-NICU intervention will improve the parents' understanding of their infant's
           individuality and equip them to feel more competent as parents.

        3. The intervention itself, while individualized for each infant, will be quantifiable and
           reliably reproducible.

      The study will:

        1. Test the effectiveness of the intervention by assessing brain development and functional
           adaptation of a high risk preterm population (n=30) with documented intrauterine FGR and
           born between 28 and 33w gestational age.

        2. Assess the FGR preterm infants' neurodevelopment within one week from birth (baseline)
           and again at 2w CA (outcome).

        3. Compare the results on the effectiveness of the intervention for the FGR preterm infants
           to a recently studied cohort of appropriately grown (AGA) preterm infants born at
           comparable gestational ages, supported with the same intervention and measured in
           comparable ways.

      The primary infant measures proposed will be brain functional (EEG coherence, neurobehavioral
      functioning) and brain structural assessments (MRI). The goal will be to examine the direct
      causal connections and correlations among population characteristics, the intervention, and
      ultimate outcome at 2w CA. The project is expected to deliver comprehensive and substantive
      results in favor of the developmental NICU intervention for FGR preterm infants as well as
      for the earlier studied AGA population. The proposed study is expected to demonstrate
      intervention effectiveness in improving FGR preterm infants' neurodevelopment. It is
      anticipated that the intervention-based improvement in brain structure and function will set
      the stage for improvement in later performance, especially in terms of behavioral/emotional
      adaptation, learning and school achievement, which are all critical for life success.
    
  