
    
      The number of youth living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) continues to rise, and
      they are disproportionately represented at each stage of the care continuum. Most relevant to
      this study, it is estimated that less than half of HIV-infected youth in the United States
      (US) have been diagnosed with HIV, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related
      deaths among youth have increased over the past decade despite decreased death rates among
      all other age groups, pointing to the urgent need for increased testing among youth.

      Black and Latino youth are at increased risk of poor HIV-related outcomes and have disparate
      testing rates as compared to White youth. Mobile Health (mHealth) technology is a powerful
      and relevant tool which represents a promising approach for improving outcomes among youth
      living with HIV. Youth are avid adopters and heavy users of smartphones and digital
      technologies, and these technologies offer opportunities to tailor interventions to
      developmental stages and personal needs. Importantly, these technologies are capable of
      delivering interventions in real-time and in ecologic settings. This creates an opportunity
      to remotely reach youth through mobile and connected health approaches to strengthen their
      HIV care continuum engagement and treatment outcomes. In response, the investigators have
      developed the mLab App, an innovative mobile and connected technology that combines HIV
      prevention information with push notifications/reminders to complete HIV testing and an
      automated image processing feature to provide accessible, objective, secure, and real-time
      feedback on home-based OraQuick (lateral flow assay) HIV test results. The mLab App also
      contains an innovative automated data collection and a results reporting feature. Findings
      from the investigators' preliminary work in New York City indicate that youth perceive the
      mLab App as useful, easy to use, and effective at improving health outcomes and intend to use
      the technology. Furthermore, preliminary work in Africa support the sensitivity and
      specificity of the imaging algorithm for interpreting lateral flow assay results.

      The investigators will conduct a careful, iterative process of technology refinement based on
      input from end users, experts, and the youth advisory board. The investigators will then
      enroll 525 high-risk youth (age 18-29 years) in a 12-month randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      to assess differences in HIV testing rates and linkage to care between three arms the
      intervention arm, the standard of care-HIV information control arm, and the HIV home test
      arm. Finally, the investigators will analyze paradata, defined as auxiliary data that capture
      details about the process of interaction with the technology, to understand the effect of
      user engagement of the mLab App on improving HIV testing rates and linkage to care.
      Interventions delivered through mHealth technology represent a promising approach for
      improving outcomes among youth.
    
  