
    
      Post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy has been shown to improve overall survival, delay local
      relapse and reduce distant metastasis by multiple large-scale prospective clinical trial. In
      registry clinical trial for Capecitabine conducted by O Shaughnessy, it revealed that a
      combined chemotherapy of Capecitabine and Docetaxel achieved better outcomes compared with
      Docetaxel alone. And the significant effect of Capecitabine was also evidenced by CHAT trial
      in which Trastuzumab/Docetaxel/Capecitabine regimen was proved to perform greater than
      Trastuzumab/Docetaxel regimen. In addition to better outcomes, Capecitabine also showed good
      tolerance and safety profile. In 2009, Finnish Breast Cancer Group published their study
      results from FinXX clinical trial on Lancet Oncology, and in this trial, they compared the
      efficacy between sequential Docetaxel (3 cycles) followed by 3 cycles of
      Fluorouracil/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (FEC) and sequential Docetaxel and Capecitabine (3
      cycles) followed by 3 cycles of Capecitabine/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (XEC) in lymph
      positive or high-risk lymph negative early-stage breast cancer patients. And their results
      showed a better outcome in TX-XEC regimen. 5-year follow-up analysis of this trial revealed
      that combined Capecitabine regimen can bring more significant clinical benefits to
      triple-negative breast cancer patients. Another clinical trial NO1062 released their
      preliminary results on comparison of AC-T and AC-XT regimens and it showed that combined
      Capecitabine regimen can significantly improve overall survival and this effect is more
      obvious in triple--negative breast cancer patients.

      Based on the results of FinXX and NO1062, it's of great value to optimize combined
      Capecitabine regimen and clarify involved questions, such as whether the efficacy of
      Capecitabine is related to its treatment course or not, whether Capecitabine should be
      combined into current standardized chemotherapy or a sequential therapy. Also, there are
      still no clear conclusions on the best post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy for
      triple--negative breast cancer patients. Especially in Chinese population, the efficacy and
      safety of Capecitabine in adjuvant chemotherapy has not been well established. So it's
      necessary to explore reasonable dosage, safety profile and efficacy of combined Capecitabine
      therapy. Based on this purpose, this study is hoped to compare efficacy and safety of
      sequential Docetaxel followed by Fluorouracil/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide (FEC) and
      sequential Docetaxel and Capecitabine followed by Capecitabine/Epirubicin/Cyclophosphamide
      (XEC) as post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of triple-negative breast
      cancer in Chinese population.
    
  