
    
      Patients with biopsy-confirmed HGD in BE will be evaluated to confirm eligibility. Prior to
      enrollment, all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be verified. Medical procedures
      including demographic information, medical/surgical history, concurrent medical conditions,
      physical exam (including vital signs, body weight, height, and skin color), degree of
      difficulty in swallowing; electrocardiogram, chest X-ray, clinical laboratory testing,
      concomitant medication intake and other therapy uses will be collected.

      All patients will receive one course of PDT consisting of an intravenous injection of 2.0
      mg/kg of porfimer sodium over 3-5 minutes followed by one or two endoscopic laser light
      applications. The first laser light application will be performed within 40-50 hours using a
      new diffusing balloon catheter. The second laser light application (without a diffusing
      balloon catheter) will be performed within 96-120 hours on those areas showing an
      insufficient response to the first application. Follow-ups (Weeks 4 and 13) will include some
      or all of the following procedures: physical exam; vital signs evaluation; body weight;
      endoscopy; skin, degree of difficulty in swallowing and esophageal stenosis assessment; and
      clinical laboratory check. All patients will be asked general open questions about any
      occurrence of adverse events, change in concurrent medical conditions, use of adjunctive
      therapy/procedure, and intake of concomitant medication. All patients will undergo rigorous
      systematic endoscopic biopsy surveillance at Week 13 (final visit).

      Tissue concentration of oligomers (component of porfimer sodium) in normal and abnormal
      esophageal tissues will be determined in a subgroup of 12 patients. These patients will
      provide esophageal tissue samples before the porfimer sodium injection and on four separate
      occasions after the injection (22-26 hour-, 40-50 hour-, 96-120 hour-intervals, and 13
      weeks).

      All patients will be followed for three months.
    
  