
    
      This trial will be an adaptation of Protocol 101 which recently closed after rapid and
      complete accrual, now with an escalation of the induction vaccination in four cohorts. For
      practical purposes, a standard dose-escalation study is not possible with the current
      paradigm. Although the investigators may have identified a distinct bioactive byproduct of
      Insulin-like growth factor receptor-1 Antisense Oligodeoxynucleotide (IGF-1R/AS ODN)-induced
      tumor cell apoptosis (exosomes), it is difficult to perform a dose escalation in a typical
      fashion. Also, antigen concentration can affect immune response in a biphasic manner: too
      little or too much can dampen an immune response, so even if the antigen or antigens were
      known, a typical pharmacologic dose escalation would not follow typical pharmacokinetics. For
      these reasons, in Protocol 102, 32 patients will have therapy at initial surgery followed by
      implantation of 20 chambers for a duration of 48 hours. There was a documented increase in
      tumor infiltrating lymphocytes after treatment in our original trial, this observation
      provided preliminary supporting evidence that this therapeutic vaccine will elicit an
      adaptive immune response. Protocol 102 has been designed to further elucidate an immune
      response with a quantitative assessment of tumor specific T cells as well as circulating M2
      macrophages before and after treatment. The design of the Phase 1 trial will allow a
      statistical analysis of both antigen dose (number of chambers) and time of exposure (chamber
      dwell time) as either variable may relate to any toxicity or treatment response.

      A summary of the treatment paradigm includes: Pre-operative plasma leukopheresis, then
      surgery with tissue harvest and implantation of 20 diffusion chambers in the rectus sheath
      with IGF-1R/AS ODN as previously reported within 24 hours of craniotomy, implanted for 48
      hours. All patients who meet the eligibility criteria and agree to participate in this study
      will be potential candidates for therapy.
    
  