
    
      The Carilion Clinic service area encompasses 26 counties and 11 unincorporated cities,
      totaling 14,700 square miles in area. There are 10 full-time certified hand therapists (CHTs)
      working in 8 clinics in this area - leaving each clinic to cover a geographic area
      approximately the size of Delaware. Our research indicates that over 660,000 people in this
      area - more than half the population - live in a city or county without a hand therapy
      clinic. Patients in these areas may need to travel 2+ hours to reach a hand therapy clinic.
      Even a once-per-week clinic visit represents a significant financial and social hardship.
      Many patients abandon therapy due to an inability to take time off work, find transportation,
      or find childcare.

      One solution to this problem would be to provide a telemedicine option to these patients.
      Unfortunately, there are no established protocols for implementing a telemedicine program in
      postoperative therapy.

      Further, there is a lack of high-quality studies with adequate power to draw evidence-based
      conclusions about the effectiveness of telemedicine for use in therapy. Our study would
      address this gap in knowledge as the first prospective, randomized control study of
      telemedicine for postoperative outpatient therapy.

      Despite the lack of specific teletherapy protocols, there is some evidence that such a
      program could be successful. The most informative study on the effectiveness of
      telerehabilitation investigated a prerecorded video-based home therapy program for stroke
      patients and found no difference in clinical outcomes. Studies in hand surgery and general
      surgery have shown that telehealth is effective for postoperative care of intentionally
      selected low-risk procedures, and that patients are overwhelmingly satisfied with telehealth.
      Several studies have shown that video-based home therapy and teletherapy are viable
      approaches in the target elderly and rural populations, and there are many published calls
      recognizing the need for increased use of teletherapy.

      Our central hypothesis is that telemedicine can be used in postoperative hand therapy without
      a change in patient outcomes. In this study, we choose to study therapy for one of the most
      common postoperative diagnoses seen in Carilion Clinic's hand therapy clinics: thumb
      arthroplasty (replacement of a thumb joint).

      Specific Aim 1 is to determine if a telehealth program (pre-recorded instructional videos and
      teletherapy visits) can effectively replace in-person occupational therapy for these
      diagnoses.

      Hypothesis: Outcomes of a therapy program consisting of pre-recorded instructional videos and
      telemedicine visits with a certified hand therapist will be noninferior to the standard of
      care regimen for thumb arthroplasty.

      The significance of this study is that it investigates a telemedicine solution that we expect
      to increase access to healthcare in rural populations. This study is novel because it will be
      the first prospective, randomized control trial to investigate the utility of telemedicine in
      postoperative therapy.
    
  