
    
      The study will be conducted as a continuation and development of "6-10-14 for Health"
      program. The first phase of the program, financed by the municipality of Gdansk, was
      conducted in 2011-2013. The program comprised of screening and survey conducted among all 6-,
      10- and 14-year-old children attending primary and grammar schools. A total of 18 162
      children (including 7 448 6-year olds, 6 720 10-year olds and 3 994 14-year olds) were
      examined. A group of children with risk factors of civilization-related diseases (overweight
      and obesity defined according to BMI percentile charts. was identified on the basis of the
      screening. This group included 2 798 (16.32%) children, among them 9.17% of 6-years of age,
      19.30% of 10-years and 20.48% of 14-years). All these children were qualified to intervention
      and education program. A total of 1 627 children qualified on the basis of screening
      eventually took part in the first edition of the program.

      A total of 4 meetings with participating children and their caregivers were scheduled during
      the 12-month-long education and intervention program: at enrollment, and 3, 6 and 12 months
      thereafter. The meetings had form of individual consultations with various specialists. The
      first visit included complex medical examination, discussion on a health status of a child,
      interpretation of laboratory findings, and consultations with dietician, psychologist and
      physical education specialist. After consulting all the specialists involved in the program,
      individual protocol of health intervention was developed for every child. The objectives of
      the intervention included modification of diet, increasing health activity level and
      strengthening of health-seeking behaviors of child's family members. Adherence to the
      protocol and achieved results were evaluated during follow-up meetings with the specialists,
      and constituted the basis for development of individualized intervention plans for subsequent
      months.

      The preliminary evaluation of the program effects was conducted in the group of 300
      participants. The average percentile of BMI at enrollment to the program and after 12 months
      of participation amounted to 92.96 and 88.83, respectively. Participation in the program was
      reflected by a significant decrease in BMI percentile (p=0.0001), as well as by a significant
      drop off in fat mass content measured by bioelectrical impedance, from 39.0% to 31.4%
      (p=0.0001).

      On the basis of these findings, the municipality of Gdansk decided to support the program for
      2014-2016.

      The experiment will follow a pattern of double blind randomized study. The enrolled subjects
      will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups:

      Group 1 - weight-loss program for 52 weeks + vitamin D 1200 (IU) daily for 26 weeks Group 2 -
      weight-loss program for 52 weeks +placebo daily for 26 weeks

      Visit I: enrollment:

        -  medical history, physical examination

        -  interpretation of laboratory findings (the tests conducted during screening +
           concentration of vitamin D),

        -  anthropometric evaluation and analysis of body composition (bioimpedance method)

        -  consultation of dietician, psychologist and specialist of physical activity, and
           defining detailed protocol of intervention

        -  Kasch Pulse Recovery Test

        -  determination of hs-C-reactive protein, Interleukin 6, chemerin and adiponectin
           concentrations in blood samples obtained during screening

        -  informing parents about the objectives and protocol of the study

        -  obtaining written informed consent for participation in the study

        -  randomization to GROUP I or II

        -  densitometry (DXA) - within one week after enrollment

      Visit II: after 13 weeks:

        -  medical history, physical examination

        -  anthropometric evaluation and analysis of body composition (bioimpedance method)

        -  consultation of dietician, psychologist and specialist of physical activity, and
           defining detailed protocol of intervention

      Within a week prior to Visit III - obtaining blood (ca. 5 ml) for laboratory testing
      (complete blood count, lipid profile, hs-C-reactive protein, oral glucose tolerance test,
      insulin, Interleukin 6, adiponectin and chemerin concentrations

      Visit III: after 26 weeks:

        -  medical history, physical examination

        -  interpretation of laboratory findings

        -  anthropometric evaluation and analysis of body composition (bioimpedance method)

        -  consultation of dietician, psychologist and specialist of physical activity, and
           defining detailed protocol of intervention

        -  obtaining blood for laboratory testing

        -  termination of active compound/placebo administration

      Visit IV: after 52 weeks:

        -  medical history, physical examination

        -  anthropometric evaluation and analysis of body composition (bioimpedance method)

        -  consultation of dietician, psychologist and specialist of physical activity, and
           defining detailed protocol of intervention

        -  densitometry (DXA) - within one week after terminating the study
    
  