
    
      ZD6474 is an investigational drug that has not yet received approval from the FDA. ZD6474 is
      designed to limit VEGF. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is considered to play a key
      role in the development of pleural effusion. Pleural effusion is an abnormal collection of
      pleural fluid in the pleural lining surrounding the lungs. The pleural lining is the thin
      covering that protects and cushions the lungs. It is made up of two layers of tissue that are
      separated by a small amount of fluid.

      ZD6474 has shown promising activity against a number of cancers in laboratory tests in
      animals with cancer and in some early clinical trials in patients with non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC). ZD6474 has also demonstrated significant reduction in pleural effusion in
      association with VEGF inhibition of tumor cells in mice with lung tumors and pleural
      effusion. It is hoped that ZD6474 will decrease the amount of pleural effusion that occurs in
      NSCLC patients. In addition, ZD6474 is thought to block the formation of new blood vessels,
      which may limit new blood vessel growth in the tumor and "starve" the tumor.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have a
      complete physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate,
      temperature, and breathing rate), height, and weight. You will be asked questions about your
      ability to perform daily activities (performance status evaluation). You will have blood
      (about 2-3 teaspoons) drawn for routine tests. You may have up to 3 electrocardiograms (ECG
      --a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart). You will also have a chest
      x-ray and computed tomography (CT) scans of your chest to measure the status of the disease.
      You will be asked to fill out 2 questionnaires about the quality of your life and shortness
      of breath. The questionnaires will take about 10-15 minutes, total, to complete. Women who
      are able to have children must have a negative blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to participate in the study, you will have an indwelling
      intrapleural catheter placed. You will have to sign a separate consent document before
      placement of an indwelling intrapleural catheter can be performed. The pleural fluid will be
      collected at each clinic visit. The fluid will be saved and analyzed to answer research
      questions that are part of this study. You will also need to drain your pleural fluid
      everyday. The research nurse will provide you with instructions on how to drain your daily
      pleural fluid and a patient "diary" to take home to record the amount of fluid drained every
      day. The study doctor or research nurse will review the diary at each clinic visit.

      After placement of the intrapleural catheter (Day 1), you will receive treatment with ZD6474.
      Treatment on this study is for 10 weeks. You will take a ZD6474 tablet by mouth each morning.
      The tablet should not be chewed, crushed, or divided, and should be taken with 8 ounces of
      water. You should take the tablet at about the same time every day.

      During your participation on this study, you will have a physical exam, routine blood tests
      and chest x-ray at Weeks 2, 6, and 10. At Weeks 6 and 10, you will also have a CT scan. You
      will have an ECG at Weeks 1, 2, 4, and 8. Your doctor may decide to have additional ECGs to
      monitor your condition or if you experience a heart rate of less than 50 at any time during
      study participation. You will also be asked to complete 2 questionnaires about the quality of
      your life and any shortness of breath you are experiencing. You will complete these
      questionnaires at home and return them to the research staff at each clinic visit. You will
      be asked to record your weekly blood pressure for the first 6 weeks of study treatment. The
      study doctor or research nurse will review the log at each clinic visit.

      If you are benefitting from the study treatment and your doctor feels that it is your best
      interest, you may continue to receive the study drug longer than 10 weeks. During your
      participation in this extended treatment phase, every 4 weeks you will have a physical exam
      and your performance status will be evaluated. You will have blood (about 2-3 teaspoons)
      drawn for routine tests. Every 4 weeks, you will have ECGs performed. You will also have a
      chest x-ray and computed tomography (CT) scans of your chest to measure the status of the
      disease every 8 weeks. Your study drug will continue to be provided to you.

      You may be taken off study early if you have intolerable side effects or the disease gets
      worse.

      This is an investigational study. ZD6474, the investigational drug to be used in this study,
      is not approved by the FDA for commercial use; however, the FDA has permitted its use in this
      research study. Up to 25 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  