
    
      The aim of this study is to implement and evaluate the mCARE-II intervention package using a
      randomized controlled trial design. This package, supported by an mHealth application,
      provides workflow scheduling for guided household registration, census, pregnancy
      surveillance, and antenatal, postnatal, and essential newborn care visit reminders. Workflow
      scheduling is sorted and prioritized based on assessment of basic risk. Furthermore, the
      system integrates client-directed reminder SMS messages and demand-side birth notifications
      to schedule postnatal services immediately after birth. This will be operated by the
      Government of Bangladesh (GoB) community health workers, called Family Welfare Assistants
      (FWAs), in 18 unions of one northern district of Bangladesh who will use the system to
      support their routine health service delivery functions. Based on lessons learned from phase
      I implementation under the pilot study, additional features will be added to the intervention
      package, including a priority sorting algorithm to identify pregnant women and newborns with
      known risk factors for adverse outcomes to prioritize them for scheduled visits, a birth
      preparedness module to help pregnant women and their families plan for safe delivery and
      childbirth, and targeted newborn care counseling during late antenatal encounters. These
      features will be built on a scalable platform compatible with national data systems and
      aligned with a new global standard being advocated by WHO - the Open Smart Register Platform
      or OpenSRP (smartregister.org).

      Based on randomization to mCARE-II or control arms by FWA catchment area, participants living
      in each area will receive services from their FWA, either supported by OpenSRP or according
      to the standard of care procedures currently in place. Performance of the FWAs and the health
      status of enrolled women and newborns will be monitored and evaluated by a rigorous research
      layer supported by a cadre of research workers who will verify services received by
      participants to assess exposure to and interactions with FWAs and OpenSRP. This study
      combines a robust RCT methodology with principles of implementation science - actual
      government health workers using OpenSRP to support their routine work while a cadre of
      highly-trained research workers collects 'gold-standard' denominator data against which to
      measure performance. This study is an effort to rigorously evaluate the set of mCARE-II
      interventions on the OpenSRP platform.
    
  