
    
      This is a single-arm, two-stage phase II trial of cladribine, cytarabine, granulocyte colony
      stimulating factor and gemtuzumab ozogamicin (CLAG-GO) in adult patients with acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) who are either have persistent disease after initial induction chemotherapy or
      are in first relapse, with early stopping for unacceptable toxicity. The trial will be
      conducted at the University of Maryland Greenebaum Comprehensive Cancer Center (UMGCCC), with
      a target enrollment of 39 patients if the trial proceeds to the second stage. Eligible
      patients will receive induction chemotherapy with CLAG-GO at the doses detailed below. In the
      first stage of the trial, a sequential boundary is used to monitor induction mortality and
      halt accrual if this mortality is significantly above 10%. If more than 6 responses are seen
      in the initial 19 patients, 20 additional patients will be enrolled in the 2nd stage.
      Responders may proceed to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT) at
      any time after induction, and these patients will be monitored for at least 30 days
      post-transplantation for veno-occlusive disease. Responding patients will also have the
      option of having a single cycle of consolidation therapy using the same CLAG-GO regimen,
      followed by maintenance with GO monotherapy for up to 8 additional cycles. Responses will be
      categorized according to the European LeukemiaNet (ELN) response criteria for AML. Assessment
      of measureable residual disease (MRD) will be conducted with bone marrow aspirate samples and
      changes in immunophenotype will be evaluated. In addition, single nucleotide polymorphism
      (SNP) analysis and sialylation status of CD33, along with sialidase activity of myeloblasts
      will be evaluated and correlated with responses and survival times. Safety and toxicity will
      be evaluated continuously, and event-free survival, and overall survival as well as the
      proportion of patients proceeding to receive alloHSCT will be estimated.
    
  