
    
      Cytomegalovirus in solid organ transplant recipients can result in significant morbidity and
      mortality due to concurrent immunosuppression. Traditionally intravenous followed by oral
      ganciclovir has been used to prevent and treat cytomegalovirus infection and disease in
      transplant recipients. Recently a new oral form of ganciclovir, valganciclovir has been
      approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of CMV retinitis in patients
      with AIDS. Valganciclovir is more bioavailable and requires fewer daily doses and lower pill
      burden than oral ganciclovir. In addition valganciclovir can attain ganciclovir plasma levels
      similar to intravenous ganciclovir. This protocol will test the ability of valganciclovir to
      provide similar drug exposure (area under the curve, AUC) as oral and intravenous ganciclovir
      at equivalent doses in the setting of kidney and kidney-pancreas transplantation. Patients
      will receive four different dosing/dosage form schemes. Intravenous ganciclovir at 2.5mg/kg
      every 12 hours, which is the usual treatment at this facility post surgery will be
      administered for approximately 7 days (phase I), then patients will receive valganciclovir
      900 mg daily for 7 to 21 days (phase II), then patients will receive 450 mg daily for at
      least 4 days (phase III), and finally, ganciclovir 1000 mg every 8 hours for at least 4 days
      (phase IV). Serial blood samples will be collected for pharmacokinetic analyses after each
      change in dose/dosage form (after each phase). After completion of the study, patients will
      be maintained on valganciclovir 450 mg daily for CMV prophylaxis or oral ganciclovir for a
      length of time prescribed by the transplant surgeon. By characterizing the pharmacokinetics
      of valganciclovir in kidney/pancreas transplant patients, it is hoped that appropriate dosing
      to prevent CMV disease and limit toxicity may be achieved.
    
  