
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a growing epidemic related to significant morbidity and mortality.

      The prevalence of the disease continuously increases due to the ageing population and success
      in treating cardiovascular diseases that often precede HF.

      Lifetime risk of HF is still high with 20-45% and strongly age-dependent . Structural or
      functional alterations in the heart lead to reduced cardiac output and rising intracardiac
      pressures.

      The resulting HF syndrome comprises typical symptoms such as dyspnoea, ankle swelling and
      fatigue .

      Heart failure is classified into right sided heart failure and left sided heart failure,the
      later one is classified to HF with reduced EF (HFrEF) involving patients with an EF< 40% and
      heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) The proportion of HFpEF seems to be
      slightly lower than that of HFrEF .

      For patients presenting with breathlessness, there is a need for a reliable biomarker for the
      early diagnosis of heart failure. Similarly, there is also a need for better monitoring of
      patients receiving treatment for heart failure. Non-invasive means such as a biomarker have
      therefore become useful.

      There are many potential biomarkers for heart failure, the investigators will discuss the
      biomarkers that are available for clinical use in patients with heart failure to further
      assess prognosis and possibly direct HF therapy.

      There is evidence that aldosterone antagonists can oppose the effect of aldosterone in
      promoting cardiac fibrosis.Furthermore, elevated levels of cardiac aldosterone have been
      demonstrated in a rat model of hypertensive diastolic HF, and use of the aldosterone
      antagonist, eplerenone, was associated with attenuation of left ventricular diastolic
      dysfunction and reduction in left ventricular mass and fibrosis in this model.Thus,
      aldosterone antagonism has the potential to be a beneficial therapeutic strategy in patients
      with HFpEF.

      Vitamin D has the potential to improve the symptoms ofheart failure (HF) and to modulate the
      disease,Vitamin D supplementation can reduce blood pressure and improve skeletal muscle
      function and strength.

      Animal studies suggest that active vitamin D down-regulates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
      system (RAAS), reduces retention of salt and water, and reduces myocardial hypertrophy.
    
  