
    
      Open distal pancreatectomy with or without splenectomy has been commonly employed for the
      treatment of a variety of pancreatic diseases. Although many general surgical procedures have
      been increasingly performed laparoscopically or with laparoscopic assistance, until the
      current decade, laparoscopic pancreatic surgery had not been performed. Surgeons at Indiana
      University Hospital have safely applied laparoscopic surgery to very select patients with
      pancreatic disease since 2003. Recently, the outcomes of laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy
      at Indiana University in combination with multiple other institutions were reviewed and
      presented at the American Surgical Association Meeting 2008. These data suggest that
      laparoscopic when compared with open distal pancreatectomy may be associated with lower blood
      loss (357 vs. 588 cc, p<0.01), fewer complications (40 vs. 57%, p<0.01), and shorter hospital
      stays (5.9 vs. 9.0 days, p<0.01). Furthermore, the laparoscopic approach was an independent
      predictor of shorter hospital stays. The main criticism of this retrospective study and
      similarly designed studies is that there is likely to be a selection bias in patients who
      undergo laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy which may account for the apparent positive
      results in favor of laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy. In other words, patient factors, not
      the operative approach may be more predictive of the outcome.

      Based on these data, however, laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy appears to be at least as
      safe as open distal pancreatectomy. Currently, either technique is considered the "standard
      of care" at Indiana University Hospital as well as several other institutions in the US with
      expertise in laparoscopic pancreas surgery. To determine whether laparoscopic distal
      pancreatectomy is truly superior to open distal pancreatectomy in terms of outcomes, we have
      proposed to randomize patients to laparoscopic vs open distal pancreatectomy. In addition to
      the randomization, patients will be preoperatively stratified according to whether there is a
      diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, so outcomes in this specific group of patients may be
      examined. Patients with adenocarcinoma will be randomized separately to insure equal groups
      in laparoscopic and open distal pancreatectomy groups for this specific diagnosis. Patients
      with neuroendocrine/islet cell tumors will also be randomized separately to insure equal
      groups in laparoscopic and open distal pancreatectomy groups for this specific diagnosis.
      Laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy for adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine/islet cell tumors is
      uncommon (e.g., only 9 adenocarcinomas in last 5 years were performed laparoscopically at
      IU), thus it is clear from the outset that conclusions will be limited about patients with
      these diagnoses. Although this is being submitted as a single institution study, it will be
      strongly considered for multi-institutional study design in the near future. Patients will be
      enrolled on an intention-to-treat manner. Thus, patients who are randomized to laparoscopic
      distal pancreatectomy who require conversion to open pancreatectomy will still be included in
      the laparoscopic group in the overall comparative analyses. Subgroup analyses, however, will
      also be performed excluding this cross-over group.

      Objectives:

      Primary: The primary objective is to determine whether laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy is
      associated with improved outcomes compared to open distal pancreatectomy. Retrospective data
      suggests that blood loss, overall complication rate and hospital length of stay are
      positively influenced by the laparoscopic approach. Thus, these specific outcomes will be
      examined:

        1. estimated blood loss

        2. overall complication rate

        3. hospital length of stay

      Secondary:

        1. to determine whether laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy is safe in patients with
           pancreatic adenocarcinoma

        2. to establish a distal pancreatectomy registry
    
  