
    
      The purpose of this research study is to investigate how the brain processes emotions, and
      the way these processes affect behavior. Specifically, we hypothesize that individual
      differences in reward responsiveness will correlate with differential activation in
      mesolimbic regions of the brain and predict future wellbeing in follow-up interviews.
      Participating in this study involves up to two sessions and up to 7.5 hours. In the present
      observational study, each participant will be exposed to the same experimental procedure.

      Visit 1 will take about 4.5 hours, from 12pm to 4:30pm. The visit will take place at the
      Center for Depression, Anxiety and Stress at McLean. During this visit, a clinical
      interviewer will conduct a diagnostic SCID interview to ensure that participants qualify to
      take part in this research study. Participants will then complete several tasks. These tasks
      include several different "game-like" situations and arithmetic riddles, all of which are
      simple but require participants to work hard and remain alert for an extended period of time.
      The goal during these games is to earn as much money as you can or to avoid losing money.
      Participants will do so by responding (pressing a keyboard button) quickly and accurately.
      These tasks are intended as assessment tools, and are not a form of therapy or intervention.
      In addition, we will test participants' ability to keep their hand in cold water.
      Participants will also be asked to provide blood (via a saline IV) and saliva samples at
      different times during this session, and we will also conduct urine drug and pregnancy tests.
      The IV will be in place for a total of around 3 hours, and is used to reduce discomfort from
      multiple blood draws.

      Visit 2 will take place at the McLean Imaging Center at McLean Hospital. During the first
      part of the session, the fMRI scanner will take structural pictures of brain anatomy. Next,
      additional images will be obtained while participants complete several different "game-like"
      tasks, similar to the tasks performed in visit 1. Again, these tasks are intended as
      assessment tools, and are not a form of therapy or intervention. The whole fMRI session will
      last up to about 2.5 hours; participants will spend about 1.5 hours in the fMRI machine, and
      about a half-an-hour completing questionnaires and providing saliva samples. Prior to the
      fMRI scan, another urine sample will be obtained to check for drugs which may interfere with
      the experiment.

      After the second study session is complete, participants will be re-contacted through the
      internet every four weeks for a total of six months, to complete some questionnaires. At the
      end of six months, participants will be asked to return to McLean to complete an in-person
      interview. This follow-up period is purely observational and not intended to assess health
      outcomes, as there is no intervention in this study.
    
  