
    
      All patients receive standard anesthesia care during the surgical procedure. Before induction
      of anesthesia, baseline MAP will be defined and 6 additional sensors (stickers) will be
      applied to the back of the patient at three levels: 1 at the upper thoracic level(T3-T4), 2
      at the lower thoracic level (T9-T10) and 2 at the lumbar region (L1-L2) and 1 on the deltoid
      muscle of the upper arm. Two sensors are routinely applied to the forehead to measure
      cerebral oxygenation and a BIS sensor is applied to measure depth of anesthesia. In all
      patients a non-invasive cardiac output monitor (Clearsight; EdwardsTM LifeScience, Irvine,
      CA, USA) is routinely used. This monitor provides a continuous arterial pressure waveform in
      a non-invasive way and facilitates continuous evaluation of blood pressure. Hereby, efficient
      adaptation of the administration of vasopressors is feasible. Through an intravenous line,
      anesthetics will be administered. Vasopressor agents will be administered through a dedicated
      second intravenous line. After induction of anesthesia, an endotracheal tube is placed.

      A vasopressor agent will be administered continuously after intubation in order to maintain
      blood pressure in a range from MAPbaseline -20% to normal (preoperative) values
      (MAPbaseline). If MAP decreases to a value lower than MAPbaseline -20%, a higher dose of
      vasopressor will be administered. If MAP increases to a value above MAPbaseline, the dosing
      rate will be decreased. According to the group to which the patient has been randomized,
      phenylephrine or dobutamine will be administered and the dose will be adjusted to MAP during
      a 30-minute study period.

      The total drug amount for phenylephrine and dobutamine will not exceed 5 mg, resp. 30 mg.

      The study will be completed after 30 minutes of continuous medicamentous hemodynamic support
      administration (i.e. 30 minutes after intubation) or if administration of phenylephrine or
      dobutamine exceeds 1 µg/kg/min or 10 µg/kg/min, respectively.

      If the administration of the study medication does not achieve the desired result, management
      of the hemodynamics will be left to the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist and the
      patient will be excluded from further data analysis.

      The endovascular surgical procedure can start without delay and the duration of surgery will
      not be prolonged because of the measurements and blood pressure management
    
  