
    
      Heterozygous mutations in ADCY5 induce hyperactivity of striatal adenylate cyclase type 5
      (AC5) manifesting as early-onset hyperkinetic movement disorders. The phenotype combines
      chorea, dystonia and/or myoclonus with frequent facial involvement, axial hypotonia,
      fluctuations and/or episodes of paroxysmal dyskinesia which can be nocturnal and/or painful,
      generally without intellectual deficiency, epilepsy or cerebellar syndrome . It is a very
      rare disease, affecting around twenty patients in France.

      Scientific context of the research:

      Numerous treatments have been tried without much efficacy thus far.

      Scientific justification for the study:

      Two patients from the same family reported efficacy of caffeine on paroxysmal episodes, both
      to prevent episodes and to reduce their duration (efficacy estimated to be around 80%), which
      was specific to caffeine as it was reproduced with caffeine citrate capsules. Interestingly
      there is a rationale underlying this situation. Indeed, caffeine is an antagonist of
      adenosine A2A receptors (A2AR), which activate AC5 and are localized preferentially in
      striatal neurons that express dopamine receptors D2. Caffeine therefore likely induces
      inhibition of AC5, and thus clinical improvement in patients with hyperactivity of this
      protein. This observation has been recently published in 2019 HYPOTHESIS Our hypothesis is
      that most patients with ADCY5-related dyskinesia respond well to caffeine.

      This study is a multicentric retrospective study, which will be conducted in neurology and
      neuropediatric departments across the world.

      Participants will be recruited by their own physician. This research will take place over 18
      months in total: 12 month to collect all patients' data and 6 months to analyse data.

      The number of participants will be between 5 and 20, depending on colleagues replies.

      This research will take place over 18 months in total: 12 month to collect all patients' data
      and 6 months to analyse data.
    
  