
    
      Introduction : very long distance mountain trail which is particularly demanding for the
      organism. This kind of competition is likely to have an impact on the athlete's health and /
      or physical integrity. It is assumed that many participants may use medication in an attempt
      to i) prevent and /or treat medical conditions induced by prolonged muscular exercise, and
      ii) delay fatigue and improve physical and/or psychological capacities. Beyond ethical and
      regulatory considerations, such practice in this isolated environment is not without health
      risks. However, to our knowledge, there is no objective data on medication use during very
      long distance mountain trails.

      Methodology : Individual urine samples from male competitors participating in a very long
      distance mountain trail and using temporary urinals near the starting line will be collected
      within three hours before departure, anonymously, blindly, using hidden automated samplers.
      Simultaneously with automated urine sampling, demographic data (age class, ranking class,
      geographical area of residence, performance class over the year) will be collected
      anonymously via an automated system detecting the runners' electronic bibs. The
      quantification of different classes of drugs in the urine samples will be performed by World
      Anti-Doping Agency-accredited laboratories using liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and
      / or gas chromatography. The classes of molecules sought will be the following: most common
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), glucocorticoids, stimulants, narcotics,
      anabolic agents, metabolic modulators, cannabinoids, beta2-agonists, beta-blockers,
      diuretics, benzodiazepines. A questionnaire about drug use before/during the race and using
      the randomized response technique (RRT) will be proposed online, anonymously to female and
      male participant after the competition.

      Expected results : drug use is frequent amongst participants in a very long distance mountain
      trail. Drug use prevalence measured from automated urine collection is higher than that
      obtained from the RRT questionnaire.
    
  