
    
      All MRI scanning will be performed on 3 Tesla Philips MRI scanners (3T Achieva in S-Building
      and 3T Ingenia in T-Building) located in Imaging Research Center (IRC) in the Cincinnati
      Children's Hospital Research Foundation (CCHRF). Sedation will not be used for any of the
      test visits. The entire MRI protocol will include high resolution T1-weighted 3D images, a 61
      direction diffusion tensor imaging sequence, resting state fMRI, and task-based fMRI. The
      fMRI tasks will be focused on motor function, participants will be asked to lower extremity
      movements such as hip and knee flexion and extension. Also, for 15 minutes, the researcher
      will place one hand above the participants' knee and apply intermittent pressure to their
      quadriceps and medial aspect of the patella. VAS scales will be administered after every fMRI
      task to assess subjective perceptions of pain. The MR scan will be completed in 75 minutes or
      less. Peripheral pulse oximetry and respiration waveforms will be collected for data analysis
      in order to minimize the potential confounding effect from the physiological changes. A
      practice session of the fMRI paradigms will be completed just prior to scanning to allow the
      participant to ask any questions and be familiar with the protocol.

      The hardware and software are not FDA cleared, but also not FDA regulated as they are not
      medical devices. According to the FDA, a medical device is intended to diagnosis and or treat
      diseases while affecting the structure or function of any part of the body
      (https://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/Overview/ClassifyYourDevice/u
      cm051512.htm). This is not the case for our study as participants will already be diagnosed
      with PFP by a medical professional and the protocol will not alter any function or structure
      of the human body. the leg press task is simply used to facilitate naturally occurring
      movement of the leg and hip and not intended to treat patellofemoral pain. This method is
      simply to further understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying natural movement in this
      population.
    
  