
    
      Study Design The test material is ISOThrive. It is an approximately 90% pure
      maltosyl-isomalto-oligosacchride (MIMO) prebiotic syrup produced by bacterial
      fermentation/bio-conversion of sucrose and maltose. It is taken 1g daily.

      Subjects will have been screened for CIC or IBS-C as determined by the Rome IV criteria
      during an interview with the study coordinator and by evaluation of the online questionnaire
      responses for PAC-QOL, PAC-SYM, and BSS. The study has been designed to have each subject
      serve as their own control so there will be no placebo arm. Each subject will receive
      ISOThrive according to the protocol. The goal is to assess 100 subjects after the Screening
      Phase. The study will be done remotely. There will be communication but no in person contact
      or visits with the study coordinator.

      Two phases have been designed into this study. Phase 1 is the Screening Phase (SP) lasting 7
      days. Phase 2 is the Tolerability Phase (TP) lasting 28 days. Subjects will be instructed to
      take a daily BSS questionnaire and bowel movement frequency throughout the study. They will
      note whether they have had bowel movements each day and describe them accordingly. At three
      timepoints, specific scores will be established for comparison and statistical analysis.
      These timepoints are: (1) SP7 - baseline without ISOThrive; (2) TP14 - 2 weeks using
      ISOThrive; (3) TP28 - 4 weeks using ISOThrive. At each of these timepoints, subjects will
      also complete the PAC-QOL and PAC-SYM validated questionnaires. Subjects will report any
      usage of laxatives and any changes in their usual medications throughout their study
      participation on a daily basis.

      Enrollment An adequate number of individuals will need to be screened during the Screening
      Phase, using the disease specific validated questionnaires to yield approximately 100
      qualified subjects to enter and likely complete the Tolerability Phase of the study.
      Individuals on medications for CIC or IBS-C may continue their medications during the trial
      as long as they are reported and do not deviate from the inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      All subjects will be required to sign an IRB-approved informed e-consent that complies with
      the requirements of both 21 CRF Part 50 and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
      Act (HIPAA) before entering the study.

      The duration of the study is defined for each subject as the date a signed written informed
      consent (or e-consent) is provided through Tolerability Phase Day 28. Total participation in
      study may last up to 6 weeks. The study will seek a comparable gender distribution in the
      final analysis. Therefore, the ratio of male to female (or female to male) subjects
      completing the Tolerability Phase will be capped at 60% of the total (male or female).

      Concomitant Medications and Washout Periods CIC and IBS-C medications: Subjects currently
      taking laxatives or other treatments for CIC or IBS-C may continue these throughout the
      study. These will be recorded. Any changes in dosing of these will also be recorded.
      Commercially available medications or supplements marketed as prebiotics or probiotic cannot
      be taken. Supplements such as Metamucil and Citrucel are acceptable in this study.

      Prebiotic and/or probiotic supplements: Enrolled subjects must stop taking all prebiotic
      and/or probiotic supplements 3 weeks prior to entering the Screening Phase of the study.
      Subjects must refrain from taking prebiotic or probiotic supplements through Tolerability
      Phase Day 28.

      Sleep medications: Enrolled subjects taking medications for mild sleep disorders must be on a
      stable dose at time of consent and continue at said dose through Tolerability Phase Day 28.

      Antibiotics: Subjects must not have taken a 10 day course of a single antibiotic within the
      past 3 months, >10 day course of a single antibiotic during the past 5 months, course of >1
      antibiotics within the past 5 months , or at any time during their participation in the
      study. If antibiotics are prescribed to the subject during study participation, subject must
      be withdrawn from study.

      All study product sachets (used and unused) must be returned to Investigator for product
      accountability.

      Subject Study Flow Process No study-related activities will be performed and no subject data
      will be collected prior to completion of the informed consent process.

      Screening Phase (SP) (7 days):

      To enter the SP, subjects must be screened for CIC or IBS-C during an interview with the
      study coordinator using the Rome IV criteria and also by the study questionnaires. The SP
      will last for 7 days. Subjects who do not qualify at any point during the SP will not be
      allowed to move into the Tolerability Phase (TP). The TP will last 28 days, beginning with
      first dose of ISOThrive. Subjects will continue their allowed CIC or IBS-C medications
      throughout the SP and the TP.

      Following Day 7 of SP, a review of the questionnaire responses will be made. Subjects must
      complete at least 5 of 7 daily BSS questionnaires. Combined BSS, bowel movement frequency,
      PAC-QOL and PAC-SYM responses will be evaluated for consistency with CIC or IBS-C per the
      Rome IV criteria by the PI to be eligible to transition to the Tolerability Phase. (Two or
      fewer bowel movements in a week which resulted in a sensation of complete evacuation with one
      or more of the following: lumpy or hard stools at least 25% of the time, sensation of
      incomplete evacuation at least 25% of the time, sensation of anorectal obstruction or
      blockage for at least 25% of the time, manual maneuvering required to defecate for at least
      25% of the time, or straining at defecation at least 25% of the time.) The PAC-QOL, PAC-SYM
      and BSS and bowel movement frequency scores will serve as a baseline. Investigator will
      verify eligibility prior to study staff contacting subject.

      Once eligibility has been verified by the PI, the study coordinator will inform subject and
      confirm that subject wishes to continue in the study. There may be up to 7 calendar days
      between SP Day 7 and TP Day 1 depending on length of time to evaluate continuing eligibility
      and to ship/receive ISOThrive.

      Tolerability Phase (TP) (28 days):

      Subjects will take their current CIC or IBS-C therapy as defined in the inclusion/exclusion
      section.

      All CIC or IBS-C medications and other medications will be recorded daily via the electronic
      survey.

      ISOThrive will be taken daily each morning with or without breakfast (one sachet per day). If
      the subject forgets to take the morning dose, he/she may take it during the day or evening.
      If the dose is forgotten for 24 hours, the subject may take a double dose the next day. The
      product must be taken at least 6 of 7 days each week. Only 2 double doses per week are
      allowed (but discouraged).

      As the primary endpoint, tolerability of ISOThrive will be assessed via changes in the BSS,
      bowel movement frequency, PAC-QOL, and PAC-SYM and questionnaires. This will be assessed for
      all subjects as well as for the sub-group of subjects that completed all 4 weeks of the TP.
      Changes in BSS (frequency and stool quality), PAC-QOL, or PAC-SYM, between baseline and each
      of the TP14 and TP28 time points will be the basis of this assessment. Subjects also rated
      the change in their constipation on a 7-point scale (very much improved to very much
      worsened) at the final follow-up (TP28). Further evaluation will include comparison of
      ISOThrive tolerability in CIC vs IBS-C subject sub-groups using these time points.

      The safety endpoint of the study is to ensure that any adverse events that are reported or
      observed during the study are appropriately recorded.

      Subject Reimbursement Except for a $25 gift card for completion of all study requirements, no
      additional study compensation is being given to the research participant or authorized
      representative for data collected from this study. All study participants will be provided
      with ISOThrive for the duration of their participation in the study.

      Adverse Events Adverse events (AEs) may occur during the conduct of the study. As no changes
      to treatment plans will be made during the Screening Phase, AEs will be captured at the time
      of entry into the Tolerability Phase and continue through the last study conduct (TP Day 28)
      for each subject. AEs will be recorded in the case report forms and will be judged by the
      Investigator as to its relationship and level of relatedness to the study product.
      Investigator will identify the date of onset, severity, and duration of the AE. All AEs will
      be monitored until they are adequately resolved or explained. If an AE continues after the
      evaluation of the study, the Investigator will determine need and/or methods for continued
      surveillance of the event.

      The Investigator will report adverse events and/or serious adverse events to the reviewing
      IRB according to the reporting regulations.

      Data Quality Assurance This study will be conducted in accordance with the International
      Council for Harmonization (ICH) E6 R2. The Investigator agrees to maintain adequate
      documentation for the subjects participating in this clinical research project. The
      Investigator agrees to maintain accurate case report forms and source documentation as part
      of the case histories. Subjects will enter their data into the data capture system (REDCap).
      The analysis data sets will be generated from data captured in REDCap.

      Ethical Considerations The rights, safety and wellbeing of clinical investigation subjects
      shall be protected consistent with the ethical principles outlined in the Declaration of
      Helsinki. This shall be understood, observed, and applied at every step in this clinical
      investigation.

      Protection of Subject Confidentiality At all times throughout this clinical investigation,
      confidentiality will be observed by all parties involved. All data shall be secured against
      unauthorized access. Privacy and confidentiality of information about each subject shall be
      preserved in the reports and in any publication. Each subject participating in this study
      will be assigned a unique identifier. All CRFs will be tracked, evaluated, and stored using
      only this unique identifier.

      Data Collection and Management Study data will be collected using standardized Case Report
      Forms (CRFs). The CRFs are designed to accommodate the specific features of the trial design.
      All data will be handled as applicable, per Good Clinical Practice. Data entry will be
      performed only by qualified personnel assigned by the Investigator. Passwords will be issued
      to appropriate personnel to ensure confidentiality and protection of data.
    
  