
    
      Title: Comparison of Different Partner Notification Strategies after Antenatal Syphilis
      Screening Short Title: Syphilis Treatment of Partners (STOP) Trial Objectives: Primary For
      pregnant women who test rapid syphilis test positive; to compare the proportion of male
      partners who report to the clinic for syphilis testing (and treatment) when the women are
      given only partner notification slips (standard of care) compared to a notification slip plus
      a weekly automated SMS reminder OR a notification slip plus a weekly nurse phone call
      reminder.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the proportion of male partners who test positive for syphilis when they
           report to the clinic after receiving notification in the three groups via their pregnant
           partners.

        -  To compare the proportion of male partners who undergo treatment among the three groups.

        -  To explore factors associated with reporting/not reporting after notification.

        -  To compare birth outcomes (congenital syphilis, stillbirths, neonatal deaths, preterm or
           low birth weight) between the three arms (self-reported by women).

        -  To assess time from syphilis point of care (POC) test to treatment in mothers who test
           syphilis positive using a rapid treponemal antibody kit.

        -  To compare the proportion of women who have a 4-fold decrease in RPR titer by
           intervention arm in each arm at post natal visit.

      Study Population and sample size: • Pregnant women from 14years and above reporting to
      antenatal and subsequently postnatal clinics at the Infectious Disease Institute, Mulago
      Hospital (antenatal and STI clinics), and Kasangati Health Center IV in Kampala, Uganda who
      screen positive by rapid treponemal antibody test.

        -  Male sexual partners to these enrolled syphilis positive pregnant mothers.

        -  876participants will be enrolled. Study Design: Individual patient randomized open-label
           clinical trial of syphilis partner notification interventions.

      Study Duration: Approximately 24 months

      Endpoints:

      Primary:

      1) Proportion of male partners who present at clinic and receive syphilis testing

      Secondary:

        1. Male partners tested (standard vs. intervention in 3 arm randomization)

        2. Proportion of male partners who test positive for syphilis when they report to the
           clinic after notification.

        3. Proportion of syphilis positive male (tested by syphilis POCT) partners who undergo
           treatment among the three groups.

        4. Factors associated with partners reporting/not reporting after notification.

        5. Syphilis infected pregnant women re-tested in 3rd trimester with a 4-fold dilutional
           titer decrease in RPR (by standard vs. intervention arm)

        6. Mother reported birth outcomes (by standard vs. intervention arm) Subject Participants:
           Pregnant women testing positive for syphilis at the antenatal clinics and their
           partners.

      Description of Study Design: This is a prospective clinical trial in which pregnant syphilis
      positive women (tested by rapid treponemal antibody kit) will be randomized to one of three
      arms to notify participants to bring their sexual partners at risk for syphilis for syphilis
      screening and treatment. Women will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of the following
      three strategies: A) To receive a notification slip per the Ministry of Health standard B) to
      receive a notification slip plus an SMS reminder or C) to receive a notification slip plus
      standardized nurse/clinician initiated phone call.
    
  