
    
      This is a randomized (study medication assigned by chance), double-blind (neither the
      Physician nor the participant know about the study medication), placebo-controlled (an
      inactive substance; a pretend treatment [with no drug in it] that is compared in a clinical
      trial with a drug to test if the drug has a real effect), parallel-group (a medical research
      study comparing the response in 2 or more groups of participants receiving different
      interventions [treatments]) study to evaluate an appropriate intravenous (through a vein in
      the arm) golimumab induction dose and to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of intravenous
      induction dosing with golimumab in participants with moderately to severely active UC. At
      Week 6, participants will be asked to participate in an additional 1-year maintenance study.
      Participants not entering the 1-year golimumab maintenance study will be evaluated for safety
      at Week 16. The duration of study will be 6 weeks for participants who enter the 1-year
      golimumab maintenance study and 16 weeks for participant who do not enter the 1-year
      golimumab maintenance study.There are 2 parts in this study. Part 1 is Phase 2 "dose-ranging"
      portion of study. Participants enrolled in Part 1, will receive a single intravenous infusion
      of either matching placebo for golimumab or 1 milligram (mg) per kilogram(kg), 2 mg per kg or
      4 mg per kg of golimumab. Part 2 of the study is called "dose-confirming" and newly enrolled
      participants will receive same doses studied in Part 1, until the doses for Part 2 are
      selected and Phase 3 begins. At the time that the final doses are selected, all newly
      enrolled participants will receive 1 of the selected doses or matching placebo; this is the
      start of the Phase 3 portion of the study. Participants will primarily be assessed using Mayo
      Score (it is a score developed for measuring disease activity). Participants' safety and
      quality of life will also be monitored throughout the study.
    
  