
    
      1. Design This clinical trial is 12 weeks, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel
           group, phase 3 study which registered patients in total 25 institutions appointed as
           national clinical trial institution, it was conducted by receiving IRB(institutional
           review board) approval from each institutions.

           Target patients were aged over 20 years old male or female lower limb peripheral artery
           occlusion patients with fontaine stage II/III, who has lower limb pain or symptoms like
           leg stretching or numbing, lower limb pain degree is over 40 mm evaluated by VAS at
           screening, and ABI (ankle-brachial index) ≤0.9 or stenosis rate over >50%, diagnosed
           with PAD and voluntarily agreed to participate in clinical study and signed study
           consent form. In addition, exclusion criteria were patients who received peripheral
           related surgery within 1 month of clinical study participation, Fontaine stage 4, NYHA
           class 3-4, uncontrollable hypertension patients (systolic BP ≥ 180 mmHg, diastolic BP ≥
           110 mmHg), patients with history of cerebrovascular disease(cerebral infarction,
           cerebral hemorrhage and etc.) within 6 months prior to clinical trial participation,
           patients with uncontrollable diabetes (HbA1c ≥ 9%), and patients with renal
           insufficiency (creatinine > 3.0 mg/dL). Study subjects who met subjects criteria and
           recruited were total 151 subjects (study group: 75 subjects, comparator group: 76), and
           among these, 16 subjects (study group: 7 subjects, comparator group: 9 subjects) were
           dropouts therefore, total study subjects who completed study was 135 subjects (study
           group: 68 subjects, comparator group: 67 subjects). Dropout reasons were 'clinical trial
           plan violation' for 3 subjects (comparator group: 3 subjects), ' consent withdrawal' for
           8 subjects( study group: 5 subjects, comparator group: 3 subjects), ' fail to follow up'
           for 1 subject (comparator group: 1 subject), 'adverse event' for 3 subjects ( study
           group: 1 subject, comparator group: 2 subjects), ' other reasons' for 1 subjects ( study
           group) and there was no dropout due to 'lack of efficacy'. Selected subjects were
           stratified by 1:1 ratio and randomly assigned to investigational product or comparator
           by Fontaine Stage II or Fontaine Stage III using block randomization method and
           double-blind was applied to both investigator and study subjects.

        2. Administration Method Investigational product was DP-R202 (sarpogrelate hydrochloride
           300 mg: DreamPharma, Inc.), and comparator was Anplag® Tab (sarpogrelate hydrochloride
           100 mg: Yuhan Corp.). Administration period to subjects was 12 weeks, study group took
           investigational product, DP-R202 1 tab once(morning) and took placebo, Anplag® Tab 1
           tab/once, 3 times/day, and comparator group took investigational product, Anplag® Tab 1
           tab/once, 3 times/day and took DP-R202, placebo 1 tab once(morning).

           Administration dosage of test drug was conducted as fixed dosage and dosage fluctuation
           based on subject's condition was not performed.

        3. Efficacy and Safety Assessment Parameter Subjects visited at 4, 8, and 12 weeks
           including baseline visit (visit 2) at 4 weeks interval (total 4 times) and took efficacy
           and quality of life assessment.

      Variation in lower limb pain (VAS) comparing baseline with 12 weeks point as a primary
      efficacy Assessment parameter, variation in lower limb pain (VAS) and coldness 5-point scale
      comparing baseline with 4, 8 weeks, ankle brachial pressure index (ABI), ankle systolic
      pressure (ASP), quality of life assessment index(SF-36), Maximum Walking Distance (MWD), Pain
      Free Walking Distance (PFWD), and investigator's general assessment(VAS) at 4, 8, and 12
      weeks as secondary efficacy assessment parameters, efficacy was measured. Pain and coldness
      test was measured using pain and coldness felt by subject 24 hours prior to the visit, MWD
      and PFWD was measured only on subjects who was determined to be possible to measure, and
      asked to record daily degree of lower limb pain every day from baseline till the end of
      clinical trial only with subject who can record it. Also, adverse even, laboratory test,
      vital sign, weight measurement were conducted for efficacy assessment. Physical test and
      vital sign were conducted at screening visit, administration begins, 4, 8, and 12 weeks after
      administration and urine pregnancy test and laboratory test were conducted at screening
      visits and 12 weeks after administration. ECG test was conducted at screening visit, 4, 8,
      and 12 weeks after administration. Laboratory test criteria were hematological test, blood
      chemical test, blood coagulation test and urine test.
    
  