
    
      Participants will be randomized to one of three orders to reduce the possibility of an order
      effect.The participants will be given a brownie specific for the condition they are in and
      then will be instructed to eat the brownie in 10 minutes. Twenty minutes after consuming the
      brownie participants will be served a lunch. Dependent variables will be food liking.

      At the start of the session the participant will be asked to recall all foods and beverages
      consumed 24 hours prior to the scheduled appointment. During this recall if a participant
      reports consuming any foods or beverages besides water within 3 hours of the appointment, the
      appointment will be rescheduled. Participants will also be asked if they have participated in
      any physical activity 24 hours prior to their scheduled appointment. If the participant
      answers "yes," then the appointment will be rescheduled.

      After completing hunger and fullness VAS, participants will be presented with a preload of
      brownie, β-glucan brownie, or psyllium brownie. The brownie will be prepared from the same
      base recipe, thus be of the same approximate energy and macronutrient composition, but differ
      in amount and type of dietary fiber. The base recipe will use a box of Pillsbury™ dark
      chocolate brownie mix, two eggs, ¼ cup water and 2/3 cup of Food Club™ unsweetened
      applesauce. The regular brownie will not contain any fiber, while the β-glucan and psyllium
      brownie will contain about 6 grams of their respective fiber: Bulk Supplements™ β-glucan and
      Frontier™ Psyllium Husk Powder. An additional tablespoon of water will be added to the
      β-glucan brownie mix. The brownie will be presented warm, with two tablespoons of Cool Whip™
      fat free spread on top, with 6 ounces of water. The participants will be told to consume all
      of the brownie and toping, and to drink all of the 6 oz of water within 10 minutes. Next,
      participants will rate their hunger and fullness again with the VAS and sit quietly for 20
      minutes reading current magazines (i.e., People, Entertainment Weekly). After 20 minutes, the
      participants will be presented with a sandwich (turkey or ham), chips, and grapes.The
      sandwich will be cut into quarters on a plate, the chips and grapes will be presented in two
      separate bowls. Following the presentation of the meal, participants will be instructed that
      they will have 20 minutes to eat as much or as little as they would like of the meal provided
      until satisfied, however they need to at least taste each of the foods. At the completion of
      20 minutes, the lunch will be removed and the participant will be asked to complete a scale
      for evaluating levels of hunger, fullness, and liking of the foods.
    
  