
    
      The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of acupressure applied in the first 72
      hours on patients with acute stroke on physiological parameters, anxiety and sleep quality.
      In addition, five basic research questions have been identified for the purpose of the
      research:

      1. Methods:

      1.1. Design: Randomized controlled trial.

      1.2. Setting: The research will be carried out in the stroke unit of Izzet Baysal Training
      and Research Hospital, Bolu, Turkey.

      1.3. Sample: The research will include two groups, an intervention and a placebo. Power
      analysis was used to determine the sample size. The sample of 64 (intervention=32,
      placebo=32) was sufficient with 0.84 effect size, 95% confidence interval and 80% power. In
      randomization, closed envelope method will be used.

      1.4. Data collecting 1.4.1. Patient Information Form: data regarding demographic and clinical
      features will be collected.

      1.4.2. National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS): NIHSS is an internationally
      recognized scale. It is a systematic assessment tool that provides a quantitative measurement
      of stroke-related neurological deficit. It is a clinical scale that provides information
      about the prognosis of a stroke patient.NIHSS is an internationally recognized scale. It is a
      systematic assessment tool that provides a quantitative measurement of stroke-related
      neurological deficit. It is a clinical scale that provides information about the prognosis of
      a stroke patient.The scale will be applied on the first day and the third day.

      1.4.3. Barthel Daily Life Activities Index: The scale is used primarily to determine the
      functional capacities of the patients before and after the treatment to determine their
      treatment progress and to determine the level of nursing care that the patient needs. The
      scale will be applied on the first day and the third day.

      1.4.4. Spielberger State-Continuity Anxiety Scale: 1.4.4.1. State Anxiety Inventory: It aims
      to measure how individuals feel right now. The scale will be filled before and after the
      first day, and after the second and third day.

      1.4.4.2. Trait Anxiety Scale: Durum ve koşullardan bağımsız olarak süreç içerisinde kişinin
      nasıl hissettiğini belirtir. The scale will be filled on the first day before the
      application.

      1.4.5. Physiological Parameters Assessment Form: Five different parameters were evaluated,
      namely systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, fever, respiratory rate, oxygen
      saturation.

      1.4.6.Richard-Campbell Sleep Scale: This scale evaluates the depth of night sleep, the time
      to fall asleep, the frequency of awakening, the awakening time when awakened, the quality of
      sleep and the level of noise in the environment. The scale will be filled in before the
      application on the second, third and fourth days.

      1.5. Interventions: Acupressure application will be applied once every 12 hours for a total
      of 6 times for 3 days. Approximately every application will take 18 minutes. Real acupressure
      will not be applied to the placebo group, and pressure will be applied to places other than
      acupressure application points.
    
  