
    
      Hepatic Hydrothorax (HH) occurs in 5-10% of cirrhotic patients and remains a significant
      clinical challenge. Despite medical therapy with diuretics and sodium restriction, many
      patients still experience intractable, debilitating dyspnea and respiratory compromise.
      Repeated thoracentesis, while often effective, may affect prohibitively transient symptom
      relief and exposes the patient to repeated procedures with inherent cumulative risk.
      Trans-jugular intrahepatic porto-systemic shunt (TIPS), while a valuable treatment for HH, is
      not always effective or able to be performed. Similarly, liver transplantation although
      potentially curative, is not available to many patients and may be significantly delayed.
      Many patients do not experience sufficient or timely relief with current conventional
      therapy. There exists the need for additional therapies, either as a bridge to
      transplantation or TIPS, or for palliation when transplantation is not expected.

      The insertion of an Indwelling tunneled pleural catheters (ITPC) may prove to be safe and
      effective in treating the dyspnea, cough, and hypoxemia associated with HH in patients
      refractory to conventional medical management, and serve as an effective bridge to
      transplantation or TIPS.

      ITPCs have been shown to successfully and safely control dyspnea in patients with malignant
      pleural effusions; producing long-lasting plurodesis in greater than 50% of recipients.
      Compared to the large amount of published data regarding the use of ITPC in malignant
      effusions, there is a paucity of data regarding the use of ITPC in benign disease;
      particularly HH. A small series of four patients and a single case report have previously
      described the successful use of an ITPC for the management of HH. There exists the need for a
      prospective study to investigate the potential benefit of using ITPCs in patients with HH.
    
  