
    
      This is an Observational, survey study. The survey is designed to be administered in two
      stages. In the first stage, patients who were prescribed Immediate-Released Methylphenidate
      (IR-MPH) for over 3 months, who are also on IR-MPH 1 month prior and who meet inclusion
      criteria will be enrolled. On survey day 1, the patients, parents/caregivers, and clinicians
      will assess patient drug compliance. For patients considered non-compliant, the Investigator
      will decide whether or not to change current medication. Those patients whose medication is
      changed from IR-MPH to another treatment for ADHD, will be enrolled into the second stage. On
      survey day 1, Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the effects of the medication on sleep
      quality, decreased appetite, dizziness and or headache, and gastrointestinal upset will be
      assessed based on clinical interview. Any other side effects shown during medication
      treatment will be also recorded in the first stage. Parent/Caregivers will need to complete
      the Swanson, Nolan and Pelham (SNAP) Questionnaire which will evaluate the ADHD child's
      symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, impulsivity and oppositional defiant disorder. In the
      second stage, those ADHD patients who meet the definition of non-compliance will be treated
      with other medications for over three weeks. On the first visit back after starting treatment
      with other medications, drug compliance, CGI, any change in negative parent-child
      interaction, overall classroom behavior, overall academic performance, the effects on sleep
      quality, decreased appetite, diziness and or headache, and gastrointestinal upset will be
      assessed by Investigator interview. Parent/Caregivers will need to complete SNAP Questionaire
      which will evaluate the ADHD child's symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity, impulsivity and
      oppositional defiant disorder. It is a survey type of study. No study drug has been used in
      the study.
    
  