
    
      Type 2 diabetes (T2D) affects 26 million Americans and "prediabetes" affects 86 million more.
      If this epidemic is not addressed immediately, 23% of Americans will have T2D by 2030.
      Current lifestyle programs to prevent diabetes are complex to deliver, costly, and have
      limited scalability. Medications do not clearly modify the disease process and have a number
      of side effects. New approaches are needed that can address this epidemic on a population
      scale. mHealth technologies (e.g., smartphones) are deeply integrated into our lives and can
      target the daily lifestyle behaviors that underpin the T2D epidemic. The Veterans Health
      Administration (VHA) is an ideal setting to test mHealth approaches because they are at the
      forefront of harnessing smartphone technologies to deliver care with the advent of the "VA
      App Store." As the nation's largest integrated healthcare system, VHA has a central
      dissemination infrastructure to deliver smartphone interventions to over 5.5 million
      Veterans. BeWell24, an adaptive and multicomponent smartphone "app" was developed based on
      the unique needs and desires of US Veterans and VHA clinical teams. BeWell24 targets
      behaviors across the 24 hours - sleep, sedentary behavior, and more active behaviors - and
      preliminary data suggest reductions in fasting glucose among prediabetics of 12.3% in just 8
      weeks of use. A dietary component will be added to the app to further enhance the potency of
      the intervention. The objective now is to test whether the delivery and integration of this
      app into routine clinical care settings can improve glycemic control over 9 months. A
      randomized controlled trial of 120 prediabetic Veterans is proposed. The first aim is to test
      whether BeWell24 significantly improves glycemic control (reduce fasting glucose and HbA1c)
      over 9 months relative to usual care. Objectively-measured changes is targeted behaviors
      (sleep, sedentary behavior, physical activity, and dietary intake) and other key
      cardiometabolic biomarkers (weight/body fat, blood pressure, lipids, insulin, and hs-CRP)
      will also be explored. The second and third aims are to assess factors impacting scalability
      of BeWell24 from patient and provider perspectives to optimize opportunities for large-scale
      dissemination if efficacious. Program reach/retention, app usage, treatment acceptability,
      program costs, and clinical integration factors will be studied. Unique features of this
      proposal are the rigorous cluster-randomized design; testing in a highly integrated,
      nationwide, clinical setting; and use of a highly sophisticated smartphone platform uniquely
      designed for the population and targets multiple health behaviors impacting T2D risk. The
      long-term goal is to establish an effective diabetes prevention program among Veterans that
      can be used to complement and enhance existing clinical support. If effective, this approach
      could be rapidly scaled to Veterans nationwide and could have broad applicability for other
      populations at disparate T2D risk as well as other disorders.
    
  