
    
      The goal of this study is to determine the optimal delivery of a Family Navigation (FN) model
      that increases engagement in services to address children's behavioral health. While there is
      strong evidence that navigation decreases barriers to care for low income and minority
      families, little is known about which specific components contribute to its efficacy. The
      investigators propose to use MOST, a pioneering, engineering-inspired framework, to assess
      the performance of individual intervention components and their interactions.

      Delivery of FN will be systematically varied across four components, each of which is
      represented by a separate factor in the 2x2x2x2 factorial study design. Specifically, each
      family will be randomly assigned to one of two conditions within each of four factors or
      delivery strategies, defining sixteen separate experimental conditions. Strategies include:
      (A) technology-assisted delivery of care coordination using an innovative, web-based platform
      called Act.MD (compared to usual care); (B) clinic based FN + community-based (compared to
      clinic-based only); (C) enhanced symptom tracking using more frequent behavioral symptom
      tracking (compared to standard pediatric surveillance); and (d) individually-tailored visits
      (compared to a predetermined schedule of contacts). All children will be followed through the
      EHR for 12 months, for outcomes in services access and symptom tracking.

      The main effects will be estimated of the four experimental factors and their interactions on
      the study's primary outcome - family engagement in services to address their child's
      behavioral health. This information then guides assembly of an optimized FN model that
      achieves the primary outcomes with least resource consumption and participant burden.

      Children will be enrolled if they have a positive behavioral health screen OR parent concern.
      A "watchful waiting" group for families of children with more mild symptoms and/or who do not
      choose to access child behavioral services at the time of the index visit with the Family
      Partner (FP) will be included. These families will be followed and child symptoms tracked at
      3, 6, 9 and 12 months. If the watchful waiting children have an increase in symptom severity,
      and/or the family later desires services, they will have the opportunity to receive FN
      services and be randomized to a study condition.
    
  