
    
      A Prospective, randomized, multicenter clinical trial.

      Duration: Beginning in mid-2013 with a minimum of three years depending on the patient
      inclusion rate.

      The participation of at least 20 hospitals in Spain with an inclusion of about 6 patients per
      hospital is required.

      Calculation of sample size: The calculation of sample size was performed considering that the
      efficacy of endoscopic treatment by endoscopic stent placement is superior to endoscopic
      dilatation: 75% vs 50% for balloon dilation (% of patients free of therapeutic intervention
      -endoscopic or surgically a year follow-up).

      For all 61 patients are required for each treatment group, the total of 122 patients. This
      calculation is made taking into account:

        -  Bilateral Contrast: any two samples may be superior in terms of efficacy.

        -  Error type I: 0.05

        -  Error type II: 0.20 (statistical power 80%)

        -  Percentage of efficacy at one year follow-up: 75% in the prosthetic group and 50% in the
           balloon dilatation group

        -  Percentage of losses: 5%.

      Schedule

        1. Screening Visit

        2. Sheet Inclusion

        3. Expansion notebook / prosthesis placement notebook

        4. Monitoring Worksheet to the 7 days. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment.

        5. Monitoring Worksheet to the 30 days. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment.
           Includes analytical. In case of placement of prostheses include prosthetic removal sheet

        6. Monitoring Worksheet to the 2 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment.

        7. Monitoring Worksheet to the 3 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment.

        8. Monitoring Worksheet to the 4 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

        9. Monitoring Worksheet to the 5 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

       10. Monitoring Worksheet to the 6 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment.
           Include analytical

       11. Monitoring Worksheet to the 7 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

       12. Monitoring Worksheet to the 8 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

       13. Monitoring Worksheet to the 9 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

       14. Monitoring Worksheet to the 10 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

       15. Monitoring Worksheet to the 11 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment

       16. Monitoring Worksheet to the 12 months. Symptomatic / complications-incidents assessment
           Include analytical.

       17. Final assessment.

       18. Monitoring Worksheet to the recurrence. Symptomatic / complications-incidents
           assessment. Include analytical
    
  