
    
      While evidence-based practice (EBP) guidelines exist for cancer survivorship care,
      implementation in rural practices has fallen short. Approximately 72.5% of Kansas cancer
      survivors who have completed their cancer treatment receive a majority of their health care
      from Primary Care Providers, yet these providers describe a lack of basic awareness of
      risk-based surveillance, effects of cancer treatment and their management, as well as
      inadequate resources, and growing administrative demands as reasons for not working to
      improve survivorship care. These factors may also prevent shared care management of cancer
      survivors between primary care and rural oncology care providers. There is a pressing need to
      understand primary care practice capacity to implement guideline informed management and
      follow-up for cancer survivors in the acute and extended phases of care.

      Specific Aim 1. Formally assess gaps in processes of care and additional training needed to
      result in actual adoption of high-quality care for acute and chronic survivors of breast,
      colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer in 20 rural primary care practices. Utilize this
      formative information to further refine the KanSurvive-ECHO.

      Specific Aim 2. Evaluate the effectiveness of KanSurvive-ECHO for enhancing evidence-based
      survivorship care for rural breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer survivors.

      Hypothesis: Compared to delayed intervention control, rural primary care practices randomized
      to KanSurvive-ECHO will demonstrate greater concordance with evidence-based survivorship care
      guidelines as measured by a composition score determined by change in EHR documentation
      consistent with guideline concordant care.

      Specific Aim 3: Utilizing the Integrated Promoting Action on Research Implementation in
      Health Services (i-PARIHS) framework describe key facilitators and barriers to implementation
      of KanSurvive-ECHO including innovation, recipients, context, and facilitation.

      This novel project will provide a model for development of a community of practice using
      practice facilitation and Project ECHO to improve the management and follow-up of cancer
      survivors in the acute and extended phases of cancer survivorship.
    
  