
    
      Background:

        -  Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a genetic disease with multiple clinical manifestations,
           including plexiform neurofibromas (PN) that can cause pain and may significantly impact
           daily functioning and quality of life (QOL).

        -  Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are useful in trials for conditions that are disabling
           and chronic like NF1, where symptom reduction and improved functioning and QOL currently
           are important treatment outcomes, which may occur with PN shrinkage.

        -  A critical step toward approval of drugs to treat PNs is to evaluate clinical benefit in
           conjunction with a reduction in tumor volume as assessed by imaging endpoints.

        -  The FDA requests the use of PROs in NF1 clinical atrials, especially for assessing
           changes in symptoms, such as pain.

        -  Currently, no valid PRO measures exist that are specific to the NF1 population to assess
           PN pain, its functional impact on an individual s life, or overall physical functioning,
           which may be affected by PNs.

      Objectives:

        -  Phase 1: Qualitative Evaluation

           ---To evaluate current modifications and the need for any additional modifications to
           existing measures of pain intensity (Numeric Rating Scale; NRS-11) and pain interference
           (Pain Interference Index; PII) and select the most appropriate items to measure physical
           functioning (PROMIS Physical Functioning; PROMIS-PF) in NF1 based on qualitative
           feedback from patients with NF1, PNs and pain to use as endpoints in clinical trials for
           individuals with NF1 and PNs.

        -  Phase 2: Evaluation of Psychometric Properties and Collection of Normative Data

             -  To evaluate final versions of the NRS-11, PII, and PROMIS-PF measures on
                reliability, validity, sensitivity to change, and feasibility in individuals with
                NF1 and PNs.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with documented NF1 either by NIH clinical criteria or molecularly-proven mutation
      in the NF1 gene will be included in the study. Patients must have at least 1 plexiform
      neurofibroma (PN) that is at least >3cm on physical exam or >3mL on volumetric MRI. Patients
      must be at least 5 years of age and able to understand and speak English.

      Design:

      This protocol will be a limited site, multi-institutional research study to maximize our
      ability to assess a large, diverse sample of individuals with NF1. NCI is the lead
      institution and the three participating sites are Children s National Medical Center,
      University of Chicago, and Cincinnati Children s Hospital.

      This study will consist of 2 phases:

        -  Phase 1: Qualitative Evaluation

           --The first phase involves evaluation of current modifications and the need for any
           additional modification of the NRS-11 and the PII and evaluating the most appropriate
           items from the PROMIS-PF item bank to use in the PROMIS-PF short form by conducting
           focus groups and interviews with patients diagnosed with NF1 and PNs and parents of
           children. We will conduct up to 24 focus groups across various age bands. We will
           conduct up to four groups of 6-8 subjects for each age band (8-11 years; 12-14 years;
           15-19 years [still in high school]; 18- 24 years [graduated from high school]; 25+
           years; and parents of children with NF1). In lieu of focus groups with young children
           (ages 5-7), we will conduct individual cognitive interviews. We will conduct up to 6
           interviews for children ages 5, 6, and 7, resulting in up to 18 child cognitive
           interviews; we will additionally conduct up to 6 cognitive interviews with parents of
           children 5-7. This qualitative data will be evaluated and any necessary changes based on
           patient responses, will be made to the NRS-11, PII, and PROMIS-PF. The measures will
           then be converted into an electronic format that will have the same items and will have
           the same question and answer format as the paper questionnaires. It will be administered
           on an electronic tablet. We will then conduct up to 32 cognitive interviews across 3
           broad age bands (8-12, 13-19, and 18+) up to 10 cognitive interviews with parents, and
           up to 20 additional interviews across age bands if deemed necessary following
           qualitative analysis for a maximum ceiling of 62 patients with a target of 42 cognitive
           interviews to evaluate the measures. Based on these qualitative results these versions
           will be updated if necessary to prepare for phase 2.

        -  Phase 2: Evaluation of Psychometric Properties and Collection of Normative Data

             -  The second phase will evaluate the final electronic versions of the NRS-11, the
                PII, and the PROMIS-PF using a cross-sectional design to examine internal
                consistency, construct validity, sensitivity to change, and to provide normative
                data on the study measures for the NF1 population. It is our goal to recruit from
                14 to 16 patients, with a target of 15 in each of 8 phase 2 age bands for an
                approximate ceiling of 128 (target = 120) patients, 64 parents of children (target
                = 60) 8+ and 16 parents of children ages 5-7 (target = 15). All patients and
                parents will be asked to complete the measures two different times to examine
                test-retest reliability or sensitivity to change. For the sensitivity to change
                analysis, a subset of patients will be given the measure before and after starting
                a new pain medication treatment (including new prescriptions and dose escalations)
                or starting a new drug to reduce tumor size.
    
  