
    
      End-stage renal disease (ESRD) currently affects nearly 662,000 people in the U.S. While
      dialysis is the treatment of choice for over 90% of patients with ESRD and is universally
      covered by Medicare regardless of patient age or means, the likelihood that dialysis can
      restore health or prolong life is limited; only 50% of dialysis patients are alive 3 years
      after the onset of ESRD. Thus many dialysis patients and their family members or surrogate
      decision-makers have to face difficult end-of-life decisions. Although advance care planning
      (ACP), in which patients and surrogate decision-makers discuss future health states and
      treatment options, is a central tenet of dialysis care, the vast majority of dialysis
      patients (>90%) report never engaging in ACP discussions with their care providers. The lack
      of effective ACP to prepare patients and their surrogates for end-of-life decision making
      with sufficient time before death has deleterious consequences at all levels of society.
      Consequences have been well documented: prolonged use of futile treatment at the end of life,
      which misuses the healthcare system, high levels of surrogate distress during decision
      making, which emanates from not having a clear understanding of the patient's wishes, and
      surrogates experiencing later sequelae of psychosocial morbidities, such as depression and
      family discord.

      "Sharing Patient's Illness Representation to Increase Trust" (SPIRIT), a patient and
      family-centered ACP intervention based on the Representational Approach to Patient Education,
      was designed by our team to establish a testable model of how end-of-life care discussions
      could occur between a dialysis patient and his/her chosen surrogate (usually a spouse or
      adult child). The discussions, which are facilitated by a trained care provider, are framed
      around addressing each individual's representations of (beliefs about) the illness and views
      of life-sustaining measures at the end of life. SPIRIT follows a six-step learning objective
      over two-sessions, which together take about 60 minutes. The care provider, who is
      value-neutral, guides the patient in examining his/her values related to end-of-life care,
      helps the surrogate understand the patient's illness progression, and prepares the surrogate
      for his/her role as a surrogate in a highly emotionally charged medical setting. Over the
      last decade, SPIRIT has been tested to establish feasibility, patient-surrogate
      acceptability, and efficacy. In these explanatory trials carried out in dialysis clinics,
      SPIRIT was delivered by trained research nurses. Patients and surrogates in SPIRIT showed
      significant improvement in preparedness for end-of-life decision making, including the extent
      to which: a) the patient and surrogate agreed on end-of-life care goals, b) the patient had
      reduced conflict about the benefits and burdens of life-sustaining treatments, and c) the
      surrogate had increased confidence about the role of surrogate. Key to establishing the
      utility of this approach for broader generalizability, surrogates who received SPIRIT
      reported significantly improved post-bereavement psychological outcomes after the patient's
      death compared to those who did not. The logical, critical next step is to ask: Will SPIRIT
      be effective as part of routine care in real-world clinical settings with less control? To
      address this very issue, the researchers will conduct a real-world
      effectiveness-implementation study, an essential step prior to widespread implementation of
      SPIRIT.

      This study is a multicenter, clinic-level cluster randomized trial to evaluate the
      effectiveness of SPIRIT delivered by dialysis care providers as part of routine care in
      free-standing outpatient dialysis clinics compared to usual care plus delayed SPIRIT
      implementation. Simultaneously, the researchers will evaluate the implementation of SPIRIT,
      including sustainability. This study will use a Type I effectiveness-implementation hybrid
      approach that combines testing intervention effectiveness and gathering information about
      implementation of an efficacious intervention in a real world setting. The short-term goal is
      to generate sufficient evidence to accelerate the integration of SPIRIT into dialysis
      practice and policy. This study will recruit 400 dyads of patients at high risk of death in
      the next year and their surrogates (a total of 800 individuals) from 30 dialysis clinics in 4
      states. The dialysis clinics will be randomized to implement SPIRIT immediately or to
      maintain usual care to serve as a control to the intervention. Participants will be recruited
      for 15 months. The control sites will implement SPIRIT after the 15 month intervention and 9
      month follow up period is complete. Individual patient participation will end at 9 months or
      death, whichever occurs first; surrogate participation will end at 9 months or at the
      completion of 3-month post-death follow-up.
    
  