
    
      Everyday in the United States, nearly 100,000 patients undergo general anesthesia and
      sedation for surgical and diagnostic procedures. Approximately 35% of all surgical procedures
      are performed on adults older than 65 years. Advanced age has been identified as a
      predominant risk factor for postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) as well as
      postoperative delirium (POD), a more acute complication of major surgery. POD and POCD are
      commonly reported as being part of the same continuum. Although many factors, such as
      surgical stress, inflammation, and other comorbidities may contribute to POCD, there is
      evidence that anesthetic exposure plays a major role. Pre-clinical studies have demonstrated
      that exposure to anesthetic drugs is neurotoxic, and that older animals are particularly
      vulnerable. It is also generally understood that the elderly are more sensitive to
      anesthetics meaning that lower doses of anesthetic drugs are required to induce and maintain
      unconsciousness.

      Propofol and sevoflurane, two of the most commonly-used anesthetic drugs, induce a
      stereotyped sequence of brain oscillations with increasing drug concentration. These brain
      oscillations are directly related to the states of sedation and unconsciousness induced by
      anesthetic drugs, and readily observed using the EEG. At high concentrations, propofol and
      sevoflurane produce a pattern referred to as burst suppression, a deep state of brain
      inactivation in which brain activity is punctuated by long periods of neuronal and EEG
      silence. Elderly patients are far more likely to be in burst suppression, even when
      age-adjusted anesthetic dosing is used. Recent studies have shown compelling evidence that
      EEG burst suppression during anesthesia is an independent risk factor for POD and predicts
      deficits in cognitive function after surgery. Since burst suppression occurs at higher
      anesthetic doses, and is not required to maintain unconsciousness, an obvious implication is
      that cognitive outcomes might be improved if anesthesiologists used the EEG to maintain
      unconsciousness but avoid burst suppression.

      Although anesthesiologists and researchers have advocated the use of the unprocessed EEG and
      EEG spectrogram as tools to manage a patient's state of consciousness during general
      anesthesia for many decades, few anesthesiologists use the EEG in their routine practice. A
      major limiting factor has been the absence of training programs to teach anesthesiologists
      how to interpret the EEG in the context of their clinical practice. Alongside this problem,
      to date no studies have been conducted to measure the benefits, if any, of using the
      unprocessed EEG and EEG spectrogram for anesthetic management. In this study the
      investigators hypothesize that: 1) Anesthesiologists can be trained to read the unprocessed
      EEG and EEG spectrogram to manage general anesthesia; and 2) EEG-based anesthetic management
      to maintain unconsciousness but avoid burst suppression can improve patient outcomes.
    
  