
    
      People with spinal cord injury (SCI) have motor dysfunction that results in substantial
      social, personal, and economic costs. Robotic gait training is often used with the aim to
      improve walking ability in these individuals. Investigators recently reported that robotic
      gait training reorganizes spinal neuronal circuits, improves motor activity, and contributes
      substantially to recovery of walking ability in people with motor incomplete SCI. However,
      pathological muscle tone and abnormal muscle activation patterns during assisted stepping
      were still evident after multiple sessions of robotic gait training. Locomotor training alone
      may thus be insufficient to strengthen weak neuronal synapses connecting the brain with the
      spinal cord or to fully optimize spinal neural circuits. On the other hand, spinal cord
      stimulation increases sprouting and plasticity of axons and dendrites in spinalized animals.
      Furthermore, transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation (termed here transspinal stimulation) in
      people with SCI can evoke rhythmic leg muscle activity when gravity is eliminated. A
      fundamental knowledge gap still exists on induction of functional neuroplasticity and
      recovery of leg motor function after repetitive thoracolumbar transspinal stimulation during
      body weight supported (BWS) assisted stepping in people with SCI. The central working
      hypothesis in this study is that transspinal stimulation delivered during BWS-assisted
      stepping provides a tonic excitatory input increasing the overall responsiveness of the
      spinal cord and improving motor output. The investigators will address 3 specific aims:
      Establish induction of neuroplasticity and improvements in leg sensorimotor function in
      people with motor incomplete SCI when transspinal stimulation is delivered during
      BWS-assisted stepping at low frequencies (0.3 Hz; Specific Aim 1) and at high frequencies (30
      Hz; Specific Aim 2), and when BWS-assisted step training is administered without transspinal
      stimulation (Specific Aim 3). In all groups, outcomes after 20 sessions will be measured via
      state-of-the-art neurophysiological methods. Corticospinal circuit excitability will be
      measured via transcranial magnetic stimulation motor evoked potentials in seated subjects
      (Aims 1A, 2A, 3A). Soleus H-reflex and tibialis anterior flexor reflex excitability patterns
      will be measured during assisted stepping (Aims 1B, 2B, 3B). Sensorimotor function will be
      evaluated via standardized clinical tests of gait and strength (Aims 1C, 2C, 3C).
      Additionally, poly-electromyographic analysis of coordinated muscle activation will be
      measured in detail. It is hypothesized that transspinal stimulation at 30 Hz during assisted
      stepping improves leg motor function and decreases ankle spasticity more compared to 0.3 Hz.
      It is further hypothesized that transspinal stimulation at 30 Hz normalizes the abnormal
      phase-dependent soleus H-reflex and flexor reflex modulation commonly observed during
      stepping in people with motor incomplete SCI. To test the project hypotheses, 45 people with
      motor incomplete SCI will be randomly assigned to receive 20 sessions of transspinal
      stimulation at 0.3 or 30 Hz during BWS-assisted stepping or 20 sessions of BWS-assisted
      stepping without transspinal stimulation (15 subjects per group). Results from this research
      project will advance considerably the field of spinal cord research and change the standard
      of care because there is great potential for development of novel and effective
      rehabilitation strategies to improve leg motor function after motor incomplete SCI in humans.
    
  