
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury initiates a biochemical cascade that leads to
      cartilage degradation and the development of posttraumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA). ACL and
      acute traumatic meniscus tears have been linked the development and progression of PTOA. As
      such, there is an unmet need to identify treatments that may alter the progression of PTOA
      following ACL meniscus injury. The overarching hypothesis of this project is that
      intraarticular administration of long-acting anti-inflammatory agents will alter the
      progression of PTOA following ACL reconstruction.

      The current standard of care for patients with combined ACL and meniscus injuries consists of
      surgical treatment often with a short course of postoperative physical therapy. However, the
      current mechanically-based standard of care does not address the persistent inflammatory
      process that promotes cartilage degradation and PTOA progression. The pro-inflammatory
      stimulation of meniscus cells increases matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) and cytokine activity,
      and the combination of pro-inflammatory cytokines and compressive loading like what may be
      seen during sporting and high demand activities further results in degradative enzyme
      activity and increased production of pro-inflammatory mediators. In this way, the meniscus
      plays an active role in promoting the cycle of articular cartilage degradation and PTOA
      progression after ACL reconstruction.

      Reducing MMP and cytokine activity after ACL and meniscus injury may alter the progression of
      PTOA for this at-risk patient population. After ACL injury and reconstruction demonstrate
      triamcinolone acetonide effectively reduces cartilage degradation, the inflammatory cascade
      and corresponding cartilage degradation are reinitiated after surgery, hyaluronate treatment
      1 week after surgery unsuccessfully mitigates the inflammatory and catabolic processes, and
      pain and persistent postsurgical cytokine activity at 4 weeks were predictive of inferior
      knee biomechanics 6 months after surgery. In addition, long-acting agents may provide a
      greater treatment effect as temporal regulation of cytokine activity may more successfully
      alter the pro-inflammatory environment than shorter-duration treatments. These results
      identify that long-acting anti-inflammatory treatment is needed to alter the path of PTOA
      following meniscus injury and administration 8 weeks after surgery may offer the optimal
      timing of treatment.

      The model whereby femoral shape change and cytokine activity are mediated by a long-acting
      anti-inflammatory agent (extended-release triamcinolone acetonide) will be tested. Femoral
      shape changes have been demonstrated after ACL injury and reconstruction, with shape changes
      in the first 6 months after surgery correlating with subsequent MRI evidence of cartilage
      degradation and inferior patient-reported outcomes 3 years postoperatively. A Phase 2a,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized controlled trial will be performed. The trial
      will determine if a long-acting anti-inflammatory agent (extended-release triamcinolone
      acetonide) improves patient-reported outcomes and/or lessens progressive bone shape changes
      or cartilage breakdown when compared to placebo (saline). Saline was chosen as the placebo as
      saline has few potential risks and rare adverse events and is the most commonly used placebo
      treatment option used in knee osteoarthritis research.
    
  