
    
      This human laboratory study seeks to test the hypothesis that activation of nicotinic
      acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the brain will reduce impulsive behavior in response to
      negative emotional cues as compared to neutral emotional cues. Because impulsive action
      during negative mood states is strongly correlated with impulsive aggression in both healthy
      individuals and individuals with schizophrenia (discussed below), the investigators'
      overarching, long-term goal is to determine whether nAChRs in general as well as specific
      nAChR subclasses might represent novel treatment targets to reduce impulsive aggressive
      behavior, a significant public health problem.

      Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are a large family of excitatory, pentameric, ionotropic,
      ligand-gated ion channels located throughout the brain and the remainder of the body. Their
      endogenous ligand is acetylcholine, yet this family is defined by their common activation by
      nicotine. Interestingly, anti-aggressive, or "serenic" effects of nicotine have been
      demonstrated across a number of animal models, including mice, rats, and non-human primates,
      and multiple human laboratory studies demonstrate an anti-aggressive effect of nicotine in
      humans. The investigators' laboratory has also demonstrated that acute administration of
      nicotine at relatively low doses results in reduction of aggressive behaviors in mouse
      models. Because nicotine is active at all nAChRs, the investigators explored this mechanism
      further and found that hippocampal alpha-7 nAChRs were both necessary and sufficient for
      nicotine's serenic effect. Consistent with these findings, there is substantial evidence in
      humans that reduction of alpha-7 nAChR signaling enhances aggressive behavior, including in
      individuals with 15q13.3 microdeletion syndrome, a genetic disorder resulting from the
      deletion of the region of chromosome 15 containing the gene coding for alpha-7 nAChRs. The
      investigators have also translated these findings into human clinical populations, finding
      recently the safety and efficacy of transdermal nicotine to reduce aggression and
      irritability in young adults with autism spectrum disorder. This work, along with other
      previous case studies in humans, supports targeting nAChRs using transdermal nicotine to
      reduce aggressive behaviors.

      Urgency is a behavioral construct defined as the tendency to act rashly in the context of
      strong positive or negative emotion, and explains a large degree of variance in the
      development of impulsive aggression in subjects with schizophrenia and other populations
      without psychiatric disorders. In patients with schizophrenia, degree of urgency correlates
      with structural and functional changes in a neuronal network involving prefrontal cortical
      and limbic/cognitive control brain regions. A number of previous studies have similarly
      demonstrated impulsivity in the context of negative emotion, called "negative urgency",
      correlates with history of aggression, as well as substance use and other risky behaviors.
      Urgency is a hereditable trait that may be considered an endophenotype of impulsive
      aggression.

      Recent studies in humans have explored the relationship between mood-related impulsivity
      (i.e. urgency) and aggressive behavior using an Emotional Go/NoGo task. This task measures
      responding or response withholding to visual stimuli of neutral or emotional (typically
      negative) valence, and quantifies reaction time and commission/omission errors as a function
      of stimulus valence. Using an Emotional Go/NoGo task, Krakowski et al. studied healthy
      controls, patients with schizophrenia with or without a history of violence, and
      non-psychotic individuals with history of violence. In all groups, emotional valence had a
      significant effect on error commission. In schizophrenia patients, individuals with history
      of violence were significantly faster to make an incorrect response to negative stimuli (i.e.
      not withhold a response) than patients without history of violence, whereas the two groups
      did not differ in response times to neutral valence stimuli. Other studies have also
      demonstrated an interaction between emotional valence and impulsive errors in schizophrenia,
      as well as a relationship between emotional valence, impulsive errors, history of violence,
      and frontal cortex 5-HT1B receptor binding.

      While the investigators' studies in mice suggest a direct effect of nAChR stimulation on
      aggression through activation of the alpha-7 nAChR and are supported by the results using
      transdermal nicotine in humans, to the investigators' knowledge no previous studies have
      directly examined the relationship between pharmacological targeting of nAChRs using
      transdermal nicotine and effects on impulsivity in the context of emotional cues in humans.
      The investigators now aim to directly test this hypothesis using an Emotional Go/NoGo task in
      subjects with schizophrenia and healthy controls to determine whether transdermal nicotine
      improves impulsive behavior and neural correlates in the context of negative and neutral
      valence cues. Given the relationship between impulsivity and aggressive behavior, the
      findings of this proposed study will strongly inform future studies of targeting nAChRs
      broadly and alpha-7 nAChRs more specifically to identify novel treatments for individuals
      with severe neuropsychiatric disorders struggling with persistent pathological impulsive
      aggression.
    
  