
    
      40 patients (20 per group) : Presence of a functional response to stimulus omissions, only in
      the test group (regular presentation).

      Group 1 will receive the test stimulation sequence (regular), Group 2 will receive the
      control stimulation sequence (random).

      During the test sequence, a vibration will be repeated for 3 s interspersed with intervals of
      5 s, creating an expectation about the presentation of the next stimulus. Every 8 to 12
      vibrations (random), a vibration will be omitted. According to our hypothesis, we should
      observe an activity in the somatosensory cortex during the omission. A total of 10 omissions
      will be presented, bringing the total duration of stimulus presentation to 13 minutes.

      During the control sequence, the interstimulus intervals are irregular, 3 to 7 seconds, so as
      not to induce expectations. Omissions in this case should not be associated with a functional
      brain response.

      The presence of an activation in the primary somatosensory cortex will be assessed using
      Diffuse Correlation Spectroscopy (DCS), on newborns of 32, 33 and 35 weeks of corrected
      gestational age, during omissions in a regular vibrotactile stimulation sequence (test group)
      with respect to an irregular sequence (control group). A difference in activation during
      omissions between groups will reflect the presence of a processing of time intervals at the
      cortical level.

      We will also assess the difference in amplitude and time to peak of the response between the
      corrected gestational ages and vigilance states.

      Main endpoint: amplitude of the neurovascular response significantly higher and / or time to
      peak significantly shorter during the omissions in the test group (regular sequence) compared
      to the control group (irregular sequence), evaluated twice: at ages corrected SA 33 ± 3 days
      and 35 weeks ± 3 days , and if possible SA 32 ± 3 days (optional measure depending on the
      gestational age at birth and time to obtain consent).

      Secondary endpoints: significant difference in amplitude and / or time to peak of the
      neurovasculat response between corrected gestational ages and vigilance states.
    
  