
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 4 groups of up to 6 participants will be
      enrolled in the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 60 participants will be enrolled in
      Phase II.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of vosaroxin you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the highest dose
      level of vosaroxin. If no intolerable side effects are seen, the study will move on to Phase
      II. If intolerable side effects are seen, each new group will receive a lower dose of
      vosaroxin than the group before it until the most tolerable dose is found.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase II portion, you will receive vosaroxin at the highest dose
      that was tolerated in the Phase I portion.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of decitabine.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive the study drugs in cycles. The study cycles will be 4-12 weeks long,
      depending on if/how the disease responds to the treatment, how your bone marrow reacts to
      treatment, and what the doctor thinks is in your best interest.

      On Days 1-5 of each study cycle, you will receive decitabine by vein over about 1 hour. On
      Days 1 and 4 of each cycle, you will also receive vosaroxin by vein over 8-10 minutes, before
      you receive decitabine. Depending on how the disease responds to the study drugs, the number
      of days you receive the study drug may change. Your doctor will discuss this with you.

      The first 2 cycles are called Induction Cycles. All cycles after that are called
      Consolidation Cycles. All participants will receive Induction Cycle 1. If the study doctor
      thinks it is needed, you will also receive Induction Cycle 2. If after that the study doctor
      thinks it is in your best interest, you will receive up to 5 Consolidation Cycles of
      treatment.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle, you will have a physical exam.

      Every week, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. If at any point you
      appear to have a response to the study drugs, this blood will then be drawn every 1-2 weeks
      while you are still receiving the study drugs. If your doctor thinks it is needed, more blood
      may need to be drawn.

      On Day 21 of Cycle 1 (+/- 7 days), then every 4 weeks after that, you will have a bone marrow
      aspiration and/or biopsy to check the status of the disease. If the doctor thinks it is
      needed, these may be done more or less often, depending on your response to the study drugs.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive the study drugs for up to 7 cycles. You will be taken off study if the
      disease gets worse, intolerable side effects occur, or if the study doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest.

      Your participation in the study will be over after the follow-up period.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      If you are taken off study or if you leave the study early, you will have an end-of-study
      visit. At this visit:

      Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. If the study doctor thinks it is
      needed, you will have a bone marrow aspiration.

      You will then be contacted during a study visit or called and asked about any side effects
      you may be having 30 days after the end-of-study visit. This call will last about 5 minutes.

      Follow-up:

      If you do not leave the study early, you will have follow-up visits and calls for up to 5
      years after you stop receiving the study drugs.

      Every 4-8 weeks, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. If you cannot
      return to the clinic, you may have blood drawn at a clinic close to your home.

      Every 3-6 months, you will be contacted during a clinic visit and asked how you are doing. If
      you cannot make it to the clinic for this visit, you will be called. The phone call should
      last about 5 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Vosaroxin is not FDA approved or commercially available. It
      is currently being used for research purposes only. Decitabine has been approved by the FDA
      for the treatment of MDS, which is a precursor of AML, but has not been approved for the
      treatment of AML. The use of these drugs in combination is investigational. The study doctor
      can explain how the drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 84 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  