
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects 5-10% of women and may be viewed as the combination
      of hyperandrogenism with the classical features of the metabolic syndrome in young women.
      PCOS presents a unique opportunity to dissect the relationship between metabolic and
      cardiovascular risk and sleep disordered breathing (SDB) in a population where intrinsic
      effects of aging have not yet developed. Because a relationship between obstructive sleep
      apnea, insulin resistance and elevated testosterone levels has also been observed in men and
      in women without PCOS, insights gained from studies in PCOS will have broad implications.

      The Specific Aims of the present application are:

      Specific Aim 1: to test the hypothesis that sleep disturbances are caused by
      hyperandrogenemia and hyperinsulinemia that characterize PCOS. Following a detailed baseline
      evaluation of sleep, hormonal, metabolic and cardiovascular parameters, women with PCOS will
      be randomized to an 8-week treatment phase with pioglitazone or depot leuprolide plus
      estrogen/progestin replacement or placebo. Pioglitazone will reduce insulin levels, and
      consequently androgen levels, in PCOS. We will compare the effects of androgen reduction
      alone (depot leuprolide plus estrogen/progestin) to those of insulin plus androgen reduction
      achieved with pioglitazone. Primary comparisons will be the change in sleep parameters from
      baseline between: placebo & pioglitazone; placebo & leuprolide/estrogen/progestin;
      pioglitazone & leuprolide/estrogen/progestin.

      Specific Aim 2: to test the hypothesis that sleep disturbances cause the hormonal, metabolic
      and cardiovascular alterations seen in women with PCOS. PCOS women with SDB and matched
      control women with SDB will be evaluated at baseline and following 8 weeks of CPAP treatment.
      The primary comparison will be between baseline and post-treatment parameters in PCOS women.
      The secondary comparison will be the post-treatment change from baseline between PCOS and
      control women to test the hypothesis that for the same degree in improvement in SDB, the
      magnitude of change in metabolic and cardiovascular measures will be greater in PCOS than in
      controls.

      Specific Aim 3: to test the hypothesis that in normal young women, experimental manipulation
      of sleep that recapitulates the sleep disturbances characteristic of women with PCOS will
      result in metabolic, hormonal, and cardiovascular alterations that are typical of the
      metabolic syndrome. A group of healthy young women will be studied twice using a randomized
      cross-over design. In one study, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep will be fragmented by
      experimentally induced microarousals for 3 consecutive nights and non-REM sleep will be left
      undisturbed. In the other, slow wave activity will be suppressed without awakening the
      subject and REM sleep will be left undisturbed. Each study will be preceded by 2 nights of
      baseline sleep. Results were not reported for Aim 3 since no devices or drugs were tested in
      this aim.
    
  