
    
      Short-term exposure to ambient air ozone has been recognized for decades to be adversely
      associated with impacts on the respiratory system. Indeed the evidence is such that the
      Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has determined that there is a causal relationship, and
      even lowered the 8-hour exposure standard to 0.07 parts per million (ppm) in 2015. Controlled
      human exposure studies and epidemiological studies have consistently observed
      ozone-associated decrements in lung function and increased respiratory symptoms. Most
      controlled human exposure studies have been performed with high ozone concentrations.
      Additionally, epidemiologic studies have focused on populations engaged in outdoor activities
      (increasing ozone exposure through increased minute ventilation), or in cities such as Los
      Angeles or Mexico City where ambient ozone levels are especially high. Evidence has recently
      emerged that exposure to low ozone concentrations also produces adverse health effects,
      especially among susceptible groups including children with asthma.

      The University of North Carolina - North Carolina State University (UNC-NCSU) ASSIST group is
      examining the use of wearable technology that can measure levels of environmental pollutants
      and changes in physiologic parameters as potential adjuncts to the management of asthma. In
      ambient air, ozone (O3) is the most commonly encountered environmental trigger for asthma
      exacerbation, even at levels below the EPA standards of 0.120 ppm (1-hour average) and 0.07
      ppm (8-hour average). Environmental sensors that can monitor ozone exposure have been
      proposed to help high-risk patients avoid potential asthma triggers. The HET tracker has been
      proposed as one such system to provide personalized monitoring of ozone exposure. However,
      because devices that are based on user preferences are more likely to be adopted and used,
      data are needed on user experiences and preferences with wearable technology.

      It is also well established that poor symptom perception can reduce a patient's ability to
      recognize when their symptoms are worsening, thereby, decreasing the probability that they
      would take prophylactic action that could prevent further symptom progression and subsequent
      exacerbations. The negative impacts of asthma are largely preventable if patients engage in
      self-management behaviors, including symptom monitoring. The autonomic nervous system
      regulates physiologic responses like bronchoconstriction and mucus production, as well as
      heart rate (HR), heart rate variability (HRV) and respiratory rate (RR): all can be monitored
      continuously in daily life using wearable sensors. As an exploratory aim, the investigators
      wish to identify the capability of the HET devices to sense physiologic changes (suggestive
      of changes in autonomic tone, such as HRV) compared to gold standard monitors used in
      clinical practice.

      As part of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Nanosystems Engineering Research Center for
      Advanced Self-Powered Systems of Integrated Sensors and Technologies (ASSIST) Center,
      engineers at NCSU have been developing non-commercial technologies for achieving a
      high-performance and multi-functional biomedical sensing system while minimizing power
      consumption. The UNC-NC State ASSIST partnership developed the Health and Environmental
      Tracker (HET) testbed as a wireless ultra-low power system for correlated sensing of multiple
      environmental and health parameters.

      The objective of this study is to examine if low level ozone exposure (compared to a clean
      air exposure), reflective of a typical metropolitan summer day, will cause decrements in lung
      function and measurable upper and lower airway inflammation in mild asthmatics (who are not
      on asthma controller medications) while performing typical daily activities.
    
  