
    
      The current proposal is to conduct a study using a battery of neuropsychological tests
      capable of detecting the broad range of cognitive difficulties associated with relapsing
      remitting multiple sclerosis. This study will compare cognitive functioning over time of
      patients receiving alemtuzumab. The study will also compare the change in cognitive
      functioning over time to that of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis patients receiving
      interferon beta-1a and normal controls enrolled in a parallel study conducted by Wilken et
      al.To evaluate cognitive effects of alemtuzumab, the investigators will perform neurological
      exams and brain scans and will administer questionnaires to measure the severity of multiple
      sclerosis, how well subjects are functioning, how they are feeling, and to find out about
      what other medical visits subjects may have had during the study. Neurological testing in
      this study will require the subject to perform relatively simple tasks to evaluate their
      multiple sclerosis. These tasks include a five hundred meter walk, a timed twenty five foot
      walk, a nine hole peg test, an eye exam, and a test requiring you to add small numbers in
      your head quickly. The brain scans will involve Magnetic Resonance Imaging and are painless,
      except for injection of a contrast agent called gadolinium, which is necessary to detect
      areas in the brain where their MS may be currently active. Magnetic Resonance Imaging is
      widely used to diagnose and assess patients with multiple sclerosis. All patients will be
      required to return to their study site every 3 months for assessments and testing. In
      addition, safety-related blood tests will be performed at least monthly. If their blood test
      results become abnormal, they may have to have blood tests taken more frequently, in some
      cases weekly, until test results improve. Monthly blood tests should be performed at your
      study site, but if subjects are unable to return to the study site for the blood testing,
      they may be able to use a local laboratory.

      Participation in this study should last at least 4 years and possibly longer.

      Subjects receiving alemtuzumab, will need to have blood tests every month for at least 3
      years after your last dose of alemtuzumab. Therefore, you will need to undergo monthly blood
      tests for a total of about 4 years. If your test results become abnormal, you may have to
      have blood tests more frequently, in some cases weekly, until your test results improve.
    
  