
    
      In patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) primary percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) is the preferred reperfusion regimen, if performed by experienced
      operators in a timely manner. Nevertheless, myocardial damage is not immediately terminated
      after successful epicardial reperfusion by primary PCI. Current strategies are directed to
      improve myocardial tissue perfusion, which is impaired in approximately 50% of patients and
      which has prognostic impact. Adjunctive intravenous abciximab administration is an
      established therapy to improve coronary microcirculation and reduce major cardiac adverse
      events.5-10 In randomized clinical trials intravenous abciximab administration has been
      studied. Clinical trials have shown that earlier administration results in higher
      preinterventional TIMI-flow with subsequent improved perfusion post PCI. However, in a pooled
      analysis there was no effect on mortality. As door-to-balloon-times getting shorter in
      current trials, earlier abciximab administration requires treatment in the prehospital
      setting, which poses substantial logistic obstacles. Another option might be intracoronary
      abciximab bolus administration which results in very high local platelet inhibitor
      concentrations. This might be favorable in dissolution of thrombi and microemboli with
      subsequent improved myocardial microcirculation, reduction of no-reflow, and infarct size.
      Currently, there is only limited clinical experience on the efficacy of intracoronary
      abciximab administration mainly restricted to case reports, retrospective registries or small
      randomized trials. In a recently published randomized clinical trial, we were able to show
      that intracoronary versus intravenous abciximab bolus administration has beneficial effects
      on the occurrence of no-reflow and infarct size assessed by contrast-enhancement magnetic
      resonance imaging. This led to a trend towards improved clinical outcome. The composite major
      adverse cardiac event rate, defined as death, reinfarction, target vessel revascularization,
      and new congestive heart failure, at 30 day follow-up was 15.6% after intravenous and 5.2%
      after intracoronary abciximab administration (relative risk 3.00; 95% confidence intervals
      0.94-10.80; p=0.06).

      Currently, there is no adequately powered clinical trial to assess the effects of
      intracoronary bolus in comparison to standard intravenous abciximab administration. Due to
      its general availability and its ease of intracoronary administration this treatment has
      overwhelming potential in clinical practice, which is much easier to achieve than a
      logistically cumbersome prehospital or interhospital transfer administration.

      In the era of evidence-based medicine, such a trial is of paramount importance to achieve a
      break-through in abciximab use and a reduction of the high associated morbidity and mortality
      of STEMI patients.
    
  