
    
      Patients having diabetes mellitus are at increased risk for the development of coronary heart
      disease. Available tests do not accurately predict which diabetic patients are at greatest
      risk of suffering from a coronary event. The recent development of coronary CT angiography
      allows non-invasive imaging of both coronary narrowing and of disease (atheroma) in the
      coronary arterial wall at an earlier stage of the disease before the development of coronary
      arterial narrowing.

      In this study we will collect all the readily available patient medical data relating to
      diabetes and its complications and other coronary artery disease risk factors. In addition
      patients will be referred for exercise stress testing and for eye examinations. The coronary
      CT angiogram will be carefully examined for early signs of coronary artery disease. In the
      event of a finding on the CT scan requiring medical therapy this will be communicated to the
      patient and his treating physician. In the event of a finding on the stress test or CT scan
      requiring further medical work-up the patient will be referred to the cardiology clinic.

      In general patients will be followed in the regular diabetic clinic and by their family
      practitioners.

      In the event of any acute symptoms over the next few years possibly related to heart disease
      and requiring emergency room examination patients will be requested to report to the
      emergency room at the hospital at which the CT study was performed whenever possible.In such
      an event a repeat CT scan will be performed to examine if any new findings are present. In
      the event of any new complaints requiring referral to an out of hospital clinic patients will
      be referred for further assessment to the cardiology clinic and a repeat CT scan may be
      performed if deemed relevant.

      Outcomes of all patients will be examined at 2 years or later using computerized databases.
      Patients undergoing hospitalization during the follow up period of at least 2-3 years will be
      contacted by the study staff to obtain further details of the event and hospital findings .

      An analysis wil be performed of the value of CT angiography in relation to the traditional
      risk factors and other available medical data in the prediction of later coronary heart
      disease and other vascular events.
    
  