
    
      Before the beginning of any trial related activities, the relatives of each patient will be
      asked if the patient has ever mentioned in the past, that he/she does not want do participate
      in any kind of clinical study. If this was said by the patient in the past or if there are
      any signs which make it likely that the patient would not participate, he/she will be
      excluded from the trial. After testing of the inclusion and exclusion criteria, screening
      information will be obtained a the beginning of the trial. A screening number will be
      assigned to the patient in ascending order. The following data will be recorded in the case
      record form (CRF): Check for inclusion/exclusion criteria,demographic data, medical
      (including diabetes) history and relevant medication, body weight and heightand laboratory
      analyses from routine laboratory assessment. Patients fulfilling all the inclusion criteria
      and none of the exclusion criteria will be included into the trial and a subject number will
      be assigned in ascending order. Routine intensive care will be provided from department of
      internal medicine. Trial related activities will not interfere with regular patient care.
      Blood samples will be retrieved from an arterial line, available for routine diagnostic and
      monitoring procedures in all patients. At time 0, a blood glucose measurement will be taken,
      manually entered into the CS-1 decision support system and both a insulin infusion rate and
      the time to next glucose reading will be suggested by the computer-based system. Based on the
      suggestion of the system, an insulin infusion pump as routinely used in the ICU will be
      manually set to this suggested insulin infusion rate by specially trained ICU staff but only
      if the staff feels safe with this suggestion. Intravenous infusion of human soluble insulin
      will then be started. For safety reasons: In case that the suggested measurement interval of
      the decision support system exceeds a 90 minute interval, interim glucose measurements will
      be taken. All measurements will be documented in the CRF. Only in case that the blood glucose
      values are below 40 mg/dl the additional interim-glucose value will also be put into the CS-1
      system. However, the nursing staff can at any time decide to take an additionlal blood
      glucose measurement and/or neglect the decision as suggested by the system.

      The target range for blood glucose levels will be 80-110 mg/dl [4.4 - 6.1 mmol/l]. The
      current blood glucose level and insulin infusion rate will continuously be documented by the
      CS-1 decision support system and supervised by the investigator. Glucose values will be
      provided to the system by manual entry. In case of hypoglycaemia, intravenous insulin
      infusion will be stopped and glucose will be administered via intravenous bolus.

      The treatment visit, including all trial related activities as described above, will last for
      72 hours. Adverse events and relevant medication will be continuously monitored and
      documented The Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation Score (Apache II) will be
      documented for each patient at the beginning of the trial. There is no physical connection
      between the algorithm suggesting the insulin infusion rate and the insulin infusion pump such
      as that the algorithm would be capable to independently steer the insulin infusion. There is
      also no physical connection between the glucose measurement device and the algorithm such as
      that the algorihthm would be able to independently get a glucose measurement. For safety
      reasons, both the glucose measurement and the insulin infusion rate are parameters that need
      to be manually entered by a specially trained nurse. For glucose measurement, a certified
      device for ICU application is being used (Accuchek® Inform; Roche Diagnostics), for
      intravenous insulin infusion, a certified insulin infusion pump (Perfusor® Space, BBraun
      Melsungen) as it is used under routine conditions in the ICU is being used. Follow up
      information will be acquired at hospital discharge or at the latest one week after visit 1. .
    
  