
    
      This is a open prospective multicenter study. Nineteen liver transplant units in Spain will
      take part in it.

      Inclusion criteria for patients:

        1. Diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis (liver biopsy will be advisable).

        2. First episode of clinical decompensation of alcoholic liver disease (defined as
           jaundice, variceal bleeding, ascites or portal-systemic encephalopathy).

        3. Absence of a high risk of alcoholic recidivism (according to De Gottardi, et al).

        4. Severe alcoholic hepatitis (ABIC score > 6.71)

        5. Informed consent

      Exclusion criteria :

        1. Age over 65 years.

        2. Hepatitis B or C or HIV infections.

        3. Uncontrolled bacterial infection

        4. Other liver diseases, such as alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, primary biliary cirrhosis,
           ...

        5. Morbid obesity (BMI > 35 kg/m2)

        6. Major uncontrolled psychiatric disease

        7. Drug addiction (excluding tobacco) in the last two years.

        8. Absence of informed consent.

        9. Acute-on-chronic liver disease.

       10. Paracetamol consumption over 10 grams in the last week.

      Criteria for liver transplantation.

        1. Absence of response to steroid therapy (Lille score ≥ 0.45 7 days after initiation of
           steroid therapy).

        2. Adequate social and familiar environment.

        3. Complete agreement in the medical staff about the candidate to transplantation.

        4. Absence of bacterial or fungal infection.

      Three groups of patients will be formed:

      Group 1. Patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis and good response to therapy. Group 2.
      Patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis and poor response to therapy, that are not
      candidates to transplantation.

      Group 3. Patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis and poor response to therapy, that are
      candidates to transplantation.

      A complete follow-up of the patients would be extended to five years. The survival of these
      three groups will be compared. Survival of liver transplant recipients should also be
      compared with survival of other liver transplant recipients.

      Alcohol recidivism should also be studied in all the patients of the study. Sample size
      estimation: According to the data published by Mathurin et al, 28 patients treated with liver
      transplantation and 28 non-transplanted patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis should be
      necessary.

      Interim analysis after every 10 transplanted patients should be performed. The study will be
      interrupted if the differences in the survivals between groups 2 and 3 reaches a significance
      of 0.01. In case this significance is not reached the inclusion of patients should end when
      40 patients are transplanted. This sample size is estimated to be reached in 18-24 months.
    
  