
    
      In 2010, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) provided a Grade recommendation B
      (i.e. the service is recommended with moderate/high certainty of benefit) for clinicians to
      screen children ages 6-17 years for obesity and refer identified youth to comprehensive
      behavioral programs. The challenge in meeting this objective is the lack of community-based
      obesity treatments to which to refer, particularly for adolescents. The JOIN program,
      developed as a collaboration between United HealthGroup and Y-USA is a pediatric weight
      control intervention targeted toward a broad age range of youth from 6-17 years that is: 1)
      based on well established and evidence based principles; 2) delivered by YMCA facilitators
      within a community setting: and 3) potentially scalable nationally. Findings from a 6-month
      pilot study examining the effectiveness of JOIN demonstrated impressive changes in weight
      status for school age children, but more modest results for adolescents. The primary aim of
      this study is to modify the JOIN program to increase its effectiveness with adolescents while
      retaining its potential for scalability.

      A total of 120 adolescents (ages 13-17) with BMI > 85th% and < 50 will be randomly assigned
      to a 16-week targeted program (TEEN JOIN), or the traditional JOIN intervention, followed by
      biweekly and monthly maintenance sessions. Evaluation of adolescent height, weight, objective
      physical activity and psychosocial outcomes will be obtained at baseline, 4 months, and 10
      months. Additional outcomes will include treatment feasibility, including attendance,
      completion of diet and physical activity monitoring logs, and exit interviews with
      adolescents and parents regarding the intervention. The investigators will also obtain
      preliminary indicators of cost effectiveness. It is hypothesized that adolescents who are
      randomized to TEEN JOIN will demonstrate greater decrease in BMI at 4 and 10 months than
      those randomized to JOIN. It is further hypothesized that adolescents randomized to TEEN JOIN
      will demonstrate greater increases in participation in moderate-vigorous physical activity
      and greater improvements in self-concept, self-efficacy related to physical activity, and
      group cohesion than adolescents who receive the standard JOIN condition.
    
  