
    
      The central hypothesis of this proposal is that reverse cholesterol transport is related to
      coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. It is complementary to the concept that reduction of
      cholesterol biosynthesis with statin drugs prevents CHD, but it focuses on whole body
      cholesterol metabolism and kinetic cholesterol transport rather than on static levels of
      circulating lipoproteins. Although this is an old idea, it has not been adequately tested in
      humans because of lack of suitable methods. In this proposal we will apply innovative stable
      isotope and mass spectroscopic technology to study reverse cholesterol transport in human
      subjects. The first specific aim is to improve the preparation of intravenous deuterated
      cholesterol tracer, a critical limiting element in the study of whole body cholesterol
      metabolism. The second aim is to use that intravenous tracer, along with a different oral
      tracer, to partition fecal cholesterol into excreted endogenous cholesterol, unabsorbed
      dietary cholesterol and newly-synthesized cholesterol derived from the liver and intestine.
      Measurements will be made during consumption of a controlled diet provided by the metabolic
      kitchen. The pool size of the rapidly-mixing body cholesterol pool will be measured along
      with the fractional rate of cholesterol catabolism. These direct measures of reverse
      cholesterol transport will be correlated with plasma biomarkers and with metabolic
      covariates. The relation of reverse cholesterol transport to carotid intima-media thickness
      will be determined. The third specific aim will use similar methods to study the mechanism of
      action for the widely-used drug ezetimibe. The fractional rate of endogenous cholesterol
      excretion and the rate of plasma cholesterol turnover will be determined in two periods, one
      with drug and one with placebo treatment. This work represents a new direction for
      cholesterol research with the potential to develop new and complementary methods of reducing
      CHD risk that can be added to diet and statin drug treatment.
    
  