
    
      Survey participants complete questionnaires on adverse effects / functional outcomes and QoL.
      The survey questionnaire includes EQ-5D-5L and EORTC QLQ-C3). EPIC-26 is used together with
      additional questions on sexual interest and use of aids. Highest level of education, height,
      weight and marital status are also included at baseline. All those with PCa, as well as the
      men without PCa who participate at baseline, are invited to submit follow-up questionnaires 1
      and 3 years after diagnosis. The same instruments are then used with the addition of
      questions on work ability together with questions on treatment and experience with the health
      care service including shared decision making. From Statistics Norway data on personal and
      household income will be available together with education level stated by participants. The
      Norwegian Prostate Cancer Registry, a national quality registry on PCa, is incorporated in
      The Cancer Registry of Norway and is in collaboration with clinical specialists from
      hospitals in all regions of the country. The registry publishes results regularly to patients
      and hospitals with updated statistics on incidence, work-up, treatment choice and outcomes.
      All variables concerning work-up, diagnosis (histopathological data, imaging) stage (cTNM,
      PSA, Gleason score), treatment (surgery, radiotherapy, endocrine treatment) and follow-up are
      available for linkage with questionnaire data from the patients. Patients will be stratified
      into low-, intermediate-, and high-risk groups as defined by the European Association of
      Urology based on the clinical T-category (cT), the PSA level, and the Gleason score (GS) at
      the time of diagnosis. Low-risk: cT1-T2a and PSA<10 ng/mL and GS<7, Intermediate-risk: cT2b
      or PSA 10-20 ng/ml or GS=7, high-risk localised: cT2c or PSA>20 ng/mL or GS>7, high-risk
      locally advanced: cT3-4 or cN1. Division will further be by initial treatment: radical
      prostatectomy, radiotherapy ≥74 Gy by standard fractionation with or without hormone
      treatment, or no local treatment consisting of active surveillance or watchful waiting. The
      Norwegian Patient Registry contains data on all individuals waiting for treatment or that
      have received treatment including both in- and outpatient specialist care. A modified version
      of the Charlson's comorbidity index shown to be valid for patient registry data will for this
      study be used.
    
  