
    
      Potential participants are first identified and contact is made. Potential participants are
      then screened for inclusionary and exclusionary information (see tab 9. Eligibility) that
      relate to whether they can safely and comfortably perform the procedures and whether they are
      considered healthy or have the disorder for which brain stimulation therapy will be
      delivered. They will undergo informed consent that will disclose all the different risks and
      benefits for the procedures they will undergo. The list of procedures in which participants
      consent to participate is below.

      PROCEDURES:

      The three procedures conducted at VA Palo Alto are as follows:

        1. Psychological / functional assessments:

           Interview, computerized, and paper and pencil measures of psychological functioning.
           These measures are used to characterize patients' diagnosis and psychological status.
           For example, depressed patients will answer questions about depressive symptoms and
           potentially comorbid symptoms such as post-traumatic stress disorder. This testing
           typically lasts 2 hours.

        2. MRI and functional MRI Patients will undergo an MRI that indicates where they receive
           stimulation by a marker placed on a cap that displays brightly on an MRI. At Lucas
           center or the Palo Alto VA and involves brain imaging that will be related to brain
           stimulation techniques either through facilitating image guidance or providing
           information that will be correlated to data collected during stimulation. Typically, a
           session lasts about 2.5 hours since there is setup time involved.

        3. Brain Stimulation:

      TMS-transcranial magnetic stimulation which will be collected at the Palo Alto VA. Part of
      this procedure may include electromyography (EMG) which involves placing electrodes on the
      skin, typically the hand, and measuring indicators of muscle contraction. Sometimes this
      information is used to decide stimulation intensity during TMS and sometimes the TMS induced
      response will be a source of data in itself. Typically, this is only a measure conducted in
      parallel with other procedures and thus will not be given its own consent. MRI Guided TMS. An
      MRI will be used to target a selective brain region. To accomplish this, the MRI will be
      displayed on a computer screen and an infrared camera enables identification of the
      correspondence between the image and the participant's head. To study errors in scalp-based
      targeting, the investigators will perform scalp targeting while under MRI guidance but
      without the typical visual feedback provided by the MRI. Then this will be compared to scalp
      targeting with MRI guidance. The difference will identify typical errors in scalp targeting.
      Typically, a session will last approximately 1.5 hours.
    
  