
    
      The Location of the Research: The research is carried out in Konya Necmettin Erbakan
      University Meram Faculty of Medicine General Surgery, Medical Oncology, and Biochemistry
      Departments. After obtaining the permission of the ethics committee, official permission was
      obtained from Necmettin Erbakan University Meram Medical Faculty Hospital Chief Physician to
      conduct the study.

      The Sample Size of the Study: It was calculated by in G * Power 3.1.9.2 the computer program.
      It was determined by taking into account the mean and standard deviation of the blood
      advanced glycation end products level variable of previous (3.3 ± 1.2 × 105 arbitrary units
      (AU) in breast cancer patients, 2.3 ± 0.7 × 105 AU in healthy individuals). Considering that
      the number of samples in the control and breast cancer groups would be equal, it was
      determined that both groups should consist of at least 27 individuals with an error margin of
      d = 1.02, α = 0.05, and a power of 0.95. Considering that there will be losses in the sample,
      at least 32 individuals will be included in both groups. In this study, all of the patients
      participating in the research are informed in detail and informed consent forms are obtained
      from all participants.

      Statistical analysis: The data will be assessed using the SPSS 22 statistical software
      package. Mean, standard deviation, minimum and maximum values of the quantitative data will
      be calculated, and the number and percentage tables of the qualitative data will be created.

      In the comparison of quantitative data of the case group (before surgery) and control group,
      the Student t-test will be used for the normal distribution, and the Mann-Whitney U test will
      be used for the non-normal distribution. The chi-squared test will be used to evaluate
      qualitative data.

      In the comparison of quantitative data of the case group during follow-up (before surgery,
      before chemotherapy, and in the sixth and twelfth months after starting chemotherapy) one-way
      ANOVA will be used for the normal distribution, and the Friedman test will be used for the
      non-normal distribution.

      While determining the correlation between quantitative data, the Pearson correlation
      coefficient will be used for normal distribution and the Spearman correlation coefficient
      will be used for non-normal distribution.

      The p-value < 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant at the end of the analysis.
    
  