
    
      Thirteen patients with a mean age of 20.5 (range 19-22) were selected among the patients
      seeking routine dental care from Conservative Dentistry Department who met the inclusion
      criteria. Inclusion criteria were: good oral hygiene and and the absence of caries,
      previously placed restorations, bruxism and an allergy to the materials tested.

      Bitewing radiographs were taken. Pellicle and any remaining plaque on the fissures were
      removed by using slurry of pumice with a slow-speed handpiece. All restorative procedures
      were performed by the same operator. The teeth were assigned for different group by using a
      table of random numbers.

      Group 1 (SB2): Etched with 35% phosphoric acid gel for 30 s, rinsed and dried. Adper Single
      Bond 2 (3M ESPE St. Paul MN. USA) applied and light cured for 10s with a LED device (Demi
      Plus; Kerr, Switzerland) Group 2 (SBU-ER) : Etched with 35% phosphoric acid gel for 30s,
      rinsed and dried. Single Bond Universal Adhesive (3M ESPE St. Paul MN.USA) applied, gently
      air thinned for 5 s and light cured for 10s with a LED device Group 3 (SBU-SE): Single Bond
      Universal Adhesive (3M ESPE St. Paul MN.USA) applied for 20 s with vigorous agitation, gently
      air thinned for 5 s and light cured for 10 s with a LED device A nanofilled fissure sealant,
      Fissurit FX (Voco,Cuxhaven,Germany) was applied to the fissures and air entrapment was
      prevented by carefull spreading with a dental probe. The sealant material was light-cured for
      20 seconds with LED. The occlusion was checked with articulating paper. Fine-grit diamond
      burs (Diatech, Swiss Dental, Switzerland) and rubber cups (Edenta AG, AU SG, Switzerland).
      were used for finishing and polishing.

      Each restoration was evaluated at baseline,1week after treatment and 6, 12, 18 and 24 months.
      Evaluation of restorations was carried out by two calibrated examiners who were unaware of
      group allocation and who were not involved with the treatment procedures, by the help of a
      mirror, blunt explorer and air stream. Caries formation was evaluated as present or absent
      and the sealants were evaluated according to the following criteria: 1= Completely retained
      2= Partial loss 3= Total loss.
    
  