
    
      The incidence of both obesity and diabetes are on a staggering rise. Many studies suggest
      that by 2030, 40-50% of the population will be obese. The prevalence of gestational diabetes
      (GDM) is also increasing, and was recently reported to be 9%. GDM increases risk of obesity
      and impaired glucose tolerance in their children, but the mechanisms by which this occurs are
      not well defined.

      The benefits of breastfeeding are numerous, including protection from sudden infant death and
      infection, positive cognitive outcomes, reduced prematurity complications, and decreased risk
      of cancer, as well as some evidence of protection against child obesity. One area that has
      yet to be thoroughly explored is whether there are differences in breast milk composition in
      women with diabetes as compared to non-diabetic women after adjusting for obesity and other
      diabetes co-morbidities, and how these differences could affect infant metabolic health and
      body composition. Experimental studies argue strongly for a causal relationship of the gut
      microbiome to the risk of obesity and diabetes. Breast milk strongly shapes the gut
      microbiome, as it contains unique oligosaccharides as well as hormones and immunologic
      factors that cultivate the growth of specific microbiota in the infant gut. Indeed over 90%
      of early infant fecal bacteria are Bifidobacteria, where in most formula-fed infants
      Bifidobacteria are non-detectable, which has been linked to the rapid growth and greater
      adiposity in formula-fed versus breastmilk-fed infants. Given that most pregnant women in the
      United States are now either overweight, obese, or diabetic, our study has high public health
      significance in that it seeks to understand how maternal metabolic factors such as these
      hinder the development of a healthy gut microbiome during the critical period of infancy.

      In this study, the following study questions will be examined:1) does maternal metabolic
      state relate to the milk microbiome (bacterial and fungal diversity and abundance
      relationships, and microbiome function) and how they are transmitted to the infant gut? 2)
      does maternal metabolic state relate to the concentration of appetite and growth-regulating
      hormones and cytokines present in breast milk?; 3) are maternal serum concentrations of
      hormones and milk microbiomes associated with each other?; and 4) are milk hormones and/or
      milk microbiomes related to infant growth and body composition in the first 6 months of life?

      Amplicon-based and deep (shotgun) metagenomic sequencing will be utilized to characterize
      species and strain level characteristics of maternal milk and infant fecal microbiomes. ELISA
      assays will be used to quantify adipose-tissue derived hormones (leptin, adiponectin) and
      immune factors (CRP, IL-6, TNF-α) as well as insulin/growth axis hormones (insulin, IGF-1,
      IGFBP-3) in breast milk. Infant body composition will be assessed using air displacement
      plethysmography and dual energy x-ray absorptiometry.

      The above work will involve new recruitment enrollment, and pregnancy data collection from 50
      diabetic mothers recruited through the Maternal Fetal Medicine and Women's Health Specialists
      at M Health. The pregnant non-diabetic (normal weight and obese) woman cohorts (and their
      infants and samples) for this study already exist as part of Clinical Trial NCT03301753
      (Maternal Obesity, Breast Milk Composition, and Infant Growth (MILK) study), which is
      currently in the sample collection phase. The current study will form the first comprehensive
      comparison of multiple aspects of breastmilk composition in women with pregnancy diabetes as
      compared to non-diabetic women.
    
  