
    
      Methods: Part I (surveys)

      Two cross-sectional surveys will be conducted, a family survey and a clinician survey. The
      surveys will be completed online. Participation will be voluntary and anonymous.

      Family survey. The family survey will identify preferences of families of children with
      haemophilia for different prophylaxis schedules. At least 20 families will participate. This
      number should provide a clear indication of family's preferences for different prophylaxis
      schedules.

      People will be eligible to participate in the family survey if they have haemophilia A or B
      and are aged between 14 and 17 years, or if they are the parent of a child (< 18 years) with
      haemophilia.

      Participants will be recruited using advertisements placed in community print-based and/or
      electronic communications and, if necessary, by inviting families attending a youth camp for
      people with haemophilia. The survey will ask participants about the characteristics of the
      child with haemophilia including the child's age, current level and frequency of physical
      activity and sports participation, current prophylactic medication schedule and method of
      administration. They will also be asked to rate the acceptability of a number of possible
      prophylactic schedules as "acceptable", "marginally acceptable" or "unacceptable".

      Clinician survey. The second survey will be of physicians. To be eligible, participants must
      be physicians currently practising in paediatric haemophilia treatment centres. Participants
      will be asked to rank factors that influence their decision making when advising patients
      regarding prophylactic scheduling. These factors include: cost, tolerability for families,
      venous access, physical activity and sport, pharmacokinetics, inhibitor development and age.
      They will also be asked to report on which prophylactic schedules they would considerable
      unacceptable, putting aside issues regarding efficacy.

      Methods: Part II (modelling)

      The MOrPH project will use pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modelling to identify optimal
      prophylaxis schedules. Conventional pharmacokinetic models will be used to identify
      prophylaxis schedules that maximise time above threshold and minimise trough values of
      clotting factor concentrates. In addition, pharmacodynamic models will be developed to
      provide child-specific predictions of the risk of bleeds as a function of prophylaxis
      schedules. The pharmacodynamic models will be used to identify prophylaxis schedules that
      minimise risk of bleeds.
    
  