
    
      The oral tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibitors of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR),
      gefitinib and erlotinib, have produced dramatic responses, encouraging response rates and
      possibly improved survival in a subset of NSCLC patients. Evidence suggests that somatic EGFR
      mutations in the tumor are at present the single most reliable biological marker of
      predicting response to EGFR TK inhibitors. In addition, these mutations may be an early event
      in the pathogenesis of NSCLC in a subset of patients. Unfortunately, the technology of EGFR
      mutations sequencing incurs high costs and requires sufficient tissue, which is often a
      problem in NSCLC. We hypothesize that EGFR mutations can be detected in the blood and propose
      a study to determine the feasibility of detecting EGFR mutations in the blood of NSCLC
      patients. We will approach newly diagnosed NSCLC patients as well as patients who are known
      to be responding to the oral TK inhibitors. We will perform EGFR mutations on the tumors. For
      the blood, we will use new immuno-separation techniques to isolate tumor cells and perform
      denaturing high performance liquid chromatography to detect EGFR mutations. If we prove that
      it is feasible to detect the mutations in the blood, we will follow up with a validation
      study. Many applications can result if our hypothesis holds true: 1) it will be proof of
      principle that our technique can effectively isolate and detect somatic mutations in
      circulating tumor cells, 2) it will be a simple way to overcome the problem of insufficient
      tumor samples, 3) it can be used for early detection of lung cancer if EGFR mutations proves
      to be important in pathogenesis in a subset of patients and 4) the technology can be extended
      to detect new mutations in patients who become resistant to oral TK inhibitors which can lead
      to new targeted therapies.
    
  