
    
      OVERVIEW: In this comparative effectiveness trial, the investigators will examine the
      effectiveness of two approaches to the Jumpstart intervention designed to promote
      goals-of-care discussions for older, seriously ill, hospitalized patients. The trial recruits
      consecutively eligible patients from three UW Medicine hospitals. The Jumpstart Guide is a
      communication-priming intervention for clinicians, patients and their families that focuses
      on hospitalized patients' goals of care. There are two versions. One, "EHR-based", is drawn
      from the electronic medical record (EHR) and lists the dates and locations of prior advance
      care planning documents (e.g. living wills, healthcare directives, durable power of attorney
      for healthcare, and Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatments). It also includes tips
      to improve this communication. This information is provided by email and in-person to
      patients' clinicians. The other is "patient-specific" and provides the same information as in
      the "EHR-based" Guides but, in addition, goals of care information from patient's
      self-reported surveys are summarized and shared with the patients' clinicians, the
      participating patient and family. This trial tests the effect of the EHR-based clinician
      Jumpstart against the survey-based patient/clinician Jumpstart intervention. Unique to this
      trial is the use of the EHR to identify eligible participants, provide data for the
      intervention, and be the mechanism for delivering the intervention.

      Coordination between Trial 1 and 2: Trial 1 is initiated first; an interim analysis conducted
      at 6-months after its initiation provides data for ensuring that the comparison group for
      Trial 2 (i.e., EHR-based clinician Jumpstart or usual care) is appropriate. Both trials
      continue concurrently until Trial 1 ends. Trial 2 has a smaller sample size; the activities
      associated with Trial 2 are more complex and time-intensive requiring a longer period for
      recruitment, intervention implementation and follow-up. Randomization during the period of
      overlap encompasses both trials. The intervention includes 4 components.

      SPECIFIC AIM (TRIAL 2): Evaluate the EHR-Based Clinician Jumpstart against the Survey-Based
      Patient-Clinician Jumpstart.

      Intervention. Step 1- Subject Identification/Recruitment/Randomization: Patients who meet the
      inclusion criteria are screened and identified using daily screening reports and staff
      review. The investigators oversample patients with ADRD to include 40% of the sample.
      Patients are approached by study staff in person during their hospital stay to assess their
      interest in participating in the study. Recruitment conversations are designed to take place
      in the patient's hospital room. Subjects are asked to complete surveys at three time points:
      1) at enrollment; 2) 1 month after randomization; and 3) 3 months after randomization.
      Follow-up surveys may be completed in-person, by paper, online, or by phone, based on
      respondents' preferences.

      If patients are not able to participate themselves (e.g. cognitive impairment, sedated or
      ventilated), the investigators recruit their legal surrogate decision-maker to participate.
      This surrogate (under Washington State Law RCW 7.70.065) provides consent for the patient and
      participates in the intervention on the patient's behalf. The surrogate/family is a research
      study subject.

      Eligible patients are assigned to one of the two interventions in a 1:1 ratio. Patients are
      randomized using variable size blocks and stratified for hospital and ADRD vs. no ADRD.
      Surrogates/families follow the randomization status of the patients whom they are
      representing.

      Step 2- EHR-based Clinician Jumpstart Guide: The Jumpstart guide is developed by applying
      NLP/ML algorithms to both inpatient and outpatient EHR notes (e.g., progress notes, specialty
      consult notes, alerts and care plans) preceding the current hospitalization. It summarizes
      the presence/absence of POLST, advance directives and DPOA documentation. It provides general
      recommendations to initiating goals of care discussions.

      Step 3- Survey-based Patient/Clinician Jumpstart Guide: Survey data, completed by patients or
      their surrogate/family at enrollment provide assessments of the following: a) preferences for
      discussions about goals of care; b) most important barrier and facilitator for having such
      discussions; and c) current goals of care. These elements are contained within the Jumpstart
      guides and the information is tailored to each recipient (i.e., patient, surrogate/family, or
      clinician). This version provides general recommendations to initiate goals of care
      discussions.

      Step 4- Delivery of the intervention: Guides are delivered within the first few days (1-6) of
      the patient's hospital stay to the primary clinician team (attending and resident physicians
      and advanced practice providers) via secure email or in person. Clinicians receive a reminder
      to view a short training video about using the guide. Study staff monitor the care team for
      the patient and ensure that any new providers also receive the Jumpstart guide. Study staff
      also provide the patient or surrogate with a version of the guide, tailored to be appropriate
      for patients or their surrogates and following the same timeframe. Jumpstart guides are
      delivered to the patient or surrogate/family at the hospital.

      Comparison group: The comparator is the EHR-based clinician Jumpstart Guide. Subjects in the
      comparator arm complete all of the same activities at the same schedule, and receive the
      EHR-based Clinician Jumpstart Guide.

      Outcome Assessment: The primary outcome is EHR documentation of a goals-of-care discussion in
      the 30 days following randomization. Both intervention group subjects are asked to complete
      questionnaires. At enrollment, both intervention groups' subjects meet with study staff who
      distribute initial questionnaires. The questionnaires are self-administered, although study
      staff are available to provide assistance. The study staff member collecting the
      questionnaires notifies the subjects about their randomization status at this time.

      Study staff contact both intervention groups' subjects in person (or by telephone) for the
      evaluation/post-intervention phase. Patient and surrogate/family subjects complete surveys at
      1- and 3-months after randomization. Although all surveys can be completed by telephone,
      mail, or online, the investigators contact each patient or family/surrogate at each interval
      by phone. During those calls, study staff administer the surveys or remind participants to
      complete surveys by mail or online. Families complete the same measures at the same intervals
      as patients. Follow-up contacts are done after the initial mailings of the survey booklets to
      non-responders. The follow-up consists of a mailed reminder/thank you postcard or email after
      2 weeks, and a second set of materials after 4-5 weeks if there has been no response in that
      time.

      At 3-months post-randomization, study staff collect additional information from the patient's
      electronic health record. Data are abstracted using automated EHR data collection and "gold
      standard" manual abstraction using standardized methods for training and quality control.
      Data abstractors undergo at least 80 hours of training including instruction on the protocol,
      guided practice charts, and independent chart review followed by reconciliation with a
      trainer. Questions and problems with interpretation are discussed and practice abstraction
      continues until 90% agreement with the trainer is achieved. A 10% random sample of all
      patient records is dual-abstracted. Chart abstractors are blinded to randomization and survey
      results.

      Secondary outcomes include intensity of care outcomes and the following patient- and
      surrogate/family-reported outcomes assessed by survey at 1- and 3-months after randomization
      including occurrence and quality of goals-of-care communication in the hospital, receipt of
      goal concordant care, psychological symptoms, quality of life, and palliative care needs.

      SPECIFIC AIM (TRIAL 2): Evaluate the factors affecting the Jumpstart intervention
      implementation and identify barriers and facilitators to future implementation.

      Patient and Surrogate/Family Subject Identification and Recruitment: Included in the
      patient's and surrogate/family member's consent form is a provision informing subjects that
      they may be contacted at the end of their study involvement to take part in a short,
      semi-structured interview to evaluate their study participation. Subjects will be sampled
      purposively to represent the following experiences: 1) participants from both of the
      intervention arms (EHR-based and survey-based); 2) participants who participated in the
      intervention fully as well as those who did not to better understand the reasons for less
      than full participation. "Full" participation is indicated by having completed all of the
      study materials.

      Clinician Subject Identification and Recruitment: Study staff will recruit clinicians who
      were involved with the study to participate in a short interview after the clinician's study
      involvement with the enrolled patient has ended.

      All of the interview participants will be selected using purposive sampling to ensure a
      diverse group (e.g., age, race/ethnicity, gender, specialty, year of training) in addition to
      the characteristics noted above.

      Interview: Using an interview guide developed specifically for this project, interviewers
      will assess respondents' experience with the intervention and gather suggestions for ways to
      improve the intervention's content, delivery and implementation, including implementation
      outcomes (e.g., acceptability, fidelity, penetration, maintenance) that will guide future
      dissemination of the intervention.

      Assessment: Interviews are audio recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using thematic analysis.
      To ensure trustworthiness, interviewers perform a "member check" of the results with
      approximately 12 prior participants selected for diversity of participant type.
    
  