
    
      The retrovirus HIV integrates as proviral DNA in the genome of cluster of differentiation
      (CD)4+ T cells. A subset form a reservoir of latently infected long-lived memory T-cells with
      nearly absent HIV-DNA transcription. This persistent latent HIV reservoir is the major
      obstacle for a cure. HIV latency is sustained by multiple host factors that restrict the
      viral promotor and expression of the viral genome. Latency reversing agents (LRA) can remove
      these restrictive components and mediate HIV latency reversal. LRA monotherapy with histone
      deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) alone, including valproic acid, vorinostat, romidepsin, or
      panobinostat, reactivate HIV but seems insufficient to eliminate the reservoir in vivo. Our
      research group has identified the BAF complex as another repressive factor that maintains HIV
      latency. Pyrimethamine acts as an inhibitor of this BAF complex, is capable of reactivating
      HIV from latency at clinical tolerable concentrations, and acts synergistic with other LRA
      classes. This offers new opportunities for cure research. This is the first translational
      clinical study with BAF inhibitors and it assesses the potential synergism of 2 LRA with
      different modes of action on the reservoir in HIV patients.

      Primary objective:

      The longitudinal assessment of the effects of the BAF inhibitor pyrimethamine and of the
      HDACi valproic acid on the HIV reservoir in HIV patients on antiretroviral therapy.

      Study design:

      Open label 6 week randomized controlled intervention trial.

      Study population:

      Participants must be HIV infected, ≥18 years and on antiretroviral therapy with plasma
      HIV-RNA <50 copies/mL and CD4+ T cell count ≥200 cells/mm3 at enrollment. The HIV-RNA was
      ≥10.000 copies/mL before antiretroviral therapy initiation.

      Intervention:

      Participants are randomized to either of 4 arms and receive valproic acid, pyrimethamine,
      both for 2 weeks, or no intervention. Total study duration is 6 weeks and includes a 2 week
      treatment period and a 4 week post-treatment period.

      Primary endpoint:

      The change in HIV reactivation in the reservoir in vivo at treatment initiation and at the
      end of treatment, measured as the change in cell associated HIV-RNA. The change in
      reactivation is compared between the treatment arms.

      Secondary endpoints:

      See below.
    
  