
    
      GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that is found primarily in the brain. High GABA levels
      result in low levels of dopamine, another neurotransmitter that is the brain's "feel good"
      chemical and which plays a primary role in cocaine drug addiction. Cravings for cocaine can
      be reduced by lowering dopamine levels. This makes GABA-altering medications a potential
      treatment for cocaine addiction. This study will involve five GABA enhancing medications:
      tiagabine, topiramate, valproic acid, baclofen, and progesterone. The purpose of the study is
      to evaluate the interaction between GABA medications and cocaine in terms of safety and
      craving responses. In turn, these findings may guide future cocaine pharmacotherapy trials.

      This 6-day inpatient study will begin with an orientation session to familiarize participants
      with study procedures. The evening of Day 1, all participants will receive placebo
      medication. On Days 2 through 4, participants will receive one of five GABA medications. The
      GABA medications will be given in gradually increasing doses to attain therapeutic levels
      while maintaining safety and minimizing side effects. Three experimental cocaine sessions
      will take place; one while the participants are receiving the placebo medication and two
      while the participants are receiving the GABA medications. During these sessions, cocaine
      will be administered intravenously in three increasing doses, each separated by 30-minute
      intervals. This will allow the participants' subjective and physiological responses during
      cocaine administration to return to baseline levels before the next dose. Blood will be drawn
      after each dose; heart rate, blood pressure, and an ECG will be monitored throughout the
      sessions. At the end of each session, questionnaires will be administered to assess the
      effects of cocaine and related mood states, as well as allow the participants to report any
      adverse events, depression, craving, or withdrawal symptoms.

      This study is now closed and published.
    
  