
    
      Continuous Positive Airway Pressure is one of the most researched and accepted methods of
      delivering NIV to term and preterm infants. Non-invasive high frequency ventilation is a
      relatively new method of delivering NIV respiratory support in preterm infants. Preliminary
      studies suggest superiority over CPAP, and NHFOV is being increasingly utilized in clinical
      practice in an attempt to prevent intubation and minimize ventilation-induced lung injury in
      preterm infants. However, little is known about its mechanism of action and its effect on
      respiratory mechanics in the newborn. The objective of this study is to compare the effects
      of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) delivered by nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure
      (CPAP) versus Non-Invasive High Frequency Ventilation (NHFOV) on respiratory pattern as
      assessed by the electrical activity of the diaphragm (EAdi) in very low birth weight (VLBW)
      preterm infants.

      The investigators hypothesize that in VLBW preterm infants with relative pulmonary
      insufficiency, NHFOV will reduce respiratory drive and improve ventilation, subsequently
      resulting in decreased patient diaphragm energy expenditure. This would be demonstrated by
      decreased neural respiratory rates and/or decreased peak electrical activity of the diaphragm
      while breathing on NHFOV compared to CPAP.

      Clinicians are seeking alternative methods for providing non-invasive respiratory support to
      preterm infants. NHFOV is a relatively new modality that is being increasingly utilized in
      clinical practice but has not been well studied. This study will help the investigators
      determine how non-invasive high frequency ventilation affects breathing in preterm infants,
      as compared to the more traditional modality of nasal CPAP. Therefore, clinicians will not
      only be able to better understand how NHFOV works, but also utilize this information to
      decide on the most appropriate respiratory support modality for preterm patients
    
  