
    
      Pediatric type 2 diabetes (T2D) is increasing in prevalence and its incidence is twice as
      high in girls as in boys. Pediatric onset of T2D occurs exclusively in obese youth and is
      tightly linked with puberty, suggesting a link with the physiologic insulin resistance of
      puberty. However, markers are as yet unavailable to identify those at highest risk for
      progression to T2D. Results from the Treatment Options for Diabetes in Youth (TODAY) Study
      demonstrate that pediatric T2D appears to progress rapidly in youth, forecasting poor quality
      of life and early complications. Therefore, identifying those most at risk and developing a
      better understanding of the pathophysiology of onset of T2D in youth are critical for
      preventing T2D, particularly in obese girls.

      The investigators overarching hypothesis is that effects of obesity on metabolic and hormonal
      changes during puberty place obese girls at greatest risk for early T2D, similar to that
      which is seen in women with gestational diabetes. More specifically, sex steroid effects on
      insulin resistance, β-cell function, and body composition may contribute to both the pubertal
      increase in risk for T2D, as well as the disproportionately higher prevalence of T2D among
      girls. The investigators long-term goal is to design a focused intervention aimed to prevent
      progression to T2D during puberty. In order to do this it is necessary to: 1. Develop a
      better understanding of underlying mechanisms for β-cell failure in obese youth during
      puberty, and 2. Identify early markers for predicting which obese youth will progress to
      early T2D.

      Alterations in gut microbiota appear to play an important role in mediating obesity and
      insulin resistance through poorly understood mechanisms. Current hypotheses are that shifts
      in the composition of the gut microbiome lead to dysregulation of complex polysaccharide
      metabolism, altered production of gut hormones regulating energy balance, and local and
      systemic inflammation. The gut microbiome composition has been reported to change during
      pregnancy and may play a role in metabolic changes during this time. As metabolic and
      hormonal changes in puberty parallel those in pregnancy, shifts in the microbiome may also
      accompany metabolic shifts during puberty. Currently, there are no published studies
      evaluating shifts in human gut microbiome composition during puberty. Consequently, the
      overall goal of this study is to collect cross-sectional preliminary data to inform
      feasibility of a future longitudinal study of metabolic and hormonal changes in lean and
      obese youth during the pubertal transition.
    
  