
    
      ECLIPSE is an international, open label, window of opportunity phase II trial that aims to
      evaluate the effects of immunotherapy based treatment combinations in women with untreated,
      histologically confirmed, operable, ER+, HER2-negative breast cancer. The study is designed
      with the flexibility to open new treatment arms as new treatments become available, or modify
      the patient population e.g. with regards to biomarker status. Only combinations with adequate
      safety data will be tested. The trial will include Luminal B and non-Luminal B patients
      irrespective of PD-L1 status, but the number of patients with non-Luminal B tumours will be
      capped at 50% of the total study population. Luminal B tumours will be defined as high Ki67
      (≥20%) and/or histological grade 3 or alternatively defined via PAM50 assay. All other types
      will be defined as non-Luminal B.

      Eligible patients will be randomised with an approximately equal ratio (1:1:1:1) to one of
      four treatment arms (three experimental arms: (1) Atezolizumab + Cobimetinib, (2)
      Atezolizumab + Ipatasertib, (3) Atezolizumab + Cobimetinib + Bevacizumab and a control arm:
      Atezolizumab alone. Additional patients may be enrolled to ensure balance among treatment
      arms with respect to demographic and baseline characteristics, including potential predictive
      biomarkers, to enable further subgroup analysis. Thereafter, the randomisation ratio will
      depend on the number of experimental arms that are open for enrolment (e.g. if an arm is
      added or enrolment in an arm is suspended pending analysis of results. Randomisation will
      take into account arm-specific exclusion criteria and patients will be ineligible for a
      specific arm if they meet any of the exclusion criteria outlined for that arm.

      Patients will receive treatment for 3 weeks prior to surgery or neoadjuvant therapy.
      Thereafter, patients will either be considered for definitive surgery or primary medical
      treatment (e.g. neoadjuvant chemotherapy) at the discretion of the treating physician.
      Surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy should be started within 3 weeks (±3 days) from the start
      of the study treatment. Patients will not be allowed to receive endocrine therapy prior to
      surgery.
    
  