
    
      Background:Probiotics are live microorganisms thought to have health benefits when ingested.
      Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have documented favourable impact on a range of clinical
      problems, including prevention of upper respiratory tract infections, antibiotic-associated
      diarrhea, Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, and irritable bowel syndrome. Our recent
      meta-analysis of probiotic RCTs in the intensive care unit (ICU) also suggests 25% lower
      rates of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) and 18% lower infection rates overall when
      administered to critically ill mechanically ventilated patients. However, these estimates
      arise from small, modest quality single-center RCTs yielding imprecise estimates of effect
      and uncertain generalizability, and require confirmation in a large methodologically
      rigourous RCT. Before launching a complex costly RCT testing whether probiotics confer
      benefit, harm, or have no impact on infectious and non-infectious outcomes, a pilot trial was
      needed. The investigators completed a multicenter pilot RCT for which the primary outcomes
      relate to feasibility: 1) recruitment success in 1 year; 2) >90% adherence to the probiotic
      protocol; 3) <5% contamination; 4) an estimated VAP rate. Patients have been randomized in 14
      centers in Canada and the US, with an informed consent rate of 84%. Feasibility goals were
      met. 1) Recruitment for the Pilot was achieved in 1 year; 2) Adherence to the protocol was
      96%; 3) There were no cases of contamination; 4) The VAP rate was 15%. This will be an
      internal Pilot which will be incorporated into the main trial.

      Setting: 13 ICUs in Canada, 2 ICUs in United States

      Methods: Patients age 18 years or older, admitted to the ICU, with an anticipated duration of
      ventilation of ≥72 hours are included. Patients are excluded if they have increased risk of
      iatrogenic probiotic infection or endovascular infection, primary diagnosis of severe acute
      pancreatitis, percutaneous gastric or jejunal feeding tubes already in situe, strict
      contraindication or inability to receive enteral medications, have hopeless prognosis,
      withholding or withdrawal of advanced life support is planned, or if previous enrolment in
      this or a related trial. Following informed consent, patients are randomized in variable
      unspecified block sizes in a fixed allocation ratio of 1:1, stratified by ICU and
      medical/surgical/trauma status. Twice daily, patients receive either 1x1010 colony forming
      units (CFU) of L. rhamnosus GG (Culturelle, Locin Industries Ltd) in 1 capsule or an
      identical placebo capsule. Both are suspended in water administered via nasogastric tube or
      by capsule. Research Nurses notify local Study Pharmacists after obtaining informed consent.
      Study Pharmacists obtain the allocation from the PROSPECT website. Only the Database Manager
      and Study Pharmacists will have access to the randomization schedule; everyone else remains
      blinded. Patients receive the intervention until:1) ICU discharge; 2) death; or 3) isolation
      of Lactobacillus spp. in a sterile site, or if cultured as the sole or predominant organism
      from a non-sterile site.

      RCT Trial Outcomes: The primary outcome is VAP; secondary outcomes include ICU-acquired
      infections, diarrhea (total, antibiotic-associated and CDAD), antibiotic use, length of stay
      and mortality in the ICU and hospital, and acquired L. rhamnosus GG infections.

      Relevance: Despite clinical uptake of some existing VAP prevention strategies, the morbidity,
      mortality and cost of VAP underscore the need for further cost-effective interventions to
      reduce its impact. Whether probiotics impact on VAP, other infections such as CDAD,
      antibiotic-associated diarrhea or antibiotic use is unclear. When rigorously evaluated,
      probiotics may have salutary effects decreasing nosocomial infections as prior RCTs suggest;
      alternatively, probiotics may have no demonstrable effect, or actually cause infections in
      critically ill patients with impaired immune function.
    
  