
    
      Psoriasis vulgaris is a chronic inflammatory skin disease which is characterized by raised,
      well-demarcated, erythematous plaques and affects approximately 2% of the Caucasian
      population.

      Patients suffering from moderate-to-severe psoriasis may be treated with a variety of
      systemic agents and treatment modalities, including retinoids, phototherapy and/or
      immunomodulatory drugs, including methotrexate, ciclosporin and fumarates. Patients are
      regularly monitored to determine the efficacy of treatment and to detect signs of systemic
      toxicity. Indeed, lack of efficacy and/or therapeutic toxicity are factors which require a
      re-evaluation of therapy. In addition to the conventional systemic treatments, systemic
      "biologic" therapies are playing an increasingly important role in the management of moderate
      to severe psoriasis.These treatments have resulted from advances in the understanding of the
      patho-physiology of psoriasis, combined with advances in molecular biology, in order to
      provide a more targeted therapy. Biologics include drugs targeting the production or signal
      transduction of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), and more recently, agents which target
      specific cytokines known to play an important role in the disease, including interleukin (IL)
      12/23.

      Despite these advances in psoriasis therapy, a relatively small number of patients initially
      fail to respond to biological psoriasis treatment or relapse during treatment. In fact,
      treatment with TNFα inhibitors and IL-12/23 monoclonal antibodies fails to induce disease
      control (PASI 75) in approximately 20-30% of the patients.

      An alternative biological therapy, recently licensed for the management of moderate to severe
      psoriasis is Secukinumab (Cosentyx®). Secukinumab binds to human IL-17A and neutralizes the
      bioactivity of this cytokine. IL-17A is increasingly recognized as one of the principal
      pro-inflammatory cytokines in immune mediated inflammatory diseases, including psoriasis. A
      recombinant, high-affinity, fully human monoclonal anti-human IL-17A antibody of the IgG1/κ
      class, Secukinumab treatment has reportedly resulted in disease response rates of up to
      almost 80%, as measured by a 90% improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index measure
      (PASI). Moreover, treatment with Secukinumab was associated with superior improvements in
      quality of life indices (Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) when compared to treatment
      with the IL12/23 inhibitor Ustekinumab. Given that treatment with biologics is reportedly
      associated with a loss of response over time, the development of novel classes of biologics,
      including those targeting IL-17, has been welcomed in terms of expanding the psoriasis
      treatment armamentarium.

      Despite the clinical data supporting the use of Secukinumab in the management of moderate to
      severe psoriasis, there are currently no molecular tools to identify which patients are
      likely to respond to treatment. Identifying biomarker(s) of disease response would not only
      facilitate optimized and personalized treatment, but would also ensure that patients who are
      unlikely to respond are not exposed to the risks associated with biologic treatments,
      principally derived from long-term immunosuppression. In addition, given that psoriasis is
      often associated with several inflammatory diseases, including psoriatic arthritis and
      inflammatory bowel disease, such biomarkers may also serve a key role in predicting treatment
      response of those co-morbid conditions to biological therapy.

      An interesting potential type of biomarker is the presence of single nucleotide polymorphisms
      (SNPs). Such polymorphisms are alterations in (i) genes which may be associated with genetic
      susceptibility to particular diseases or (ii) genes which are important in molecular pathways
      involved in disease and/or treatment response. Many respective genes in these pathways have
      been implicated by genome-wide association studies. For example, in terms of psoriasis, SNPs
      have been identified in cellular methotrexate efflux transporters which may influence both
      treatment response and the risk of methotrexate toxicity. On the other hand, variations in
      the genes important to the intracellular metabolism of methotrexate did not predict treatment
      response to methotrexate. Interestingly, variations in the IL17A and IL17A receptor gene are
      reportedly not associated with psoriatic arthritis susceptibility, although such variations
      remain to be systematically examined specifically in patients with psoriasis.

      An additional potential type of biomarker is the cutaneous expression of anti-microbial
      peptides (AMPs). Initially identified in frog skin, AMP expression in human psoriatic skin,
      specifically human beta defensin 2, was identified almost two decades ago. Since then it has
      become clear that a range of AMPs are highly expressed in the involved skin of psoriatic
      patients compared to normal skin. These proteins serve a protective antimicrobial function in
      the skin, but at the same time they may also play an immunomodulatory role. Therefore, it is
      conceivable that they may influence the pathophysiology of psoriasis. Indeed, the AMP
      cathelicidin (LL37) was shown to modulate proinflammatory keratinocyte responses in vitro,
      leading the authors to speculate that LL37 "may promote IL17/IL22 and IL6 associated
      psoriasis.". Thus, it is at least possible that treatment with IL17-targetting biologics not
      only influences the cutaneous expression of AMPs, but also alters the cutaneous inflammatory
      milieu, which may in result in profound changes in the cutaneous bacterial flora which the
      skin supports.

      To this end, a third promising type of biomarker is the presence and composition of the
      cutaneous bacterial flora; the skin microbiome. The term "cutaneous microbiome" describes the
      microbiological flora which colonizes human skin. There is evidence that the flora may be
      regulated in a time-, sex-, and medication-dependent manner. Indeed, describing and
      understanding the cutaneous microbiome is now the focus of intense research efforts to
      determine the role it may play in several skin diseases, including atopic dermatitis and
      bullous diseases.

      Whilst several studies have suggested shifts in the microbiological composition in associated
      with psoriasis, relatively few studies have addressed longitudinal changes in the microbiome
      under therapy. Indeed, at present there are no studies which have specifically sought to
      identify changes in the cutaneous microbiome under IL17 targeted therapy. Given the
      importance of IL17 in the pathophysiology of psoriasis, this important gap in our knowledge
      needs to be urgently addressed.

      Therefore, in summary, this study aims to identify and describe the presence of genetic
      variations governing susceptibility to psoriasis and response to treatment with secukinumab.
      This genetic data will be complemented by functional data determining gene expression before
      and during treatment and correlated with the expression of AMPs and the composition of the
      cutaneous microbiome. Using both genetic and phenotypic data we aim to identify novel
      biomarkers which can be rigorously tested and validated in subsequent studies.
    
  