
    
      This study has two arms: 1) cross-sectional observation on healthy participants, and 2)
      multi-center, prospective study of 3 month duration (pre and post design) on obese
      participants undergoing bariatric procedure.

      Population study: Forty Emirati obese adults from UAE and 40 Lebanese obese adults from
      Lebanon from both genders and planning to undergo bariatric procedure (irrelevant of the
      study) will be recruited. All participants planning to conduct the surgery will be contacted;
      the consenting ones will be recruited till target sample saturation. Afterwards, 40 healthy
      counterparts from each country will be selected. Healthy participants will be recruited from
      Zayed University or staff of Qassimi Hospital in Sharjah, UAE and from
      staff/students/colleagues of the Middle East Institute of Health University Hopsital in
      Lebanon.

      Assessment and Data Collection: 2 Research assistants (one in each hospital) will be trained
      by the principal investigator (PI) on the study instruments and data collection methods.
      These assistants will administer 4 questionnaires for each participant (healthy and obese
      per-operatively) at baseline(t0) and 4 questionnaires for the obese participants after the
      bariatric procedure after 3 months (t1). For quality control purposes, each questionnaire
      will be administered to all patients before the administration of the following
      questionnaire. Furthermore, each questionnaire will be completed and reviewed prior to
      administering the next. The assessment will take place in the specified clinic or hospital.

      All of the parameters, except the demographics and initial screening questionnaire (collected
      only at t0) and follow up post bariatric questionnaire (t1: at 3 months, after the bariatric
      procedure), will be collected and monitored at 2 time points: Baseline (t0: at the beginning
      of the study), and follow up for obese participants (t1: at 3 months, after the bariatric
      procedure).

      Assessment tools include:

      Demographics

      Questionnaires for:

      i. Initial screening questionnaire ii. Follow up post bariatric questionnaire iii. 24 hour
      recall iv. Anxiety and Stress Levels using the DASS v. Appetite questionnaire

      All questionnaires that are originally not in Arabic, will be translated to Arabic (local
      language), prior to study by translators whose first language is Arabic and back translated
      to English to assure coherence with original version.

      Biochemical evaluation

      An overnight fast of at least 12 h for blood collection is required. Collection will be done
      by a certified nurse at the Middle East institute of Health University Hospital and Qassimi
      Hospital. The blood will be analyzed for the following parameters:

        -  Lipid and glucose profile: serum triglyceride, total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-
           cholesterol, fasting blood glucose,

        -  Gut peptides: Total GLP-1, GLP-2, PYY, CCK, Ghrelin,

        -  Hormones: fasting insulin and Leptin

      The questionnaires will be administered during the participants' routine visits. And blood
      draw will be taken during that visit (for obese participants,around 1 week prior to surgery)
      And 3 months post bariatric surgery for obese individuals. For each time, for the complete
      process, a total of 30 min will be needed per participant.

      Nutritional Assessment • Anthropometric measurements will be assessed through a dietitian at
      the Middle East institute of Health University Hospital in Lebanon and Qassimi Hospital in
      sharjah, UAE. It will include body weight, body height, Body mass index (BMI), waist
      circumference (WC). Body composition will be evaluated using bioelectrical impedance analysis
      and energy expenditure using portable Indirect Calorimeter.

      Fecal microbiota analysis.

      • Participants will be given special collection kits followed by instructions on how to
      collect the stool. They will be asked to inform the research team when the samples are ready,
      so it will be collected within 24 hours. 2 samples will be collected from each participant,
      where 1 will be analyzed and second kept for accuracy check. Stool microbiota analysis will
      be done for all the participants at baseline and repeated at 3 months for the obese
      participants post bariatric surgery. Using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) products of the
      V3-V4 region of 16S rRNA gene will be sequenced using a barcoded Illumina paired-end
      sequencing technique. The primary composition of the microbiome in the stool samples will be
      determined and analyzed by cluster analysis.

      Sample size was determined according to change in Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes ratio, considering
      it as the main objective outcome of this study. Calculations were based on the data retrieved
      from Damms-Machado et al (2015) where serum Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes ratio changed
      significantly from 5.9 ±2.1 to 10.4± 1.4 in 3 months post bariatric surgery.To generate a
      similar significant effect of a sample size of 2 participants was estimated to achieve 80%
      power at a 5% alpha. Expecting a drop in effect size in this protocol, a high attrition rate
      among the samples at 3 months; we multiplied the number of participants in it by 20. Thus a
      sample of 40 participants per groups was planned for this study.

      Data will be analyzed through SPSS version 18. Correlations will be conducted through ANOVA.
      Effect of the study will be analyzed by paired t test on continuous data and Chi square on
      categorical data. Microbiota composition will be analyzed using QIIME, and alpha- and
      beta-diversity will be determined.
    
  