
    
      Angiogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels from the existing vascular bed. Certain
      integrins are upregulated while angiogenesis and myocardial fibrogenesis. Therefore,
      targeting an integrin with an imaging agent can be potentially useful for the early diagnosis
      of angiogenesis and/or fibrogenesis of malignant processes and myocardial remodelling.

      Trail design

      Arm 1:

      Study cohort will include 30 patients. After the IV injection of 630-700 MBq 99mTc-NC100692
      each breast will be imaged in CC and oblique views using the MBI system. Scintigarphic
      findings will be correlated with tissue diagnosis and or/ imaging and clinical follow- up of
      at least 6 months as well as with MRI, if performed, in order to determine the PPV and the
      NPV of the technology of MBI with labeled NC100692 for detection of tumors and
      differentiating benign and malignant breast lesions.

      Arm 2 :

      Study cohort will include 30 patients with breast cancer referred for 18-FDG PET-CT for
      staging or re-staging. In addition to the PET-CT study, scintimammography using the MBI
      system and whole-body scintigraphy using the Infinia gamma-camera will be performed after the
      IV injection of 630-700 MBq 99mTc-NC100692. Imaging with 99mTc-NC100692 will be take place
      first followed by 18-FDG PET-CT, on the same day.

      Detection of the primary tumor, lymph nodes and remote metastasis by the various modalities
      and tracers will be correlated.

      Arm 3:

      Study cohort will include 15 patients with locally advanced breast cancer. Patients will
      undergo scintimammography with the MBI system (for the breast) and SPECT of the axilla and
      thorax (for regional lymph nodes) with the Infinia gamma camera, after the IV injection of
      630-700 MBq 99mTc-NC100692 prior to treatment and at its end. The results of the follow-up
      studies will be correlated with histological findings in patients referred for surgery and
      with MRI in others.

      Prior to the exam, patients will answer a detailed questionnaire about medical and family
      history,findings on other imaging modalities and,therpy.

      The patient will be guided by the study coordinator before answering the questionnaire
      Reading of the 99mTc-NC100692 studies will be in a blinded mode to other imaging data,
      separately by two nuclear medicine experts and then in consensus. Mammography, US and MRI
      will be reviewed by a breast imaging.
    
  