
    
      Paclitaxel is designed to work by blocking the mechanisms of cell division in cancer cells,
      causing them to die.

      Before you can start on this study, you will have what are called "screening tests." These
      tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will
      have a complete medical history and physical exam, including measurement of height, weight,
      and vital signs (blood pressure, temperature, breathing rate, and heart rate). You will have
      a neurological evaluation evaluating your strength and nerve function. You will be asked to
      report how a pinprick or a thin brush feel when applied to your skin. About 2 tablespoons of
      blood and some urine samples will be collected for routine tests. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative urine pregnancy test.

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will begin taking study drugs in cycles
      of 28 days. You will be hospitalized to receive your chemotherapy. The night of the hospital
      admission, you will receive fluids (normal saline) in your veins to help decrease the risk of
      kidney side effects from the chemotherapy. The morning after your admission to the hospital,
      you will be taken to the interventional radiology suite, and a catheter (a thin plastic tube)
      will be placed in your groin area and advanced to the liver. You must be on bedrest the
      entire time that the catheter is in place. After the procedure, you will go to Nuclear
      Medicine, and a test called "flow study" will be carried out to confirm the right position of
      the catheter. After your return to the room, the nurses will start the chemotherapy. You will
      receive paclitaxel nonstop over 24 hours through the catheter (a thin plastic tube) into the
      artery that carries blood to your liver. You will repeat this procedure once every month.

      The catheter will be carefully taped so that it can not move and to prevent it from coming
      out while you are receiving chemotherapy. You will be asked to lie flat on your back while
      the treatment takes place. In some cases, the catheter will be removed immediately after your
      chemotherapy infusions is complete. In some cases, the catheter will remain in longer. You
      will be on bedrest until the catheter is removed. When the catheter is pulled, pressure will
      be applied to the groin for 15 minutes. The catheter will be removed by someone experienced
      in the procedure. The catheter will be placed and removed for each cycle of chemotherapy.
      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for blood counts and liver function tests, before
      each dose, to be sure researchers are safely giving you the paclitaxel.

      You will be seen by a doctor or advanced practitioner every day while you are in the
      hospital. You will be hospitalized for about 3-5 days until recovery from all immediate
      chemotherapy-related side effects. The charges of your hospitalization will be billed to you
      or your insurance carrier.

      You will continue to receive the chemotherapy once every 28 days, unless the disease gets
      worse or intolerable side effects occur. Every 2 months and at the end of your participation
      in this study, you will have scans to see if your tumors are growing or shrinking and blood
      work (about 3 teaspoons) will be performed for safety tests. These tests can be performed at
      your doctor's office and the results faxed to the study doctor at M. D. Anderson.

      In addition, you will be asked to call the research nurse in charge of this study at
      713-745-1042 to report on your health status every week for 30 days after the last dose of
      the drug or until you start a new course of therapy.

      This is an investigational study. The chemotherapy you will be given is FDA approved. The
      cost of being on these medications will be billed to you or your insurance company. About 59
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  