
    
      This study aims to test the efficacy of a non-pharmacological treatment for MCI that involves
      noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS). Early studies in Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia
      patients have found that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS, a form of NIBS)
      improved global cognitive function and activities of daily living. Given that in AD, neuronal
      loss and synaptic dysfunction progress along brain networks, the results of these early
      studies of brain stimulation suggest there is sufficient neuroplasticity in AD for
      efficacious effects of brain stimulation. Of the very few rTMS studies in MCI that have been
      published, the effect size appears to be moderately large. However, it is not clear whether
      the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), the stimulation site used in the most of the
      prior MCI/AD rTMS trials, is the optimal site for achieving the most efficacious effects
      including effects on episodic memory. Importantly, when other investigators used rTMS to
      stimulate a lateral parietal cortical (LPC) site in healthy young adults, significant effects
      of rTMS on memory were measureable weeks later. Moreover, functional connectivity of brain
      regions was selectively increased, including the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), a "hub" of
      brain networks that is affected in amnestic MCI.

      Because stimulation of the DLPFC and the LPC may each have distinct effects, we designed this
      pilot trial to have two active rTMS treatment groups: DLPFC and LPC. A third group will
      receive inactive (placebo) rTMS to achieve a controlled, randomized, double-blind trial. For
      each of the three groups, stimulation will be bilateral, based on effects achieved in the AD
      studies. The primary hypothesis is that active rTMS (to either site of stimulation) will be
      superior to inactive (placebo) rTMS in improving memory. Measures of change in functional
      connectivity will be computed to examine whether there is evidence that rTMS changes
      connectivity of the PCC with other regions of the brain. In addition to looking at effects of
      rTMS on functional connectivity and cognition in relation to the cortical site stimulated,
      genetic markers will be collected toward addressing heterogeneity of response. To track the
      durability of rTMS effects on memory, participants will be followed longer than in any prior
      study (up to 6 months after the intervention). If this study finds rTMS improves memory in
      older adults with MCI, further clinical development of this non-pharmacological treatment
      could ultimately improve the lives of millions of older adults who have MCI and are at an
      increased risk of developing dementia.
    
  