
    
      Adrenal masses are incidentally found on computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen (so-called
      "incidentaloma") (AIs) approximately 4% of the time and in 8% in autopsy series. It is
      important to distinguish benign from malignant. Also, differentiating functioning vs
      nonfunctioning tumors. The majority of AIs are nonfunctioning , benign lesions account for
      82.5% of cases including adenomas (61%), myelolipomas (10%), adrenal cysts (6%), and
      ganglioneuromas (5.5%), cortisol-secreting adenomas (5.3%), pheochromocytomas (5.1%),
      adrenocortical carcinomas (4.7%), metastatic lesions (2.5%), and aldosteronomas (1%).

      The frequency of adrenal incidentaloma reported in the radiology literature varies according
      to imaging modality with computed tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),
      it ranges from 0.3 to 7%, whereas with ultrasound, it is 0.4-2 %. The evaluation and
      classification of adrenal vascular tumors and cysts remain a challenging, in spite of, the
      frequency of detection over the past years has been facilitated by advances in imaging and
      molecular histopathology. This overlap not only because of their scarcity but because these
      lesions are often obscured by the extensive hemorrhage. As a result, surgical excision of
      these lesions has to trend in the last decades.

      Because of that, we retrieved our data to determine the clinical features, histopathological
      pathognomonic features and the long term outcomes for these lesions.

      The computerized dedicated database of patients who were treated for adrenal tumors between
      January 2010 and December 2017 was reviewed. Only patients aged >18 years were included in
      the study and their files were fully evaluated. The data collected were the age at the time
      of presentation, clinical features, medical history, adrenal metabolic profile, radiological
      tumor characteristics, treatment methods, and histopathological characteristics. In all
      cases, CT with contrast was performed unless contraindicated and MRI was performed. Also,
      basic hormonal assay including 24-hour urinary cortisol and plasma metanephrines were
      requested for all cases. Under general anesthesia with fixation of intra-arterial line,
      patients were explored laparoscopically or via the lumbar incision. Three days postoperative,
      the patient was discharged unless hormonal replacement therapy is required for a longer
      period of time. The patients were followed up by metabolic profile and radiologically after 6
      and 12 months postoperatively then annually.
    
  