
    
      SUMMARY: A random study sample of up to 1000 NHs within 75 miles of the local area of the 121
      cities where the CDC performs weekly influenza surveillance (estimated N= 11,239) may be
      offered the opportunity for participation; the first 1000 eligible to participate and
      accepting the offer will be enrolled. Participating facilities will be offered vaccine
      education for residents and staff, but will be randomly allocated to receive aTIV (FLUAD)
      vaccine or usual care (TIV) vaccination for their residents.

      BACKGROUND: Lower respiratory tract infection (LRI), including pneumonia, bronchitis, and
      tracheobronchitis, is the leading cause of infectious mortality and hospitalization in older
      adults , and nursing home (NH) residents. Pneumonia and infection often produce attenuated
      signs and symptoms in older adults, leading to delayed or even misdiagnosis for this
      population. Diagnosis is further compromised due to few and sporadic clinician visits with
      nursing home residents, and reduced access to radiology. LRI may or may not directly lead to
      hospitalization, but LRIs are associated with considerable other morbidity than can result in
      hospitalization, including exacerbation of underlying cardiopulmonary diseases.
      Hospitalization rates for NH residents vary considerably between facilities, but the majority
      of hospitalizations occur during the 12 weeks during which influenza peaks each year.

      OBJECTIVES: The primary objective is to estimate the differences in hospitalization rates
      during influenza season experienced by long-stay nursing home residents, between facilities
      using adjuvanted trivalent vaccine vs. standard trivalent vaccine. The secondary objective is
      to estimate the differences in the likelihood of Activities of Daily Living (ADL) functional
      decline and mortality rates in the study nursing homes, and influenza outbreaks.
    
  