
    
      Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare and severe disease with a survival median
      between 2 and 4 years which leads to a profound alteration of the quality of life. This
      alteration results from different consequences of the IPF: progressive shortness of breath,
      irritative cough refractory to treatments, exhaustion, limitation of activity, social
      isolation, and psychic consequences such as fear, anxiety and depression.

      The only current curative treatment of the disease is pulmonary transplantation, but it's
      only feasible for a minority of patients. Anti-fibrotic drugs, such as pirfenidone and
      nintedanib, are likely to slow the progression of IPF but have no impact on patients' quality
      of life.

      The symptomatic treatment aimed at relieving respiratory discomfort and the patient's quality
      of life is therefore fundamental, and the IPF meets in many ways the challenges of lung
      cancer.

      In thoracic oncology, the systematic and early intervention of a palliative care team result
      in an improvement of quality of life for patients.

      In the princeps study published in 2010, the early intervention of a dedicated palliative
      care team was compared to standard care in a randomized trial of 150 patients and shows a
      significant improvement : (i) of quality of life (main objective), (ii) of depression scores
      and even overall survival (11.6 months vs. 8.9 months, P = 0.02), (iii) a benefit in terms of
      understanding the diagnosis and therapeutic goals (3), (iv) diminution of adapted
      hospitalization in end of life (in emergency or not).

      Considering some analogy points between IPF and advanced lung cancer (prognosis, respiratory
      symptom, psychological burden), it seemed reasonable to assume that the joint systematic
      intervention of chest physician and palliative care team may provide a significant benefit in
      terms of quality of life for patients with severe IPF.

      Objective:

      To investigate the benefit on quality of life, evaluated after 6 months, of a systematic,
      formalized and joint intervention of a palliative intervention staff and a chest physician
      team compared to standard care for patients with severe IPF.

      Secondary endpoints

        1. To evaluate the benefit of the systematic, formalized and joint intervention of a
           palliative care team and a chest physician team on:

             -  Mood and depression

             -  Understanding of diagnosis and therapeutic objectives, frequency of drafting of
                advance directives regarding end-of-life

             -  Respiratory symptoms (cough and dyspnea)

             -  The course of care, the use of palliative care stays and the duration of hospital
                stays (number and duration of hospitalizations).

             -  Overall survival and place of death.

        2. Carry out a medico-economic study evaluating the incremental cost-utility and
           cost-effectiveness ratio (overall survival criterion)
    
  