
    
      Cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA) is the most common cause of food allergies in children with
      incidence estimated as 2% to 7.5% in the first year of life and is characterized by an
      inflammatory reaction to milk proteins, Formula and exclusively breast-fed babies can develop
      CMPA.

      The immunologic mechanism behind the development of CMPA is not yet clear. However, it is
      clear that CMPA is caused by IgE- as well as non-IgE-mediated immune reactions, IgE-mediated
      CMPA is better described and it is typically immediate, type 1 hypersensitivity (minutes to 2
      hours after consumption of cow's milk) while non IgE- mediated CMPA is delayed, type 4
      hypersensitivity. a diverse range of symptoms of variable intensity in infants.

      Combinations of immediate and delayed reactions to the same allergen may occur in the same
      patient, symptoms and signs related to CMPA may involve many different organ systems, mostly
      the skin and the gastro- intestinal and respiratory tracts. The involvement of two systems
      increases the probability of CMPA, whereas some symptoms are more likely to be present in
      infant with a positive test for CMP-specific IgE (eg, angioedema, atopic eczema); however,
      there is a large overlap. The same symptoms may appear in CMP IgE-positive and IgE-negative
      patients, particularly in infant with gastrointestinal manifestations.

      Studies in unselected infants with CMPA show that approximately half of them have atopic
      eczema, and 25% to 50% are affected by some gastrointestinal tract involvement whereas other
      clinical manifestations are less common.

      It is important to accurately diagnose CMPA to avoid the consequences of either under- or
      overdiagnosis, skin prick test and serum specific IgE tests are helpful for diagnosis, mainly
      in IgE-mediated forms . On the other hand, in cases of CMPA with gastrointestinal chronic
      signs and symptoms, skin prick test and specific IgE tests are usually negative.

      This is the reason why the only reliable method of diagnosis in such cases is a food
      challenge that need to be done in hospital and could be also dangerous, this explain why
      there is a growing interest to find new biomarkers for diagnosis and follow up.Eosinophil
      cationic protein (ECP) is a cytotoxic protein released from eosinophils upon activation the
      measurement of ECP levels can be used as a non invasive indicator to detect active
      inflammation in the body.
    
  