
    
      Background: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (AD(H)D) symptoms are often assumed to
      decease in adolescence, however in up to 60% of children, AD(H)D persists into adulthood.
      Currently, pharmacological therapy is the number-one choice AD(H)D treatment. Despite its
      evidenced effects of pharmacological interventions there are side effects, contraindications
      and non-responders, which send some patients disliking the use of medication and asking for
      alternative treatments. In previous studies mindfulness-based interventions already have
      shown similar effects in neural regions as pharmacological treatment and positive changes in
      AD(H)D symptoms, quality of life, awareness and concentration. The following study wants to
      improve mindfulness-based treatment approaches in AD(H)D with a new therapy concept.

      Methods: Mindfulness, acceptance, commitment and cognitive behavioral group therapy (MAC-CBT)
      combines 3rd wave therapies with focus on mindfulness meditation, acceptance of
      unchangeability, commitment to new goals with elements of cognitive behavioral therapy. The
      design of this study is a single-center, parallel-group, randomized superiority trial. The
      aim is to compare MAC-CBT group with progressive muscle relaxation training (PMR by
      Jacobson). Both groups will be held over a period of eight weeks. Participants will be
      assessed two times before treatment to determine natural course of adult AD(H)D and two times
      after treatment to evaluate short and long term effects. A questionnaire battery and
      neuropsychological tests are to be used to obtain results regarding a possible change in the
      symptoms and attention, including selective attention.

      Discussion: This trial will offer new knowledge about the effects of third wave therapies on
      AD(H)D. Furthermore, the following study is one of few studies that will compare AD(H)D
      treatment to relaxation training instead of comparison to waiting list. The aim of the
      following study is to verify previous outcomes of mindfulness-based treatments on AD(H)D and
      to evaluate superiority of mindfulness towards relaxation programs.
    
  