
    
      Design: Three-month controlled, randomized, and double-blind study. The subjects will be
      recruited from the Gama Filho University. They will be randomized with a blind design to a
      whole-body vibration training group (WBV), strength training group (STG) and control group
      (CG) by a researcher who will not participate of the initial assessments.

      Intervention

      The study is a longitudinal randomized clinical trial. The subjects will perform three visits
      to the laboratory where they will be submitted to neuropsychological, behavioral and physical
      evaluations. These evaluations will be performed before and after three months of training.
      Each visit will last about an hour and a half. After a period of one week of adaptation,
      subjects begin training with the charges set out in this study. All groups will carry out
      training twice a week, forty minutes, for three months. Next, will be described in detail the
      experimental procedures in each group:

      STG Group Participants will undergo a training program set for the three functional groups,
      which lasted ten minutes, followed by thirty minutes of strength training twice a week
      consists of six exercises for major muscle groups: leg press, bench press, lat pull down,
      knee extension, knee flexion and Abdominal (3 sets of 10-12 repetitions at 60-80% of 1 RM
      with 3 min interval between sets and between workouts).

      WBV Group Participants will undergo a training program set for the three functional groups,
      which lasted ten minutes, followed by thirty minutes of exercise stimuli to whole-body
      vibration training twice a week (2-3 sets of 30 sec. with frequency of stimulation at 30 Hz
      with 60 s intervals between stimuli), the platform will hold a range of six functional
      exercises combining squats and isometric or dynamic exercises for the upper limbs and trunk.

      Control Group Participants will undergo a training program set for the three functional
      groups of ten minutes duration, followed by thirty minutes of functional exercises twice a
      week (2-3 sets of 30 sec. At intervals of 60 s between stimuli) carry out a range of six
      functional exercises combining squats and isometric or dynamic exercises for the upper limbs
      and trunk without intensity.
    
  