
    
      Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) typically occur in elderly people. Patients present
      peripheral blood cytopenia, and with time a portion of these subjects evolve into acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML). MDS are heterogeneous ranging from conditions with a near-normal life
      expectancy to forms close to AML and therefore a risk-adapted treatment strategy is
      mandatory. Current prognostic scores present limitations, and in most cases fail to capture
      reliable prognostic information at individual level. Several therapeutic tools have been
      proposed for MDS but only few survived the evidence-based criteria of efficacy. Lenalidomide
      improves anemia in patients with 5q deletion. Allogeneic transplantation (HSCT) is the only
      potentially curative treatment for high risk patients; however, an accurate selection of
      candidate patients is needed. Hypomethylating agents (HMA) may improve survival in MDS not
      eligible HSCT, while predictive factors for clinical response remain to be defined.

      Important steps forward have been made in defining the molecular architecture of MDS. The MDS
      associated with 5q deletion derives from the haploinsufficiency of RPS14 gene. The
      investigators and others identified genes encoding for spliceosome components in a high
      proportion of MDS. The investigators found a close relationship between ring sideroblasts and
      SF3B1 mutations, which is consistent with a causal relationship. In addition, an increasing
      number of genes have been found to carry recurrent mutations in MDS, involved in DNA
      methylation (DNMT3A, TET2, IDH1/2), chromatin modification (EZH2, ASXL1), transcriptional
      regulation (RUNX1), signal transduction. Gene mutations have been reported to influence
      survival and risk of disease progression in MDS, and the evaluation of the mutation status
      may add significant information to currently used prognostic scores. Moreover, mutation
      screening may affect clinical decision making : a) in MDS with 5q-, subjects carrying TP53
      mutations have a higher risk of leukemic progression and a lower probability of response to
      lenalidomide; b) in patients receiving HSCT, TP53 mutations predict high probability of
      relapse; c) SF3B1 mutations are associated with increased probability of erythroid response
      to TGFb inhibitors

      Despite these findings, caution is needed against immediately adopting such mutational
      testing in clinical practice. Most of scientific evidence derive from retrospective analyses
      of selected patient populations. In addition, in patients with MDS genetic abnormalities
      explain only a proportion of the total hazard for overall survival and outcome associated
      with specific treatments, meaning that a large percentage is still associated with clinical
      and non-mutational factors. Comprehensive analyses of large, prospective patient populations
      are warranted to correctly estimate the independent effect of each mutation on clinical
      outcome and response to treatments.

      Real World Evidence (RWE) is information on health care that is derived from multiple sources
      outside typical clinical research settings, including electronic health records (EHRs),
      claims and billing data, product and disease registries, and data gathered through personal
      devices and health applications National healthcare systems of advanced countries, including
      Italy, widely agree on the approach whereby public healthcare decisions should be driven by
      available evidence on effectiveness and safety of therapeutics. It is equally accepted that
      randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs), although universally recognized as the most
      robust "evidence generators", are insufficient for guiding the decision-making process since
      they are intrinsically unsuited to capture the impact of treatments in routine clinical
      practice. The complexity of treatments, as well as the demographic and clinical heterogeneity
      of patients receiving the treatments, and the long period of many treatments, explain the gap
      between the evidence generated in the controlled, but artificial, setting of RCTs and their
      current impact in the real world.

      This explains the growing interest in the development of methods able to produce evidence on
      the real-world impact of care pathways (i.e., real-world evidence). Among them, those based
      on the Electronic Healthcare Records (EHRs), are becoming established and receiving
      increasing attention from the scientific community and healthcare decision-makers. In
      addition, real world data (RWD) are currently used during drug development to examine aspects
      such as the natural history of a disease, delineating treatment pathways in clinical
      practice, and determining the costs and resource use associated with treatment interventions

      In this project, the investigators will develop a research platform by integrating genomic
      mutations, clinical variables and patient outcome derived from real-world data obtained from
      FISiM (Fondazione Italiana Sindromi Mielodisplastiche) clinical network, including 72
      hematological centers. In this context, there is clearly a need to develop effective
      solutions to analyze and integrate molecular and clinical data of large patient populations,
      in order to fully understand the relationship between genotype and the clinical expression of
      a disease. In this area, a solution of excellence has been developed by the research center
      i2b2 (Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bedside, University of Harvard, Boston -
      www.i2b2.org). This center developed an open-source software based on a data-warehouse able
      to integrate and to exploit all data coming from clinical practice and hospital admissions,
      making them available and easily accessible by researchers. FISiM network is based on a
      platform to specifically support hematological research, called i2b2Hematology
      (www.biomeris.com/index.php/it/tasks/i2b2-hematology-pv-it), allowing researchers to explore
      and analyze three types of data: (i) the clinical data available in all hematological centers
      belonging to the clinical network, (ii) the information related to the samples stored in
      biobanks, and (iii) NGS sequencing data in terms of genomic variants. Relying on this
      national clinical network and on an innovative informatics infrastructure, in this project
      the investigators will analyze the interactions among driver mutations clinical variables and
      patient outcome of specific treatments. At the same time the investigators will render NGS
      analysis of somatic mutations available for the FISiM centers that need support for this
      technique.

      The investigators will address strategical needs in MDS (i.e., standardization and
      improvement of diagnostic work-up, clinical relevance of mutational screening, adherence to
      evidence-based guidelines, drug safety and efficacy, clinical relevance of patient-reported
      outcomes, PRO and quality of life,QoL) in a real world MDS setting with the final objective
      to propose a personalized approach for the individual patient.
    
  