
    
      The duration of interventions was 12 weeks. In-center exercise training sessions were
      available for all participants once a week for 6 weeks. Each session lasted about 20 minutes.
      Participants were instructed to perform flexibility and strength exercise in centres prior to
      the haemodialysis session. The researcher performed exercises with the participants and
      emphasised the importance of self-monitoring during the sessions. Symptoms (such as chest
      pain, dyspnea, dizziness, and leg cramps) and vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, and
      pulse) were checked before exercise and monitored during the entire exercise session.
      Participants were instructed to self-monitor exercise intensity. The exercise programme was
      pause immediately if the patient was feeling short of breath, chest pain or pressure,
      irregular heartbeats, leg cramps, dizziness or lightheadedness, blurring of vision, or any
      discomfort.

      Intervention group During the study period, participants in the intervention group received
      additional face-to-face interviews conducted by the designated case managers every week for
      six weeks and biweekly for another six weeks. During interviews, patients were instructed to
      start aerobic exercise, such as walking, jogging, cycling, or brisk walking at home at low
      duration and gradually progress to a maximum of 30 minutes daily per week. Apart from aerobic
      exercise, patients were recommended to perform strength exercises twice a week and
      flexibility exercises for every day. The key elements of the interview included: 1)
      assessment of patients' knowledge and exercise behaviour; examining patients' attitudes and
      feelings about being physical activity; 2) explore patients' barriers to exercise and
      perceived benefits; 3) patient education on the benefits of exercise if needed; 4)
      development of mutual goals in an exercise plan; 5) explain the purpose of a recording
      exercise log and instruction in correct way to keep an exercise diary; 6) discuss the
      available supports and resources that could motivate patients to initiate and maintain
      exercise, e.g., centre-based exercise programme, support from family members, health care
      providers, peer patients, and so forth.

      In the follow-up interviews, case managers reviewed the exercise log with participants,
      discussed unpleasant experiences related to exercise, exercise progress, and provided
      encouragement. According to the progress participants made, the exercise goals and plan were
      renewed or revised. Referrals were made as needed.

      Comparison group Participants in the comparison group were advised to participate in the
      in-centre exercise training programme which was available before haemodialysis sessions once
      a week for different shifts of patients. The training session lasted about 20 minutes and
      only flexibility and strength training were provided. During the training sessions, patients
      were advised to increase their daily activity levels.
    
  