
    
      Introduction Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common cancers in the world. In
      Brazil, it is the second most incident tumor in women and the third in men. Colonoscopy is
      considered the gold standard test for colorectal cancer screening through the detection and
      removal of adenomas or detection of early cancers. However, this protection is not perfect
      and even less effective in the right colon (cecum and ascending colon) when compared to the
      distal colon, which leads to underdiagnosis of neoplasias and precursor lesions (eg
      adenomas). In this context, the performance and quality of colonoscopy play an important role
      in minimizing colonoscopy deficiencies. The American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
      (ASGE) determines three indispensable indicators for measuring the quality of colonoscopy:
      cecal intubation (≥95% in screening colonoscopies), adenoma detection rate (ADR) (≥25% in men
      and women, on screening colonoscopies) and withdrawal time (≥6 minutes on screening, negative
      colonoscopies).

      In addition, for a better detection of lesions, it is necessary that the assessed colonic
      segment be cleaned of residues, and, therefore, proper colonic preparation is one of the
      quality items of the examination. Inadequate preparation impairs the detection of polyps and
      flat lesions, increases the time of the examination, increases the chances of complications
      and the costs of colonoscopy. One way to measure the quality of bowel preparation is the
      Boston Intestinal Prepare Scale. This scale uses a classification from 0 to 9 evaluating the
      preparation in three segments (right colon, transverse colon and left colon) after cleaning
      maneuvers. The score ranges from 0 (poor preparation) to 9 (excellent preparation).

      In order to increase the quality of the colonoscopic examinations by increasing the ADR and
      reducing the incidence of the interval CRC, some methods have been investigated, including
      the Second Foward View Examination of the right-side colon (SFVE) and examination with Water
      Aid or Underwater colonoscopy (UW).

      The first method is to evaluate the right colon with air and, upon reaching the hepatic
      flexsure, return to the cecum and re-evaluate the colonic segment. The second method, is to
      evaluate the right colon by inserting the colonoscope with the device completely immersed in
      water and withdrawn from the colonoscope with air after complete aspiration of the water,
      also known as the "Exchange method". The principle is that water cleans the colon and allows
      an increase of the image that is visualized by the colonoscope, and in that way, would
      improve the visualization of the mucosa.

      Clark et al. demonstrated that, after performing SFVE, additional adenomas were found in 43
      of 280 patients evaluated (15.4%, p <0.05) and the overall adenoma detection rate increased
      by 3.2% (p <0.05). The ADR in the right colon increased by 6.7% (p <0.05).

      A retrospective study conducted by Leung et al. demonstrated that the UW technique increased
      the ADR in the right colon - at least one adenoma of any size was detected in 26.8% of
      patients in the air-evaluated group and in 34, 9% of patients in the group evaluated with
      water.

      The two techniques showed to increase the ADR. Both are easy to carry out, do not require
      extra training or additional equipment, and have low cost. However, the impact of water
      exchange method colonoscopy on adenoma detection rate have not benn completely calrified.
      Further there is no evidence in the literature comparing these two techniques.

      During colonoscopy learning curve, objective criteria are increasingly being suggested to
      assess the competence of "trainees". Traditionally, this evaluation is made by the number of
      procedures performed by them, but recently other criteria such as quality indicators, the ADR
      and intubation of the cecum have been investigated as formal methods in the evaluation of a
      trainee or resident. During the endoscopy residency in Barretos Cancer Hospital, surveillance
      colonoscopies are performed by residents supervised by the senior endoscopistThere is
      currently no evaluation of the colonoscopy technique performed by the resident. In addition,
      there is no evaluation of the ADR during the learning curve of the endoscopy resident in our
      department.

      Justification The need to ensure adequate ADR among endoscopy residents. Absence of studies
      comparing UW and SEVF techniques of the right colon for the adenoma detection rate.

      Primary objective To compare the ADR between combined SEFV and UW techniques in the right
      colon in patients undergoing colonoscopy for high-risk screening, diagnosis and follow-up
      after polypectomy, performed by residents supervised by a senior endoscopist.

      Secondary objectives To estimate the association between withdrawal time, proportion of
      independent intubation of the cecum, preparation of the colon and the number of previously
      performed colonoscopies in the ADR in both techniques previously performed.
    
  