
    
      The 2004 Department of Health publication "Improving Chronic Disease Management" highlights
      that: 17.5 m adults in the UK may be living with a chronic disease; Around 80% of GP
      admissions relate to chronic disease; Patients with a chronic disease or complications use
      over 60% of hospital beds. Evidence from the US suggests that people with chronic conditions
      consume 78% of all health spending. The NHS modernisation agency has suggested that patients
      with chronic diseases should, in the future, no longer end up in acute beds when they could
      be treated in a community setting, or supported at home.

      Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a major chronic disease which has been recognised in the UK
      with a National Service Framework (NSF) for Coronary Heart Disease. In industrialised
      countries it affects 1% of the population on average and 10% at 70 years of age. It accounts
      for 5 per cent of all medical admissions to the hospital (120,000 hospital admissions
      annually) costing an estimated £360 million to the NHS with 6,000 deaths each year from CHF.

      The disease has a poor prognosis as within 5 years of diagnosis there is a 50% mortality, and
      many debilitating, costly and unplanned hospital admissions. Indeed, as many as 50% of
      patients are readmitted within 3 months of initial discharge. It has been suggested that up
      to 50% of hospital admissions for heart failure are preventable.

      Telecare proposes an earlier diagnosis and with more appropriate and timely use of drugs this
      can increase patient survival and their quality of life. A weight gain of just a few pounds
      can signal that a chronic heart failure patient is retaining fluid, for example. If caught
      early enough, the patient may be able to take medication or otherwise manage the problem at
      home, rather than having to be hospitalised which improves care and saves money. There is
      extensive evidence that hospitalisation rates in patients with heart failure can be
      substantially reduced by improved patient education, patient self monitoring of weight, and
      rapid response to early signs of clinical deterioration. Telehealth interventions for CHF
      have tended to be based on devices asking specific questions with answers being entered by
      users. The information provided is then often supplemented with data from weighing scales and
      blood pressure monitors, with this being forwarded through the telephone system to a central
      sever. Here medical staff review the data and respond to patients with increasing risk.
      Automated software is also becoming available that can highlight to practitioners when a
      certain patient is outside of practitioner defined parameters or is not using their equipment
      regularly.

      Lifestyle monitoring systems, using movement detectors and magnetic proximity switches on
      fridge and entry doors, can generate a profile of the user's lifestyle. Deviations from the
      normal profile can result in an alert being generated.

      Correlations between both health and lifestyle strategies have not been conducted and this
      trial provides this opportunity.

      Within the realms of this research study the lifestyle monitoring system will not be
      utilising the 'alert' system. It will purely be in a data gathering mode.
    
  