
    
      BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in women (ACS, 2013).
      Genetic screening has also become increasingly important in treating breast cancer patients,
      with 5-10% of breast cancers linked to mutations in BRCA1/2 genes(Miki, 1994) (Wooster,
      1995). As the field of genetic testing has rapidly expanded and multigene panels are now
      available, it is unclear what psychological consequences have resulted from the knowledge
      gained from these tests.

      RATIONALE: Breast cancer clinicians frequently employ genetic testing with breast cancer
      patients. It is unclear what psychological consequences have resulted from the knowledge
      gained from these tests. A literature review reveals that results are contradictory in terms
      of determining stress levels related to test results. This is due to different study
      methodologies. The Medical College of Wisconsin Cancer Center researchers will generate more
      definitive answers through a prospective study that will establish baseline stress levels,
      evaluate pre- and post- test stress levels at multiple time points, focus on the changes in
      stress levels for the different resulting subgroups. Evaluating the impact of genetic testing
      on stress levels will help health care professionals to better understand the consequences of
      genetic testing, and thus, provide better care for patients both medically and
      psychologically through potential interventions to decrease stress.

      STUDY PROCEDURES: Patients will be contacted by phone after their genetic counseling
      appointment is made, prior to their visit by a member of the research team. After giving
      informed consent, patients will be provided with the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) for
      Adults handout to measure their baseline anxiety, as well as the Health Anxiety Inventory and
      the Cancer Worry Scale to measure their baseline health anxiety and several additional
      demographic questions. Subjects will complete the validated questionnaires privately and then
      return them to the genetic counselor. The data collected at this time point will measure
      their stress levels before genetic counseling and testing. Patients will be contacted by
      phone four more times to take the HAI and CWS survey over the phone (one week after receiving
      genetic testing results, which is three weeks after the consult; at five weeks; three months
      and six months).
    
  