
    
      Normally chronic tumor related pain is controlled when participants receive repeated doses of
      opioid analgesics. However, opioid therapy is commonly associated with side effects such as
      nausea, vomiting, sedation, constipation, addiction, tolerance, and respiratory depression.
      Tapentadol (CG5503), a newly synthesized drug with an prolonged release (PR) formulation,
      also acts as a centrally acting pain reliever but has 2 mechanisms of action. The aim of this
      trial is to investigate the effectiveness (level of pain control) and safety (side effects)
      of tapentadol (CG5503) PR compared with no drug (placebo) and corresponding dose of morphine
      (an opioid commonly used to treat tumor related pain). This trial is a randomized,
      double-blind (neither investigator nor patient will know which treatment was received),
      active- and placebo-controlled, parallel-group, randomized withdrawal design, multicenter
      trial.

      The trial includes a 2 week titration phase starting with either 40 mg morphine (PR) bid (bid
      = twice daily dosing, one dose in the morning and one dose in the evening) or 100 mg
      tapentadol (CG5503) PR bid. Based on effectiveness and side effects subjects can up-titrate
      in steps of 50 mg tapentadol (CG5503 PR) to a maximal dose of 250 mg tapentadol (CG5503) PR
      bid or 100 mg morphine PR bid. If participants meet the stabilisation criteria at the end of
      the titration phase they will be re-randomized to either placebo or active treatment and will
      continue 4 weeks at the last dose level in the maintenance phase. Only participants on
      tapentadol in the titration phase will be re-randomized to either matching placebo or to
      tapentadol. To maintain the blinding nature of the trial participants in the morphine arm
      during the titration phase will also be re-randomized however they will all remain on
      morphine controlled release in the maintenance phase. Placebo to match tapentadol tablets, as
      well as placebo to match morphine capsules, will be used to mask the treatment allocation.

      Participants will be issued with an electronic diary (eDiary) to capture Numeric Rating Scale
      (NRS) pain intensities.

      Assessments of pain relief include the pain intensity numeric rating scale (NRS) and patient
      global impression of change (PGIC). Safety evaluations include monitoring of adverse events,
      physical examinations, clinical laboratory tests and electrocardiograms. Venous blood samples
      will be collected for the determination of serum concentrations of tapentadol (CG5503).
    
  