
    
      Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers and it represents the main cause of cancer
      mortality worldwide.

      It is histopathological classified into main groups: Small cell lung cancer (15%) and
      Non-small cell lung cancer (85%). NSCLCs are generally subcategorized into adenocarcinoma,
      squamous cell carcinoma (SqCC), and large cell carcinoma. Positron emission tomography (PET)
      is now an important cancer imaging tool, both for diagnosis and staging, as well as offering
      prognostic information based on response.

      PET sets the gold standard in the evaluation of an indeterminate solitary pulmonary nodule or
      mass, where PET has proven to be significantly more accurate than computed tomography (CT).

      For NSCLC chest CT is the standard imaging modality for assessing primary tumor size and
      identifying its margins. PET-CT may be helpful in assessing a nodule located in same lobe. It
      can also provide information on parietal or mediastinal involvement. PET is useful for
      differentiating tumor tissue from atelectasis, which may be helpful if radiotherapy is
      planned to determine the target volume .

      In the evaluation of metastatic spread to loco-regional lymph nodes, PET is significantly
      more accurate than CT, so that invasive surgical staging may be omitted in many patients with
      negative mediastinal PET images.

      In patients with positive mediastinal PET images, invasive surgical staging remains mandatory
      because of the possibility of false-positive findings due to inflammatory nodes or
      granulomatous disorders.

      Forty percent of patients with NSCLC have distant metastases at presentation, most commonly
      in the adrenal glands, bones, liver, or brain .

      In the search for metastatic spread, PET is a useful adjunct to conventional imaging. This
      may be due to the finding of unexpected metastatic lesions or due to exclusion of malignancy
      in lesions that are equivocal on standard imaging. However, at this time, PET does not
      replace conventional imaging.

      The diagnostic accuracy of initial pre-therapy PET-CT results in improved staging, and thus
      is of high prognostic value.

      Many studies conducted the value of using semi-quantitative measures as metabolic tumor
      volume (MTV) and Total lesion glycolysis (TLG) in predicting prognosis and survival rather
      than the traditional method of measuring Standard uptake value (SUV).

      Several studies have demonstrated that PET imaging proves useful for assessing the response
      to chemo therapy or targeted therapy in patients with metastatic NSCLC.
    
  