
    
      In the elderly (i.e. individuals 60 years of age or older) major depressive disorder (MDD) is
      common occurring in 2-3% of the population and known as late life depression (LLD). LLD is
      both disabling and associated with a high mortality rate. Response to treatment of LLD using
      at least one antidepressant trial of adequate dose and duration is around 30-40%. Due to
      these suboptimal response rates, additional interventions should be tested and implemented to
      further alleviate the symptoms and severity of LLD.

      It is common for individuals referred to geriatric psychiatry programs to live alone and have
      impaired independent mobility, which makes them more susceptible to depression as they are at
      a higher risk for social isolation. Best practice guidelines recommend using psychosocial
      therapies, which are effective in reducing symptoms of LLD, as the standard treatment for
      mild to moderate depression, either alone or in combination with medications. PST can be
      delivered to patients close to their homes making it ideal for treating seniors with limited
      mobility. The elderly are more likely to suffer from co-morbid conditions and be treated with
      multiple medications. Antidepressants are associated with serious adverse events, making
      psychosocial treatments especially important to the elderly who take more medications and are
      more likely to suffer comorbid conditions.

      Problem-solving therapy (PST) is an established psychosocial therapy shown to be effective in
      treating depression and other mental disorders in adults of all ages. PST involves seven
      stages of problem resolution including a)identifying and clarifying the problem b)setting
      clear achievable goals c) brain-storming to generate solutions d) selecting a preferred
      solution and f) evaluation. Studies of PST in older adults have shown the treatment to be
      effective in reducing depression. PST has been successfully adapted to meet the needs of
      seniors with comorbid conditions and those with early dementia or cognitive impairment.

      Despite the importance of psychotherapy interventions for older adults with MDD there is
      limited access to these treatments for seniors. At present, nurse case managers and social
      work case managers (CM) do not receive formal training in problem solving therapy. Since they
      often provide treatment for geriatric mental health outpatients, this limits access to
      treatments like PST. However, if CM's have formal training in PST, this treatment option can
      be made available to seniors that could benefit from such programs. To the best of the
      investigators' knowledge no study has evaluated the effects of CM trained to deliver PST for
      individuals with LLD in Canada, as such, this is the aim of the current investigation.
    
  