
    
      Vaginal birth can be a prolonged process, especially during the first delivery. The
      recommendations regarding eating and drinking during the labor and delivery process are not
      clear. There is no agreement between the physicians regarding eating and drinking while being
      in labor in the birthing center. This disagreement is due to lack of research in this field
      and inconclusive results in previous studies.

      Prolonged fasting during labor can lead to execution of the patients making them tired and
      less tolerant to the pain, decreasing their ability to cooperate during the pushing phase.
      However, the recommendation to avoid eating has justified by the risk for unplanned cesarean
      section which is done under fasting. In general, cesarean sections are done under regional
      anesthesia but if there is a need for general anesthesia (due to pain or urgency), there is a
      risk for aspiration if the patient has not been fasting.

      We also know that the stomach is clearing slower in the labor process, therefore some
      recommend fasting during labor.

      In recent years there is a decrease in the use of general anesthesia during cesarean sections
      and since the incidence of aspiration during cesarean section is rare and due to the demand
      from the patients for autonomy and controlling their labor process including the option of
      eating the debate regarding eating during labor and delivery is justified.

      In 2009 an ACOG(American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ) committee report
      concluded that there is not enough evidence regarding the link between drinking clear fluids
      and reflux , vomiting and aspiration during labor.

      the objective of this study is to assess whether eating and drinking during the labor process
      improves obstetric outcomes and maternal satisfaction.

      Patients admitted for the birthing center during the first stage of the delivery and after
      having a regional anesthesia are instructed as a routine in our birthing center for fasting
      and drinking only water and clear fluids during their stay at the labor and delivery room and
      until after giving birth.

      The patients will be asked if they are interested in participating in the study. A patient
      that is interested will be randomized to join one of the two arms:

        1. Fasting arm- The patient will be allowed to drink water and clear fluids as the routine
           management in our birthing center

        2. Eating arm - The patient will be asked to eat every 2 hours or less a food from a list
           supplied by the study team, with no limitations on drinking.

      The list of food was created with the anesthesiologist team according the review board
      demand.

      The data regarding the patients' history, pregnancy and labor and delivery process.
      Obstetrical and neonatal outcome will be collected. A satisfactory questioner well be sent to
      all participants.
    
  