
    
      The use of opioids to manage immediate postoperative pain is frequently associated with
      nausea, vomiting, respiratory depression, hormonal effects and dysphoria. As such, achieving
      pain control while minimizing opioid use is critical, since more than 60% of unplanned
      prolonged hospitalizations and hospital readmissions are thought to be related to inadequate
      pain control or to side effects of opioids. A number of techniques have been used to achieve
      good pain control after arthroscopic shoulder surgery, including periarticular infiltration
      (PAI) with local anesthetic (LA) and regional anesthetic nerve blocks. Although PAI in the
      shoulder has been shown to decrease shoulder pain and opioid consumption, it is not as
      effective as regional blocks such as the interscalene nerve block (ISNB), which is the
      current gold standard. Nevertheless, the ISNB is potentially associated with significant side
      effects including persistent neurologic complications, rebound pain, phrenic nerve palsy,
      respiratory distress, cardiac arrest pneumothorax and central nerve toxicity. In view of
      this, investigating alternate regional blocks having the potential for good pain relief with
      minimal side effects is important. The Erector Spinae Plane (ESP) block can be considered as
      a modification of thoracic paravertebral block (PVB) that blocks thoracic spinal nerves using
      injections outside of the conventional paravertebral space. It is performed under ultrasound
      (US) by injecting local anesthetic deep to the erector spinae muscle at the interfascial
      space between either the erector spinae muscle and the rhomboid major muscle (higher up), or
      between the erector spinae muscle and the external intercostal muscles, at lower sites.
      Cadaveric studies of ultrasound-guided ESP blocks with methylene blue dye and subsequent
      dissection, as well an ESP block with a dye mixture and CT scanning demonstrated that when
      injecting deep into the erector spinae, the block likely affects the ventral and dorsal rami
      leading to the sensory blockade. The advantages include its simplicity and safety by limiting
      the risk of nerve damage and pneumothorax. Various case reports have demonstrated the ESP
      block to be successful for abdominal, breast and axillary, and other surgery types, and a
      recent case report described the successful management of chronic shoulder pain without motor
      blockade, with ESP performed at T3 level. The investigators conducted a systematic review via
      Pubmed to identify studies that have utilized ESP for post-surgical shoulder pain. Out of 77
      reports, the investigators did not identify any comparative studies looking at the potential
      of ESP for shoulder surgery pain. The investigators also looked into ongoing and proposed
      trials of ESP by looking into clinicaltrials.gov. The investigators identified 21 studies
      including some randomized controlled trials (RCT) for thoracic surgery and general surgery
      population, but none for shoulder surgeries. Given the importance of providing adequate
      analgesia for arthroscopic shoulder surgery and lack of consensus amongst surgeons and
      anesthesiologists for the optimal analgesic technique, this trial will help establish the
      effectiveness of the ESP block in pain control after shoulder arthroscopy and define its
      safety profile. The results of this trial will allow the clinician to inform patients
      accurately regarding the benefits and risks of the block and thus guide the clinical practice
      of this block for shoulder arthroscopy. If proven to be effective, it may be used as an
      alternative to ISNB, especially in cases where ISNB is contraindicated.
    
  