
    
      Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) has traditionally been associated with very high
      mortality rates. Most infants died of pulmonary hypoplasia and severe pulmonary hypertension.
      This led to correction of CDH and pulmonary hypoplasia before birth. Unfortunately, maternal
      morbidity of open fetal surgery was significant and fetal mortality was very high (>60%).
      Moreover, the results of postnatal therapy for CDH improved dramatically, from less than 20%
      survival several decades ago to more than 70% today.

      Fetal intervention has evolved as well, to a minimally invasive approach that involves a
      single endoscopic port and occlusion of the fetal trachea. While this has considerably
      decreased the morbidity and fetal mortality of the in utero procedure, its results do not
      exceed the overall (i.e., non-stratified) results of contemporary postnatal treatment. Most
      recently, a multicentric cooperative study under (Eurofoetus) has conducted a clinical trial
      comparing postnatal treatment with endoscopic fetal tracheal occlusion for the most severe
      forms of CDH. Results of the Eurofoetus trial and of a recent retrospective review involving
      European and North-American centers have shown the following: 1) It is possible to identify a
      specific subgroup of fetuses with CDH in whom survival can be predicted to be less than 10%,
      despite all current methods of postnatal treatment, 2) Survival of fetuses with predicted
      postnatal survival of 8% was >50% following endoscopic fetal tracheal occlusion, and 3) Fetal
      tracheal occlusion in that group resulted in an increase in lung size (LHR), from an average
      of 0.7 pre-intervention, to 1.7 post-intervention.

      Based on the available research literature, the results of the Eurofoetus trial, and this
      institution's experience with endoscopic fetal surgery, we hypothesize that in the highest
      risk group of fetuses with congenital diaphragmatic hernia, where chances of survival is
      estimated at less than 10%, endoscopic fetal tracheal occlusion in late second trimester,
      with reversal of occlusion in mid-third trimester, allows catch-up lung growth and maturation
      and converts the condition into one with intermediate to good prognosis (predicted survival
      50-60%). We propose to offer this form of treatment, under an FDA-approved Investigational
      Device Exemption (G080077), to eligible patients, on a case-by-case basis, after discussion
      before a multidisciplinary board.
    
  