
    
      Various clinical studies have registered with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to
      study neurologic diseases and damage. There have also been a number of journal reports of the
      benefits of treatment with BMSC for diseases and damage to nervous tissue. The investigators
      hope to add to the volume of literature regarding the use of BMSC in those neurologic
      diseases and conditions identified as likely to respond to this treatment.

      Intravenous administration of BMSC is a well-established approach to neurologic disease and
      injury with much support for its effectiveness in the pre-clinical and clinical literature.
      BMSC and the associated bone marrow fraction are posited to have a number of different
      mechanisms by which they may potentially improve neurologic function. In regards their
      ability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier for potential neuronal transdifferentiation and
      direct impact on the neurons and glial tissue within the brain, it should be remembered that
      within the diencephalon there are specific circumventricular organs which lie in the wall of
      the third ventricle. These are noteworthy for a significantly diminished blood-brain barrier
      and glial limitans which facilitates their function of coordinating homeostatic mechanisms of
      the endocrine and nervous systems. Therefore the investigators believe entry of BMSC may be
      facilitated in this area of the brain.

      In addition to Arm 1 providing intravenous BMSC, the NEST Study provides a treatment Arm 2
      which combines intravenous BMSC with topical application of BMSC to the lower 1/3 of the
      nasal passages as a means of introducing BMSC to the Central Nervous System (CNS). This is
      applied bilaterally to the inferior nasal conchas and meatuses. The Trigeminal Nerve or 5th
      Cranial Nerve is a paired, large sensory and motor nerve with multiple branches. It provides
      sensation to the surface and interior structures of the face including the nasal mucosa that
      lines the nose. The nerves of the Trigeminal Nerve providing sensation to this area converge
      and enter the brain at the level of the pons. There is documentation in the scientific
      literature that intranasal delivery of BMSC allows the BMSC to follow the pathways of the
      trigeminal nerve, facilitating entry into the parenchyma and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) for
      effects on the CNS.
    
  