
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to develop and test an intervention for slow processing of
      sensory input that not only increases the speed of processing but also produces improvement
      in how much and how well adults with this type of cognitive impairment carry out everyday
      tasks that rely on cognitive function. The intervention will combine Speed of Processing
      Training (SOPT) with a modified form of the Transfer Package (TP) from Constraint-Induced
      Movement therapy (CI therapy). SOPT has been shown to increase speed of processing in a
      variety of patient populations. The Transfer Package has been shown to produce transfer of
      gains from the treatment setting to everyday life when combined with training of arm use in
      the treatment in adults after stroke.

      This early phase, randomized controlled trial (RCT) will have two arms: Immediate SOPT+TP
      (experimental group) and Delayed SOPT+TP (control group). The Immediate SOPT+TP group will
      receive the experimental intervention immediately after pre-treatment testing, and then be
      followed for a year. The Delayed SOPT+TP group will receive testing on the same schedule as
      the Immediate group up to 6-month follow-up. Delayed group participants will be permitted to
      receive care that is available in the community as part of typical clinical care during this
      period. After 6-month follow-up testing, Delayed group participants will receive the
      experimental intervention and then be followed up for a year. Thus, the study design is a RCT
      with a usual care control group featuring crossover to the experimental intervention for that
      group at 6 month follow-up.

      In the experimental intervention, the length of each treatment session will vary from 2 to
      3.5 hours per day, the number of treatment days per week will range from 2 to 5, and the
      number of weeks of treatment will range from 2 to 10. Accordingly, the interval between
      testing occasions may change depending on the findings from initial pilot work. Total hours
      of treatment will not exceed 35. Ranges are given rather than precise values because part of
      the purpose of this pilot work is to decide, on a preliminary basis, what is the best
      schedule of delivery. In addition, four follow-up telephone calls will be conducted each week
      for the first month after the end of treatment. Then, a follow-up telephone call will be
      placed once a month for up to 11 months. These telephone calls will permit elements of the
      Transfer Package to be delivered remotely, helping the patient to transition from taking part
      in treatment to living their daily lives. Each telephone call will last 30 to 60 minutes.

      If a caregiver is available, the caregiver will be asked to complete interviews about the
      participant's progress (see below) and will be invited to support the participant in
      following the Transfer Package elements of the treatment (see below).

      The outcomes that will be assessed are: speed of processing, performance of instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADL) that place demands on cognitive activity in the laboratory
      setting, and performance of IADL that place demands on cognitive activity outside the
      laboratory setting.

      The diagram immediately below shows the treatment and testing schedule for the Immediate
      Treatment group.

      Informed Consent Interview → Screening → Pre-treatment Testing → Treatment (2-10 weeks) →
      Post-treatment testing → up to 4 weekly follow-up phone calls → up to 5 monthly follow-up
      phone calls → 6-month follow-up testing → up to 6 monthly follow-up calls → 12-month
      follow-up testing

      The diagram immediately below show the treatment and testing schedule for the Delayed
      Treatment group.

      Informed Consent Interview → Screening → Baseline Testing 1 → Usual care (2-10 weeks) →
      Baseline Testing 2 → 6 months → Pre-treatment Testing → Treatment (2-10 weeks) →
      Post-treatment testing → up to 4 weekly follow-up phone calls → up to 5 monthly follow-up
      phone calls → 6-month follow-up testing → up to 6 monthly follow-up calls → 12-month
      follow-up testing

      Repeated measures analysis of variance models with a between-subjects factor will be used to
      evaluate if statistically significant improvements take place as a result of treatment. The
      primary comparison will be between the Immediate Treatment and Delayed Treatment groups at
      post-treatment. The cross-over design permits a another, secondary evaluation of the efficacy
      of the experimental intervention by comparing the usual care to the SOPT+TP period in the
      Delayed Treatment group.
    
  