
    
      Patients treated at Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers are older and have multiple chronic
      conditions. Two of the most common conditions in the VA population are hypertension (HTN) and
      Type 2 diabetes (DM). Unfortunately, DM and HTN have few perceptible symptoms on a daily
      basis that motivate patients to comply with treatment recommendations and lifestyle changes.
      Thus, serious complications and long-term adverse outcomes are common in both of these
      conditions.

      Home telehealth is a general term used to describe the delivery of health care services to
      the patient's home using audio, video, or other telecommunications technologies. Although
      home telehealth offers a number of theoretical advantages, few well-designed controlled
      clinical trials have been conducted to establish efficacy and cost benefit. Furthermore,
      projects to date have focused on special populations, e.g., heart failure or mental
      illnesses. Since home telehealth may hold the most promise for individuals dealing with
      multiple chronic illnesses, there is a need for population-based studies addressing the needs
      of patients in primary care settings.

      Care coordination, as defined by the VHA Office of Care Coordination, is a process of
      assessment and ongoing monitoring of patients using home telehealth to proactively enable
      prevention, investigation, and treatment that enhances the health of patients and prevents
      unnecessary and inappropriate use of resources. Care coordination embeds technology into a
      care management process. This results in the right care, at the right time, in the right
      place.The primary objective of the proposed study is to evaluate the efficacy of care
      coordination in improving outcomes in veterans with co-morbid DM and HTN, the two most common
      chronic conditions seen in VA Primary Care clinics. The specific aim is to compare outcomes
      of patients who receive the care coordination intervention to outcomes of patients who
      receive usual care. Three hypotheses will be tested: Compared to subjects who receive usual
      care, subjects who receive the care coordination intervention will have: 1) improved clinical
      measures [hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and systolic blood pressure (SBP)] at 6 and 12 months after
      study enrollment; 2) improved disease self-management (knowledge, self-efficacy, and
      adherence) at 6 and 12 months after study enrollment; and 3) improved quality of life and
      satisfaction with care at 6 and 12 months after study enrollment.Subjects wererecruited from
      VA Primary Care clinic rolls. 302 subjects were randomized to three groups: low-intensity
      monitoring plus nurse care management intervention (n=102); high-intensity monitoring plus
      nurse care management intervention (n=93); and usual care (n=107). In both intervention
      groups patients transmitted vital signs daily. In addition, the low intensity group answered
      two general health questions; the high intensity group responded to a complete range of
      questions focused on diabetes and hypertension, and received educational tips. The
      intervention groups participated in the protocol for 6 months following enrollment. Data were
      collected at baseline and at 6 and 12 months, including measures of clinical outcomes,
      quality of life, knowledge, adherence, self-efficacy, and satisfaction with care. In addition
      to these measures, data were collected to estimate the cost of the home telehealth
      intervention. Most subjects were male (98%) Caucasians (96%) with a mean age of 68 years
      (range 40-89 years).
    
  