
    
      Triciribine is designed to prevent development of certain proteins which participate in the
      abnormal growth of cancer cells.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "baseline tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. You will have a
      physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature,
      and breathing rate). Your complete medical history will be recorded. You will be asked about
      your ability to perform everyday activities. You will have blood (about 4 teaspoons) and
      urine collected for routine tests. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to
      measure the electrical activity of the heart). Women who are able to have children must have
      a negative blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy test.

      You will also have a bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy performed during the baseline
      testing. To collect a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, an area of the hip or chest bone is
      numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a
      large needle.

      Certain patients who are at risk for involvement of disease in their central nervous system
      may be required to have a lumbar puncture (spinal tap) done. A lumbar puncture involves
      inserting a needle between the vertebrae of the back and then removing a small amount of
      spinal fluid. The fluid will be checked for diseased cells, used to measure the level of
      study drug in the fluid, and used to measure the level of a substance that shows how the
      study drug is being handled by your body.

      If you are found to be eligible for this study, you will start receiving Triciribine through
      a needle in a vein, over about 1 hour, on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day study "cycle." On
      each day you receive Triciribine, your vital signs will be measured before the start of the
      infusion, at 30 minutes (half-way through the infusion), at the end of the infusion, and at 1
      hour after completing the infusion. An ECG will be done at the end of the infusion on Day 1
      of the first cycle only.

      The amount of Triciribine you receive in each infusion will depend on when you enter the
      study. At least 3 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. Each new group of
      participants will receive a higher dose level than the group before, unless a level is
      reached where the side effects are considered intolerable. This will help researchers to find
      out the highest tolerable dose of Triciribine.

      During the study, researchers will be checking the status of the cancer to see how it is
      responding to the study drug. You will be checked once a week, or more often, depending on
      how you are doing and according to your blood cell counts. Each check-up includes measurement
      of your vital signs and blood (about 4 teaspoons) drawn for routine tests. You will be asked
      about any side effects you may have experienced and any medications you are taking.

      During Cycle 1, you will have blood samples (about 1 teaspoon each time) drawn to measure the
      amount of study drug in your blood at different times. This is called pharmacokinetic (PK)
      testing. During Cycle 1, you will have a blood sample drawn before receiving the first dose
      of Triciribine, and then 2, 24, 48, 72 ,and 96 hours after the Day 1 Triciribine dose. If
      your doctor decides that it is necessary, an additional blood sample will also be drawn
      between 120 and 144 hours (about 5-6 days) after your Day 1 dose of Triciribine. During Cycle
      1, you may also have blood samples (about 1 teaspoon) drawn to measure the action of the
      study drug in the tumor cells. This is called pharmacodynamic studies (this defines how the
      drug works on the tumor cells). During Cycle 1, you will have a blood sample drawn (about 1
      teaspoon) before receiving the first dose of triciribine and then 2 and 24 hours after the
      Day 1 triciribine dose.

      Before receiving each additional cycle, you will have a physical exam, including vital signs.
      Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, and urine will be collected. You
      will be asked about your ability to perform everyday activities. You will have a bone marrow
      exam (including aspiration and/or biopsy) about every 28 days, in order to check your
      response.

      Certain participants who are at risk for involvement of disease in their central nervous
      system may be required to have repeat lumbar punctures (spinal taps) performed once a week.

      You may move to a higher dose level after your first cycle of therapy, if that increased dose
      level is considered safe and the disease is stable or responding to treatment. If, however,
      you experience serious side effects from the therapy, the doctor may decide to hold any
      further therapy with Triciribine until those side effects go away, or may decide to stop
      therapy altogether, if the side effects are intolerable. Depending on how fast the side
      effects go away, you may be able to re-start your Triciribine infusions at a lower dose.

      You may continue to receive Triciribine on study with no limit to the number of cycles that
      you can receive, as long as your doctor finds that you are benefiting from this therapy and
      you are not experiencing intolerable side effects. On the other hand, you may stop receiving
      the study drug and be taken off study if it is not effective for you and/or the disease gets
      worse, you develop another illness that interferes with the ability to safely give you the
      study drug, or you are unable to tolerate the study drug.

      If you leave the study for any reason, you will be asked to return for a follow-up visit at
      the end of therapy (and possibly 30 days after your last dose of Triciribine, if you are not
      receiving another type of treatment). A physical exam will be performed, and blood (about 2
      teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, during both of these visits. If you have side
      effects that are possibly related to the treatment, you may need to have more follow-up
      visits. Blood (up to 3 tablespoons) may need to be drawn for routine tests at that time.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Triciribine has been authorized by the FDA for use in
      research only. Up to 34 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 30 patients
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  