
    
      Despite the well established efficacy of naltrexone, there are significant variations in
      individual responses to naltrexone. A critical question remains: under what circumstances and
      for which patients will naltrexone (NTX) be most beneficial? Recent work at our center
      provides evidence that the mu-opioid receptor (OPRM1) gene polymorphism A118G (Asn40Asp)
      imparts a significant change in treatment response. We have shown that patients with 1-2
      copies of the Asp40 variant have significantly better treatment responses than patients with
      Asn40 variant (absence of heavy drinking -73.9% v/s 49% response). To further consolidate our
      knowledge, we wish to test the relationship between A118G polymorphism and the response to
      treatment with naltrexone. This work is focused on subjects of European or Asian descent as
      the A118G polymorphism occurs in less than 1% of those of African descent.

      The study consists of 12 weeks of outpatient treatment with 50mg/day of naltrexone or
      placebo. Up to 340 subjects will be recruited across four sites. The inclusion criteria
      include adult males and females of European or Asian descent with DSM-IV diagnosis of alcohol
      dependence and heavy drinking per TLFB criteria. Patients with major psychiatric disorders or
      on psychotropic medications, other substance dependence problems (except nicotine), severe
      cognitive impairment, active suicidal/homicidal thoughts and serious medical conditions
      (including liver disorders) will be excluded.

      The ultimate aim of this line of investigation is to further establish a genetic link between
      alcohol dependence and treatment by defining an endophenotype associated with treatment
      response.

      Based upon these very promising findings, the aim of this study is to examine prospectively
      the interaction between a functional polymorphism of the mu-opioid receptor (A+118G
      (Asn40Asp)) and response to treatment with naltrexone. A secondary aim of this study is to
      examine the role of the Asp40 allele in alternating the subjective effects from alcohol use
      in alcohol dependent individuals that have been demonstrated in human laboratory experiments.

      We hypothesize that naltrexone - but not placebo - will produce a greater clinical response
      during the 12 weeks of the trial in subjects with one or two copies of the Asp40 variant
      ("Asp40 positives") than in subjects homozygous for the Asn40 allele. Response to naltrexone
      will be measured by a reduction in the number of heavy drinking days (as defined by >5
      drinks/day for males; >4 for females) during the 12 weeks of the trial.

      We also expect that there will be an interaction between medication and genotype such that,
      as compared to the groups on placebo or homozygous for Asn40, Asp40 positive subjects
      randomized to naltrexone will report less "high" from alcohol consumption (on the Biphasic
      Alcohol Effects Scale), and the lowest levels of alcohol craving over time (on the Penn
      Alcohol Craving Scale).
    
  