
    
      Early prediction of AKI have long been a study hotspot. Various clinical prediction models,
      biomarkers, urine sedimentation scores and imaging tools are developed and validated in
      different clinical settings mainly focusing on contrast associated AKI, durg induced AKI and
      cardiac surgery associated AKI. Due to the heterogenicity of this syndrome, one parameter
      which fits all patients for prediction of AKI dose not possibly exist. As a result, searching
      for combination parameters that can well predict AKI after non-cardiac surgery become the
      first priority for prevention of AKI. Evidence in non-cardiac surgery population have been
      gradually accumulated in recent years. Biomarkers for G1 cell cycle arrest, e.g. tissue
      inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) and insulin like growth factor binding protein-7
      (IGFBP-7), have demonstrated robust predictive performance in high risk surgical patients.
      Renal resistive index as calculated by ultrasound have also showed its validity in AKI
      prediction in patients following orthopedic surgery. Hence, the investigators make an
      assumption that combination of biomarkers, urine sedimentation and renal resistive index may
      improve the predictive value of AKI after non-cardiac surgery. The purpose of this study is
      to investigate the combination of biomarkers, urine sedimentation and renal resistive index
      for early prediction of AKI in high risk patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery.

      Adult patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery and then admitting to surgical intensive care
      unit (SICU) will be immediately screened for this study. After enrollment, blood and urine
      samples, in addition to clinical routine tests, will be collected for the tests of biomarkers
      and urine sedimentation, such as serum creatinine, TIMP-2, IGFBP-7, α-1 microglobulin,
      microalbumin, transferrin, granular cast and so on. Meanwhile, central venous pressure (CVP)
      will be measured by primary nurse. If the patients were enrolled at daytime between
      8:00-16:00, experienced intensivists will also calculate the renal resistive index (RI) by
      ultrasound. Urine samples will be collected again for storage after 6 and 12 hours admitting
      to SICU, at which time urine sedimentation and CVP will be repeatedly measured at the
      discretion of physician in-charge. AKI is monitored by serum creatinine daily in SICU and on
      demand in general wards, and by urine output (UO) every 3 hours in SICU. Patients will be
      followed up for postoperative complications, renal recovery, survival, SICU/in hospital stay
      and total cost until the first thing that happens: discharge/death, 30d after operation or
      withdrawing the study. Perioperative data will be recorded by specialized researchers.
    
  