
    
      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ketogenic diet (KD)
      complete meal replacement treatment of obesity-related Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and of
      obesity in patients with obesity and T2DM. This will be an open-label single arm study
      evaluating glycemic control and weight loss in obese participants with type 2 diabetes
      treated for 6 months with 3:1 [fat]:[protein+carbohydrate] ratio, 1600 kcal/day diet.

      Treatment will consist of KD complete meal replacement with 3:1 [fat]: [protein +
      carbohydrate] weight ratio, and with 1600 kcal restriction. It will consist of pre-made
      meals, including breakfast, lunch, dinner and two snacks, one each between breakfast and
      lunch and lunch and dinner. Meals will be made according to supplied recipes (Anemone, LLC.)
      with a 3-week long meal plan consisting of different recipes for the 3 meals and 2 snacks
      different for each day of the 3-week cycle, with repeating cycles. All KD-treated
      participants will receive the same meal plan. Meals will be prepared uniformly by one
      facility and will be delivered to participants frozen once a week in packages subdivided into
      individual days with each day's package containing 5 separately packaged meals. Participants
      will be given a list of allowed 0 calories drinks and will consume no non-allowed beverages.
      Reductions to oral glycemic medications will occur at the start of the diet.

      Participants will be evaluated in face-to-face visit during weeks 1, 2 and 4 of the study,
      then monthly (see Table 1, visit schedule). Evaluations will include weight, BMI, BP, waist
      circumference, adverse events and treatment compliance. Participants will check their blood
      glucose levels 3x/day, including am fasting, mid-day and evening 2 hours post-prandial, and
      urine for ketones levels with Ketostix (Bayer AG, IN, U.S.A.) 2x/day. They will record
      results in a glucose and ketone level diary which will be reviewed at each visit. Laboratory
      evaluations will include 8 am serum fasting glucose, insulin levels, C-peptide and lipid
      panel, HbA1C, serum beta-hydroxybutyrate (BOH), leptin levels, C-reactive protein (CRP),
      complete blood count (CBC), basic metabolic profile (BMP), renal and liver functions tests
      (LFTs), and uric acid. Laboratory evaluations will be obtained once at baseline prior to
      treatment initiation, at 3 and 6 months after treatment initiation. Hunger will be evaluated
      with a 7-point Likert scale (range: extremely hungry to extremely full) which will be
      administered at each visit.
    
  