
    
      Interested individuals will be screened via phone for initial study eligibility. Potentially
      eligible participants and their parents will attend an in-person screening at the University
      of Chicago in which they will complete assent and consent procedures. Youth will have their
      height and weight measured and complete interviews to assess eating disorder symptoms and
      psychiatric comorbidities. Eligible participants and parents will then complete self- and
      parent-report assessments of eating behavior, body image concerns, psychiatric symptoms, and
      interpersonal functioning. Participants will then be trained on how to complete the EMA
      recordings.

      A one-day practice period during which adherence is ≥70% of ratings will qualify children to
      initiate the 14-day EMA study period; these data will not be used in statistical analyses to
      reduce concerns about the effect of immediate reactivity to self-monitoring. Youth will
      self-monitor on a smartphone or other wireless device through the use of the ReTAINE
      (Real-Time Assessment in the Natural Environment) system. ReTAINE™ is a secure, web-based
      system that allows for momentary data to be collected through a wide variety of portable
      devices. Youth may use their own smartphone/wireless device or one provided by the study
      team. Recent survey data suggest that up to 80% of children and adolescents have access to
      the Internet through a cellular phone or other wireless device, indicating that this approach
      is reasonable in this age group. EMA protocols have been completed with good compliance in
      youth.

      The proposed study will include three types of EMA signaling methods.63 First, participants
      will be signaled at 3-5 semi-random times throughout the day (signal-contingent) to report on
      current affect, stressors, interpersonal functioning, and to report any eating episode that
      has not been previously recorded. These signals will occur at random times between
      7:00-8:00am, 3:00-4:00pm, and 6:00-7:00pm on weekdays, so as not to interfere with the school
      day; and between 8:00-9:00am, 11:00am-12:00pm, 2:00-3:00pm, 5:00-6:00pm, and 8:00-9:00pm on
      weekend days. In addition, participants will be instructed to complete momentary ratings of
      affect, stressors, interpersonal functioning, and a variety of physiological, environmental,
      cognitive, and behavioral factors associated with eating as soon after each eating episode as
      possible (event-contingent). Event-contingent ratings will allow for the assessment of
      immediate consequences of eating that may be missed by the random signals. Finally,
      participants will complete ratings of affect, stressors, interpersonal functioning, and
      physiological, environmental, cognitive, and behavioral factors at the end of each day
      (interval-contingent) to capture any changes since the last random signal. This combination
      of signal-, event-, and interval- contingent recordings has been successfully implemented in
      previous EMA studies of overweight youth.

      Participants will be contacted by phone after the first day of EMA recording, at which point
      they will be given feedback regarding their compliance rates, and any questions or concerns
      regarding assessment procedures will be discussed with a research assistant. Throughout the
      14-day assessment period, we will also attempt to contact participants via telephone at least
      twice per week to check in with them regarding any problems or concerns. This approach has
      demonstrated success in participant retention and validated compliance during a previous
      research study which required daily collection of saliva samples and interval ratings of mood
      and disordered eating behaviors over 35 days.

      Complementary to the collection of EMA data, Nutritional Data System for Research (NDS-R)65
      will be used to compile nutritional intake data on eating episodes reported by participants
      through the ReTAINE system. Two weekdays and one weekend day during the 14-day protocol will
      be randomly selected for each participant, during which the participant will be contacted by
      phone and asked to recall the details of each of that day's eating episodes. The time points
      of each eating episode will be entered into the NDS-R system, and the nutritional data of
      interest will be merged with the EMA data in order to assess contextual factors associated
      with specific dietary patterns (e.g., consumption of high fat meals). ActiGraph watches
      (GT3X) will be worn by participants for the duration of the 14-day protocol to compile data
      on sleep patterns in the natural home environment. These computerized wristwatch-like devices
      collect data generated by movement and are minimally invasive. Participants' parents will
      also complete 14-day sleep diaries in which they will record their children's bedtime and
      wake time, which will provide the start and end times for actigraphy analyses.

      At the completion of the daily assessment phase, participants will return to the University
      of Chicago to return the loaner smartphone, if applicable; complete a brief, final
      assessment; and receive their final study incentive payments. The final assessment will
      include a modified version of the Child Eating Disorder Examination (ChEDE) interview to
      cover the previous two weeks during which EMA was conducted. This assessment will be used to
      determine changes in symptom frequency (i.e., reactivity to study procedures).
    
  