
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. What is the relationship of primary stressors (type and stage/grade of cancer, and patient
      quality of life [QOL]) and structural factors/stressors (age, gender, race, and education)
      with patient and caregiver psychological outcomes at baseline? II. What are the effects of
      the Communication with Long Distance Caregivers Offering a Supportive Electronic Resource
      (CLOSER) intervention on distance caregiver psychological outcomes (anxiety and distress),
      controlling for primary stressors (type and stage/grade of cancer, and patient quality of
      life), distance caregiver structural factors/stressors (caregiver age, gender, race, and
      employment), and baseline anxiety and distress? III. What are the effects of the CLOSER
      intervention on patient psychological outcomes (anxiety and distress), controlling for
      primary stressors (type and stage/grade of cancer, and patient quality of life), distance
      caregiver structural factors/stressors (caregiver age, gender, race, and employment), and
      baseline anxiety and distress? IV. What is the feasibility (time, cost, resources and
      acceptability to patients, caregivers and clinicians) of using Adobe Connect, a
      computer-based web communication system, with the distance caregiver, the parent with
      advanced cancer, and the health care providers together in a routine follow-up oncology
      office visit? V. What is the experience of being a distance caregiver participating in the
      CLOSER intervention?

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive usual care for 5 weeks. During the week 5 office visit, distance
      caregivers are not present.

      ARM II: Participants receive usual care for 5 weeks. During the week 5 visit, distance
      caregivers virtually attend using the CLOSER intervention with computer video and audio
      connection.

      After completion of study, participants are followed up within 48-96 hours.
    
  