
    
      Approximately one third of all critically ill children develop infectious disease related
      complications. Mortality due to infections can be as high as 30-45%. In up to 41% of adult
      critically ill patients antimicrobial dosing recommendations are inadequate, as acute kidney
      injury, augmented renal clearance, inflammatory response and hypoalbuminaemia all contribute
      to variation in drug concentrations. This is an important reason for antibiotic treatment
      failure and emergence of resistance.

      Data from adults cannot be directly extrapolated to children, due to developmental changes in
      the processes involved in drug disposition. Moreover, the interplay of age and critical
      illness is even more understudied. Hence, to optimize antibiotic dosing and outcome of
      infectious disease, personalized dosing guidelines in critically ill patients are highly
      needed.

      In this prospective observational population pharmacokinetic study we will evaluate if target
      attainment for antibiotics is reached in critically ill children with current dosing
      guidelines. Using these data, individualized dosing guidelines will be developed.

      Objectives:

      To determine the population pharmacokinetics of antibiotics in critically ill pediatric
      patients to develop individualized dosing guidelines for antibiotics for this population.

      Study design:

      Observational study with minimal invasive procedures: population pharmacokinetic study.

      Study population:

      Critically ill children, admitted on the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), receiving
      antibiotics.

      Study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary:

        -  To estimate population pharmacokinetic parameters for antibiotics

      Secondary:

        -  To determine the target attainment rate of antibiotic exposure

        -  To design individualized dosing guidelines for antibiotics

      Exploratory:

        -  To describe variability in kidney function

        -  To explore the relationship of genetic variation with disposition of pharmacokinetics.
    
  