
    
      Virtually all COVID-19 RNA assays require centralized laboratories. Samples collected in
      locations including public testing sites, workplaces, nursing homes, and residential housing
      are transported to centralized laboratories for testing, leading to lengthy delays in results
      reporting. The window of maximal contagiousness is thought to be only a few days, so these
      delays create the risk of excess transmission. Current testing methods are painful, which
      encourages testing hesitancy. Rapid, onsite detection of SARS-CoV- 2 RNA from non-invasive
      saliva could overcome these issues and provide a pathway to high throughput detection of
      people at the greatest risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission but the logistics of such a testing
      program require real-world prototyping.

      The purpose of this research study is to determine if high-frequency, rapid turn-around
      SARS-CoV-2 surveillance testing with this assay is feasible and able to be optimized to
      enable isolation and follow-up diagnostic testing. The investigators are also looking to see
      if it can be simplified so minimally trained staff can perform it successfully. The test is
      designed to identify people who are most contagious and likely to spread the virus to others.
      This test will be performed at various locations in the Madison area using a mobile
      laboratory or standard lab space for processing. Saliva samples can be collected and
      processed at these locations or participants can self-collect at home and drop their samples
      off at designated locations for same day processing. Results of potential findings of
      clinical significance will be communicated to the participants by a physician with
      appropriate expertise on the study team. Individuals with a potential finding of clinical
      significance will be encouraged to self-isolate and obtain a diagnostic test at their
      earliest convenience. No results will be given if the test is negative. If the participant
      consents, advanced molecular testing such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) viral load
      tests, viral sequencing or other optimizing experiments can be done. Results of the viral
      sequencing can be shared via online databases, presentations and publications along with the
      date, site and county of collection to help facilitate tracking the spread of the virus.
      Study data will be shared via open research portals and online dashboards.

      Participants with a potential finding of clinical significance will be contacted by phone
      approximately 1 week after the finding and asked the following questions. There will be 2
      attempts at obtaining answers.

      Question 1: Did you self-isolate after receiving the clinician's notification? Question 2:
      Did you receive a follow-up diagnostic test?

      To assess whether or not the assay can be simplified so that minimally trained personnel can
      perform it, the investigators will perform proficiency tests with inactivated virus with
      newly trained staff which will help us optimize and refine the protocol. Successfully
      training staff achieve "proficiency" by correctly differentiating blinded positive and
      negative samples. This is how the investigators will assess the simplicity of the assay. For
      example, if a round of proficiency testing results in only 2/6 trainees achieving proficiency
      on their first try, that would suggest that the assay still has reducible complexity.

      Tolerability of frequent testing could be done by keeping track of the interval between
      sample donations. Does the participant give a sample on a regular basis? Did they register
      but not donate a sample until weeks later? The study team will actively look for improved
      ways to assess this objective as we gather more data at these testing sites.

      Relevant feasibility study is documented separately in NCT04460690.
    
  