
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      Phase II

        -  Determine the feasibility of conducting a cooperative group prospective clinical trial
           in patients with resected malignant salivary gland tumors.

        -  Acquire preliminary efficacy data comparing postoperative radiotherapy alone to
           concurrent chemotherapy and radiation using weekly cisplatin.

      Phase III

      * Compare overall survival rates among patients receiving cisplatin and radiation to those
      receiving radiation alone.

      Secondary

      Phase II/III

        -  Compare the acute toxicities of these 2 adjuvant treatments.

        -  Compare late treatment-related adverse events in patients receiving postoperative
           radiation to those receiving concurrent chemoradiation.

        -  Compare progression-free survival rates among patients receiving cisplatin and radiation
           to those receiving radiation alone in both the cohort of patients with pathologically
           high-risk disease (high-grade adenocarcinoma, high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma,
           salivary duct carcinoma), and the patient cohort with pathologically intermediate-risk
           disease (all other eligible diagnoses).

        -  Investigate quality of life and patient-reported outcomes in patients enrolled in the
           study.

        -  Identify the histopathology and tumor marker expression from patients enrolled on this
           trial and assemble a tissue bank for future correlative studies.

        -  Establish a NRG Oncology baseline database for salivary gland malignancies to serve as a
           resource for future exploration of innovative and/or targeted approaches for this
           disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to histology
      (high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma vs salivary duct carcinoma vs high-grade adenocarcinoma)
      and nodal status (N0 vs N1-3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) or
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) 5 days a week for 6-6.5 weeks. Patients also
           receive cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43 during
           radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo 3D-CRT or IMRT as in Arm I. Tissue and blood samples may be
           collected for translational research studies. Patients may complete quality-of-life
           assessments periodically.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 months,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  