
    
      Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a progressive, late-onset (>50 years)
      multisystem neurodegenerative disorder, associated with an expansion in the 5ʹuntranslated
      region of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene that consists of 55-200 CGG repeats,
      termed the FMR1 gene premutation. While the prevalence of the premutation is 1 in 150-300
      females, and 1 in 400-850 males, the penetrance of FXTAS in male carriers is ~40% compared to
      less than 20% in females.

      The mean age of onset of FXTAS is 60 years, presenting with intention tremor, cerebellar
      ataxia, neuropathic pain, memory and/or executive function deficits, parkinsonism, and
      psychiatric manifestations such as depression, anxiety and/or apathy.

      There are typical MRI findings in FXTAS patients, including increased T2-weighted signal
      intensity in the middle cerebellar peduncles, cerebellar and cerebral atrophy and volume loss
      of the corpus callosum.

      Currently, no definitive diagnostic tests exist for the symptomatic condition, FXTAS, in FMR1
      premutation carriers, making it difficult to diagnose, particularly in the early stages of
      disease pathology. ElMindA, an Israeli company established in 2006, that focuses on the
      mapping of neuro-electrophysiological activity, has developed a novel method of mapping
      functional networks of brain activity (Brain Network Activation or BNA) based on analysis of
      evoked response potential (ERP) signals. Patients whose underlying disease involves
      impairment in brain circuitry and connectivity are expected to produce abnormal activity
      templates in response to the same paradigm, both as a result of failing to adhere to the
      normal pattern and of recruiting compensatory pathways and strategies to tackle the task. The
      essence of BNA analysis is the extraction of brain activity patterns common to a group of
      normal subjects, against which the brain activity of individual subjects may be compared.
      Patients with FXTAS have been found to exhibit executive and memory deficits along with
      altered prefrontal cortex activity in functional MRI studies and the investigators suspect
      that patients with FXTAS and also FMR1 premutation carriers in the early phase of
      neurodegeneration (even before exhibiting overt clinical symptoms of FXTAS) may display
      abnormal BNA patterns. Accordingly, at Sheba medical center the investigators have computed
      individual BNA scores for 30 healthy control subjects and thus defined the BNA patterns of
      healthy subjects to be used for comparison wit study subjects.

      The goal of the study is to identify and characterize a potential neurophysiological
      biomarker for early stage FXTAS and for disease progression by evaluating the
      electrophysiological activity in both asymptomatic FMR1 Premutation carriers and in patients
      with various stages (duration) of FXTAS. Additionally correlations will be studied between
      these BNA data and demographics (gender, age and disease duration). length of the
      pathological CGG repeat expansion as well as FXTAS score, gait and posture abnormalities
      (obtained by instrumental timed up and go evaluation) and neuropsychological status.

      Characterization of neuro-electrophysiological biomarkers may be important to detect early
      transformation from asymptomatic carriership to neurodegeneration and FXTAS and to enable
      early interventions and monitoring of response to treatment
    
  