
    
      PURPOSE:

      Treatment of patients with heart failure (HF) is a great challenge for contemporary medicine.
      HF frequency in European population is assessed for 0.4 - 2%. This disease is characterized
      by high morbidity and mortality rate, poor quality of life and the necessity of frequent
      hospitalizations. Along with the medicine progress, in particular in the scope of acute
      coronary syndromes treatment, the number of HF patients is constantly growing. The essential
      problem connected with HF is its progress course and an increasing frequency of subsequent
      hospitalizations (approximately 30% of hospitalizations are the repeated ones). It is
      estimated that the costs of hospital stays constitute nearly 2/3 of healthcare costs provided
      for HF patients. In the United States approximately 50% of HF patients have been
      rehospitalized within 6 months from discharge and 70% of these hospitalizations were caused
      by HF deterioration.The prognosis in HF is closely connected with the progression of the
      disease defined in accordance with the NYHA (New York Heart Association) functional
      classification. The yearly mortality rate among each NYHA class is: class 1 - up to 10%,
      class 2 - 10-20%, class 3 - 20-40%, class 4 - mortality 40-60%. Over half of the patients
      with symptomatic HF die within 4 years of observation The high in-hospital mortality has been
      a great problem and results not only from the natural history of HF progression, but also
      from a number of coexisting complications (i.e. aggravation of ischaemic heart disease, lung
      diseases, infections, electrolyte disturbances, anaemia, renal failure as well as operations,
      in particular emergency ones). The optimal schemes of identifying the individual risk are of
      fundamental importance to guide the safe therapy. Undoubtedly hemodynamic status and its
      change during hospitalization is one of the main predictive factors of treatment response and
      occurrences of adverse effects of therapy, i.e. renal function worsening. However, there are
      no clear guidelines on how to perform safe and effective non-invasive hemodynamic monitoring.

      AIMS:

      The evaluation of complex pathophysiological features related to heart failure deterioration,
      including the parameters characterizing i.e. cardiovascular hemodynamics, hydration status,
      renal failure, iron metabolism and gas exchange, with respect to the effect of applied
      in-hospital treatment The evaluation of clinical value of the parameters characterizing i.e.
      cardiovascular hemodynamics, hydration status, renal failure, iron metabolism and gas
      exchange in prognosis of patients with heart failure deterioration

      METHODS:

      All the recruited patients will undergo the following assessment:

      Clinical examination Laboratory tests, ncluding i.e. white blood cells count, red blood cells
      count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean cell volume (MCV), red cell distribution width (RDW);
      sodium, potassium, creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rat (eGFR), urea, cystatin C;
      fasting glucose; bilirubin; total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density
      lipoprotein (LDL), triglycerides, N-terminal of the prohormone brain natriuretic peptide
      (NT-proBNP); hs-TnT (high sensitive troponin T), iron; ferritin; unsaturated iron binding
      capacity (UIBC), total iron binding capacity (TIBC), transferrin saturation, soluble
      transferrin receptor; pH, carbon dioxide partial pressure (pCO2), oxygen partial pressure
      (pO2), arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2), bicarbonate content (HCO3-), base excess (BE),
      lactates; thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate
      (DHEAS), estradiol Electrocardiogram Echocardiography Chest X-ray Holter-ekg monitoring
      ambulatory blood pressure monitoring impedance cardiography (including assessment of: resting
      heart rate (HR), systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP), thoracic fluid content
      (TFC), cardiac index (CI), stroke index (SI), systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI)
      bioimpedance (including assessment total body water (TBW), intracellular and extracellular
      water (ICW, ECW)) applanation tonometry (including assessment of augmentation index (AI) and
      central pulse pressure (CPP))
    
  