
    
      Numerous studies from resource-limited countries suggest that severe neonatal jaundice (NNJ)
      represents the largest unrecognized cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality in the world.
      Several studies from Africa rank jaundice as a leading cause of death in newborn nurseries.
      In Nigeria, Owa and Osinaike reported that jaundice (14%) was the second leading cause of
      death, while Ugwu et al, found that mortality from severe jaundice was comparable to birth
      asphyxia but greater than sepsis in neonates >24 hrs old to 7 days old. In Kenya, English et
      al reported NNJ as the third leading cause of both newborn admissions and deaths. Studies
      from Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Turkey, North Vietnam, Oman, and India listed acute bilirubin
      encephalopathy (ABE) and/or severe NNJ as a significant cause of morbidity, many of whom
      required exchange blood transfusion (EBT) in their nurseries. Unfortunately, phototherapy, as
      important as it is, may not be available to many infants with NNJ in these countries because
      of the lack of devices and/or of unreliable electrical power supply. Commercial phototherapy
      (PT) devices are expensive, often break down due to surges in electrical power, and are
      difficult to maintain due to unavailability of spare parts. Even where PT devices are
      available, most hospitals in these countries lack the resources to replace the fluorescent
      light bulbs at the recommended 2000-3000 hrs of use and simply leave ineffective tubes in
      place until they burn out. Moreover, very few hospitals have appropriate irradiance meters
      for monitoring the intensity of the blue light emitted by the lamps. In a recent study in
      Nigeria by Owa et al, none of the tested PT devices provided the level of irradiance required
      for intensive PT.

      Often, the only treatment a healthcare provider can suggest to the parents/guardians of
      jaundiced infants is to place their babies in sunlight. However, this practice is unsuitable
      due to several safety concerns. For instance, exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light may cause
      sunburn, while infrared (IR) light may cause the body to overheat. Moreover, the infant may
      lose body heat from the uncovered skin during treatment, with potential for dehydration. A
      safer, yet practical and economical, solution is needed, providing the basis for our proposal
      of filtered sunlight PT.

      The primary aims of this study were safety, efficacy and non-inferiority of filtered sunlight
      phototherapy compared to conventional phototherapy. Phase I of the study focused on the
      safety and efficacy of filtered sunlight phototherapy. Phase II focused on non-inferiority of
      efficacy as compared to conventional phototherapy while continuing to evaluate safety.
    
  