
    
      The timing of meals distributed across the wake cycle may play a role in body weight
      regulation and metabolic health. In rodents, providing an 12 h feeding opportunity during the
      active phase abrogated the metabolic consequences of a high fat diet, including maintaining
      leaner body weight and normal glucose homeostasis [5]. In diet-induced obese rodents,
      switching to a TRF protocol normalised the metabolic milieu by reducing hyperinsulinemia,
      hepatic steatosis, and inflammation [6]. Interestingly, when lean animals were switched to a
      TRF high fat diet protocol, which allowed ad libitum access to the high fat diet for 2
      consecutive days per week, simulating a "weekend", lean body weights and metabolic profiles
      were maintained [6]. These studies suggest that following a TRF protocol is of significant
      benefit to prevent weight gain, and or to normalise the metabolic milieu.

      Observational studies of individuals who undertook the Islamic ritual of fasting during the
      month of Ramadan [7, 8]. Under these conditions, not only is the timing of food intake
      restricted, but feeding times are switched to non-daylight hours. The outcomes from these
      observational studies are mixed, but many have observed reduced cardiovascular risk factors
      [7, 8]. However, beneficial changes in glycaemic profile are more controversial. One study,
      using continuous glucose monitors, reported there was a change in the pattern of the
      glycaemic profile, but no change in overall glycaemia [9]. Other studies have noted that
      fasting glucose levels are increased following Ramadan [7]. Epidemiological evidence shows
      that individuals who report consuming more of their daily energy intake at the evening meal
      were more overweight, than those who reported consumed more of their energy intake before
      lunch[10]. Similarly, eating lunch late in the day (after 15:00 hrs) was predictive of poorer
      weight loss during a 20-week dietary intervention study [11] and individuals randomized to
      consume more calories at breakfast had greater weight loss versus those randomized to eat
      more calories at dinner after 12 weeks [12]. Taken together these data suggest that consuming
      more calories in the morning may be beneficial for weight management.

      Only a limited number of controlled studies have interrogated the effects of TRF in humans
      [13-15]. The first was a randomised controlled cross-over intervention, where lean
      individuals were instructed either to consume all of their calories required for weight
      maintenance over a 4 hour period from 1700-2100h, or as 3 meals/d for 8 weeks. Consumption of
      the evening meal was supervised within the laboratory, to ensure subjects consumed the entire
      meal. Significant reductions in body weight and body fat mass, by 1.4 and 2.1 kg
      respectively, were noted when following the TRF protocol [13]. Despite this small amount of
      weight loss, fasting blood glucose levels were increased, and TRF resulted in poorer glucose
      tolerance in response to an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) [14]. Thus, consuming a
      single, large "dinner" meal was detrimental for metabolic health, although no differences in
      insulin response were noted [14]. Gill et al also examined the effects of 10-11h TRF in 8 men
      who were overweight and reported an habitual eating pattern that usually spanned at least 14
      hours. A 3% body weight loss was observed after 2 months of TRF, and this was maintained for
      12 months[16]. It is unclear whether responses may have differed if the food allowance was
      prescribed at breakfast or lunch times. Finally, healthy, lean male subjects were allowed to
      eat ad libitum for 13h per day (6am-7pm) for 2 weeks. Participants reported eating
      significantly less on the TRF versus the control condition, and lost -0.4kg compared with a
      gain of +0.6kg in the control condition [15]. Whilst this is a minor change in body weight,
      this pattern is not that atypical of modern eating patterns, and further restriction of
      eating times, and assessment of obese individuals under these conditions is warranted. The
      metabolic health impacts were not reported in either of these studies.

      Screening visit (S) - (Informed consent, screening questionnaire): Participants will be
      assessed by a screening questionnaire (provided for review) for risk of type 2 diabetes, and
      for their diet, medical and exercise history to determine their eligibility. Potentially
      eligible participants will be invited to attend SAHMRI and have the research protocol
      explained to them in detail. Informed consent to participate in the study, including a verbal
      indication that they understand the general study protocol and requirements is then obtained.
      Routine clinical checks are then performed (weight, height, waist circumference, blood
      pressure). If participants meet the eligibility criteria, they will be invited to take part
      in the study.

      Baseline assessment and food intake monitoring: In this study, we will use a smartphone-based
      monitoring and feedback tool (MyCircadianClock app) to monitor the daily pattern of ingestive
      behaviour, activity and sleep patterns for 1-week, at baseline as well as during weeks 1,3
      and 5. This app was developed by our collaborators at Salk Institute, Professor Satchidananda
      Panda and Dr Emily Manoogian. Participants in our study will be asked to sign up to the
      MyCircadianClock smartphone app and using the app are asked to take a photograph of any food
      and drink that they consume, which time stamps when and what was eaten, for later analysis.
      This app is part of a study conducted by Professor Panda. The Panda lab will share the
      identifiable data collected through the app from participants of this study, once they have
      received verification of informed consent from the participant in our study to do so. This is
      outlined on page 4 of the SIS and consent asked on page 7 of the SIS/consent form. We have
      attached IRB approval of the MyCircadianClock study, which explains the app in detail.

      TRF: Participants will be instructed to consume their habitual diet within a self-selected 10
      hour period every day. Outside of the selected eating period, participants are allowed to
      consume water (encouraged to drink 6-8 glasses per day) and calorie free foods (e.g.
      sugar-free drinks and chewing gum) as well as black coffee and/or tea. Participants will
      track their energy intake using the application described above. This will track compliance,
      and allow us to assess changes in intake.

      Metabolic Testing (W0, W6): Participants will be provided with a standardised meal that
      provides ~30% of their estimated total daily energy requirement (McCains Lasagne, fruit
      salad, muesli bar) to consume the evening prior to the study visit, by 1930h. They will
      arrive at 0730 at the Research Unit following a 12 hour overnight fast. Weight, waist and hip
      circumference and blood pressure will be measured and a 20G cannula inserted into an
      antecubital vein. A fasting blood sample (20 mL) is drawn for baseline measurements and to
      assess HbA1c. A second fasting blood sample (20ml) will be taken immediately prior to
      consuming a standardised 700kcal liquid meal (EnsurePlus ®; 57% CHO, 28 % fat, 15 % protein)
      (t=0). 6*10 mL blood samples are drawn at 15,30,60,90,120,180 minutes to measure glucose,
      free fatty acids, insulin, c-peptide and appetite hormones. A total volume of 100 mL blood
      will be collected at visit 0 and 6; with a total volume of 200 mL collected over 6 weeks.
      Appetite responses during the meal will be monitored using standardised visual analog scales.
    
  