
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the time to disease progression (defined as the time from diagnosis of
           metastatic urothelial carcinoma until first confirmed progression of the disease) in
           patients with locally recurrent, locally advanced, unresectable, or metastatic
           urothelial cancer treated with sunitinib malate and ineligible for cisplatin-based
           chemotherapy.

        -  To determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.

        -  To determine the overall response rate in patients treated with this drug.

        -  To determine the overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

        -  To determine the time to treatment failure in patients treated with this drug.

        -  To determine the pharmacodynamic profile of this drug in pre- and post-treatment serum
           and tumor tissue (i.e., IL8, VEGF, MMP9, bFGF, p27, Ki-67, and apoptosis [H/E]) at week
           6, and if possible, at time of progression.

        -  To determine the quality of life of patients treated with this drug using the QLQ-C30
           version 3 questionnaire.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 6
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) before, during, and at the
      end of study treatment.

      Serum and tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline and after study treatment for
      pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are analyzed for markers (i.e., IL8, VEGF, MMP9, bFGF, p27,
      Ki-67, and apoptosis [H/E]) via immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 28 days and then every 2
      months for up to 3 years.
    
  