
    
      Restoring Primary Care in Virginia: Patient Centered Outcomes Research (PCOR) Learning as a
      Pathway to Value is an extension of the Virginia Center for Health Innovation's (VCHI) work
      to address primary care transformation in its Virginia Health Innovation Plan. VCHI, in
      partnership with four of Virginia's schools of medicine, the Virginia Center for Health
      Quality (VHQC), and evaluation specialists at George Mason University, will form the Virginia
      Primary Care Transformation Collaborative (VPCTC). They will use an evidence-based,
      comprehensive strategy to help up to 300 small-to-medium sized primary care practices: 1)
      accelerate incorporation of PCOR clinical and organizational findings into practice with an
      initial focus on cardiovascular health and the Aspirin, Blood Pressure, Cholesterol, and
      Smoking (ABCS); 2) increase their capacity to integrate new PCOR findings on an on-going
      basis; and 3) learn strategies that can help them sustain and revitalize their organizations
      while restoring the joy to primary care practice. Practice supports will include on-site
      coaching, expert consultation, collaborative learning events, an online support center, and
      data feedback and benchmarking. As a result of this project, "Restoring Primary Care in
      Virginia," participating practices will develop stronger Quality Improvement (QI) capacity
      and learn strategies that can help them sustain and revitalize their organizations while
      restoring the joy to primary care practice. The value proposition to recruit and retain
      participating practices includes: Improved financial performance; improved clinician, staff,
      and patient satisfaction; objectively improved quality of care; improved ability to negotiate
      for and receive pay for performance bonuses, including Electronic Medical Record (EMR)
      meaningful use stage 2; completion of Part IV certification by the American Board of Family
      Medicine (ABFM) and American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) for QI work completed in this
      initiative; and engagement in a self-sustaining learning collaborative of similar practices
      after the end of the project. The evaluation plan is designed to answer these questions: (1)
      Did the VPCTC intervention improve the performance of small physician practices in Virginia
      as measured by the individual ABCS? (2) Which elements of the intervention were most
      important to the physicians for performance improvement? (3) Did "maintenance" or follow-up
      intervention activities add value or was the initial intense intervention enough to produce
      the measured impact? (4) Which internal contextual or structural features of practices at
      baseline are most likely to be associated with improved performance (e.g., expansive use of
      EMRs, degree of adaptive reserve or change processing capacity, number of physicians in the
      practice, etc.)? (5) Did the VPCTC improve the capacity of small physician practices to
      implement future PCOR findings and improve quality on an ongoing basis? (6) Which elements of
      the intervention were most important to the physicians for QI capacity building? Multivariate
      statistical modeling of clinical performance and survey data will be performed to answer
      questions 1, 3, and 4.

      Qualitative interviews, surveys and statistical analysis of survey results will answer
      questions 2, 5, and 6.
    
  