
    
      This study will be a multicentre Umbrian PROBE design (treatment regimens are blinded to both
      caregivers and evaluators) with investigating the effectiveness comparing two active
      treatment "counseling and support" versus "educational group focusing on AD" in 230 primary
      caregivers of AD patients.

      If all inclusion criteria are met, the caregiver will be asked to sign a written informed
      consent form. Failure to do so, will result in exclusion from the study. The treatment will
      not be disclosed to the caregivers, although the caregivers will be told that they will
      participate in a study with two different active treatments which will require a total of
      six-hour sessions.

      Care providers and Study settings

      Caregiver will be recruited in secondary outpatient clinic located in Umbrian health
      maintenance organizations (HMO). Outpatient clinic in Umbria are disseminated in the
      territory and each small city has its own clinic (Città di Castello, Foligno, Gualdo Tadino,
      Gubbio, Perugia, Marsciano, Passignano, San Giustino, Spoleto, Terni, Todi, Umbertide with
      population ranging from 11,000 to 166,000 inhabitants, of them around 70% living in the
      country/small village). Care providers were neurologist and geriatrician with twelve to 30
      year experience in dementia practice, working in high volume outpatient clinic.

      INTERVENTION

      Treatment arm

      Psychosocial Intervention

      Every caregiver will be assigned to a permanent counselor. The caregiver in the intervention
      arm will meet the counselors six times in person. The first and the last sessions will be
      attended by the caregiver only whereas the remaining four sessions will be attended by the
      caregiver and other family members who are involved in the daily management of the patient.
      All meetings will held within 4 months of the initial assessment. Interventions will be
      tailored for the caregivers based upon:

        1. depression and anxiety;

        2. burden;

        3. self care and health-related behavior;

        4. social support; and

        5. behavioral symptoms.

      The design and management of the structured intervention will follow a published counseling
      caregiver manual, based on the experiences matured at New York University. Every session will
      be documented.

      Moreover, the counselor will make three ad hoc telephone calls to the caregiver each month
      following the six in-person sessions counseling, in order to monitor the well-being of the
      caregiver. Telephone communications will be documented; other types of communication will not
      be considered valid (e.g. telephone text messages or social network messages).

      Finally, the counselor will be available to the caregiver via a telephone service.

      All counselors will meet monthly to update the the adherence to the protocol to resolve any
      problems.

      Educational Intervention on AD

      The caregiver enrolled in this arm:

        1. will not receive counseling or support;

        2. will participate to group sessions;

        3. the six hours sessions will divulge information on AD using a slide-show.

      Each session will focus on the following topic:

        1. diagnosis and treatment,

        2. cognitive deficit management,

        3. behavioral disturbance management,

        4. daily living management,

        5. non-pharmacological treatment,

        6. legal issues and available health and social services.

      Additionally, contrary to other arm, caregivers will not receive any telephone calls after
      the end of the educational sessions.

      Whenever a caregiver in this arm requires additional support, he/she will be referred to
      volunteers of the local Alzheimer's Association.

      Follow-up evaluation

      Caregivers will be evaluated at 6, 12, and 24 months after baseline evaluation; outcome
      measures will repeated at every evaluation. Patients will be evaluated every twelve months
      after baseline, as standard care requires. The implementation of the intervention program
      will be closely monitored, including activities as well as outcomes. The activities and
      progress of each caregiver and family will be tracked. The participation and attrition rate
      will be calculated and reported; the causes of delays in scheduling or attrition due to a
      move to another city or state, hospitalization, a nursing home admission, or death will be
      recorded.

      The study will be under constant monitoring of an External Committee.
    
  