
    
      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the clinical performance (sensitivity and specificity) of Fyodor UMT for
      detecting Plasmodium falciparum malaria in febrile patients.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To monitor time-to-clearance of the cognate parasite protein from patient urine

        -  To assess the potential effects of proteinuria, inflammation and anti-fever medications
           on Fyodor UMT performance

        -  To determine UMT performance when used for asymptomatic (afebrile) individuals, who may
           be carriers of the parasite.

      Study Design:

        -  Randomized, multi-center clinical study

        -  Participants will be recruited from primary healthcare centers across four local
           government areas in Lagos State, and two schistosomiasis communities in Abeokuta-North
           Local Government Area of Ogun State, both in southwest Nigeria

        -  1500 participants (comprising children aged 2-14 years and adults of both genders) with
           fever (axillary temperature ≥37.5°C) or recent history of fever in the last 48 hours
           (Group 1), 250 apparently "healthy" individuals (Control, Group 2), and 50 patients with
           Schistosoma hematobium and Rheumatoid arthritis (Group 3), will be recruited

        -  Binax NOW RDT-positive patients will be treated for malaria infection with
           Artesunate-Amodiaquine or Dihydroartemisinin-Piperaquine Sulphate, following national
           treatment policy

        -  To assess if the UMT target antigen persists in urine after treatment, 100 treated Group
           1 participants with both Binax NOW and UMT positive results will be randomly selected
           and followed up on days 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28, using an adaptation of the WHO (2009)
           Protocol for Drug Therapeutic Efficacy Assessments
           (http://whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2009/9789241597531_eng.pdf)

        -  To test the clinical specificity of the UMT, active recruitment will include 250
           individuals of both genders with asymptomatic P. falciparum malaria infection
           (apparently "healthy, normal control group 2), and 50 with Schistosoma haematobium
           infection and/or rheumatoid arthritis (Group 3) - two unrelated medical conditions known
           to elicit proteinuria in patients (Lehman et al., 1975; Adebajo et al., 1994; Tighe &
           Carson, 1997)

        -  Participants with elevated Rheumatoid Factor (RF+) test result (i.e. RF >60 u/mL or
           >1:80 liter) are associated with severe rheumatoid disease. Schistosoma haematobium
           infection is confirmed by microscopy with egg identification or by serology

        -  This 6-month study will be implemented July-December 2013, during both rainy and dry
           seasons when malaria transmission is high and low, respectively.

      Study Area:

      The study will be coordinated by The ANDI Center of Excellence for Malaria Diagnosis - an
      International Malaria Microscopy Training & RDT Quality Assurance Testing center, & a
      WHO/TDR/FIND Malaria Specimen Bank Site at the College of Medicine, The University of Lagos.
      It will be conducted in seven primary healthcare facilities across four local government
      areas in Lagos State. Lagos State is situated in the southwestern part of Nigeria, and made
      up of densely populated urban areas and sprawling suburban areas. Malaria transmission occurs
      throughout the year with periods of intense seasonal malaria transmission during the rainy
      season. Temperatures are usually high and water pools created during the rainy season provide
      breeding sites for the malaria vectors, leading to epidemic outbreaks with high morbidity
      rates. The state is endemic for malaria, with peak transmission between April-September.

      The sampling for Schistosomiasis will be carried out in Imalodo and Abuletutu schistosomiasis
      communities in Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of Ogun State, also in southwest Nigeria.

      Description of the Study Design:

      The specific aims of the study are to determine the clinical sensitivity and specificity of
      the UMT, and to establish assay performance characteristics in healthy asymptomatic
      volunteers, compared to blood smear microscopy, and Binax NOW test (Predicate device). A
      total of 1,800 participants, comprising children and adults of both genders presenting with
      malaria-like fever symptoms, patients with unrelated medical conditions (Schistosoma
      hematobium infection and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as apparently "healthy" (asymptomatic)
      control individuals will be enrolled. Febrile patients with malaria-like symptoms will be
      enrolled during both the rainy and dry seasons, yielding field samples during periods of both
      high and low malaria transmission.

      Matched urine and fingerprick blood samples will be collected and tested using the UMT, and
      Binax NOW and microscopy, respectively. Urine and blood testing with the UMT and Binax NOW,
      respectively, will be performed on-site in a blinded fashion. Each urine sample will also be
      tested using a urinalysis dipstick and its' physicochemical characteristics (pH, protein,
      sugar, specific gravity, etc) are recorded. Two thin and thick blood smear slides (prepared
      on the same slide) per participant will be prepared from the blood specimen. One slide will
      be independently read by two microscopists at the ANDI Center of Excellence for Malaria
      Diagnosis, an internationally reputed training and referral center for malaria microscopy.
      The second slide will be archived for future quality assurance purpose, and thereafter
      shipped to Fyodor along with the remaining urine samples. Per convention, microscopic reading
      of blood smears will be used as the gold standard for malaria diagnosis. Patients testing
      positive with Binax NOW will be treated with Artesunate-Amodiaquine or
      Dihydroartemisinin-Piperaquine Sulphate. No clinical decision will be made based on the UMT
      results alone. Nevertheless, the standard routine malaria diagnostic tests will be used to
      manage the patient in the facility where they present. The overall agreement of the UMT and
      Binax NOW to microscopy analysis will be used to establish UMT sensitivity, specificity, and
      substantial equivalence/non-inferiority to Binax NOW test.

      UMT Test Procedure:

        -  Add 200 µl of the freshly collected urine into a 1.5 ml or 2 ml test tube immediately
           before testing

        -  Dip the UMT strip into the urine sample and allow sample to wick up and saturate the
           strip for 10 minutes

        -  Remove the strip from the urine specimen, and place on its foil pouch packaging

        -  Allow reaction to proceed for 20 minutes

        -  Record result as positive (POS; both Test and Control Lines appear), negative (NEG; only
           the Control Line appears) or invalid (INV; Control Line does not appear).

      Study Quality Assurance:

      This study will be conducted in accordance with good clinical practices.

        -  Site training: All investigators, technicians and research staff working on this UMT
           study will be trained and certified in the conduct of studies involving human subjects
           per ICH guidelines

        -  Site Visits: Site monitoring visits will be conducted according to the guidelines
           outlined in the study protocol

        -  Blinding of Results: Separate teams will be organized to conduct patient enrollment,
           laboratory (Binax NOW) testing, diagnostic microscopy, data entry, and data analysis

        -  Control UMT Testing: Known positive and negative control materials will be used to
           verify UMT performance on a daily basis

        -  Data Collection: Research staff will fill out all data collection forms at each visit,
           even if a participant has not had all of the tests completed; missed follow up visits
           will be documented, as appropriate, on the case report forms

        -  The Study Coordinator will manage field research staff and provide administrative
           support at study sites on a day-to-day basis

        -  Study Quality Assurance Coordinator is qualified by training and experience, and will
           monitor the conduct of the trial to ensure compliance with the approved study protocol.

      This clinical study will be conducted in accordance with the study protocol as approved by
      the Research Grants & Experimentation Ethics Committee of the College of Medicine University
      of Lagos, Nigeria, the Nigerian Health Research Ethics Committee guidelines, the ICH
      Harmonised Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice and 45CFR46 and 21CFR50, the
      WHO-FIND-CDC Malaria RDT Product Testing Methods Manual (Version 3), the abbreviated or
      non-significant risk provision of the Investigational Device Exemptions (IDE) Regulations (21
      CFR Part 812.2(b)), the Protection of Human Subjects Regulations, including Subpart B
      Informed Consent of Human Subjects (21 CFR Part 50), the Institutional Review Board
      Regulations (21 CFR Part 56); and, the Financial Disclosure by Clinical Investigators
      Regulations (21 CFR Part 54).
    
  