
    
      MAIN STUDY

      Despite improvements in medical management, significant residual disability remains in older
      persons after a hip fracture. The goal of current clinical practice is independent, safe
      household ambulation two to three months after surgery. Hip fracture-acquired dependency in
      functional activities of daily living persists well beyond three months post-surgery. This
      residual disability indicates that current standard Medicare-reimbursed post-hip fracture
      rehabilitation (i.e., usual care) fails to return many patients to pre-fracture levels of
      function. In contrast to stroke and heart disease, other commonly occurring acute conditions
      in the older population, there are few intervention trials focused on decreasing disability
      following hip fracture. None of the trials for hip fracture has examined the effect of early
      post-fracture intervention on the ability to ambulate at a level required for independent
      function in the community (i.e., community ambulation). Thus, there is a paucity of evidence
      to justify extending medical management beyond usual care in persons following hip fracture
      to achieve community, rather than merely household, ambulation.

      A randomized controlled trial (RCT) including 210 older adults who have experienced a hip
      fracture will be carried out at three clinical sites with half of the subjects receiving a
      specific multi-component intervention (PUSH) and the other half receiving a non-specific
      multi-component intervention (PULSE). Randomization of 210 participants meeting eligibility
      criteria will take place after post-acute rehabilitation ends, approximately 6 months (26
      weeks) after admission to the hospital for hip fracture. The primary endpoint will be
      measured using the Six-Minute Walk Test (SMWT) at the end of the 16-week intervention period.
      The goal is to enable older adults who have experienced a hip fracture to recover
      sufficiently to become community ambulators.

      Primary Aim The primary aim of the study is to determine if a specific multi-component
      16-week intervention based on aerobic conditioning, specificity of training, and muscle
      overload (the PUSH intervention), initiated within 26 weeks of admission to the hospital for
      hip fracture, will be more successful in producing community ambulation at 16 weeks after
      randomization than a non-specific multi-component intervention of transcutaneous electrical
      nerve stimulation (TENS), flexibility activities, and active range of motion exercises (AROM)
      (the PULSE intervention).

      Secondary Aims

        1. To determine whether the proportion of community ambulators differs between the PUSH and
           PULSE interventions at 40 weeks post-randomization and whether the difference in
           proportions at 40 weeks changed from the difference in proportions at 16 weeks

        2. To compare the PUSH and PULSE interventions at 16 weeks and 40 weeks post-randomization
           with respect to five secondary outcomes that are thought to be precursors to community
           ambulation (endurance, dynamic balance, walking speed, quadriceps strength, and lower
           extremity function)

        3. To compare the PUSH and PULSE interventions at 16 weeks and 40 weeks post-randomization
           with respect to several tertiary outcomes (activities of daily living, quality of life,
           physical activity, lower extremity physical performance, balance confidence, increase of
           50 meters or more in distance walked in six minutes, nutritional status, cognitive
           status, and depressive symptoms)

        4. To compare the economic value of the PUSH and PULSE interventions by estimating the
           impact of the interventions on cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained over
           the follow-up period.

      In addition to study outcome measures, expected adverse events (AEs) will be assessed every
      four weeks during a telephone interview. Information about reportable adverse events (RAEs),
      which include serious adverse events (SAEs), unexpected AEs, or injury that occurs under
      supervision by study staff, will be collected throughout the study. Vitamin D, calcium, and
      multivitamin adherence will be monitored by pill counts every four weeks during the
      intervention period and by self-report during the 4-week telephone calls. Adherence with the
      PT interventions will also be monitored.

      For participants randomized prior to version 10.0 of the protocol, follow-up assessment
      visits occurred 16 weeks and 40 weeks from the date of randomization and telephone interviews
      were conducted every four weeks during the 40-week study period for a total of 10 telephone
      interviews. For participants consented under version 10.0 of the protocol, all follow-up will
      end at 16 weeks post-randomization. In version 11.0 of the protocol, we will eliminate
      several secondary and tertiary outcome measures. In the description of outcome measures, we
      identify the measures that will not be collected for participants consented under protocol
      version 11.0 or later.

      ANCILLARY STUDIES

      ANCILLARY STUDY #1 - MECHANISTIC PATHWAYS TO COMMUNITY AMBULATION (CAP-MP) - Dr. Jay
      Magaziner [Ancillary Study #1 Start Date: April 12, 2014; Primary Completion Date: October
      19, 2017; n=39] The CAP-MP ancillary study is intended to supplement the information gained
      from the parent CAP study, to help investigators understand how older adults recover after
      injury. Participants enrolled in the CAP parent study at the Baltimore site are invited to
      participate in the CAP-MP ancillary study and undergo additional testing at the same time
      points as for the parent CAP study. The objective of the CAP-MP ancillary study is to examine
      mechanistic factors hypothesized to be on the pathway between two 16-week interventions
      post-hip fracture and recovery and the ability to ambulate independently in the community.
      The effect of the interventions on these factors 24 weeks after the intervention ends also
      will be evaluated. The outcomes for the CAP-MP ancillary study are secondary or tertiary to
      the main CAP study.

      Primary Aim. To determine if, at the end of the 16-week intervention, participants in the
      PUSH group, compared to the PULSE group, have: a) greater muscle volume and attenuation
      (i.e., reduced intra-muscular fat) of the thigh; b) greater lower extremity strength; c)
      greater bone mineral density and bone strength; d) more bone formation and less bone
      resorption; e) lower levels of circulating inflammatory cytokines; f) higher levels of the
      hormones insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, testosterone, and estradiol; g) greater aerobic
      capacity; h) greater improvement in gait and balance; and i) better cognition and fewer
      depressive symptoms.

      Secondary Aim 1. To determine the long-term (i.e., 24 weeks after intervention ends) effect
      of the intervention on the mechanistic factors detailed in the primary aim.

      Secondary Aim 2. To evaluate the relationships between mechanistic factors detailed in the
      primary aim above and community ambulatory ability at the end of the intervention and 24
      weeks later in order to identify those mechanisms that are most responsible for the ability
      to ambulate in the community following delivery of the intervention.

      Tertiary Aim. To quantify the mediating effect of mechanistic factors detailed in the primary
      aim on the relationship between the intervention and ability to ambulate in the community at
      the end of the intervention (16 weeks post-randomization) and 24 weeks later.

      ANCILLARY STUDY #2 - DIET AND DIETARY PATTERNS IN OLDER ADULTS UNDERGOING HIP FRACTURE
      REHABILITATION - Dr. Anne Kenny [n=11] This ancillary study will analyze dietary patterns for
      the nutritional characterization of older adults recovering from a hip fracture. The
      identified dietary patterns, as well as motivators and barriers to intake, will be assessed
      for their impact on the rate of return to community ambulation in the CAP study.

      Hypothesis: Those who consume dietary patterns similar to a Mediterranean style diet will
      have less malnutrition with greater likelihood for a return to community ambulation.

      Aim 1. At baseline determine degree of Mediterranean style diet intake and dietary patterns
      in our sample of hip fracture patients to correlate with nutritional status assessed by the
      Mini Nutritional Assessment tool (MNA).

      Aim 2. Determine motivators and barriers to intake in the hip fracture rehabilitation
      population and associate with dietary patterns and nutritional status.

      Aim 3. Diets determined at baseline will be used to predict community ambulation and similar
      primary endpoints for CAP.

      ANCILLARY STUDY #3 - ROLE OF GLUCOSE METABOLISM IN STRENGTH AND FUNCTIONAL RECOVERY AFTER HIP
      FRACTURE - Dr. Anne Kenny [n=21] The goal of this ancillary study is to assess the impact of
      glucose metabolism on strength and functional performance following resistance training in
      the population. Data on rehabilitation capacity post-fracture in those with diabetes mellitus
      (DM) are limited and mixed. Studies focusing on rehabilitation potential in DM demonstrate
      either no impact or a decrease in functional recovery.

      Hypothesis: Community-dwelling ambulatory hip fracture survivors with impaired glucose
      metabolism (measured as homeostasis model assessment-estimated insulin resistance [HOMA- IR]
      or diagnosis of DM) will not recover lower extremity strength or function as well as those
      with normal glucose metabolism in response to resistance exercise compared to non-resistance
      training. Further, investigators propose that higher AGE (measured as pentosidine level and
      its receptor) will impair strength and functional improvement with resistance exercise. Those
      with IR and DM have lower IGF-1 and higher levels of IGF binding proteins (IGFBP1 and 3)
      further limiting the available IGF-1 for tissue use. Investigators hypothesize that the
      strength and functional improvement from resistance exercise will be mitigated by higher
      IGFBP in those with DM and IR compared to those with normal glucose metabolism.

      Aim 1. To compare change in strength and function between those with diabetes mellitus,
      insulin resistance, or without either condition compared between two multi-component exercise
      interventions in which one includes resistance.

      Aim 2. To determine association between baseline AGE and IGF/IGFBP on strength and functional
      improvement and evaluate contribution of change in biomarkers to muscle/function response
      from resistance exercise.

      ANCILLARY STUDY #4 - MUSCLE MECHANISMS UNDERLYING RECOVERY OF FUNCTION AFTER HIP FRACTURE -
      Dr. Marty Eastlack [Ancillary Study #4 Start Date: April 6, 2015; Primary Completion Date:
      December 13, 2017; n=22] The purpose of this ancillary study is, therefore, to examine the
      effect of the two interventions on the precursors to participation in the community.

      Hypothesis: Those who participate in the PUSH intervention will have less impairment in body
      structure and function (muscle thickness and echo intensity), fewer limitations in activities
      (chair rate of rise and fast gait speed) and therefore better likelihood to return to
      participation (community ambulation).

      Aim 1: To determine if there is a difference between PUSH and PULSE with respect to change in
      muscle quality (muscle thickness and echo intensity), muscle power (chair rate of rise) and
      fast gait speed.

      Aim 2: To see if differences persist 40 weeks post-randomization. Aim 3: To see if changes in
      muscle quality predict faster gait speed, chair rate of rise and chair rise strategy (this is
      categorical) among all participants.

      Aim 4: To describe the quality of movement (chair rise strategy and capacity, standing
      symmetry, temporospatial aspects of gait) among all participants.

      Aim 5: To confirm that rate of rise in standing is a proxy for instrumented measure of lower
      extremity power.
    
  