
    
      This trial has two phases. The first phase is an open-label, pharmacokinetic,
      pharmacodynamic, ascending dose, safety and tolerability lead-in. The second phase is a
      single-center, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, adaptive, safety and efficacy,
      pilot.

      The lead-in phase will study 4 doses of TSC and enroll 24 participants. Each TSC dose will be
      administered as an IV bolus injection to 6 unique participants per dose level administered
      four times per day (every 6 hours) for 5 days. Participants will be assigned in groups of 3,
      and a Safety Monitoring Committee (SMC) will review Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) after
      each group of 3 participants. The first group of 3 participants will receive TSC at a dose of
      0.25 mg/kg. If there are no DLTs, 3 additional subjects will be studied at 0.25 mg/kg. If
      there are 0 or 1 DLT among the 6 participants studied at 0.25mg/kg, 3 additional participants
      will be studied at the next higher dose, 0.5 mg/kg. If there are no DLTs an additional 3
      participants will be studied at 0.5 mg/kg. If there are 0 or 1 DLTs among the 6 subjects
      studied at 0.5 mg/kg, 3 additional participants will be studied at the next higher dose, 1.0
      mg/kg. The study will continue in this fashion seeking an observed toxicity rate that is <
      0.33 among 6 participants at any one dose level, or TSC at 1.5 mg/kg proves to be safe and
      tolerable.

      As participants complete the initial 5 days of treatment they will continue at their assigned
      TSC dose four times per day (every 6 hours) for up to 15 days. Participants will be assigned
      to dose levels in ascending order. The dose range is as follows.

        -  0.25 mg/kg TSC + Standard of Care

        -  0.50 mg/kg TSC + Standard of Care

        -  1.00 mg/kg TSC + Standard of Care

        -  1.50 mg/kg TSC + Standard of Care

      At the completion of the lead-in the Safety Monitoring Committee (SMC) will examine the
      resultant safety and blood oxygenation (S:F) data for all participants and determine the
      optimum, safe and tolerable dose of TSC for use in the pilot study.

      Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as any study drug related grade 3 or 4 adverse event
      during the treatment period, with the exception of pulmonary events in the CTCAE that are
      known complications of SARS-CoV-2 infection: Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS),
      Cough, Dyspnea, Hypoxia, Pneumonitis, Pulmonary Edema, Respiratory Failure, or Respiratory,
      Thoracic and Mediastinal disorders - Other. The SMC will apply clinical judgement in their
      review of adverse events (particularly abnormal laboratory results).

      The two arm, randomized pilot will enroll up to 200 participants, and will be overseen by a
      Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). TSC dosing will be at the selected optimum, safe and
      tolerable biologic dose with an active to placebo ratio of 2:1 toward providing the maximum
      potential benefit to participants. If two doses of TSC are to be studied in the randomized
      pilot the active to placebo ratio will be 2:2:1. Randomization will be stratified by disease
      severity, age and presence of pre-specified comorbidities. The treatment arms are as follows.

        -  TSC + Standard of Care

        -  Placebo + Standard of Care

      Each TSC dose will be administered as an IV bolus injection 4 times per day (every 6 hours)
      for up to 15 days. Participants randomized to placebo will receive an IV bolus injection of
      an equivalent volume by participant weight of Normal Saline four times per day (every 6
      hours) for up to 15 days.

      All study drug administration will be performed by unblinded medical staff. Participants,
      investigators and caregivers will not see the injection or injection site or be aware of
      randomization.

      Blood oxygenation will be measured via recorded continuous pulse oximetry and the
      SpO2:Fraction of Inspired Oxygen (FiO2) ratio calculated.

      All participants will undergo safety and efficacy assessments including laboratory assays,
      blood sampling on days 1 through day 15 (while hospitalized) and day 29 by return clinic
      visit or if still hospitalized.

      All participants, whether a part of the lead-in phase or randomized pilot, will be assessed
      for survival, serious adverse events and adverse events by requested return to the clinic on
      Day 60.
    
  