
    
      While instruments to measure experiences of breast screening and mammography have been
      developed in the past, there is none which (a) concentrates in depth on the experience of the
      examination itself, (b) includes detailed breast positioning variables, (c) has been designed
      based on robust and transparent qualitative evidence, and (d) has been validated in a UK
      breast setting. Such a tool is needed to inform the design, development and testing of
      interventions to improve experiences of mammography. This is an important goal because many
      women are deterred from future breast screening by poor mammography experiences. Furthermore,
      regular client satisfaction surveys are required by the UK national breast screening
      programmes but there is no standard, validated measure in place.

      The aim of this project is to develop, and obtain evidence for the validity of, a
      comprehensive toolkit of measures to evaluate experiences of mammography. The measures will
      be capable of assessing the quality of experiences of mammography and identifying modifiable
      predictors thereof. The investigators will pilot the measures in a sample of women attending
      for NHS breast screening. The resulting data will be used as the basis for building a
      statistical analysis model, for further validation of the measures, and for producing
      preliminary findings on what they are intended to measure.

      Items generated from the investigators recent qualitative study will be combined with items
      from existing literature and with novel image-based metrics to draft comprehensive measures
      of women's mammography experiences. Questionnaires will capture 1. relevant modifiable
      potential determinants of overall quality of experience, such as the mammographer's ability
      to put the client at ease, 2. key potential confounding variables (e.g. client physical
      characteristics such as mobility problems or breast tenderness), and 3. outcome variables
      representing or postulated to contribute to overall quality of experience, including pain
      from the mammogram. Questionnaire development will follow established methods, including
      testing for face and content validity with a sample of field experts and of the target
      population, and checking for question design errors - such as leading questions - by a member
      of the team experienced in questionnaire construction. The draft questionnaires will be
      cognitively tested for understandability and acceptability with a small sample of women
      eligible for breast screening, and refined before administration to a larger sample of women
      attending for screening mammography. The questionnaire data will be incorporated into a
      statistical analysis model along with additional data which the investigators will extract
      from participants' mammographic images as follows.

      The mammographic images will be examined for variables which may affect the client
      experience. These will include e.g. the compression force applied to the breast tissue during
      mammography, and features of the breast positioning technique. Thus, the measurement toolkit
      will have multiple parts. The investigators expect it to be capable of rigorous routine
      service and performance evaluation in mammography, of identifying what nature of
      interventions are needed to improve mammography experiences, and of evaluating the
      effectiveness of such interventions in the future.
    
  