
    
      Twenty four patients were included prospectively in the study. After randomization, 12
      patients underwent LRYGBP and 12 LRYGBP plus gastric fundus resection (LRYGBP+FR).

      All human studies were performed according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
      The local Research and Ethics Commitee at the University Hospital of Patras approved the
      study. Written informed consent was obtained from all patients.

      All the operations were performed by the same surgeon laparoscopically. The RYGBP procedures
      were performed creating a small isolated lesser curve-based gastric pouch (20 ± 5 ml) and a
      150cm Roux limb. The gastroenteroanastomosis was conducted with a 25 mm circular stapler. The
      dissection of the fundus of the stomach in the (LRYGBP+FR) group was done with the use of
      EndoGia No 60.

      The subjects were studied before and at 3, 6 and 12 months after the operation. All the
      patients underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) with 75 g glucose, preoperatively.
      In addition, venous blood was collected after an overnight 12 hour fast and 30, 60 and 120
      min after the administration of a 300 kcal mixed meal.The meal was consumed in ten minutes
      and consisted of 18% protein, 55% carbohydrate and 27% fat (Resource energy drink, Nestle
      Nutrition, France). Plasma levels of PYY, GLP-1, ghrelin and insulin were determined at every
      time point of the study. All patients underwent complete clinical evaluation during follow-up
      including nutritional, behavioral and anthropometric parameters. Visual analogue scales (VAS)
      were used to measure hunger, nausea, fullness and aversion to food, before and 30, 60 and 120
      min after the consumption of the meal. Weight loss evaluation was based on postope¬rative
      body weight, body mass index (BMI) and % excess weight loss (EWL %).

      Insulin resistance was approximated using the homeostatic model assessment for insulin
      resistance (HOMA IR). The following formula was used in its calculation:

      HOMA IR = (fasting glucose [mmole] /lt X fasting insulin [μU/ml])/22.5). The insulinogenic
      index, a commonly used indicator of pancreatic β-cell function, was calculated as the ratio
      of increment of insulin concentrations to that of glucose concentrations at 30 minutes after
      meal ingestion (Δ [ins30 - ins0] / Δ [Glu30 -Glu0]).
    
  