
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the correlations between baseline molecular features and pathways and
      prostate-specific antigen (PSA) change (</>= 50% decline) at 12 weeks versus (vs.) baseline.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure PSA change at 12 weeks and at each study visit vs. baseline after enzalutamide
      treatment.

      II. To measure objective response after enzalutamide treatment. III. To assess the
      correlations between the baseline molecular features and pathways and progression-free
      survival, disease-specific survival, and overall survival.

      IV. To assess the correlations between the baseline molecular features and pathways and time
      to PSA progression.

      V. To identify molecular features and cellular pathways present in tumors from men with
      metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) that are progressing despite
      enzalutamide treatment.

      VI. To explore correlation between baseline molecular features and pathways and changes in
      circulating tumor cells (CTCs) counts.

      VII. To explore correlation between baseline molecular features and pathways and objective
      response.

      VIII. To assess the correlations between the baseline molecular features and pathways and
      degree of PSA decline at 12 weeks and maximal PSA decline observed while on study.

      IX. To assess the correlations between the baseline molecular features and time on treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess correlations between cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) molecular
      features from blood and molecular features and pathways from the biopsy samples.

      II. To assess correlations between cfDNA molecular features and endpoints in the primary and
      secondary objectives listed above.

      III. To assess correlations between cell-free DNA and tumor molecular features and changes in
      PSA after discontinuing enzalutamide.

      IV. To explore correlations with baseline molecular features and tissue histology.

      V. To explore correlations with baseline tissue histology and PSA change, time to PSA
      progression, time on treatment, progression-free survival, and overall survival.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a tumor biopsy of a metastatic site at
      study entry (prior to initiation of enzalutamide) and after the time of progression. Patients
      may continue treatment beyond progression at the investigator's discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2-3 or 6 weeks and then
      every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  