
    
      Design: Repeated measures design: 20 participants will participate in the remote exercise
      intervention study with a pre-test and a post-test to investigate training effects on aerobic
      endurance, strength, balance and gait.

      Intervention: The program we will be using is specifically developed for individuals with
      Down syndrome based on the Mann Method PT Principles. The MMPT Principles TM focus on a
      progressive program of therapeutic activity (cardiovascular activity), therapeutic exercise
      (foundational strengthening and hip strengthening activities), and neuromuscular
      rehabilitation (visual/vestibular and balance activities) to address the unique needs of
      individuals with Down syndrome. This program has been developed and successfully implemented
      in Down syndrome activity centers across the country. This program will be offered through
      Zoom. Intensity will be submaximal for both data collection and during the exercise sessions,
      and recorded with Polar heart rate monitors.

      Measurements: We will use only field tests instead of the original lab-based testing for
      aerobic endurance, strength, balance and gait, and all tests will be conducted remotely.

      Baseline measurements: height, weight, circumferences Aerobic endurance: 2 Minute Step Test:
      participant marches in place as fast as possible with a set height for how high to lift the
      knees, for two minutes. Outcome is heart rate and number of steps in two minutes.

      Strength: 30 Second Chair Stand and 5 Times Chair Stand: participants starts seated, then
      stands up and sits down as fast as possible, first counting the number of times within 30
      seconds, then timing the number of seconds for 5 times.

      Balance: Timed Up and Go: This is a timed test where the participant stands up from a chair,
      walk 10ft, turn around, walk back and sit down again, as fast as possible. Modified CTSIB
      (Clinical Test on Sensory Information on Balance) and FICSIT-4 (Frailty and Injuries:
      Cooperative Studies of Intervention Techniques): Standing balance in different conditions and
      positions. Functional Reach Test: Reaching from a standing position as far as possible.

      Gait: Comfortable and Fast Walking Speed, Observational Gait Analysis based on anterior,
      posterior and lateral video recordings of the participant's walking.

      Additionally, participants (and/or parents/caregivers for the group with Down syndrome) will
      complete a health history questionnaire and physical activity questionnaire, a questionnaire
      about risk of falling (Short Falls Efficacy Scale-1) and about attitudes towards exercise
      (Health Matters Evaluation Toolkit).
    
  