
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is an incurable neurodegenerative disorder affecting approximately 1
      million US adults and about 80,000 Veterans. PD causes significant morbidity due to motor and
      non-motor symptoms across its prolonged course with an annual economic burden of $14 billion
      in the US alone. Motor symptoms associated with loss of dopaminergic neurons in PD may be
      temporarily improved with dopamine replacing medicines, but disease-modifying therapies that
      delay or prevent neuronal loss are lacking and sorely needed. Exercise is promising as a
      disease-modifying therapy because it protects dopaminergic neurons in animal models of PD and
      has been associated with measures of neuroplasticity in PD patients. Unfortunately, more than
      half of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra are lost before motor symptoms occur
      making it difficult to identify patients early enough to benefit from potentially
      disease-modifying therapies. Early "prodromal" PD can be identified using non-motor features
      including olfactory dysfunction and other biomarkers such as dopamine transporter (DaT) brain
      imaging abnormalities that are apparent years before motor symptoms. However, these
      strategies would be difficult and costly to implement on a population level without first
      identifying high-risk individuals for screening. Commonly prescribed dopamine blocking
      antipsychotic drugs cause debilitating PD-like motor dysfunction that is difficult to treat,
      and in some patients this finding may serve as a "stress test" for failing dopaminergic
      networks unmasking symptoms long before they would normally appear. Identifying prodromal PD
      among drug-induced parkinsonism patients offers a unique and unexplored opportunity for early
      intervention.

      In the proposed studies, the investigators will employ a tiered screening strategy with
      inexpensive and non-invasive olfactory testing in drug-induced parkinsonism patients followed
      by DaT imaging in individuals with olfactory impairment to identify a cohort of patients with
      presumed prodromal PD. Subjects with presumed prodromal PD will then be randomized to a
      home-based exercise intervention ({5} times weekly aerobic walking confirmed by remote
      activity monitors) or no intervention. In this cohort, the investigators will assess: 1)
      Short-term symptomatic effects of exercise on motor function in drug-induced parkinsonism
      using standard clinical measures (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) and quantitative
      gait assessments after 8 weeks of intervention; 2) a potential disease-modifying effect after
      52 weeks of exercise by comparing the rate of change in quantitative DaT imaging; and 3) the
      mechanisms and biochemical correlates of exercise-induced changes using a panel of serum
      biomarkers implicated in exercise and/or PD risk including brain-derived neurotrophic factor,
      uric acid, and apolipoproteinA1. Differences in the rate of change between groups will be
      assessed using independent samples t-tests and linear mixed-effects models adjusting for age
      and gender. The investigators' preliminary data demonstrates a strong association between
      olfactory impairment and abnormal DaT imaging in drug-induced parkinsonism. Based on power
      calculations allowing for 20% dropout, the investigators will screen approximately 250
      drug-induced parkinsonism subjects using olfactory testing, with the expectation that
      approximately 88 will have abnormal DaT imaging and agree to participate in the intervention
      trial.

      Antipsychotic drugs are widely prescribed for a growing list of approved indications and
      off-label uses including bipolar disorder, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder.
      Studying drug-induced parkinsonism patients with prodromal PD will allow us to identify which
      individuals are at risk, characterize the natural history of progression and evaluate
      appropriate management strategies at the earliest stages of PD. Exercise as a putative
      disease-modifying therapy offers significant advantages including cost, ease of access and
      lack of toxicity compared with unproven pharmacologic interventions especially if offered
      early enough to have meaningful clinical impact.
    
  