
    
      Throughout West Africa as many as 300,000 people are infected annually with Lassa virus,
      resulting in approximately 5,000 deaths. Most commonly, contact with infected rodent hosts
      (Mastomys natalensis), or ingestion / inhalation of virus laden particles is the source of
      human infection. However, person-to-person transmission is also well documented and can
      result in outbreaks, especially in nosocomial settings. Infection in pregnancy, especially
      the third trimester, is particularly severe with maternal mortality rates estimated at 20%
      and fetal mortality rates nearing 100%. A survey of rodents captured in the village of
      Soromba (rural commune of Sibirila, district of Bougouni, Mali) found that 25% of Mastomys
      natalensis had evidence of Lassa virus infection.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the proportion of people who have been previously
      exposed to Lassa virus, as well as the one-year incidence of infection in three villages
      within the rural commune of Sibirila, district of Bougouni. We will obtain 2 fingerstick
      blood samples (approximately one year apart) from each of approximately 600 participants aged
      greater than or equal to 6 months. Participants will be passively followed for one year and
      asked to present to their local health center if they have a fever.

      Elucidation of the prevalence of Lassa virus infection in the populations living in or near
      Sibirila may help Malian authorities to improve surveillance and/or local diagnostics.
      Accurate identification of Lassa virus infections in humans will help reduce the morbidity
      and mortality of those living in this area.

      The incidence and etiology of vector-borne diseases in southern Mali is relatively unknown.
      It is possible to use these samples to screen for other vector-borne diseases using similar
      serological assays. Expanding the testing to include filoviruses, bunyaviruses, alphaviruses
      and flaviviruses would greatly benefit our knowledge of circulating pathogens in southern
      Mali as well as the public health by helping to reduce the morbidity and mortality of those
      living in the area.
    
  