
    
      Olfactory dysfunction constitutes a common impairment in the general population, affecting
      nearly 20 million in the USA and severely impairing quality of life. Unfortunately, this
      problem is often permanent, and no effective treatment is available at this time. Although
      many etiologies exist for olfactory loss, the underlying pathology is thought to be permanent
      damage to the olfactory bulb, nerves or basal cells of the olfactory system. Platelet-rich
      plasma (PRP) is an autologous treatment derived from a patient's own blood and has been found
      to have pro-nerve regenerative properties in animal and human studies. A small pilot study at
      our institution demonstrated improved olfactory thresholds in patients with partial olfactory
      loss who received PrP injections. In this randomized clinical trial, we aim to further
      evaluate the ability of PRP injections to restore olfactory function in human subjects. Given
      the lack of effective current treatments, a therapeutic benefit of PrP would represent a
      crucial advancement in research and treatment of olfactory loss, which affects a large swath
      of the population.

      Patients will be seen at the Stanford Sinus center and those with smell loss will be
      identified by the clinically validated patient directed survey: The UPSIT (University of
      Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test). They will undergo nasal endoscopy to exclude
      structural causes of smell loss including mass or tumor. Nasal endoscopy will be performed to
      exclude structural causes of olfactory, using topical anesthesia (1% phenylephrine & 4%
      lidocaine topical spray). THESE ABOVE STEPS CONSTITUTE STANDARD OF CARE FOR EVALUATION OF
      OLFACTORY LOSS.

      The timing of the initial research visit will depend on the evolution of the current covid-19
      pandemic and adhere to Stanford guidelines regarding research visits. At the initial research
      visit, patients meeting inclusion criteria will be evaluated in a procedure room at the
      Stanford Sinus center. A baseline Sniffin' sticks smell test will be performed (see below). A
      small vial of blood will be drawn from the patient at the Blake Wilbur first floor laboratory
      (this has been discussed with staff at the laboratory who are aware of our study). The
      research coordinator will walk the patient back to clinic along with the patient's blood
      smple. PRP will be isolated from the blood by the study investigator, following manufacturer
      instructions from the PurePRP preparation kit (Emcyte corporation), which will involve use of
      a centrifuge located in the clinic for this purpose. Patients will then receive 1ml of
      autologous PrP or saline, which will be injected into the superior septum mucosa near the
      olfactory groove bilaterally. Patients will be blindfolded during injection to prevent
      identification of the injected specimen. Patients will be monitored for side effects for 15
      minutes. (We routinely perform nasal endoscopy with injection and associated procedures in
      our clinic, which patients tolerate very well.) ALL OF THE ABOVE STEPS ARE FOR RESEARCH
      PURPOSES.

      The Sniffin' Sticks test is a validated, non-invasive assessment of olfactory function via
      presentation of scented felt pens to blindfolded patients. The Sniffin' Sticks score will be
      recorded at baseline (initial research visit). Then for the following three weeks after this
      initial research visit, patients will return to our clinic for repeat Sniffin' sticks test,
      blood draw and injection of PrP or saline. In total, participants will receive 4 injections
      of PrP or saline. Following the last injection, patients will return at 1, 3, and 6 months
      for repeat Sniffin' Sticks smell test. THE 1- AND 3-MONTH VISITS ARE FOR RESEARCH PURPOSES,
      WHILE THE 6-MONTH VISIT IS PART OF STANDARD OF CARE.
    
  