
    
      A. Specific Aims

        1. To determine possible associations between periapical oral infection and adverse
           pregnancy outcomes in female patients in the School of Dentistry, the Dental/Dental
           Emergent Care Clinic (Jackson Medical Mall), and the UMC Hospital.

        2. To examine the effects of several confounding variables related to stress from pain from
           the periapical infections on these adverse outcomes.

      B. Background and Significance

      During the past five years there has been increasing evidence for associations between
      periodontal infection and adverse pregnancy outcomes in humans, including preterm birth, low
      birth-weight babies, gestational diabetes, miscarriage, and preeclampsia. These events likely
      result from oral infections because bacteremia and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines from
      the diseased oral sites have been described.

      Proinflammatory cytokines have been reported to be harmful and destructive to a successful
      pregnancy. The adverse fetal inflammatory response to TNF-alpha, IL-6 and C-reactive protein
      has been associated with preterm birth. These cytokines are also commonly associated with
      oral infections, both periodontal and periapical11. In addition, oral infections often
      produce pain and stress, which are considered harmful to a successful pregnancy. Since the
      effects of periodontal infections on adverse pregnancy outcomes have been described, it would
      be worthwhile to examine the specific effects of oral periapical abscesses on adverse birth
      outcomes, to begin to determine whether there is an association between this type of oral
      infection and these adverse outcomes.

      There is no published information concerning the possible associations of tooth abscesses on
      pregnancy outcomes. In addition, there is no known biological mechanism for the direct link
      between periodontal infections, pre-term birth and low birth-weight babies. Secondary factors
      such as age, race, and life-style likely confound assessment of these associations. There are
      some preliminary studies of these variables in regard to the association between periodontal
      infections and adverse pregnancy outcomes, but not for periapical lesions. Since periapical
      lesions produce pain, these secondary factors could be more important to pregnancy outcomes
      than the primary factors (bacteria and proinflammatory cytokines).

      C. Data collection. Archived dental records from female patients treated during the past
      three years at the University of Mississippi School of Dentistry and the Dental/Dental
      Emergent Care Clinic (Jackson Medical Mall) will be examined. Each patient record will be
      assigned a study number, and data will be entered on an Excel spreadsheet using that study
      number. Since the pregnancy outcome is part of the UMC Hospital record, the principal
      investigator will link the dental and hospital records using the patient name. However, the
      data collected will use a research number. Following the procedure for linking the patient
      records, the patient name will be discarded. Thus, it will not be possible to link an
      individual patient to the study data.

      The following information will be recorded: age, pregnancy status, number of pulpal
      abscesses, number of sites of periodontitis (pocket depth ≥ 4 mm), race, highest level of
      education, DMFT (decayed, missing, filled teeth), number of children, past pregnancy
      outcomes, diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, and any other known pregnancy related conditions
      experienced during previous pregnancies from the records of the Dental/Emergent Dental Care
      Clinic. We will define adverse pregnancy outcomes as gestational diabetes, preeclampsia,
      pre-term birth, and a low-birthweight infant from the UMC hospital records.

      D. Statistical Analysis of data. The data will be analyzed using SPSS v12 using appropriate
      statistical tests, including factorial ANOVA with post hoc tests, multivariate logistic
      regression, the Spearman correlation test, and chi square analysis.
    
  