
    
      CARISEPY3014 is the open-label extension study that follows the double-blind study
      CARISEPY3013 (NCT00740623). In an open label study such as CARISEPY3014, both the physician
      and the patient know the name of the assigned study medication. In a double blind study such
      as CARISEPY-3013, neither the physician nor the patient knows the name of the assigned study
      medication. Patients who complete the 14-week double-blind treatment phase of study
      CARISEPY3013 will be eligible to enter the open-label extension study during which patients
      will transition through a 1-week blinded period to open-label carisbamate. There will be a 1
      week blinded transition during which patients will take blinded study medication; after this,
      patients will then take unblinded, open-label study medication. Safety assessments include
      the monitoring of the frequency, severity, and timing of adverse events, clinical laboratory
      test results, 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings, vital signs measurements, physical
      and neurologic examinations, the Physician Withdrawal Checklist for symptoms of withdrawal
      for those patients who taper and/or discontinue study drug, and pregnancy tests for females
      of childbearing potential. Seizure counts will be obtained at every visit. The Quality of
      Life in Epilepsy-31 Patient Inventory questionnaire will be administered once during the
      study. A Medical Resource utilization questionnaire will be used to obtain cost-effectiveness
      information on carisbamate and will be administered twice during the study. There is no
      statistical testing hypothesis for this study. Carisbamate tablets taken twice daily in 2
      equally divided doses, with or without food, and taken with noncarbonated water. During the
      first week on study, patients will take blinded transition study medication and thereafter
      will take a target dosage of 800 mg/day of unblinded, open-label study medication. The dosage
      of study medication will range from 400 to 1,200 mg/day. Patients will receive treatment for
      1 year with the potential to receive treatment longer.
    
  