
    
      Exercise intolerance is a cardinal problem existing in patients with Chronic Obstructive
      Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Moreover, skeletal muscle dysfunction is a common extra-pulmonary
      manifestation, leading to fatigue, decrease in activity of daily living (ADL) performance and
      quality of life and increase of risk of falls, mainly in older patients. In the context of
      pulmonary rehabilitation, recent guidelines and metanalysis describe that Resistance Training
      (RT) can be successfully performed alone or in conjunction with Endurance Training (ET)
      without evidence of adverse events.

      As concern the RT programs, metanalysis in COPD describe that training have been mainly
      performed with the lower limbs and the training intensities are heterogeneous, generally
      ranging from 40% to 70% of 1-Repetition Maximum (1-RM).

      Maximal Strength Training (MST) is a RT typically performed at ~85-90% of 1RM with maximal
      velocity to be developed in the concentric phase. Recent literature indicates a significant
      amelioration on the Rate of Force Development (RFD) after MST in healthy subjects,
      post-menopausal woman and older populations.

      When comparing to the conventional ET, MST generates a little change in muscle mass (no
      hypertrophy), but a much greater improvement in the RFD. It has been described that neural
      adjustments play a major role in the MST-induced adaptations. MST is also well documented to
      improve aerobic endurance by improving walking work efficiency.

      Although the mechanisms at the base of MST effect on the mechanical efficiency have not been
      completely clarified, there is evidence that changes in the relationships between power and
      speed bring to a longer relaxation phase inside the cycle of job, improving the recovery
      between contractions.

      In this field, only a small cohort study of COPD patients was conducted describing that MST
      can meaningfully improve the strength and the RFD, with an increase of around 32% for
      mechanical efficiency and a decrease of the perceived effort during submaximal job. This
      improvement could determine best performances in daily activities and a best quality of life.
      Nevertheless, this study has been conducted only in a small cohort (twelve patients) of
      patients with COPD and further studies are necessary to define the impact on the different
      components that determine the effort intolerance.

      The main aim of this physiological pilot randomized controlled trail will be to test the
      feasibility and the efficacy of the MST compared to standard ET on strength, effort
      tolerance, fatigue, economy of walking, dyspnea and risk of falls in a populations of COPD
      patients, in a short and middle term (6 months).
    
  