
    
      In this pilot study, we will use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to determine
      the effects of high calorie visual food cues [i.e. images of foods that are high in both
      sugar and fat (HS/HF), such as ice cream] on activation of taste, appetite, and reward
      pathways in the brain following the separate ingestion of (1) an artificial sweetened
      solution (2) a sucrose solution and (3) a tasteless solution in obese individuals. Obesity
      rates are high among US adults with 33.8% of adults having a BMI of 30 or greater (1). The
      prevailing belief is that homeostatic systems are in place to monitor energy homeostasis.
      Sugar sweetened beverages appear to alter the homeostatic systems so that (1) metabolic
      feedback signals do not function correctly or as intended (2), as little or no dietary
      compensation is seen with energy from beverages (3), or (2) sweet and savory foods (sugar
      sweetened beverages) override the system (i.e. hedonics) (2). Epidemiological data suggest
      Americans are consuming 20-25% of their energy in beverage form which equates to ~430-535
      kcal/day (3, 4). In most studies, sugar sweetened beverage intake has been shown to increase
      weight (5, 6). While limited data are available, a meta-analysis in humans demonstrates that
      the inclusion of aspartame compared to sugar reduces energy intake (7). A prospective study
      found that weight loss maintainers utilize artificial sweeteners more than normal weight
      individuals (8). This suggests artificial sweeteners may be a method to promote weight loss
      in obese individuals. Public policy on sugar sweetened beverages is starting to be
      reexamined, however, it is currently unknown what effect sugar sweetened beverage intake and
      artificial sweetened solutions have on (1) taste, appetite, and reward regions of the brain
      and (2) food cravings and related brain activation, among obese vs. normal weight
      individuals. The aim of this study is to provide important data on why obese individuals
      continue to consume sugar-sweetened beverages despite the associated negative health
      outcomes. We hypothesize that this consumption is due to sugar sweetened beverages, but not
      artificial sweeteners, activating reward pathways of the brain (hedonics).

      Sucrose and artificial sweetners Previously it has been found that there is an altered
      hypothalamic response to glucose ingestion in obese humans (9). In obese humans, brain
      activation seems impaired; i.e., it was lower and delayed compared to lean subjects. This
      study lacked a functional contrast and had higher noise and less accuracy than current fMRI
      blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) technology and only the hypothalamus was analyzed (9).
      The current study and future studies from this pilot and feasibility work will further
      determine if dietary sugar responses are differentially regulated in obese individuals
      possibility contributing to the over consumption of sugar sweetened beverages in obese
      adults.

      Frank et al. concluded that taste pathways are activated with sucralose and sucrose taste in
      younger normal weight women (10). Only sucrose recruited reward pathways but appetite
      pathways were not documented due to either lack of significance or examination (10). This
      study will confirm beverage ingestion opposed to tasting evokes a similar reward response and
      also examines appetite and reward pathways in obese individuals.

      The effects of caloric vs. non caloric sweetener on taste activation were previously examined
      in normal weight men (11). During the non-caloric solution tasting, 2 caloric tastants were
      also consumed. These caloric tastants could invoke differential cephalic phase responses
      altering the results (12). Consumption of the artificial sweetener or the caloric solution
      increased activation of the insula, middle OFC, lateral OFC and amygdala. With the artificial
      sweetener, there was greater activation of the OFC (11). Next, the effects of sweet taste
      (2.4 mL) in younger male and female diet soda drinkers was examined (13). Water was utilized
      as the rinse and baseline for the comparison between diet and regular soda. In these persons,
      higher right orbitalfrontal cortex brain activation response in non-caloric compared to
      caloric solution was observed (13). These previous studies utilized only normal weight
      participants and taste to examine for the effects of artificial sweeteners on brain response.
      The current study examines obese individuals and solution ingestion to observe differences in
      brain activation. Overall there are differential brain responses to caloric vs. non-caloric
      sweetener in normal weight individuals thus previously authors suggested that more research
      needs to be performed as to the effectiveness of artificial sweeteners at decreasing energy
      intake.

      Obesity Women were shown food picture cues of high energy foods. The high energy foods
      produced significantly greater activation in the brain reward regions in obese compared to
      normal weight control women (14). Differences between groups included ACC, VTA, nucleus
      accumbens (NAc), amygdala, ventral pallidum (Vent Pall), Caudate, and Putamen (14). Postmeal,
      obese individuals, but not normal weight individuals, increase activation of the putamen
      (part of striatum) and amygdala suggesting these regions may play a role in overeating (15)
      which is why these regions are incorporated into the current study hypothesis. These
      cross-sectional studies are important as previously Murdaugh et. al (16) found that obese
      individuals that were not successful at short term weight loss or longer term weight loss
      maintenance had greater activation of reward pathway brain regions. While speculative,
      artificial sweeteners may reduce cravings by not activating reward pathways especially in
      obese persons. This grant will help provide pilot data to further elucidate this important
      question.
    
  