
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) remains as the most important cause of severe visual
      impairment of elderly people in developed countries. It is one of the best-characterized
      complex trait diseases. Multiple genetic and environmental factors play a role in the
      pathogenesis. A number of different biological pathways and related gene polymorphisms are
      strongly implicated in its etiology. A lot of chromosomal locations have been studied to
      figure out genetic risk factors responsible from the development of AMD. Most genetic
      variants that have been found to be related to AMD at least in one study have not been
      verified in subsequent studies. However in recent years, single-nucleotide polymorphisms
      related to the complement system and also chromosome 10q26 have strongly been elicited to
      predispose individuals to the susceptibility to AMD. These polymorphisms have been verified
      in subsequent studies. However, results from different geographic regions of the world can
      represent discrepancies according to ethnic populations. Aforementioned genetic tests have
      been commercially introduced to give the patients the risk of progression to advanced stage
      of AMD, and rate of the risk can be given by the genetic results together with environmental
      factors in USA.

      Age related macular degeneration is consisted of dry and wet forms. Although wet form is
      responsible from severe vision loss due to AMD, dry form can progress to wet form by passage
      of time. The risk of AMD increases when age get older and it causes very severe central
      vision loss; consequently reduces considerably the quality of life in senile population.
      Available treatment of AMD is expensive and has economical burden. Early diagnosis of the
      disease has favourable impact on post-treatment prognosis. Although the basis of treatment is
      primarily based on the preservation of current visual acuity, it is possible to obtain
      improvement in visual acuity with the agents inhibiting angiogenesis in recent years.
      However, complete response to the treatment is not obtained approximately in one fifth of the
      patients. Different responses to the treatment are obtained in the remaining group. The
      reason for the differences at the treatment may be due to different morphological subgroups
      and/or diversity of genetic variants in wet AMD. . We do not at the moment know whether gen
      polymorphisms related to AMD established in some western population are also related to AMD
      in our population or whether this relationship has similar risk or protective effect for AMD.
      The gen variants mostly studied in relation to AMD are CFH (rs1061170 and rs1410996),
      LOC387715/ARMS-2 (A69S /rs10490924), HTRA-1 (rs11200638), C3 (R102G/ rs2230199), C2 E318D
      (rs9332739), and CFB R32Q (rs641153). A preliminary study which was published recently,
      carried out by our team in a single center and in a small number of patients showed that CFH
      and LOC387715 gen polymorphisms entertain a risk for late AMD and suggested a necessity to
      perform a forward study with larger population to learn definite information about our
      population. On the other hand, the entire eight genetic locus related to AMD will be studied
      first time in our population. In the introduced projects study, the relationship of eight
      different gen polymorphisms (CFH rs1061170 and rs1410996, LOC387715 / ARMS2 gene rs10490924,
      C2 gene rs9332739, CFB gene rs641153, CFI rs10033900 , HTRA-1 gene rs11200638, C3 rs2230199)
      will be studied in 2800 patients with high risk intermediate and late stage AMD and 2200
      age-matched control subjects. Blood samples from brachial veins of the study subjects will be
      collected in the 5 health centers composed of Bursa Retina Eye Center and Hospitals of Afyon
      Kocatepe University, Dokuz Eylul University, Konya University and Uludag University within
      the period of 32 months. After the collection of venous samples, polymorphisms will be
      genotyped by "real-time PCR'' and ''pyrosequencing" genotyping systems in the genetic
      laboratory of Afyon Kocatepe University Medical School. Within the last 3 months of the
      project duration, having completed genotyping of all samples, evaluation of the study data by
      clinically and statistically will be made, and preparation of final report will be realized.
      . As a primary outcome, protective effects or the risk rate of developing the late AMD for
      each genetic polymorphism will be calculated by statistical analysis following the
      genotyping. Sub-analyses will be done to investigate any relationship between genetic
      polymorphism and response to the treatment. Sub-analyses will be done to determine possible
      differences in genetic variants between the late dry and wet AMD and also among the
      morphological subtypes of the wet AMD. Main study and secondary sub-studies derived from
      sub-analyses by further methodology will be submitted as different studies for publication.
      The anticipated results of the study may have impact on the management and follow-up of the
      patients with AMD. Because AMD is etiologically multi-factorial disease and has environmental
      controllable risk factor outside the genotypic features, it may be possible to early
      diagnosis and frequent follow-up in addition to recommending to avoid from modifiable risk
      factors in patients with early AMD who are genetically under the high risk of the development
      of late AMD according to findings obtained from our study results. It will also be possible
      to establish the patients with wet AMD who are resistant or sensitive to the treatment
      according to genotyping. Whether performing genetic tests in patients who are candidate to
      the late AMD in the near future is significant and meaningful for our population will be
      established. Our results evaluated together with the literature will make substantial
      contribution to better understanding of pathogenesis of AMD as well as early diagnosis and
      better classification or treatment choices.
    
  