
    
      In response to PAR-12-279 "Pilot Intervention and Services Research Grants (R34)," this
      application proposes to develop and to test the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
      efficacy of a nurse-delivered intervention addressing patient-level barriers (Information,
      Motivation, and Behavioral Skills) to hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment uptake and adherence
      in HIV-co-infected patients. End-stage liver disease is a leading cause of mortality in
      HIV-infected persons as a result of high rates of untreated chronic HCV-co-infection. HCV
      infection can be cured and the effectiveness of HCV treatment has dramatically increased with
      the FDA approval of two HCV protease inhibitors in May 2011. The uptake of HCV treatment in
      HIV/HCV-co-infected patients remains, however, unacceptably low (estimated at 10%) despite
      the fact that testing has been standard of care for all HIV-infected persons for over 10
      years. Progress in developing effective behavioral interventions to successfully engage and
      retain HIV-co-infected patients who are already engaged in HIV care in HCV care has not kept
      pace with the significant pharmacologic advances in HCV treatment.

      There are multiple barriers to HCV treatment initiation at patient, provider, and structural
      levels. As HCV treatment becomes more effective and more clinics overcome the structural and
      provider barriers, there will be an increasing need for a structured means to assess
      patient-level barriers and provide effective interventions in order to increase HCV treatment
      initiation, adherence, and cure rates in HIV/HCV-co-infected patients.

      Based on formative prior NIH research (K23MH71177), the investigators have developed the
      "Psychosocial Readiness Evaluation and Preparation for hepatitis C treatment (PREP-C)".
      PREP-C is a web-based structured clinical interview that healthcare providers of diverse
      disciplines can be trained to administer. It provides an assessment of a client's
      psychosocial readiness to begin HCV treatment and identifies domains of functioning which
      require tailored intervention to improve treatment readiness. PREP-C has to date been
      administered by the PI (Weiss) to 97 patients and a telemedicine resource for health care
      providers was launched in July 2012 (PrepC.org).

      Specific aims:

        1. To formally adapt existing behavioral medicine interventions based on PREP-C assessment
           to target individual barriers (Information, Motivation, and Behavior Skills) to HCV
           treatment initiation in HIV/HCV-co-infected patients who are medically eligible for HCV
           treatment, pilot test and refine the tailored intervention in 15 HIV/HCV-co-infected
           patients, and finalize the intervention manual.

        2. To conduct a pilot randomized clinical trial with 60 HIV/HCV-co-infected patients who
           are medically eligible for HCV treatment, comparing the nurse-delivered PREP-C
           intervention (n=30) with attention control (n=30) in order to evaluate patient
           acceptance, patient satisfaction, enrollment and retention, as well as preliminary
           efficacy (initiation of HCV treatment within 6 months of randomization and persistence
           and adherence to the first 12 weeks of treatment in those who do initiate treatment).

      Hypothesis: The PREP-C intervention will increase Motivation, Information, and Self-Efficacy
      leading to higher rates of HCV treatment initiation, persistence and adherence in the PREP-C
      intervention arm.

      The intervention to be studied is guided by the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills
      Model of health behavior to adapt Motivational Interviewing and Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy
      techniques (e.g., cognitive restructuring) to the specific needs of this patient population.
      In this study, a nurse will be trained to administer the PREP-C integrated
      assessment-behavioral intervention. This four-session integrated assessment-intervention
      includes administration of already developed PREP-C assessment in session one, and tailored
      interventions targeting Motivation, Information and Behavioral Skills in sessions 2-4 to be
      developed in this study. The research will take place at a major academic medical center in
      which HIV/HCV-co-infected patients are actively being treated for HCV infection.

      Findings from this vanguard study will inform the design parameters of a larger, more
      rigorous evaluation in an R01 application, if results are promising. The PREP-C web-based
      assessment and intervention package is designed to be scalable and can be disseminated
      through the live PrepC.org web site. The proposed study is innovative in that it seeks to
      develop the first web-based intervention for health care providers to use to increase HCV
      treatment initiation in HIV/HCV-co-infected persons. The study can have a major public health
      impact by providing needed structured resources for health care providers to increase rates
      of HCV treatment initiation in HIV/HCV-co-infected persons, thereby reducing mortality due to
      end-stage liver disease.
    
  