
    
      Nasal septum perforation (NSP) is a medical condition characterized by loss of cartilage
      and/or bony structures of the nasal septum together with their mucoperichondrium and
      mucoperiosteum. There are many causes for NSP like history of nasal surgery (iatrogenic),
      trauma, self-inflicted injuries, drugs, chemical irritants, neoplastic causes, inflammatory
      causes (vasculitides, Wegener's granulomatosis) or infections (syphilis, tuberculosis). The
      perforation in the nasal septum creates pathological turbulences in the nasal airflow, which
      result in a decrease of the normal humidification process. Depending on size and location of
      the defect, this can lead to serious discomfort for patients and reduction of their quality
      of life.

      Since the current treatment methods (use of synthetic material, PDS, or of native cartilage)
      have disadvantages, the investigators want to show in a phase I study that the use of tissue
      engineered autologous nasal cartilage to repair perforations (holes) in the area of the nasal
      septum is suitable and safe. The engineered autologous nasal cartilage graft is used as a
      replacement for PDS or native cartilage in an interposition graft in the reconstruction of
      nasal septal perforations.

      Before the operation, the subjective symptoms of the patients are recorded using two
      questionnaires: Nasal Obstruction Symptom Evaluation (NOSE) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and
      objective examinations are carried out with functional tests (rhinomanometry, acoustic
      rhinometry) and imaging (endoscopy, CT scans). A small biopsy taken from the nasal septum is
      processed in the laboratory, chondrocytes are isolated, expanded and cultured onto a collagen
      matrix to generate a tissue engineered cartilage graft. Subsequently, the engineered
      cartilage is implanted into the defect of the nasal septum. In the postoperative follow up at
      6 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months, the investigators examine whether the nasal septum is closed,
      the subjective symptoms of the patients are recorded and the objective measurements are
      carried out in order to compare them with the findings before the operation. The aim of the
      study is to show safety and feasibility and to gain initial data on effectiveness of this
      treatment (improvement of symptoms).
    
  