
    
      This is an open-label randomised controlled study in which patients will be randomised
      according to a 1:1 ratio to receive conventional immunosuppressive treatment or induction
      treatment plus reduced tacrolimus dosage. All transplanted patients enrolled in the study
      will be followed during 12 months and evaluated according to an intention-to-treat approach.

        -  Specific Aim 1: To determine the proportion of liver recipients in whom tacrolimus usage
           can be significantly reduced 1 year after transplantation. Patients will be considered
           as successfully receiving a reduced tacrolimus regimen if this drug is given as a single
           dose every other day, or at the most administered as a single dose daily with trough
           levels < 5ng/mL.

        -  Specific Aim 2: To determine the effect of induction treatment plus minimized
           immunosuppression on graft and patient survival.

        -  Specific Aim 3: To determine the impact of induction treatment plus minimized
           immunosuppression on the development of: acute and chronic allograft rejection,
           hepatitis C virus graft recurrence, opportunistic infections, bone fractures, kidney
           failure, tacrolimus-related neurotoxicity, dyslipidemia and arterial hypertension.

        -  Specific Aim 4: To establish whether the use of ATG induction followed by reduced doses
           of tacrolimus differentially affects anti-donor immune responses and/or promotes the
           development of T cell dependent immunoregulatory networks.

        -  Conventional immunosuppressive protocol:

             1. Methylprednisolone iv 500 mg before laparotomy, and 500 mg at the time of
                reperfusion.

             2. Methylprednisolone iv according to the following schedule: postoperative day 1 200
                mg, day 2 160mg, day 3 120 mg, day 4 80 mg, day 5 40 mg, and thereafter 20 mg oral
                prednisone.

             3. Oral tacrolimus q12h starting on postoperative day 1 in order to reach trough drug
                levels between 10 and 15 ng/mL. These levels will be maintained in this range
                during the first month after transplantation. Subsequently, tacrolimus levels will
                be gradually reduced as follows: : month 1-3: 8-15 ng/ml; month 4-12: 7-12 ng/ml;
                afterwards: 5-10 ng/ml.

             4. Progressive prednisone withdrawal between month 6 and 9 after transplantation.

             5. Treatment of acute rejection episodes: according to our conventional clinical
                protocol. All efforts must be done in order to histologically document the
                rejection episode. Hence, empirical treatment should be avoided if possible.

        -  Induction protocol:

             1. ATG-Fresenius 9mg/kg pre-transplantation, preceded by administration of 500 mg iv
                methylprednisolone. Infusion of ATG-F will be started whenever the surgeon confirms
                the suitability of the graft, and will take place during 6 hours.

             2. Oral tacrolimus q12h, starting on postoperative day 1 at the required dosages in
                order to reach through drug levels between 5 and 12 ng/mL

             3. Reduction of tacrolimus dosages starting 3 months after transplantation in stable
                patients with no evidences of graft rejection in the previous 60 days, and
                according to the following protocol:

                  -  posttransplant month 3: 1 dose per day

                  -  posttransplant month 6: 1 dose every 48 hours

                  -  posttransplant month 9: ½ dose every 48 hours

                  -  posttransplant month 12: evaluate the possibility of complete drug withdrawal
                     or alternatively establish the optimal maintenance dose.

             4. Treatment of acute rejection episodes: mild to moderate acute rejection episodes:
                re-start 1-2 daily doses of tacrolimus. Severe acute rejection episodes or those
                mild to moderate episodes that do not improve after 10 days of treatment: 1-2 daily
                doses of tacrolimus plus methylprednisolone 0.5-1 g for 3 days. Resolution of the
                rejection episode will be followed by resumption of the above mentioned protocol.
                If a new rejection episode takes place, after treatment of the acute episode no
                further attempts to reduce tacrolimus dosages will be attempted. In all cases
                rejection will be confirmed by liver biopsy.

             5. Patients suffering from hepatitis C virus infection will be treated as above,
                unless alpha-interferon treatment is considered. In this case, daily tacrolimus
                will be administered.

             6. All patients will receive CMV prophylaxis with iv ganciclovir for 14 days and oral
                valganciclovir to complete 3 months after transplantation.

        -  Sample collection during the study period

      In addition to routine diagnostic tests, all enrolled patients will undergo the following
      procedures:

        -  Cryopreservation of donor spleen cells to measure anti-donor immune responses.

        -  HCV viral load quantification pre-transplantation and at post-transplant months 1, 6 and
           12.

        -  All patients will undergo liver biopsy 1 year after transplantation and yearly
           thereafter. In addition, HCV positive patients will be undergo liver biopsy 3 months
           after transplantation. A portion of all liver biopsies will be cryopreserved for gene
           expression studies.

        -  Anti-donor and anti-HCV T cell immune responses will be quantified before
           transplantation, and 6 and 12 months after transplantation by gamma-interferon ELISpot
           assay.

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be harvested and cryopreserved before
           transplantation, 6 months and 12 months after transplantation to perform gene expression
           and flow cytometry studies.

        -  A sample of recipient DNA will be cryopreserved to perform DNA polymorphism studies.
    
  