
    
      In 2011 and 2012, Beijing Municipal Health Bureau launched the free influenza vaccination
      campaign among children aged 6-18 years old and the elderly aged 60 years old and above.
      Inactivated split-virion vaccines from Beijing Tiantan Biological Products Company were used
      for the elderly in the campaign.

      All vaccine recipients provided written informed consent, containing information about the
      vaccine, possible adverse effects, and medical care.

      Adverse events were collected through the National Immunization Information System's National
      Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) Surveillance System, which was established in
      2005 on the basis of World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. According to the Guideline
      for the Identification of Adverse Reaction after Immunization issued by the Chinese Ministry
      of Health in 2008, Beijing CDC and local prefectural CDC must organize an expert panel to
      investigate adverse events and assess causality, using criteria based on Chinese Standard
      Procedures for Vaccination. The panels consist of physicians, epidemiologists, pharmacists,
      and other relevant experts. In general, expert panels investigate deaths, life-threatening
      illnesses, and permanent disabilities, and immunization-program managers or vaccination
      providers investigate common, minor adverse events. Adverse events are classified into one of
      five categories: vaccine reactions (common and minor to rare and more serious), program
      errors, coincidental illnesses, psychogenic reactions, and unclassifiable events.

      At the time of vaccination, vaccinees were instructed to report any adverse event to
      physicians or vaccination providers. Adverse events that were fatal or that resulted in
      disability and clusters of events (i.e., notably high numbers of similar adverse events
      related to a certain vaccine) were required to be reported within 2 hours after their
      occurrence. The following adverse events were required to be reported within 2 days after
      their occurrence: anaphylaxis or other allergic reactions occurring within 24 hours after
      vaccination; fever (axillary temperature, >37.5°C), angioedema, or a local injection-site
      reaction (diameter, >2.5 cm) occurring within 5 days after vaccination; purpura, an Arthus
      reaction, febrile convulsion, seizure, or polyneuritis occurring within 15 days after
      vaccination; and the Guillain-Barré syndrome occurring within 3 months after vaccination.
      Other reactions that were common and minor (e.g., mild pain and fatigue) were not required to
      be reported.
    
  