
    
      Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) accounts for 2 million strokes worldwide per year
      and is the deadliest subtype of stroke with a 1-year mortality rate up to 50%. Given the high
      morbidity and mortality of this disease process, surgical options have been repeatedly
      evaluated in large multicenter randomized controlled trials that unfortunately have not
      demonstrated improved outcomes. Time to treatment is a factor that has been shown to carry
      enormous weight in the treatment of ischemic stroke but has not yet been demonstrated to play
      a role in hemorrhagic stroke. On the other hand, Intracerebral hemorrhage growth in
      early-stage is associated with the poor clinical outcome. Thus, investigators assume that
      minimally invasive surgery in early-stage ICH patients with high risk of hemorrhage growth
      may improve the long-term outcomes. In the first part, the investigators will review more
      than 1000 early-stage ICH patients from 33 centers within the last 5 years in China to create
      a predictive model of intracerebral hemorrhage growth based on clinical, blood, genetic,
      imaging, and pharmacological factors. The "early-stage" means 24 hours from symptom onset to
      baseline imaging. The "hemorrhage growth" is defined as an increase in intracerebral
      hemorrhage volume between baseline and repeat imaging of more than 6 mL or more than 33%. The
      second part is to validate the efficacy of the minimally invasive surgery in patients with
      high risk of hemorrhage growth according to the first part results in a prospective
      multicenter cohort study. Endoscopic surgery and stereotactic thrombolysis (150 patients)
      will be compared with conventional treatment (150 patients), including medical treatment and
      conventional craniotomy. Clinical data and laboratory data will be collected by electric case
      report form (CRF) and uploaded online by each neurosurgery center to form the prospective
      clinical database in First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University. This cohort
      follow-up study will be across a 3-year period with a 2 years interval of enrollment and 1
      year follow up for each patient.
    
  