
    
      The investigators will enroll 150 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seronegative contacts
      presenting to sexually transmitted infections (STI) clinics for HIV testing and referrals
      from the Chicago Center for HIV Elimination (CCHE) network-based projects, ages 18 - 35, in
      this study over a period of 18 months referred from University of Chicago clinics and
      outreach space that perform HIV Partner Services as well as Expanded HIV testing and Linkage
      to Care (XTLC) and Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH) partner notification services
      on the South Side of Chicago.

      Eligible participants will undergo consent and complete the baseline assessment within 14
      days of eligibility. Subjects will be taken through the baseline assessment includes survey
      modules described in detail below (demographics, substance use, mental health and stigma). At
      the baseline visit, the investigators will collect data on demographics and sex and
      drug-using risk variables. From the common electronic medical record at both clinics, the
      investigators will collect data on participants' care providers and health care utilization.
      Subjects will be asked to sign a medical release form.

      Whenever possible, the investigators selected measures: (1) previously tested in HIV
      implementation studies, particularly among younger and minority populations and (2) to
      maximize comparability to other studies.

      Randomization Following the baseline assessment, study participants will be randomized into
      one of two groups: the Partner Services Pre-exposure Prophylaxis (PS-PrEP) intervention group
      or the standard of care practice PrEPLine control condition. Study staff will discuss pros
      and cons, ethical basis of assigning participants to different arms of a study, of control
      and intervention with participants (equipoise induction) to balance the desirability of the
      two intervention conditions. Block randomization will be used for allocation to ensure
      balanced representation in the two treatment arms (control and intervention) as recruitment
      progresses. The randomization assignment will be generated using the R program. Once
      randomized, each participant will be given a study identification number and will be
      allocated to their respective study condition to begin the trial. Due to the nature of this
      intervention, complete masking of participants, investigators, and interventionist is not
      possible. The research staff will work directly with the linkage and support group. To help
      mitigate possible bias in interviewing, baseline data collection will occur prior to
      randomization.

      After randomization, those who are in the intervention group will be taken through the
      Session I of the intervention. This may take place on the same day as the consent and
      baseline visit, or it may be scheduled at a different time depending the subject's
      availability.

      2 Week Visit (Intervention Group)

      The two week visit is post baseline survey and enhanced linkage to Pre-exposure Prophylaxis
      (PrEP) care. During the two week visit the interventionist and the participant will engage in
      Session II of the intervention: follow-up sessions to promote PrEP linkage and retention.
      During this session, the interventionist will check-in with participant in-person or
      telephonically. This follow-up visit will be integrated into Components 2 & 3 of the
      intervention, mini-booster sessions and best linkage practices, as described below.

      3 Month Visit

      During the three-month visit the control and the intervention arms will come in to take their
      survey. The survey is composed entirely of survey instruments taken from the baseline survey,
      including those that capture attitudes towards PrEP, HIV, risk behaviors, and self-perception
      of risk. This survey will allow the research staff to track changes over time with
      intermittent assessments.

      6 Month Visit (Intervention Group)

      Participants in the intervention arm will be contacted after six months for a scheduled
      mini-booster session. At that time, those participants who report significant barriers to
      PrEP adherence, or who express a desire to engage (or re-engage) in linkage to PrEP care will
      be scheduled for an additional in-person intervention session. The purpose of this follow-up
      sessions is to assess (and re-assess) the success of the linkage to PrEP care, to address
      barriers to PrEP adherence, and to refine participants' "linkage roadmap" to support future
      PrEP adherence.

      12 Month Visit

      During the twelve month visit the control and the intervention arms will come in to take
      their survey. The survey is composed entirely of survey instruments taken from the baseline
      survey, including those that capture attitudes towards PrEP, HIV, risk behaviors, and
      self-perception of risk. This survey will allow the research staff to track changes over time
      with intermittent assessments.

      Linkage and Support Group

      Component 1 Face to face intervention Session 1

      The first and main component of the PS-PrEP intervention consists of an intervention session
      with the study participant which takes approximately 65 minutes. The structure and content of
      the face to face session is theoretically and empirically grounded, and review four primary
      content areas: (1) to provide information on PrEP and an overview of the linkage to care
      process; (2) to introduce participants to the cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) framework;
      (3) to use Motivational Interviewing techniques to build upon participants' motivation to
      reduce their HIV risk; and (4) to develop a plan to address barriers to PrEP linkage through
      the development of a Linkage Roadmap.

      The conceptual framework guiding this session is the Information Motivation Behavior (IMB)
      model, designed to target the client's knowledge, personal and social motivation to engage in
      linkage, and their self-efficacy and objective ability (i.e., behavioral skills) to follow
      through with linkage to PrEP care. In addition, the session also provides clients with the
      knowledge and skills necessary to target their motivational readiness (i.e., their stage of
      change), expectancies and self-efficacy to get linked to care, thus, targeting determinants
      of linkage to care.

      The first area is informational and reviews PrEP in general and linkage to PrEP care. PrEP
      knowledge is adapted from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) training modules that are part
      of the Sustainable Health Center Implementation PrEP Pilot (SHIPP) project. Linkage best
      practices are based upon linkage to HIV care and our current practices within the University
      of Chicago, XTLC and the CDPH linkage to care working group.

      The second area is based on the CBT framework that focuses on examining one's relationship
      between thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. CBT has been shown to be an effective intervention
      technique to improve both psychosocial outcomes as well as medical adherence in a variety of
      settings.

      The third area of Motivational Interviewing focuses on motivational processes that facilitate
      change within an individual Motivational Interviewing is a fundamentally client-centered and
      collaborative clinical approach, which honors patients' autonomy and is guided by patients'
      own intrinsic motivation for change.

      Finally, the fourth component of this session, the Linkage Roadmap, is adapted from the
      intervention research of Safren et al. and utilizes CBT techniques to promote health and
      medication adherence among people living with HIV/AIDS. Through the vehicle of the Linkage
      Roadmap, the client and interventionist will collaboratively develop an individualized PrEP
      linkage, adherence, and retention plan. In the process, the interventionist will lead the
      client through a problem-solving activity to identify and address anticipated barriers to
      PrEP linkage. This interactive activity targets the behavioral skills component of IMB and
      the expectancies and self-efficacy, and has been utilized in a wide range of HIV/AIDS-related
      interventions.

      Component 2 (Weeks 1-12) Mini-Booster Sessions

      The booster sessions, as outlined in the final section of the Intervention Manual, will be
      conducted by the using a method selected by the subject which can include a by phone call,
      text messaging, or private message through social networking such as Facebook and will be
      relatively short in duration (5-6 minutes). This second component will be completed in tandem
      with component 3 below. The primary purposes of the boosters are to "check-in" with the
      client about their experience getting linked to care, to answer any questions they may have
      with respect to the, to review the Linkage Roadmap, and to problem solve with them if they
      have been experiencing any difficulties enacting the Linkage Roadmap. The structured content
      of each booster session will map directly onto a component of the face to face intervention
      session that lasted for 25 minutes (therefore four 5-6 minute structural content components).
      In our experience, a combination of synchronous and asynchronous communication has been
      effective in piloting the mini-boosters. A large body of research indicates that brief
      telephonic booster sessions (synchronous communication) offered as supplemental support to
      multi-component interventions similar to the proposed PS-PrEP protocol are associated with
      increased and sustained behavior change. The idea is to keep intervention content and form
      salient and to provide the participant with individualized support to utilize the skills and
      information imparted during the face-to-face intervention. In total, the investigators will
      deliver 4 booster sessions. The first two booster sessions will occur once every week for the
      first two weeks and the second two boosters monthly thereafter. Booster sessions will
      continue until the client has either been linked to care (completed 2 clinic visits) or the
      three month linkage to care window has closed. The flexibility of the booster sessions are
      designed to tailor the intervention to participants who may need a higher level of support to
      adhere to the Linkage Roadmap. All booster sessions will begin according to procedures to
      maintain confidentiality reviewed by the interventionist at baseline.

      Component 3 (Weeks 1-12) Best linkage practices

      Throughout the entire intervention period, research staff will engage the participant in best
      linkage practices, as introduced in Module C of Session I of the intervention, the "Linkage
      Roadmap," and incorporated into subsequent follow-up and booster sessions. This component
      will be conducted in tandem with component 2 above. Best linkage practices have been
      developed by the CDPH linkage working group have been adopted by HIV Focus. The linkage
      includes accompanying participants to the first and second PrEP clinical appointment. The
      research staff is not permitted to transport participants in their personal vehicle, however,
      will provide transportation vouchers as needed. The research staff will accompany
      participants to their first two medical appointments, unless participants state that they do
      not want to be accompanied. When at the clinic, the research staff will ask the participant
      if they would like to be accompanied when in the exam room. While waiting for the first
      appointment, the research staff will clearly explain the role of the clinic staff and the
      purpose of the additional clinic testing. The participants will be introduced to new faces
      and information during the first appointment. The research staff will continually clarify
      their role (ie. that they will not serve as participant's health care provider or case
      manager) and that any questions or concerns should be directed to the health care provider.
      During the second appointment, the research staff will help facilitate provider efforts to
      engage the participant, clarifying and addressing patient and provider concerns. The
      participant will be gently reminded during this second appointment that it will be the last
      appointment that the research staff will attend.

      CONTROL CONDITION (Low Threshold Prevention Group)

      Control condition for clients testing HIV negative through clinic-based recruitment and
      internal referrals includes a brief risk assessment, (which will occur prior to consenting of
      a subject on the study) conducted by the University of Chicago, CDPH clinic staff, and
      referral for additional STI testing and provision of information regarding other HIV
      prevention programming (including PrEP). Clients will receive low threshold intervention
      through the PrEP Line, a phone-based PrEP linkage intervention. The PrEPLine Linkage to Care
      Specialist (LTC) will establish contact with client, facilitate an initial interview to
      provide PrEP education, collect necessary patient information and build rapport. Once
      relevant information is collect, if the participant is interested and eligible for PrEP, LTC
      specialist will collaboratively determine most appropriate PrEP provider (based on location,
      insurance, and patient preference) and will offer to schedule initial PrEP appointment.

      Once clients engage in PrEP care, routine care is comprehensive and is adapted from the CDC's
      and Fenway Institute's interim guidance for clinicians considering the use of PrEP (with an
      update for injecting drug users).

      The University of Chicago faculty clinicians at both clinical PrEP sites, University of
      Chicago and Access Grand Boulevard, also provide HIV primary care services and include mental
      health services and psychosocial support services. The initial visit of an eligible PrEP
      client is primarily to receive information on PrEP and undergo an initial medical assessment,
      usually with follow-up 2 weeks later. In contrast to Ryan White HIV/AIDS Programming for HIV
      infected clients, there is no formal intake visit with case management follow-up which
      affords a much more streamlined process for care provision.

      The referral to STI testing and HIV prevention programming (including PrEP) by disease
      intervention specialist staff, potential visits with PrEP care providers including any
      required mental health services that occur during the first 2 weeks and then at 3 month
      intervals thereafter constitute treatment as usual.
    
  