
    
      We prospectively treated 73 patients with 5th metatarsal base fractures (Zone 1) who came to
      the emergency department. Patients were allocated to a treatment group using an electronic
      random number generator. The generation of an even number randomized the participant to a
      below-knee cast, and an odd number to a double-layered elasticated bandage. In all, patients
      were allocated to wear a double layered elasticated bandage (group 1) applied by S.B and
      patients were given a below-knee cast (group 2) applied by D.K. Duration of both treatments
      were for four weeks and the cast removed in that time in our clinic. This reference form of
      treatment was the same as in previous reports.

      The non-injured extremity was measured with isokinetic test at initial injury time for
      evaluation of side effect of immobilization after treatment. At that time, patients were
      asked for height, weight and pain scores. Body muscle index was calculated for all patients.
      Tobacco using was also asked.To measure clinical outcomes, using the validated Visual
      Analogue Scale Foot and Ankle (VAS-FA) score [7] and The EuroQol-5D visual analogue scale
      (EQ-5D VAS) score were used [8]. The VAS-FA score ranges from 0 to 100 points: higher scores
      indicate a better functional outcome. EQ-5D VAS score was used as a secondary outcome
      measure: this ranges from 0 to 100. Baseline functional scores were collected at the time of
      consult in the clinic.

      Both ankle plantar-dorsiflexors and inversion-eversion'strength (peak torque %BW (Body
      Weight)) were measured with an isokinetic dynamometer (Cybex Humac Norm, CA, USA) at
      Isokinetic Test Laboratory of Sports Medicine in the Istanbul Medical Faculty. Test procedure
      was performed by the same investigator (T.Ş) in all cases for ensuring standardization. The
      muscle strength can be defined as the capacity of a muscle to withstand great force.

      Injured extremity values were compared with non-injured extremity. The non-injured extremity
      was measured at initial injury time for evaluation of side effect of both treatment methods.
      The tests were started with non-injured sides of the patients and measurements at low angular
      velocity. The dynamometer was calibrated at the beginning of each testing session. Subjects
      were tested in prone position and stabilized in the exercise chair as per the manufacturer's
      recommendation. The anatomical axis of the ankle was aligned with the axis of the dynamometer
      while the foot was secured to the foot plate with velcros. Proximal stabilization was
      achieved with the straps at the thigh and calf. In the test, dorsiflexion-plantarflexion and
      inversion-eversion peak torque force (strength) measurements were performed in 3 trials and 3
      tests repetitions at 30 degrees/sec angular speed for both side of the patient.

      All of the patients were given follow-up appointments at 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 week interval at
      our clinic. Radiographs were similarly scheduled for 4, 8, and 12 week intervals to assess
      bony healing. However, functional outcomes and isokinetic test was applied also at 24 week
      control. At second visit, isokinetic test was not applied. These studies were started on
      fixed ground and then continued on moving boards. Standard rehabilitation program was given
      for all patients each group included joint mobilizations, passive stretching,
      electrotherapy-ice compression for pain relieving and ankle proprioceptive exercises, as
      considered necessary by same author (T.Ş).
    
  