
    
      Pain from burns is a severe form of acute pain that requires aggressive use of opioids. Even
      with the implementation of multiple modalities for analgesia, pain from skin debridements and
      grafting procedures remains a challenge to control. Local anesthetics have been used for pain
      relief in burn patients previously as a topical gel or IV infusion and have been found to
      significantly reduce medication consumption, without apparent adverse effects on wound
      healing. Lidocaine actually has potent anti-inflammatory effects which could be advantageous
      on wounds. In addition, topical application of lidocaine to wounds result in different
      degrees of systemic absorption. High concentrations of lidocaine have potential for central
      nervous system (seizures (>5mg/L)) and cardiovascular toxicity (arrhythmias (>9mg/L)). Plasma
      concentration of lidocaine depend upon drug dose, rate of absorption, patient weight,
      physical status and thickness of skin harvested. A prior study where up to 6.7mg/kg of 2%
      lidocaine with epinephrine was sprayed on donor graft sites found that systemic lidocaine
      levels were far below toxic levels at their peak (average level of 1.4, with maximum level at
      2.2). In this study the levels peaked between 30 and 60 minutes and systemic levels of
      lidocaine were detectable 6 hours following application of the solution. Studies have
      demonstrated the beneficial effects of systemic lidocaine administered via IV infusions in
      reducing perioperative pain scores.Topical lidocaine is effective as a topical anesthetic in
      multiple clinical trials however only two studies to date has shown that topical lidocaine
      applied to skin-harvest sites produces an analgesic effect, reduces narcotic requirements
      while not affecting wound healing or causing toxic blood concentrations. In both these
      studies systemic intravenous lidocaine levels were monitored and were found to be
      significantly below toxic limits. The use of topical lidocaine on donor sites is still not
      widely used, partly for fear the lidocaine will interfere with wound healing and/or dressing
      adherence. No study to date has demonstrated lidocaine solution to be effective on burn sites
      when used in conjunction with TheraBond silver foam dressing. TheraBond is an absorbent,
      atraumatic dressing coated with ionic silver that is routinely used on donor sites at the
      University of Florida. This study will also offer additional supporting evidence that topical
      lidocaine is effective in post operative pain management of donor skin sites and should be
      more widely utilized. In addition, this study will serve as a stepping stone for analyzing
      different local anesthetic solutions in the future and the potential for reapplication to
      surgical sites.

      The purpose of this study is to offer the medical community data on a simple and relatively
      cheap adjuvant that can be utilized to help reduce the amount of post-operative pain and
      narcotic requirement in burn patients requiring skin grafts.
    
  