
    
      Studies C1056 and C1057 followed very similar protocols, were of nearly identical design, had
      common inclusion and exclusion criteria, and were conducted over the same time period.
      Nevertheless, given the heterogeneous presentation of SLE disease and the fact that the Phase
      III program was run globally, variation in the patient population, both within the studies
      (e.g., between different centres) and between the studies (analogous to differences between
      centres within the same study) should be expected.

      Since it has been established that the conduct of the studies was effectively the same, it
      then must be determined whether the relative treatment effect is different in one study
      compared with the other study when evaluating whether two studies are similar enough to pool.
      Each of these Phase III studies achieved statistical significance for belimumab 10 mg/kg on
      the pre-specified primary endpoint of SRI response at Week 52; therefore, these nearly
      identical studies provide independent replication of results. While pooling is not necessary
      to establish the effectiveness of belimumab, it was considered appropriate in order to
      evaluate treatment effects in the high disease activity subgroup of interest, given that the
      individual studies were not designed to provide sufficient power to demonstrate effectiveness
      within subgroups. Thus, statistical evaluation pooling the studies and testing for a
      treatment-by-study interaction was undertaken. A significant treatment-by-study interaction
      would indicate that the relative treatment differences were statistically different in the
      two studies and pooling would not be justified. Conversely, the lack of a treatment-by-study
      interaction would indicate the studies resulted in a similar treatment response and pooling
      would be justified.

      When the two Phase III studies were pooled for the SRI analysis, the treatment-by-study
      interaction was >0.5. Likewise, for the target population of high disease activity, the
      treatment-by-study interaction was >0.7 suggesting that the high disease activity subgroup
      may be more homogenous and therefore have a more similar treatment effect between the studies
      than the population as a whole.

      Given these considerations, it is reasonable and valid to pool the two studies and allows
      better precision for evaluation of subgroups.
    
  