
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) has been reported to occur in up to 20-40% of patients undergoing
      coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Postoperative AF plays a major role in the
      determination of hemodynamic deterioration and can be associated with thromboembolic stroke.
      Aside from the risk factors of age, pain, cardiac dysfunction and hypokalemia, hypoxemia is
      also considered to be the major contributor to AF initiation and persistence. Aiming to the
      common postoperative complications, noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIV) provides
      an available modality to improve the oxygen and even obviate the reintubation.

      However, some patients are contraindications for NIV, with Loss of consciousness, hemodynamic
      instability, and some are intolerance due to dryness, gastric distension, skin breakdown and
      noise, with complaints of insomnia and sleep disturbance. The aforementioned factors largely
      limits its use. Recently, the heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC), free of
      psychic stress and physical discomfort, shows a favorable compliance and tolerance in
      treating the hypoxemic patients. As a result, in this comfortable setting we predict a high
      sleep quality in HFNC oxygen therapy. Evidence has suggested that sleep abnormalities trigger
      the cascaded release of C-reactive protein (CRP). As is well known that CRP is involved in
      atrial structural remodeling and asynchronous conduction, which attribute to the initiation
      and maintenance of AF.

      Therefore, in this present study, the investigators first evaluate the sleep quality
      (architecture and duration) by the polysomnographic (PSG) monitoring after coronary surgery.
      Based on the sleep parameters, the investigators hypothesize that HFNC, along with high
      quality of sleep, in comparison with NIV, could reduce the release of C-reactive protein,
      which as independent predictor of atrial fibrillation (AF), further lower the incidence of
      new-onset AF following CABG.
    
  