
    
      The commercial bacteriophage preparation,PreforPro, is often found as an ingredient in
      commercial probiotcs, so the goal of the current study is to determine if PreforPro
      consumption concurrent with probiotic usage improves probiotic survival and activity. A
      secondary goal of this study is to assess various physiologic parameters to determine whether
      consumption of PreforPro with a probiotic offers any health benefits beyond those of
      consuming a probiotic alone. The investigators will examine whether consumption of the
      PreforPro product increases detectable numbers of co-consumed probiotics and improves
      parameters in clinical outcomes related to glucose and lipid metabolism, cardiovascular
      function, inflammation of the intestines, or physical symptoms of gastrointestinal distress.

      To accomplish these research goals, the investigators will be seeking 200 male and female
      volunteers between 18-65 years old with BMI scores of 22 to 34.9. Recruitment will be by
      referral from local practitioners, email recruitment, and through word-of-mouth. Eligibility
      will be determined at the Colorado State University Food and Nutrition Clinical Research lab
      by a screening questionnaire and interview/assessment by the clinical coordinator. After
      securing consent, eligibility will be confirmed by taking anthropometric measures and
      participants falling within the BMI range will randomly be assigned to 1 of 3 treatment
      groups: (1) PreforPro+Bifidobacterium probiotic, (2) Bifidobacterium probiotic alone, or (3)
      placebo. Participants will consume the provided capsules daily for a period of four (4)
      weeks. Participants will be asked to visit the clinic at Visit 1 (Day 0) to pick up their
      supply of capsules and undergo sample collections (blood and stool) and analysis procedures,
      including weight/height, blood pressure, endothelial function analysis, gastrointestinal
      symptom screening, and blood and stool sample collection. At the end of the 4 week treatment
      period, all analyses will be repeated. This means that participants will undergo screening
      (either in person or by phone) and make a total of two (2) clinic visits during the study
      (baseline, and final visit). Participants will additionally be asked to complete two 24 hour
      dietary recalls prior to each clinic visit and track bowel movements using the Bristol Stool
      Scale throughout the study treatment period. All blood samples will be collected at Colorado
      State University by trained personnel. Fecal sample collection will be performed by the study
      participant with collection materials provided.
    
  