
    
      This prospective, two-armed, parallel group, single-centre Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT)
      will assess the effectiveness of a combined Exercise and ACT programme, in comparison to a
      standalone supervised exercise intervention for chronic pain. One hundred and sixty patients
      aged 18 years and over, who have been diagnosed with a chronic pain condition by a medical
      doctor will be recruited to the trial. Participants will be individually randomised to one of
      two group interventions. The combined group will take part in eight, weekly psychology
      sessions based on the ACT approach, in addition to supervised exercise classes led by a
      physiotherapist. The control group will also attend eight, weekly supervised exercise classes
      but will not take part in ACT programme. All participants will be assessed at baseline,
      immediately post intervention and at twelve-week follow-up. The primary outcome will be pain
      interference at twelve-week follow-up, measured using the Brief Pain Inventory-Interference
      Scale. Secondary outcomes will include self-reported pain severity, pain related
      self-efficacy, quality of life, kinesiophobia, pain catastrophizing, pain acceptance,
      committed action, patient global impression of change, patient satisfaction with treatment,
      depression and anxiety. The number of investigations and pain related visits to healthcare
      professionals in the preceding three months will be recorded at baseline and twelve-week
      follow-up. Physical activity levels (average daily step count, distance travelled and active
      minutes) will be measured for all participants using Fitbit Zip activity trackers for one
      week prior to starting treatment and for the duration of the eight week intervention period.
      Participants will be invited to wear the activity trackers for one further week at the
      twelve-week follow-up time point.

      Estimates of treatment effects at follow up time-points will be based on an
      intention-to-treat framework, implemented using a linear mixed effects model. A purposeful
      sample of participants will be invited to attend individual interviews and focus groups,
      twelve weeks following completion of the interventions. Semi-structured interviews will be
      conducted, with the aim of exploring the views of participants of both interventions in order
      to enhance understanding of how these types of interventions work.
    
  