
    
      The goal of this study is to conduct a proof of concept clinical trial using antidepressant
      therapy to improve cognition. This study will utilize a randomized, double blinded, placebo -
      controlled trial design. The investigators will recruit up to 100 patients. Patients will be
      screened multiple times to determine eligibility. Patients will be randomized into one of two
      study groups (placebo control group and Duloxetine group). Patients in the Duloxetine group
      will receive up to 60 mg of an FDA approved antidepressant, Duloxetine. Patients in the
      control group will receive a placebo that is the exact shape and size of the study drug. The
      patients, primary investigators, and research personnel will be blinded to the study
      condition. The investigators will designate one on-site personnel to serve as data and safety
      monitor. This person will not be blinded and will randomize patients to condition, work with
      the pharmacy, and can un-blind condition if necessary.

      Potential patients will be invited to a screening visit. This visit is designed to ensure
      that the patients meet study criteria and that it is safe for them to participate in the
      study. The screening visit will consist of physical examinations, medical and psychological
      history, cognitive and functional testing, interviews, questionnaires, research/clinical
      venipuncture, and a meeting with the study doctor. If a patient is accepted to the trial,
      he/she will be expected to stay in the study for a minimum of 6 months.

      After the screening visit, the study team will meet to determine if the patient will continue
      to remain in the study. If a patient does remain in the study, he/she will be invited to a
      randomization visit. Patients will be randomized into either the Duloxetine group or the
      placebo control group. The data and safety monitor will use a randomization software. This
      program allows the researcher to enter in the number of subject, and condition, and will
      generate a table of randomly assigned patients to condition. The patients and study personnel
      will be blinded to the condition. The data safety monitor will randomly assign patients to
      condition and work with the pharmacy to properly label the study drugs. Only the data
      monitoring personnel will be un-blinded and will generate the table of random numbers. After
      randomization, patients will undergo vitals, interviews, testing, and the study drug will be
      dispensed to them. First dosage will consist of 30 mg of Duloxetine or placebo, and the
      participant will be asked to take the first dose at this visit.

      Patients will be invited to a 2 week post randomization visit that will consist of a meeting
      with the study doctor to discuss concerns or side effects. Medication dosage will be raised
      to 60 mg of Duloxetine or placebo.

      Patients will be seen monthly for the next three months. During these visits the patients
      will receive their study drugs, have their vital signs measured, and be questioned about
      adverse events or any health changes.

      One month later, patients will have a follow up visit. This visit will consist of follow up
      interview and neuropsychological testing, clinical/research blood draw, and study doctor
      visit. This will be the final data collection study visit. The investigators will reduce the
      dosage of the study drug to 30 mg at this visit. The patients will be instructed that the
      investigators will be weaning off the study drug at this time.

      The last study visit will be 2 weeks after the follow-up visit. This visit will consist of a
      study debriefing with the patient. At this visit the investigators will discontinue the study
      drug. The investigators will also arrange for the data monitoring personnel to un-blind the
      study at this time. No data will be collected at this visit. The participants will be
      informed of whether or not they were on the study drug or placebo. If a patient in the study
      drug group wishes to remain on Duloxetine, the patients will be advised to discuss it with
      their personal healthcare provider.

      Research data will be stored and managed in a secure manner following NIH guidelines and
      according to state and institutional policies. Only authorized key personnel shall have
      access to research related documents. All personnel will be properly trained and supervised
      regarding the management and handling of confidential materials. The Principal Investigator
      assumes full responsibility for such training, supervision, and conduct.

      All data will be stored in locked file cabinets behind locked doors in the PIs research
      laboratory until entered into the research database. Computer-based data entry will not
      require hard copy storage. All data collected via paper-pencil will be double entered into
      the research database by independent research assistants and results checked for quality
      control (QC). Once all hard copies have been entered, they will be scanned into PDF files for
      storage; all hard copies will be shredded. We will maintain the original signed consent forms
      for our records (these documents will not be shredded and will be kept in a locked file
      cabinet). Electronic scanned files will be stored in password protected files for security
      purposes. All discrepancies will be validated by chart review before the data are merged into
      the larger database. The database will contain item-level data to avoid the need for
      subsequent data entry processes as potential data analyses arise. Periodic QC checks will be
      conducted by our IT personnel and provided to the PI. All electronic records will be
      maintained on password protected computers behind locked doors in the PI's office space. All
      files will be backed up weekly on an independent external hard drive, which is also password
      protected.
    
  