
    
      It was an observational, quantitative and prospective study, in a cohort of adolescent girls,
      to assess the prevalence of adolescent dysmenorrhea through an anonymous self-assessment
      questionnaire, which took place in 8 randomised public and private high schools in
      Ille-et-Vilaine, Brittany, France.

      Only adolescents aged between 15 and 19 years old who agreed to participate were included.
      Girls who had experienced primary or secondary amenorrhea for more than 6 months in the past
      year were excluded.

      The target number of participants was 770 adolescents girls aged between 15 and 19 years old.

      The main objective was to determine the prevalence of dysmenorrhea within adolescent girls in
      a sample in France.

      The other objectives were to assess the severity, how girls experienced their menses, the
      consequences on daily living activities or at school, and how they manage their pain.

      The severity of dysmenorrhea were assessed with Andersch and Milsom's scale and Numerical
      Rating Scale (NRS).

      First of all, we obtained the authorization of the Academic Rectorat of Rennes and Diocesan
      Direction of Catholic Teaching respectively for public and private schools. We also obtained
      the authorization of the Committee of Protection of People of Montpellier University
      Hospital.

      After that, we contacted the high school principals of the 8 high schools which were
      randomized, and obtained their authorization to organise this study in their schools.

      We gave an information to the parents and adolescent girls about ten days before the study.
      If a girl or their parents didn't want their daughter to participate, they could inform the
      high school principal or the school nurse. We asked the nurse or the directos of high schools
      to make a randomisation of the girls.

      Then, we gathered them in a classroom, with no boys, to make sure that they felt free and
      confident enough to complete the questionnaire in the most honest way. We gave them the
      questionnaires, and let them complete it, which took about 15-20 minutes.

      The main investigator was present to answer the girls if any questions were not understood.

      After completion, the questionnaires were immediately retrieved by the main investigator.

      Finally, we briefly communicated what menses are and other symptoms, how to relieve the pain,
      with or without medication, and in what case the girls must see a doctor. We gave them an
      advice sheet. The aim was to improve the management of dysmenorrhea and their quality of life
      by informing adolescent girls of the availability of effective therapy and the need to
      consult a doctor in some situations.

      A sample of 960 adolescents completed the questionnaire, and 19 were excluded. The prevalence
      of dysmenorrhea will be calculated. Then, we will analyze the sample.

      These results will provide a better understanding of dysmenorrhea, its recent prevalence, its
      severity, its influencing factors and its consequences on daily activities. This study will
      help us to better know the impact of dysmenorrhea, which is frequently underestimated and
      misunderstood by girls themselves, their parents, their families and their teachers.

      In addition, throughout this study, the reasons why adolescent girls may not want to seek
      medical consultation might be known. We could as general practitionner or gynecologist better
      explain and advise adolescent girls, offer them relief and better conditions of life, while
      staying aware of the possibility of secondary dysmenorrhea.
    
  