
    
      Sarcopenia is a major health issue in postmenopausal women (PMW). The long-term goal is to
      develop a new strategy featuring a dietary supplement for alleviating sarcopenia in
      postmenopausal women. The objective is to test a dietary supplement intervention
      (delta-tocotrienols, TT) for feasibility, and to quantitatively assess its effects on
      postmenopausal women with sarcopenia. Due to the limited budget, the investigators will not
      assess appendicular muscle mass in this pilot study and will focus on muscle strength and
      function. The central hypotheses are that (i) TT supplementation will alleviate
      age-associated skeletal muscular dysfunction of postmenopausal women with low muscle
      strength, and (ii) such changes in skeletal muscle are associated with lowered oxidative
      stress and inflammation wherein the targets are oxylipins (OxL) and endocannabinoids (eCB),
      and possible modification of gut microbiota. This is a randomized double-blinded
      placebo-controlled trial. Fifty-two qualified subjects will be assigned to placebo or TT for
      24 weeks. There are 4 specific aims (SA) in this study. SA 1 is to evaluate the effects of TT
      intervention on endurance, strength, function and size of the lower-extremity musculature in
      PMW with low muscle strength. SA 2 is to measure the effects of TT intervention on oxidative
      stress and inflammatory levels. SA 3 is to measure the effects of TT intervention on
      inflammatory OxL and eCB levels in plasma and muscle tissue. SA 4 is to evaluate the effects
      of TT intervention on abundance and composition of intestinal bacterial in feces. The outcome
      measures of SA 1 will be assessed at the baseline, after 12 and 24 weeks. The outcome
      measures of SA 2, SA 3, and SA 4 will be assessed at the baseline and after 24 weeks. In
      addition, at 0 and 24 weeks, the investigators will monitor (i) compliance by pill count and
      (ii) changes in lifestyle throughout the study via food intake surveys and physical activity
      surveys. Descriptive statistics, bivariate tests, and general/generalized linear mixed
      modeling will be used for the quantitative analysis on the effects of the TT intervention.
    
  