
    
      This study aims to learn more about the subset of children with Eosinophilic Esophagitis
      (EoE) who are on treatment with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). EoE is an increasingly common
      allergic condition of the esophagus for which we have limited treatment options. This study
      will be helpful in evaluating the minimal time frame required for histological improvement
      with the use of high dose PPI. The study will enroll participants who have been diagnosed
      with Eosinophilic Esophagitis (EoE) and are recommended by their physician to begin PPI
      treatment with Omperazole 20 mg twice daily. After taking Omeprazole for four weeks, the
      participant will undergo an unsedated Transnasal Endoscopy (TNE) in the outpatient clinic at
      Children's Hospital Colorado. TNE is a test in which the doctor inserts a skinny bendable
      tube with a camera through the nose to look directly into the esophagus (the tube connecting
      the mouth to the stomach when you swallow) and is an alternative method to assess esophageal
      mucosa without requiring general anesthesia. Biopsies will be collected during the TNE to
      determine if there is histological change. If the biopsies are normal, the participant will
      complete the study. If biopsies are abnormal, and EoE is still active, the participant will
      continue the Omperazole and undergo the standard of care endoscopy at eight weeks. The
      participant will chose the type of endoscopy- unsedated TNE or esophagogastroduodenoscopy
      (EGD) under anesthesia. Participants will also complete surveys during study enrollment about
      medication compliance, Eosinophilic Esophagitis symptoms, anxiety, TNE experience, and
      undergo a physical exam. The investigators hypothesize that following the initiation of PPI
      for treatment of Eosinophilic Esophagitis, biopsies obtained will show decreasing eosinophil
      counts at four weeks, which is sooner than the previously reported eight week period. Results
      from this study will be generalizable to the pediatric EoE population and the knowledge
      gained will provide key preliminary data to support clinical recommendations for pediatric
      EoE patients.
    
  