
    
      To generalize previous results showing that non pharmacological therapy based on musical
      interventions improved emotional state in patients with severe AD to a larger sample of
      patients and to demonstrate the possible effects on caregivers, the investigators carried out
      a randomized controlled study with three parallel arms in institutionalized patients with
      severe AD (study 1) and in patients with mild AD leaving at home (study 2) to compare the
      impact of two interventions, a musical and a non-musical (cooking), to a control group
      (without any intervention). The control activity (cooking) was selected because it shares
      different features with music. Both interventions provide pleasure, are multisensory and may
      trigger old memories. In addition, both activities can be carried out in groups. A protocol
      consisting of various selected tests and questionnaires was used to assess the emotional,
      behavioural and cognitive abilities. Professional and familial caregivers also filled out
      other questionnaires to assess potential indirect benefits from both interventions on
      caregiver burnout and familial caregiver burden. Six assessments were proposed, two before,
      two during and two after interventions (follow-up) to respectively evaluate short and
      longer-term benefits of both interventions whereas test -retest effects will be controlled.
      Psychologists in charge to these assessments will be blind in regard to patients' group
      (musical versus cooking sessions, no intervention). Data were analyzed with methods from
      social psychology to decode non-verbal behaviours (e.g. visual contact) and emotional indexes
      in facial and verbal expressions and with methods from classical neuropsychology and from
      health domain. The collaboration between the two university teams from Lille and the special
      care unit (Pole EHPAD-USLD in Reims Hospital) provided complementary skills to this project
      that ensured its feasibility.
    
  