
    
      Patient aggression and agitation on psychiatric inpatient wards poses a significant problem
      for both staff and patients, and impairs the therapeutic environment of the ward. Relaxation
      massage therapy has previously been shown to reduce the level of arousal, stress, anxiety and
      aggression in adolescents/young adults with various psychiatric disorders including anxiety,
      depression, conduct disorder and bulimia. This project investigates whether relaxation
      massage therapy is an effective intervention treatment for the management of arousal and
      aggression on a young adult inpatient ward.

      Two treatment conditions will be assessed at different times on the ward; a) standard
      (control) treatment as per usual and b) relaxation massage therapy intervention treatment in
      addition to the standard treatment. Each treatment condition will be implemented for a
      six-week period. Depending on admission rate, we estimate there will be approximately 50
      participants in each treatment group. The massage therapy intervention treatment will consist
      of daily 20-minute, fully clothed, seated relaxation massage sessions, offered to all
      consenting patients during their period of hospitalization. We aim to determine whether
      relaxation massage therapy significantly reduces: i) the level of arousal, stress, anxiety,
      hostility and aggression in psychiatric inpatients; ii) the frequency and/or severity of
      aggressive incidents on the ward; iii) the need for sedating medication; iv) the need for
      patient seclusion and/or restraint; v) the mean duration of hospitalization and vi) the
      amount of sick leave taken by staff and the associated costs of running the ward. This will
      be assessed by pre- and post-massage therapy measures of heart rate and salivary cortisol
      levels; and staff and patient ratings of anxiety, hostility and aggression. The nature,
      frequency and severity of aggressive incidents on the ward, as well as the use of coercive
      measures during each treatment condition, will be assessed using the "Staff Observation
      Aggression Scale-Revised" (SOAS-R). Staff and patient perception of the atmosphere of the
      ward during each treatment condition will also be assessed using the "Ward Atmosphere Scale".

      It is hypothesized that relaxation massage therapy will lead to a lower incidence of violence
      and aggression on the ward via a reduction in the level of arousal, stress and/or anxiety
      among inpatients. It is further hypothesized that this will reduce the level of risk for both
      staff and patients and improve the therapeutic atmosphere of the ward. We also hypothesise
      that a reduction in aggressive incidents on the ward will be associated with a shorter mean
      duration of hospitalisation.
    
  