
    
      In Canada, the prevalence and incidence of HIV remain high among men who have sex with men
      (MSM). Moreover, epidemiological data show that a significant proportion of transmission can
      be attributed people who are unaware of their HIV status. To address these challenges, HIV
      testing has the potential to be a major prevention strategy. Indeed, the combination of
      testing and treatment (test & treat) is now seen to be one of the most promising strategies
      in terms of its potential contribution to the eradication of HIV.

      To maximize testing among MSM, it has been recommended that services be diversified by
      offering HIV testing in close proximity to areas where people most at risk for HIV reside and
      socialize. Rapid HIV testing can also help reduce barriers in access to testing by reaching
      those most at risk more effectively in non-traditional venues. In addition, testing offers an
      excellent opportunity and psycho-affective context within which to provide individualized
      counseling in order to explore preventive practices and testing routines.

      Since July 2009, the SPOT project has combined a number of strategies (testing services in
      close proximity to a residential area; free, anonymous, and rapid HIV testing; individualized
      preventive counseling) in an original way at an innovative community site located in the
      heart of Montreal's Gay Village. In the first phase of the study, standard counseling (SC)
      based on Quebec guidelines for rapid HIV testing was used. During the second, counseling
      based on a motivational interviewing approach (MIC) was developed and has been provided to
      participants since May 2011.

      Taking advantage of the existing infrastructure, the objective of the current phase of the
      study is to assess the short and medium term impact of MIC and its cognitive determinants in
      comparison to SC. The occurrence of at-risk anal intercourse (unprotected anal sex with an
      HIV-positive partner or partner of unknown HIV status) will be measured at baseline and
      followed over six months. Four cognitive determinants of at-risk anal sex will also be
      measured: the importance that participants accord to taking the necessary steps to protect
      themselves from HIV, perceived personal efficacy in achieving this, intention to do so, and
      the extent to which participants have planned to do so.

      To achieve this objective, a 24 months randomized trial will be implemented SPOT's community
      site. Participants who present for HIV testing will be randomized between the two conditions,
      MIC and SC, alternated at a ratio of 1/1 (experimental condition: MIC offered by a community
      worker; control condition: SC offered by a nurse). Outcome measures will be collected by
      means of questionnaires. Four measurement times are planned. A baseline questionnaire will be
      administered prior to pre-test counseling at the start of the initial visit. Outcome measures
      will be assessed at baseline (T0), and in follow-up questionnaires administered after
      post-test counseling at the end of the initial visit (T1), at 3 months after the initial
      visit (T2) and at 6 months after the initial visit (T3). Target enrolment at T0 is 900, for a
      final sample of 508 participants at T3, representing 254 participants per group (MIC, SC).
      Mechanisms will be put in place to ensure the integrity of both MIC and SC interventions as
      well as to retain participants and involve community members in the research process.

      In the wake of the recommendations of the Federal Initiative to Address HIV/AIDS in Canada,
      this study will provide data on the effectiveness of different forms of preventive counseling
      tailored for use in conjunction with rapid HIV testing. If MIC proves to be effective, the
      training and clinical supervision offered to intervention staff as well as the tools and
      quality control procedures developed during the implementation of this approach to counseling
      will be made available in other settings where testing is offered. Important lessons may also
      be learned with regards to the organization of services and the benefits and challenges
      associated with the implementation of this type of HIV prevention infrastructure. Ultimately,
      this study will contribute to efforts to more effectively combat the HIV epidemic amongst MSM
      in Canada and reduce the direct and indirect costs associated with HIV in these communities.
    
  