
    
      Chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection is a major problem for Human Immunodeficiency Virus
      (HIV)-infected patients. Without HCV treatment, increasing numbers of HIV positive patients
      will die either from end stage liver disease or from HIV-related complications because of the
      inability to use antiretroviral agents due their hepatotoxicity. Major advances in
      understanding HCV treatment in this population have occurred within the past several years.
      Yet, only a small proportion of co-infected patients receive HCV treatment (approximately
      15%). Moreover, few studies have explored patient decision-making related to HCV treatment in
      HIV co-infected patients. The major gap in our knowledge is how best to support patients as
      they engage in the HCV treatment decision making process with their health care provider.
      Therefore, the purpose of this phase II study is to test the feasibility of conducting a
      theoretically-derived group intervention with HIV/HCV co-infected adults to support active
      engagement in HCV treatment decision-making. The primary aims are to: (1) determine the
      feasibility of recruiting and retaining a sample of HIV/HCV co-infected adults to complete a
      protocol that involves randomization into the 4-week HCV Positive Life Skills group
      intervention or usual care and completion of two data collection interviews (at baseline and
      week 12), (2) establish the preliminary effect size of the HCV Positive Life Skills group
      intervention on HCV knowledge, decisional conflict, patient-provider communication,
      health-related quality of life, symptom experience and engagement with health care providers,
      (3) explore the capacity of the group intervention to influence HCV knowledge, decisional
      conflict, patient-provider communication, engagement with health care providers, health
      related quality of life and symptom experience and (4) describe the components of the
      intervention and usual care (through qualitative interviews) that are most useful for helping
      HIV/HCV co-infected patients engage in decision-making about HCV treatment. A mixed method
      approach will be used. 50 HIV/HCV co-infected participants will be randomized equally to
      receive either the group intervention or usual care. Then qualitative interviews, using
      qualitative descriptive methods, will be conducted with 10-12 participants to identify the
      most salient parts of the intervention and usual care that support effective decision-making
      about HCV treatment. The investigators will also compare the time spent with both groups,
      identify variability in the control condition, describe the number of subjects who start HCV
      treatment and further refine the intervention manual and intervention fidelity procedures in
      preparation for a full scale multi-site randomized clinical trial.
    
  