
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Chordoma is a rare disease, affecting about 3,000 people in the United States, with
           about 300 new cases diagnosed per year.

        -  Brachyury is a member of the T-box family of transcription factors, characterized by a
           highly conserved DNA-binding domain designated as T-domain.

        -  Brachyury is expressed universally in chordoma cells.

        -  GI-6301 (Yeast-brachyury vaccine) has demonstrated immunogenicity with a tolerable and
           acceptable safety profile in a phase 1 trial.

        -  Brachyury specific T cells can lyse human cancer cells expressing brachyury in an MHC
           restricted manner.

        -  There have been indications of clinical benefit in patients with chordoma enrolled on
           the phase I trial of GI-6301.

      A) 1 Partial Response

      B) 1 Mixed Response in Chordoma patients who received Radiation

      C) 6 of 9 patients with progressive disease at enrollment had Stable Disease at Day 85
      restaging

      -In vitro, chordoma cell lines are killed significantly better by brachyury-specific T cells
      after radiation exposure using either proton beam or gamma radiation.

      ENDPOINTS:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      -To determine if there is a difference in overall response rate (ORR) defined as complete
      response (CR) or partial response (PR) by RECIST 1.1 after up to 24 months among patients
      with Chordoma who are treated with radiation plus placebo vs. radiation plus vaccine.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients at least 18 years old with locally advanced (unresectable, non-metastatic)
           chordoma who are eligible for definitive radiotherapy treatment.

        -  No history of autoimmune disease

        -  Measurable disease as defined by RECIST 1.1

        -  Adequate organ function

      DESIGN:

        -  Randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled phase 2 clinical trial of radiation plus
           placebo vs. radiation plus yeast-brachyury vaccine in patients with chordoma.

        -  Participants will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to the two arms

        -  Participants assigned to the placebo arm will be allowed to cross-over at time of
           confirmed disease progression.

        -  Participants will be evaluated for objective response, progression free survival and
           overall survival

        -  Up to 55 participants will be accrued to the study
    
  