
    
      Premature ejaculation (PE) is a form of male sexual dysfunction. A measure of withdrawal
      effects associated with stopping therapy for PE is the Discontinuation-Emergent Signs and
      Symptoms (DESS), a series of questions for signs and symptoms experienced by the patient.
      This study of men with PE is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial consisting of 3
      phases: pre-randomization phase (a screening visit and 1-week baseline period); 10-week
      double-blind treatment phase during which patients receive dapoxetine or placebo; and 2-week
      follow-up phase. The total duration of the study is approximately 13 weeks. During the
      double-blind phase patients receive study medication for once daily treatment and for use on
      as "as-needed" basis prior to sexual activity. After 9 weeks, some patients (half of the
      active patients) continue treatment with dapoxetine and other (another half of the active
      patients) are switched to placebo for the last week of therapy, abruptly stopping the study
      drug. Assessments of effectiveness include the incidence of withdrawal symptoms, assessed by
      changes in DESS; control over ejaculation, satisfaction with sexual intercourse, and severity
      of symptom impressions, based on questions asked at specified intervals during the study.
      Safety assessments include the incidence, severity, and type of adverse events throughout the
      study, as well as laboratory tests and questionnaires to monitor sexual function at specified
      times during the study.The study hypothesis is that abruptly stopping treatment with
      dapoxetine in men with PE does not result in an increase in withdrawal symptoms (as assessed
      by DESS), compared with the men who stay with the treatment. Oral tablets of dapoxetine (60
      milligrams) taken once daily and also as needed during 10 weeks of treatment. No more than 1
      tablet for daily treatment and 1 as-needed tablet within a 24-hour period.
    
  