
    
      Patients participating in this study are expected to return to the University of Iowa College
      of Dentistry for a total of 12 visits. The estimated study length per subject will vary
      between 42 to 48 months depending on group allocation.

      VISIT 1: Screening Subjects in need of extraction of a single-rooted tooth, except for lower
      incisors, that meet all the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be eligible to
      participate. The purpose of the study, the duration and the potential risks and benefits will
      be explained in detailed to the patients. If the subject is interested in participating in
      the study, copies of the study outline and consent forms will be given to them. Medical and
      dental history form will be entered in patients' charts electronically, completed and signed
      by the subjects. Intra-oral scan will be obtained (multiple photos that comprise a 3-D
      impression)

      VISIT 2: Tooth Extraction (TE) and Ridge Preservation via Socket Grafting Medical and dental
      histories will be reviewed and possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral photographs of
      the sites of interest will be obtained. Clinical and radiographic examination of the sites
      involved in the study will be performed. A cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) scan will be
      obtained and reviewed to prepare for the surgical approach and evaluate the tooth planned for
      extraction as well as the adjacent sites for pathology and neighboring sensitive anatomic
      structures that can alter the proposed treatment plan. Digital intra-oral scanning of the
      area of interest will be performed using the Planmeca Emerald (TM) scanner. The subject will
      sign the surgical consent form. After administration of local anesthesia, the tooth will be
      extracted as less traumatically as possible, without flap reflection. Following tooth
      extraction, the socket walls will be clinically evaluated for the existence of dehiscences or
      fenestrations. Sites presenting a bony defect affecting >50% of the total wall height will be
      excluded. Sockets will be grafted with Bio-Oss Collagen®, BioGide® will be utilized if
      indicated for the treatment for a dehiscence and the coronal part will be covered with a
      collagen matrix (Mucograft Seal®). Stabilizing sutures will be applied to maintain the
      collagen matrix adequately in place. Written and verbal post-operative instructions will be
      given to the patients. They will be instructed to avoid any mechanical disturbance in the
      area for two weeks. Patients will be asked to use a mouthwash containing 0.12% of
      chlorhexidine gluconate twice a day, thirty seconds at a time, avoiding any eating or
      drinking for 30 minutes after rinsing, starting 48 hours after the baseline intervention.
      Post-operative medication (antibiotics, analgesics, NSAIDs) will be prescribed on an
      individual basis.

      VISIT 3 (TE + 1 week) & VISIT 4 (TE + 2 weeks): Postops Medical and dental histories will be
      reviewed and possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral photographs and Intra-oral scan
      (multiple photos that comprise a 3-D impression) of the sites of interest will be obtained.
      Visual assessment of the healing status will be made using a WHI. Patients will be asked to
      report their pain using a Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Sutures will be removed at either of the
      two visits. Sites will be debrided, if necessary. and oral hygiene instructions will be
      reviewed.

      VISIT 5: Post-op (TE + 6 weeks) Medical and dental histories will be reviewed and possible
      changes will be recorded. Intra-oral photographs and Intra-oral scan will be obtained
      (multiple photos that comprise a 3-D impression) of the sites of interest will be obtained.
      Visual assessment of the healing status will be made using a WHI. Patients will be asked to
      report their pain using a VAS. Gentle plaque debridement will be provided and oral hygiene
      instructions will be reviewed.

      VISIT 6: Follow-up and second CBCT scan Group 1 (TE + 10 weeks) Group 2 (TE + 22 weeks) Group
      3 (TE + 34 weeks) Medical and dental histories will be reviewed and updated, if necessary.
      Intra-oral pictures of the surgical sites will be obtained. At this visit, a second segmental
      CBCT scan will be obtained for all patients, using the same settings employed at baseline.
      Images will be used to analyze and compare the ridge dimensions to those obtained at baseline
      as well as in terms of adequacy for dental implant placement. Intra-oral scan will be
      obtained (multiple photos that comprise a 3-D impression).

      VISIT 7: Implant Placement and Bone Core Biopsy Harvesting Group 1 (TE + 12 weeks) Group 2
      (TE + 24 weeks) Group 3 (TE + 36 weeks) Medical and dental histories will be reviewed and
      possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral photographs of the sites of interest will be
      obtained. Digital intra-oral scanning of the area of interest will be performed using the
      Planmeca Emerald (TM) scanner. Implant placement will be done per standard procedure. A
      trephine drill of 2.5 mm diameter, or wider, will be used to harvest a bone core for
      histologic and µ-CT analyses. The bone core will be immediately submerged in a solution of
      10% neutral buffered formalin (NBF). The selection of the implant system and dimensions will
      depend on the surgical and restorative needs of each individual case. Osteotomies and implant
      placement will be done following the manufacturer's recommendations. A final periapical
      radiograph will be obtained to verify correct implant position and angulation. Depending on
      the buccal bone and soft tissue thickness, ancillary soft tissue augmentation, bone
      augmentation or a combination of both may be indicated. If adequate primary stability is
      achieved and a one-stage approach is feasible, a healing abutment will be placed. If a
      two-stage procedure is indicated, a cover screw will be placed and the implant will be
      submerged. At the end of the appointment, written and verbal post-operative instructions will
      be given to the patients.

      VISIT 8: Post-op (Implant Placement + 2 weeks) Medical and dental histories will be reviewed
      and possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral photographs of the sites of interest will
      be obtained. Sutures will be removed. Visual assessment of the healing status will be made
      using a WHI. Patients will be asked to report their pain using a VAS. The sites will be
      debrided and oral hygiene instructions will be reviewed. Upon completion of this visit, the
      patient will be referred to the restorative dentist to complete the restorative part of the
      treatment.

      VISIT 9: Baseline Implant Follow-up (No more than 30 days after delivery of final
      restoration) Medical and dental histories will be reviewed and possible changes will be
      recorded. Intra-oral photographs of the sites of interest will be obtained. Digital
      intra-oral scanning of the area of interest will be performed using the Planmeca Emerald (TM)
      scanner. Patients will be asked to report their level of satisfaction in terms of function,
      comfort and esthetics (PROMs). The sites will be inspected, deplaqued, if necessary, and oral
      hygiene instructions will be reviewed. Clinical parameters will be recorded (i.e. probing
      depth, recession respective to the incisal/occlusal plane, bleeding upon probing, keratinized
      mucosa height, plaque and gingival index). A standardized periapical radiograph will be
      obtained to assess marginal bone levels.

      VISIT 10: Implant Follow-up #1 (1 year after delivery of final restoration) Medical and
      dental histories will be reviewed and possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral
      photographs of the sites of interest will be obtained. Digital intra-oral scanning of the
      area of interest will be performed using the Planmeca Emerald (TM) scanner. Patients will be
      asked to report their level of satisfaction in terms of function, comfort and esthetics
      (PROMs). The sites will be inspected, de-plaqued, if necessary, and oral hygiene instructions
      will be reviewed. Clinical parameters will be recorded (i.e. probing depth, recession
      respective to the incisal/occlusal plane, bleeding upon probing, keratinized mucosa height,
      plaque and gingival index). A standardized periapical radiograph will be obtained to assess
      marginal bone levels.

      VISIT 11: Implant Follow-up #2 (2 years after delivery of final restoration) Medical and
      dental histories will be reviewed and possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral
      photographs of the sites of interest will be obtained. Digital intra-oral scanning of the
      area of interest will be performed using the Planmeca Emerald (TM) scanner. Patients will be
      asked to report their level of satisfaction in terms of function, comfort and esthetics
      (PROMs). The sites will be inspected, de-plaqued, if necessary, and oral hygiene instructions
      will be reviewed. Clinical parameters will be recorded (i.e. probing depth, recession
      respective to the incisal/occlusal plane, bleeding upon probing, keratinized mucosa height,
      plaque and gingival index). A standardized periapical radiograph will be obtained to assess
      marginal bone levels.

      VISIT 12: Implant Follow-up #3 (3 years after delivery of final restoration) Medical and
      dental histories will be reviewed and possible changes will be recorded. Intra-oral
      photographs of the sites of interest will be obtained. Digital intra-oral scanning of the
      area of interest will be performed using the Planmeca Emerald (TM) scanner. Patients will be
      asked to report their level of satisfaction in terms of function, comfort and esthetics
      (PROMs). The sites will be inspected, de-plaqued, if necessary, and oral hygiene instructions
      will be reviewed. Clinical parameters will be recorded (i.e. probing depth, recession
      respective to the incisal/occlusal plane, bleeding upon probing, keratinized mucosa height,
      plaque and gingival index). A standardized periapical radiograph will be obtained to assess
      marginal bone levels.

      This is planned to be the final study visit.
    
  