
    
      Black men have a 1.5 higher incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) compared to non-Hispanic White
      men and are twice as likely to die from diabetes-related complications. Additionally, Black
      men are more likely to be diagnosed with T2D compared to non-Hispanic White men, and this
      disparity increases among men over the age of 55. Poor diabetes self-management dramatically
      increases the risk for micro and macrovascular complications. Because Black men have worsened
      glycemic management compared to non-Hispanic White men, their risk for these diabetes
      complications is higher. In addition to physical complications, patients with T2D are twice
      as likely to experience depressive symptoms than those without T2D. Depressive symptoms are
      associated with suboptimal blood glucose levels and diabetes complications. A growing body of
      literature also demonstrates the critical role of gender in the management of physical and
      mental health conditions, including T2D and depression, and shows that male gender norms may
      conflict with help-seeking and healthy behaviors.

      Program ACTIVE (Adults Coming Together to Increase Vital Exercise) is an evidence-based,
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and community-based exercise (EXER) intervention that aims
      to improve diabetes and depression outcomes that was developed for adults with type 2
      diabetes. Research suggests that Black men have more adverse life experiences than men of
      other racial/ethnic groups, and consequently, experience worsened mental health. Since CBT
      and exercise programs are the gold standard for treating comorbid T2D and depression,
      tailoring these existing interventions to meet the needs of Black men with T2D is critical,
      especially given that high rates of T2D and depression exist in low income Black communities.
      Additionally, there is a dearth of literature about barriers and facilitators to mental
      health care utilization and exercise among Black men with T2D. The proposed study seeks to:

      Aim 1 (Pre-implementation): Adapt an evidence-based intervention to work with Black men with
      T2D and depression in a community-based clinic. Adaptation and refinement, guided by the TDF
      domains, will involve:

      1. conducting focus groups with Black men with comorbid T2D and depression to assess barriers
      and facilitators to mental health care utilization and exercise and to evaluate feasibility
      and acceptability of intervention materials.

      Aim 2: Assess the impact of the implementation intervention strategies developed in Aim 1 by:

        1. conducting a pilot randomized controlled trial of Program ACTIVE to evaluate participant
           recruitment and retention rates, treatment and intervention satisfaction and estimate
           intervention effect sizes on our primary outcomes of glycemic control (HbA1c) and
           depression as well as on secondary outcomes such as self-management behaviors and
           diabetes social support at baseline, 3 and 6 months post-intervention. Data from the
           pilot trial will help refine recruitment strategies, training materials, and the
           implementation protocol to be used in a larger pilot trial.

        2. conducting qualitative interviews, guided by the TDF domains, to better understand the
           acceptability and sustainability of M-Action as routine practice in a community-based
           clinic.
    
  