
    
      Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disease among the most frequent ones. It causes cognitive
      disorders in 20 to 50 percent of patients with structural epilepsy, that is to say in
      connexion with an identified or presumed cerebral lesion. Compared to seizures, these
      cognitive disorders are a major additional factor of professional, social or family
      disability. They are particularly prevalent (50%) in temporal lobe epilepsy and
      preferentially affect language memory and abilities. These disorders are well described, they
      are multifactorial but no (drug and/or non drug) therapy has been validated yet.

      Recently, techniques of cognitive rehabilitation have shown benefits in some neurological
      diseases, like multiple sclerosis.

      Concerning adulthood epilepsy, the few cognitive rehabilitation studies that have been
      conducted present huge methodological gaps limiting the scope of theirs results.

      Studies on the cognitive function have highlighted promising results concerning attention. In
      contrast, in the field of memory, the single cohort study that has been carried out, has not
      been randomised, with non comparable groups, the significant outcomes are therefore to be
      balanced.

      Thus, in this study, patients with focal and structural temporal lobe epilepsy will be
      randomised in 2 groups : the COMETE group where patients will attend a specific
      rehabilitation programme of memory and the control group where patients will benefit from a
      standard treatment.

      Work's hypothesis would be that patients undergoing the rehabilitation programme would
      present improved learning abilities (with impact on their memory performances) compared to
      patients with standard treatment.

      This hypothesis is based on underlying theories of cognitive rehabilitation. This method
      predicts that by reinforcing some cognitive abilities that transfer to others, the improved
      learning abilities will also result in improved abilities in immediate memory, work memory,
      but will have no effect on verbal inhibition abilities, which will constitute a specific
      marker/indicator ? for the intervention. Moreover, patient care may have an impact on their
      quality of life and mood which are predictive factors for a good social and professional
      integration: that's why these indexes/criteria have to be measured.
    
  