
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE

      Patients suffering from neurological disorders often experience undesired sensorimotor
      activities e.g. hypersensitisation, spasticity and hyper- and dystonia. To overcome these
      disabilities, various therapeutic interventions e.g. oral medications, botulinum neurotoxin
      injections, local anaesthetics, transcutaneous electrical stimulation and surgeries are
      implemented. However, these often do not offer permanent solutions. Electrical stimulation
      with medium-frequency alternating electrical currents (MFAEC; 2-50 kHz) can inhibit
      peripheral motor nerve activities and force production, when implanted directly on top of the
      peripheral nerve of interest. The administration of transcutaneous medium-frequency
      alternating electrical currents (tMFAEC), i.e. administration of electrical currents through
      the skin, might offer a less-invasive alternative. Theoretically, the administration of
      tMFAEC on the sensory nerve may even result in partial or complete (reversible) nerve block
      thereby serving as an anesthesia in order to perform surgical or painful procedures. A
      promising pre-clinical study of Kim et al.1 already demonstrated that tMFAEC stimulation at
      10 kHz can partially inhibit both sensory perception and motor activity.

        1. AIM AND HYPOTHESIS

           The primary aim of this study is to confirm the previous results in literature.

           It is hypothesized that tMFAEC stimulation on the distal median nerve would:

             -  Reduce sensory perception in the index and middle fingers

             -  Inhibit force production by the index and middle fingers

        2. OUTCOME MEASURES 2.1 Primary outcome measure

           Assessment of peripheral sensory perception and force production in the index and middle
           finger when tMFAEC is applied with a fixed current intensity of 31.5mA at a frequency of
           10kHz to the distal median nerve. The peripheral sensory perception will be measured
           with the Semmes-Weinstein monofilament examination and pressure algometry that measures
           tactile and pressure sensation, respectively. The assessment of force production will be
           measured with an electronic handheld dynamometer (CompuFet 2).

           2.2 Secondary outcome measures I. Confirmation of participant's safety of tMFAEC by
           determining the maximum capacity tolerable for a participant. Determination is assessed
           by gradually increasing the tMFAEC to individual pain threshold with a maximum current
           intensity of 35mA.

           II. Evaluation of the effect of a different frequency i.e. 2kHz with a fixed current
           intensity of 31.5mA on the level of sensorimotor inhibition.

           III. Evaluation of the effect of two substantially different electrodes (i.e. PALS
           Platinum Electrodes 50x50mm and 3M™ Red Dot™ Elektrode foam basis klevende gel, 2228) on
           the level of sensorimotor inhibition.

           IV. Evaluation of the level of impedance in relation with frequency and the effect of
           impedance on the level of sensorimotor inhibition.

           V. Evaluation of effect of the depth of the median nerve at mid-forearm level on the
           level of sensorimotor inhibition.

        3. STUDY PROCEDURE AND MEASUREMENTS

      First, the location and depth (in mm) of the median nerve will be identified using a Sono
      Site Xporte ultrasound machine with a high-frequency linear transducer HFL38 (15-6MHz). The
      skin over the median nerve will be cleaned with ether. Electrode 1 will be placed on the skin
      overlying the median nerve near the transverse carpal ligament. Electrode 2 will be placed 7
      cm superior to electrode 1, right above the course of the median nerve in the forearm
      (identified with ultrasound). Electrode placement will be slightly adjusted if MFAC
      stimulation induced undesired muscle contraction secondary to direct stimulation of the
      neuromuscular junction or asynchronous firing of the nerve. For example, if stimulation will
      cause thenar muscle contraction, the location of the electrodes will be moved slightly
      (approximately 0.5 cm) toward the ulnar or the proximal side.

      Subsequently, the participants will be seated on a chair and their arms will be positioned on
      a testing table. The height of the chair will be adjusted such that participants can put
      their arms on the table with both shoulders at approximately 35° of abduction and 45° of
      flexion and elbows at approximately 45° of flexion. A rigid Styrofoam™ board will be used to
      support both wrists and forearms.

      To apply tMFAEC stimulation through surface electrodes (PALS Platinum Electrodes 50x50mm and
      3M™ Red Dot™ Elektrode foam basis klevende gel, 2228) and to measure the level of impedance,
      we will use the following device:

      ● DS5 Isolated Bipolar Constant Current Stimulator

      In order to create a biphasic, steady, unmodulated alternating current of 10 kHz, we generate
      the waveform on a signal generator and deliver this to the DS5 input.

      Semmes-Weinstein monofilament examination and pressure algometry:

      These tests will be performed at baseline and 100% current intensity in both the 2kHz and 10
      kHz stimulation group.

      Tactile sensation - A set of 20 nylon monofilaments, graded according to monofilament
      diameter, will be used. Each monofilament will be pressed to the skin, beginning with the
      smallest diameter to obtain an ascending method of threshold testing. All monofilaments will
      be held in contact with the skin until it bends (creating a 'C-letter'), and will then be
      removed after 1 second. During this test, all participants will be asked to close their eyes
      and indicate whether or not they can sense the monofilament stimulation.

      For both the 2kHz and 10 kHz, tMFAEC stimulation will be applied for 5 seconds. Then,
      monofilament stimulation will start 1-3 seconds after starting the tMFAEC stimulation, so
      that participants cannot anticipate the onset of the monofilament stimulation.

      The tactile threshold will be recorded in milligram force as directed by the manufacturer and
      force values will be presented using a logarithmic scale.

      Pressure sensation/pain - A 1 centimeter diameter algometer will be used. The pressure will
      be applied in a perpendicular direction using the algometer. The participants will be
      instructed to indicate when they feel a transition from touch/pressure to pain, corresponding
      to each participant's pressure pain threshold. Pressure will be increased at a rate of
      1kg/cm² and released after the subject reports pain. Pressure will be applied after tMFAEC
      stimulation. When the pressure pain threshold is reached, tMFAEC stimulation will be stopped.

      All pressure pain threshold values will be recorded in kg/cm².

      Force production assessment: This test will be performed at baseline and 100% intensity.

      A customised plastic frame (120 x 110 mm) with an arch will be placed underneath the palm to
      maintain approximately 0° wrist extension and metacarpophalangeal flexion. Next, 2 straps
      will be used to fix the participant's wrist and forearm to a testing platform to limit force
      transmission from proximal muscles and from the elbow and shoulder joints.

      The participants will press a force sensor (i.e. an electronic hand held dynamometer
      (CompuFET 2) with the head of the proximal phalanx of each index and middle finger. The wrist
      and hand position will be optimised to maximise the contribution of the intrinsic hand
      muscles. To determine the target force, participants will be asked to press the sensors using
      maximum voluntary contraction (MVC). During the MVC measurements, a digital monitor will
      provide visual feedback on virtual finger forces, calculated as the sum of the forces
      produced by the index and middle fingers. The MVC measurement will be repeated 3 times and
      the values will be averaged.

      After 3-5 practice times, the task will be repeated with MFAC stimulation. The tasks will be
      conducted under 4 conditions: 90-100% MVC, 100% tMFAEC stimulation at 2kHz or 10kHz and
      application of platinum electrodes or 3M electrodes. These 4 conditions will be repeated 3
      times. Between every measurement, a 1 minute rest period will be given.

      8. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Data will be presented using the mean and standard deviation values
      or median and interquartile range according to the data distribution (normal or non-normal
      distribution, respectively).

      8.1 Primary study outcome To compare the tactile threshold on the level of sensorimotor
      inhibition between baseline and 100% MFAC intensity (31.5mA) with two different stimulation
      frequencies i.e. 2kHz and 10kHz a one-way ANOVA with repeated measures (in case of a normal
      distribution of the data) or a Friedman test (in case no normal distribution) will be used
      for each of the index and middle fingers followed by a post-hoc test.

      For the comparison of pressure pain thresholds among baseline and 100% intensity of tMFAEC
      stimulation in the index and middle fingers and to compare finger forces between the three
      phases using normalized mean and minimum values, a one-way ANOVA with repeated measures or a
      Friedman test will be used. To evaluate the exact significant differences, a Student t test
      or the Wilcoxon signed-rank test with a Bonferroni adjustment will be used.

      The level of significance will be set at p < 0.05.

      8.2 Secondary study outcomes Confirmation of participant's safety of tMFAEC by determining
      the maximum current intensity capable to a participant will be presented with descriptive
      statistics.

      Evaluation of the effect of two different electrodes with substantially different materials
      on the level of sensorimotor inhibition will be presented with descriptive statistics.

      8.3 Interim analysis N.A.
    
  