
    
      Multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) are common debilitating complications after
      surgical repaired for ATAAD. MODS is one of the chief causes of post-operative death for
      acute type A aortic dissection (ATAAD) patients, and it was reported that MODS accounted for
      more than half of the death after surgery for ATAAD. Despite recent advance in surgical
      technique, mortality rate remains high in such critical care conditions. In animal models,
      studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of MSCs with respect to ischemia-reperfusion
      injury of heart, lungs, kidney, brains and livers. Several pilot studies have provided
      evidence that MSC may be effective in treating critically ill patients with traumatic brain
      injury, acute renal failure, or acute respiratory distress syndrome. There is increasing
      evidence that MSCs function in a paracrine manner. Exosomes have been reported to activate
      signaling pathways by binding to receptors. Compared with mesenchymal stem cells, exosomes
      are more stable and storable and no risk of aneuploidy. The possibility of immune rejection
      after allogeneic administration of exosomes is lower and can provide alternative treatment
      for a variety of diseases.

      The trial contains two parts:

      Part one (prevention scheme):to explore the safety and efficacy of exosome of MSC, the
      investigators will recruit patients who are diagnosed with ATAAD, and 15 participants will be
      administrated intravenously with exosome of MSC immediately after ascending aortic
      replacement combined with open placement of triple branched stent graft while other 15 not.
      Then the investigators will monitor participants' MODS related biochemical indexes,
      sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) scores, comparing to those don't be treated with
      exosome of MSC.

      Phase two (treatment scheme): for patients presenting severe MODS (SOFA score≥10) after
      ascending aortic replacement combined with open placement of triple-branched stent graft, the
      investigators will randomly use exosome of MSC to 15 of participants while other 15 not. Then
      the investigators will monitor participants' MODS related biochemical indexes, SOFA scores,
      comparing to those don't be treated with MSC. The dosage of the exosome of MSC was determined
      on the basis of the previous clinical studies, which is 180mg once a time and administrated
      intravenously.
    
  