
    
      The study will evaluate the feasibility of running a randomised controlled trial that will
      test the efficacy of delivering early, intensive electrical stimulation (ES) to the wrist
      flexors and wrist extensors to prevent post stroke complications (such as pain and muscle
      contractures) to the paretic upper limb after stroke.

      The feasibility study will involve a single centre feasibility randomised controlled trial
      and an integrated qualitative study (patient and carer interviews and therapist focus
      discussion groups).

      Participants in the intervention group will receive electrical stimulation (ES) therapy. ES
      is similar to a TENS machine and delivers a constant stimulating current from 0 to 100 mA via
      two independent channels. The motor points for stimulation are already known. The therapist
      will identify the motor points for the forearm flexors (this will lead to a flexion movement
      of both the wrist and fingers) and the extensors (this will lead to an extensor of wrist and
      fingers), and will place an electrode on these motor points using sticky pads. They will then
      connect the electrodes to the respective channels in the electrical stimulator. The ES will
      be set to deliver a 450μs pulse at a frequency of 40-60Hz (as per patient convenience). The
      intensity of the current will be increased to produce an alternating contraction of the
      flexors and extensors using a flex-hold-extend-hold pattern. A single stimulation and hold
      cycle will last 20 seconds and this will be cyclically repeated for 30 minutes after which
      the device can be removed.

      The devices required for this study have been donated by Verity Medical Ltd. The devices are
      CE marked and will be used in accordance with the manufacturer's marketing authorisation.
      Band 5 or above therapists will administer the initial ES treatment and mark the correct
      electrode placement.

      The initial treatment will take between 15 and 20 minutes to assess the correct motor points.
      This is done by ensuring that a pure flexion or extension movement is produced with no ulnar
      or radial deviation. Once the motor points have been marked on the skin (using medical skin
      marker pens) any member of the therapy team band 3 or above can provide subsequent treatments
      which takes between 2-5 minutes to apply the electrode pads to the pre-marked motor points
      and switch on the device to the pre-stored treatment setting. The ES device will then provide
      treatment for 30 minutes, without the need for a therapist to remain present. It will be
      removed once the device has completed the set programme and switched itself off.

      Patients and/or their carers will be shown by a therapist how to apply the electrode pads and
      use the device in under 10 minutes. Patients and/or their carers will be asked to self-manage
      the treatment upon discharge so that treatment can continue twice a day, 5 days a week, for a
      total period of 3 months. A patient diary will be included in the device case and
      participants and/or their nominated carer will be encouraged to record the times that the
      device is used.

      Participants in the control group will not receive the electrical stimulation therapy
      intervention but will have access to all other usual services.

      Ten pairs of patient participants and their nominated carers will be interviewed about their
      experience of using or supporting a loved one to use electrical stimulation therapy as part
      of a research study. The interviews will be used to examine issues regarding compliance with
      the ES treatment regime, acceptability of the ES treatment, experience of supporting a stroke
      survivor in using the ES treatment, any perceived treatment effects, the training that was
      provided and the ongoing support needs and any issues related to recruitment and consent. The
      purpose of these interviews is to identify issues related to delivering ES as part of a
      randomised controlled trial. The findings from these interviews will contribute to the final
      content and design of the research protocol for the definitive trial.

      Each interview will last for around one hour in total and will take place in the
      participants' homes, or clinic if preferred, and will be recorded, transcribed verbatim and
      analysed thematically. Interviews will be conducted following completion of the 3 month
      follow-up assessments.

      Five pairs of patient participants from the control group and their nominated carers will be
      interviewed to examine any issues from the perspective of the control group participants.

      Four Physiotherapists and four occupational therapists from the Nottingham Stroke Unit will
      be invited to participate in a minimum of one and a maximum of three focus discussion groups
      during the course of the feasibility RCT. The focus groups will discuss the barriers and
      facilitators to successfully implementing the intervention and study protocol into clinical
      practice.
    
  