
    
      The health risk of a sedentary and inactive lifestyle is known in the general population,
      increasing the risk of diabetes (+ 25%), obesity, arterial hypertension, stroke, myocardial
      infarction and the development of certain cancers.

      Sedentary lifestyle therefore decreases longevity and life expectancy by 5 and 8 years
      respectively.

      At the same time, the benefits of physical activity (PA) are recognized (the list is not
      exhaustive):

        -  Factor for improving physical capacity,

        -  Preventive effect on many cardiovascular risk factors,

        -  Improvement of psychological well-being (anxiety, depression, stress, etc.),

        -  Cognitive functions, reduction in the rate of certain cancers (colon and breast mainly),

        -  Reduction of oxidative stress. The High Authority of Health (HAS) recognizes physical
           activity as a therapy on its own in the prevention of chronic diseases after having
           noticed the harmful effects of physical inactivity (PI) on life expectancy.

      PI is believed to be responsible for 1.9 million deaths worldwide each year, increasing
      public health costs, estimated at 150-300 euros per year and per citizen.

      The population of patients with Chronic Renal Failure (CRF) on dialysis has a low physical
      capacity, a low level of PA decreasing as the number of years of dialysis increases.

      These parameters are correlated with mortality: a critical number of steps of less than 4000
      per day, or activity less than 50 minutes per day without dialysis significantly worsens
      mortality.

      The association between mortality and level of PA is linear and this linearity is maintained
      over time.

      CRF and dialysis promote catabolic factors in metabolism, decline in muscle mass and strength
      to sarcopenia (associated with inflammation, hypoandrogenism, intakes of inadequate protein,
      metabolic acidosis, insulin resistance and inactivity).

      The decline in physical performance promotes falls, fractures, loss of autonomy, the number
      of hospitalizations which indirectly increases public health costs.

      Several studies have shown the benefit of developing a per-dialytic PA program providing
      benefits in quality of life, physical capacity, reduction of hypotension blood pressure,
      depression, and VO2 max. Resistance exercise also improves muscle mass and strength.

      PA acts as a cardioprotector by lowering total cholesterol, triglycerides, improving blood
      pressure profile, and consequently reducing the number of cardiovascular events on a
      follow-up of 2 years.

      Finally, the DOPPS 2009-2011 observational study demonstrates the link between the level of
      physical aerobic activity and the parallel decline in mortality.

      In addition, peripheral vascular and arterial complications are common in patients with CRF
      and dialysis. The prevalence of symptomatic Obstructive Arterial Disease of the Lower Limbs
      is estimated between 20% and 25% but it reaches 40% in the Japanese study of Matsuzawa, and
      70% if associating the numerous asymptomatic patients.

      Associated with the aging of the population and increasing sedentary lifestyle, we are faced
      with the appearance of extremely serious ischemic trophic disorders, difficult to treat,
      despite taking appropriate medical, surgical and cicatricial load often resulting in
      amputation, deterioration of general condition, loss of independence, depression of wasting
      away.

      There is also an increased risk of associated cardiovascular mortality even in asymptomatic
      patients. The more severe the arterial disease is, greater the risk is. Thus, patients with
      critical ischemia have a one-year mortality of 25%.

      Despite the importance of these data, associated with the individual consequences following
      amputations, the medical interest in this pathology is relatively low, and there are only few
      studies in hemodialysis subjects.

      Exercise, especially walking, is recommended for patients at the stage of intermittent
      claudication. A meta-analysis performed in the general population showed that gait training
      improved walking ability by 150%.

      The main objective of this study is to assess the clinical benefit of a physical activity
      program in terms of performance on the 6-minute walk test.

      One of the secondary objectives of this study will be to assess the impact of a PA program on
      the occurrence of Obstructive Arterial Disease of the Lower Limbs. The investigators want to
      check whether the implementation of a program of per-dialytic physical activity would improve
      the microcirculation of the lower limbs and reduce the complications of arteritis.
    
  