
    
      This is a double blinded study in which the patients and the primary operators of the UFE as
      well as the post-procedural caregivers are blinded to whether the patients have received a
      sham procedure (injection of xylocaine in the skin in the peri-umbilical region) or the
      superior hypogastric nerve block.

      The superior hypogastric nerve block (SHGNB) consists of advancing a 21g Chiba needle via an
      anterior approach up to the superior hypogastric nerve plexus and injecting 20cc of 0.75%
      Ropivacaine which is a long lasting local anesthetic agent. The nerve plexus is positioned
      below the aortic bifurcation along the anterior surface of the vertebral body. By
      fluoroscopy, the location can be identified by having a catheter crossing the aortic
      bifurcation. That way, we are able to target, under fluoroscopy, the anterior surface of the
      vertebral body just below the catheter.

      Our UFE starts with a right common femoral artery (CFA) access. The catheter is crossed to
      the left side and the left uterine artery embolized with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) 500-700
      particles. The operator will then leave the room. Another operator will come and perform
      either the hypogastric nerve block or the sham procedure (injection of xylocaine in the
      periumbilical subcutaneous tissues). If the hypogastric nerve block is done, the needle is
      advanced into position via an anterior periumbilical approach under fluoroscopic guidance.
      Once the bony surface is contacted, 3 cc of xylocaine is injected to numb the area and then
      3-6 cc of contrast is injected to ensure that it drapes the anterior vertebral body surface.
      If it spreads along both sides of the vertebral body and there is no vascular intravasation
      of contrast, the 20 cc of Ropivacaine is injected. If it only drapes one side, 10 cc is
      injected and the needle repositioned to the other side, the position verified with contrast,
      and the left over 10 cc of Ropivacaine injected.

      After the block or sham procedure is done, the primary operator enters the room again and the
      UFE completed with embolization of the right uterine artery.

      The patient is transferred to the recovery room and monitored. Pain medication including
      fentanyl and midazolam are offered at routine interval or on patient request. Pain scales are
      measured routinely and the patient is discharge home with a pain survey with visual analog
      pain scales to be performed routinely for 10 days.

      The patient is followed up in 4-6 months with a follow-up magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      and consultation to look at the results of the procedure.

      Comparison of the pain scale reports and use of pain medication will be evaluated between
      both groups to determine if there is a statistically significant difference.
    
  