
    
      To evaluate the efficacy and safety of external physical vibration lithecbole(EPVL) for the
      treatment after ESWL treatment of stones discharged，thereby improving after extracorporeal
      shockwave lithotripsy(ESWL) stone clearance rate. Investigators will do a multi-centers
      randomized controlled trial(RCT)，and investigators plan to perform this study in 10
      hospitals，which are the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University of China,
      Department of Urology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University of China,
      Jiangsu Province Hospital, Hubei Province Hospital, Zhongshan Hospital, Tongji Hospital,Hubei
      provincial people's Hospital,Guilin 181 Hospital，the People' Hospital of Huzhou，The People'
      Hospital of Shaoyang.

      Investigators plan to beginning their study August 2015 and end at July 2016. One hundred and
      eighty patients with ESWL postoperative residual stone will be enrolled in this study. By
      simple random sampling technique, all the patients will be assigned to the segment of natural
      stone row group or physical row of stone group, compared two groups of patients with stone
      clearance rate and complications, Investigators hope that through this test, improve stone
      clearance rate after ESWL.

      Number:

      180cases(90 cases in control group, 90 cases in EPVL group)

      Grouping methods:

      In this trial, investigators will use equilibrium randomization methods that generate random
      numerical code table, according to the table, patients are randomly assigned to different
      groups.

      Evaluating indicator Stone-free rate in 4 weeks after ESWL. Incidence rate of complications
      and adverse reactions after EPVL(fever, hematuria, etc).

      Trial method:

      Examination before ESWL: blood routine, urine routine, renal function(Cre,BUN), coagulation
      function; intravenous pyelography(IVP) or CT (radiolucent calculus).

      ESWL

      Record: duration, frequency, voltage, times.

      Method of control group(group1):

      ESWL without EPVL; Reexamined by abdominal plain film(KUB) or CT (radiolucent calculus) right
      after ESWL;

      After leaving hospital(without drugs), patients should follow the measures bellowed:

        1. the amount of fluid intake is more than 2000ml/d

        2. increase physical activity

        3. rest in position on uninjured side, patients with lower renal calyx calculus need to
           invert body.

      Method of EPVL group(group2):

      Start the treatment of EPVL: the amount of fluid intake is about 1000-2000ml, start the
      treatment of EPVL when patent's bladder is filling; Reexamined by abdominal plain film(KUB)
      or CT(radiolucent calculus) right after EPVL;

      Record: patients' date, treatment procedure and outcome;

      After leaving hospital(without drugs), patients should follow the measures bellowed:

        1. the amount of fluid intake is more than 2000ml/d

        2. increase physical activity

        3. rest in position on uninjured side, patients with lower renal calyx calculus need to
           invert body;

      Follow up timing: return hospital respectively in 1,2 and 4 weeks after EPVL.

      Follow up project Laboratory testing: routine urinalysis; Imaging examination: KUB or kidney
      CT scan (radiolucent calculus) Complications and adverse reactions. Data gathering Fill in
      follow up table data; Radiological images; IVP or kidney CT scan before ESWL; Reexamined by
      KUB (radiopaque calculus) or CT (radiolucent calculus) right after EPVL. If stones have been
      eliminated completely in patients with radiolucent calculus before or at the fourth week of
      follow-up, investigators must provide kidney CT scan.
    
  