
    
      Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating
      factor (GM-CSF) are synthetic (man-made) versions of substances naturally produced in your
      body. These substances, called colony stimulating factors, help the bone marrow to make new
      white blood cells. When certain cancer medicines fight your cancer cells, they also affect
      those white blood cells that fight infection. To help decrease the risk of infections when
      these cancer medicines are used, colony stimulating factors may be given. Colony stimulating
      factors are also used to help the bone marrow recover after bone marrow transplantation and
      stem cell transplantation. They are also used to increase the stem cell count in the blood so
      that adequate number of stem cells can be collected for purposes of transplantation.

      Before the study begins, you will have a complete physical exam and have blood (around 1-2
      tablespoons) and urine collected for routine tests. You will have x-rays and CT scans to
      check on the status of the disease. A sample of bone marrow will be collected for tests. To
      collect a bone marrow sample, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic and
      a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. Your heart and lung
      function will be evaluated. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that measures
      the electrical activity of the heart) and either a echocardiogram or a multigated acquisition
      scan (MUGA) (these are tests that measure heart functions). You will also have lung function
      tests. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy
      test.

      You will have a plastic tube (central venous catheter - CVL) inserted under your collarbone.
      The CVL will be left in place for the duration of the treatment. The catheter will be used to
      deliver most of the drugs and for the collection and transfusion of the stem cells. When
      possible, all drugs that need to be given by vein will be given using the catheter.

      All treatment will be given at M. D. Anderson. First, you will be given chemotherapy to
      increase the number of stem cells in your blood stream. This chemotherapy will include the
      drugs ifosfamide, etoposide, and rituximab. You will receive a higher dose of rituximab than
      is standard of care. The drug ifosfamide will be started on Day 2 and will be given as a
      continuous injection into a vein over 72 hours. The drug etoposide will also be started on
      Day 2 and will be given by vein over 2 hours every 12 hours. Rituximab will be given by vein
      over 4-6 hours on Days 1 and 8. To help decrease the risk of developing side effects caused
      by the chemotherapy, you will be given fluids by vein and a drug called mesna. Mesna will be
      given by vein over 24 hours after treatment with ifosfamide is finished. You will have to
      stay in the hospital for 4-6 days for this part of the treatment.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups.
      Participants in one group will receive G-CSF and GM-CSF. Participants in the other group will
      receive G-CSF alone.

      After completion of chemotherapy, you will get GM-CSF and G-CSF or just G-CSF injections
      (given under the skin) twice a day. These drugs are given to help increase the number of
      white blood cells and will continue to be given until an adequate number of stem cells have
      been collected. During this time, you will have blood collected for tests (around 1
      tablespoon) at least 3 times a week. If your doctor feels it is necessary, you may have blood
      collected more often.

      Blood stem cells will be collected when your blood counts have returned to normal (about
      10-16 days after the chemotherapy). The process of stem cell collection takes about 4 hours.
      It may take 1-6 sessions to collect the number of stem cells needed for the transplant. The
      process of stem cell collection is called apheresis. A machine is attached to the catheter
      under the collar bone and blood is withdrawn. The blood then flows through the machine, which
      removes stem cells from the blood. The blood is then returned back to you through the
      catheter. The stem cells are then frozen and stored. These stem cells will be given back to
      you after the next phase of treatment to help your blood counts recover after high dose
      chemotherapy. After enough stem cells have been collected, you will be admitted to the
      hospital for high dose chemotherapy.

      You will have check-up visits at various times over the next year as part of your standard
      evaluation after transplantation to check on the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are FDA approved and
      are commercially available. Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  