
    
      Social anxiety is a highly prevalent disorder in the population. Even though there are
      effective interventions that can help people who suffer from it, many of them do not seek or
      receive an evidence-based, face to face treatment. According to cognitive models, attention
      to social threat is one of the principles that maintain social anxiety. In fact, individuals
      with social anxiety present attention bias to threat stimuli. However, there is inconsistency
      in the literature with regards to attentional biases that individuals with anxiety present. A
      recent model is the vigilance-avoidance hypothesis, in which socially anxious initially focus
      on the threat and then they avoid it. Therefore, better understanding and then aiming to
      modify these attentional biases in a computerized manner, with minimal therapist interaction
      can be a novel and promising way to treat social anxiety, even among patients who avoid
      presenting for therapy.

      Two experiments are aiming to shed some light with regards to the effect of attention bias
      modification treatment in individuals with social anxiety, taking into consideration the
      previous mixed results. The first experiment compares training attention to be directed away
      from threat with a placebo treatment. Approximately 60 socially anxious individuals are
      randomly allocated in the 2 groups. A structured interview and self-report assessment are
      done pre-treatment, post-treatment and 6 months follow-up.

      The second experiment adds a third group of training towards threat (i.e. exposure),
      investigating if changing attentional avoidance can also affect anxiety levels. Moreover, the
      second experiment attempts to improve the typical attention modification paradigm by
      targeting treatment to participants' identified pre-experimental attentional biases. In
      addition, predictors of treatment effectiveness will be studied and particularly
      pre-intervention attentional biases as well as state anxiety. Participants are approximately
      90 adults with social phobia who are randomly allocated in treatment and placebo groups. In
      experiment 2 participants will also be assessed behaviourally as well as physiologically to
      better demonstrate that anxiety reactions to anxiogenic situations have been reduced between
      pre and post treatment and that they are smaller than those of a placebo control group.

      It is expected that participants in the intervention groups will show reduced attentional
      bias and social anxiety symptoms in comparison with the placebo group in both studies. In
      addition, the kind of pre-intervention bias as well as state anxiety will moderate anxiety
      changes. This study will enrich existing research on attention bias modification treatment by
      shedding light into potential mechanisms of change and will examine ways to improve the
      efficacy of this intervention.
    
  