
    
      This is a prospective, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study aimed to assess the safety
      and clinical efficacy of FMT for the treatment of mild-moderate AD, and to assess the change
      in the fecal microbiota following FMT in the study population. The study will include 2
      groups. In the first group all patients will receive 4 fecal microbial transplantations
      (FMTs) from healthy donors each 2 weeks apart. In the second group all patients will receive
      4 placebo transplantations each 2 weeks apart. Patients will be allowed to continue with
      their baseline medical topical treatment, including moisturizers and glucocorticoids, during
      the study period, but no new therapy should be commenced. The patients of the second group,
      who received the placebo treatment, will have the possibility to enter an open label phase in
      which they will receive 4 fecal microbial transplantations (FMTs) from healthy donors each 2
      weeks apart. The clinical activity of AD, adverse events and the fecal microbiome profile
      will be evaluated at the beginning of the study, before every FMT, and 1-6 months after the
      last FMT, using the SCORAD score, the IGA assessment scale, and the weekly use of topical
      corticosteroids.

      During the study period, patients will be allowed to use only topical therapy including
      emollients and glucocorticoids or calcineurin inhibitors.

      FMT preparation and delivery:

      Volunteer donors will be healthy, non-pregnant adults aged 18 to 50 years, with a normal body
      mass index. They will be excluded for any significant medical history or for any use of
      antibiotics in the preceding 3 months. Candidates should be eligible according to the Israeli
      Ministry of Health guidelines which include a physical examination and laboratory screening
      tests including fecal enteric pathogens, serum antibodies to hepatitis A, B, and C; human
      immunodeficiency virus; HTLV, and Treponema pallidum as well as celiac, CBC (and additional
      tests that comply with the guidelines of the Israeli Ministry of Health). Stool will be
      delivered within minutes post defecation in a clean closed plastic container and will be
      processed at the Tel Aviv Medical Center stool bank facility to prepare capsulized FMT.
      Briefly, fecal material will be diluted with normal saline (600ml/100g of fecal material),
      filtered and concentrated the preparation in a centrifuge. The pellet will be suspended in
      sterile saline and glycerol (20%) that will be added as a bacterial cryoprotectant. This
      material will be then pipetted into acid-resistant capsules, which will be closed and then
      secondarily sealed with additional set of capsules. Capsules will be stored frozen at -80°C.
      Placebo capsules will have identical visually and contained diluted glycerol only.

      Capsulized FMT procedure:

      FMT will be administered two doses of 15 FMT capsules on two consecutive days (a total of 30
      capsules), at the Bacteriotherapy clinic of the Tel Aviv medical center (TLVMC). On the day
      of administration, capsules frozen at -80°C will be taken out of the freezer and transported
      to the clinic on ice. Fifteen capsules will be handed individually to the patient and the
      patient will ingest the capsules immediately with some water. Patients will be asked to fast
      overnight prior to capsule intake.

      Fecal microbial analysis:

      In order to examine whether the clinical effect may be mediated by colonization of new
      bacterial strains, we developed a robust and sensitive method to calculate pairwise DNA
      sequence dissimilarity between bacterial strains of the same species across distinct
      metagenomics samples. Donor stool samples that will be used for FMT capsules and stool
      samples that will be collected from the patients during the study period will be sequenced
      into metagenomics reads. Reads that will be mapped will be piled up to obtain per-position
      variant information for every detected species. Difference in the variant of a particular
      species at a given position between two samples will be defined as having no intersection
      between the set of detected alleles in the two samples being compared. The estimated species
      DNA sequence dissimilarity for a pair of samples is then the number of different positions
      divided by the total number of positions being compared.
    
  