
    
      Inflammation occurs when the body's defense system recognizes a foreign object (such as a
      transplanted kidney), and responds by sending white blood cells to attack the foreign object.
      These cells and the substances they produce can damage the transplanted kidney. There is
      currently no standard treatment for inflammation in the kidney; some transplant centers do
      not treat inflammation at all. Rejection is a more severe form of inflammation and injury.
      Both inflammation and rejection are diagnosed by looking at a piece of kidney (a kidney
      biopsy) under a microscope. Kidneys that have inflammation and/or rejection do not work as
      well or last as long as kidneys without injury.

      People who have a transplant take immunosuppressive drugs (IS) to prevent inflammation and
      rejection. Although kidney transplant recipients usually do well in the first five years
      after transplant, transplant researchers are interested in finding ways to prevent
      inflammation and rejection without IS, or with lower doses of IS in order to avoid side
      effects.

      While some white blood cells cause inflammation, other types of white blood cells, called T
      regulatory cells (Tregs), can control inflammation. Tregs may have an important role in
      controlling or preventing inflammation and rejection. A person's Tregs can be grown in the
      laboratory to increase their number (polyTreg). These Tregs can be given back through a
      needle placed in a vein (IV). PolyTregs, when given to the recipient, might reduce
      inflammation in the transplanted kidney. However, this effect has not yet been shown.

      One of the IS drugs used in kidney transplant is Everolimus. Everolimus has been shown to
      help Tregs survive better than other types of IS drugs.

      This is a randomized open-label trial to determine the safety and efficacy of a single dose
      of autologous polyTregs in renal transplant recipients with subclinical inflammation (SCI) in
      the 3 to 7 months post-transplant allograft protocol biopsy compared to control patients
      treated with CNI-based immunosuppression. The efficacy of the Treg therapy will be assessed
      by the reduction of graft inflammation on biopsies performed at 7 months after study group
      allocation compared to the eligibility biopsy.
    
  