
    
      The specific objectives are:

      A. To identify items with high content validity for diagnosing LLS B. To investigate the
      preliminary value of items included in the LLS screen C. To investigate the performance of
      the included items in the LLS screen D. To decide on the content of the final version of the
      LLS Screen

      This project consists of four parts. Part I addresses objective A based on a literature
      search and qualitative semi-structured interviews. Part II addresses objective B by
      conducting a case-control study concurrent with a cohort study and performing a series of
      analyses to investigate the preliminary value and performance of the items. Part III
      describes the performance of the items by combining them in various ways to obtain an optimal
      diagnostic rule (objective C). Finally, part IV is a decision of the content of the final
      version of the LSS Screen based on information from Part I, II and III (objective D).

      Part II:

      A case-control study with cases and controls identified within a prospective clinical
      population based cohort study that will be boosted with cases of LSS.

      Cohort design First, a prospective clinical population based cohort of patients with low back
      pain and/or leg pain will be initiated. Patients above 50 years of age will be included in
      the study at their first visit at the Spine Centre where they fill out the screening
      questionnaire (index test) before they are seen by a clinician. The primary diagnosis
      (reference test) will be assessed and determined by specialists at the Spine Centre.

      Case-control design Secondly, patients with LSS will be recruited from other departments to
      artificially increase the prevalence of LSS. Patients with LSS will be recruited from the
      surgical department at the Spine Centre of Southern Denmark, Middelfart, Denmark and
      Department of Spine Surgery, Odense University Hospital (OUH), Odense, Denmark.
    
  