
    
      Candidate subjects will undergo a temporal bone Computed Tomography (CT) scan, contrast
      enhanced head Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), audiogram with immittance testing, pitch and
      level matching of tinnitus, Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE) and Auditory
      Brainstem Response (ABR) testing prior to promontory stimulation. Head MRI, DPOAE, audiogram
      and immittance testing are considered clinically routine for assessment of asymmetric
      tinnitus. Temporal bone CT, ABR, tinnitus pitch, level matching, masking levels and residual
      inhibition testing are not standard clinical assessments for asymmetric tinnitus. In
      addition, subjects will complete the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI), Tinnitus Functional
      Index (TFI) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) questionnaires three separate times within the week
      prior to promontory stimulation testing. Additional testing for comorbid anxiety and
      depressive conditions will be a screening Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD7), Patient Health
      Questionnaire (PHQ8), and short Health Anxiety Inventory (HAI-S). The NEO Personality
      Inventory (NEO PI) will be administered to provide baseline information. The initial session
      of promontory stimulation will define optimal stimulation parameters (i.e., location, current
      level, pulse-width, phase polarity), where maximal tinnitus suppression occurs with minimal
      or no auditory percept. After these parameters are established, the patient will complete the
      THI, TFI, and VAS immediately prior to stimulation, during stimulation, and following
      completion of stimulation at 10-minutes, 1-hour, 24-hours, 48-hours, and 1-week following
      completion of stimulation. In addition, pitch and level matching of tinnitus will be
      completed immediately upon completion of each promontory stimulation session. Each patient
      will undergo three successive treatments separated by 1-week. Prior to each treatment, the
      patient will receive an audiogram and DPOAE testing to document interval safety. At the
      conclusion of the study, subjects will be asked about their willingness to undergo surgical
      implantation of a device capable of long-term scheduled or on-demand electrical stimulation
      for tinnitus suppression
    
  