
    
      Participants: 90 children with confirmed diagnoses of ASD (based on ADOS and clinical
      judgement) between 18 months and 5 years of age will be randomized into clinician-mediated
      vs. parent-mediated JASPER intervention at Weill Cornell (n=30; PI Dr. Kim), BU (n=30, PI Dr.
      Tager-Flusberg), and UCLA (n=30, PIs Drs. Lord & Kasari). Minimally verbal children eligible
      for the ADOS Toddler Module or Module 1 (pre or minimally verbal) or those who have emerging
      phrases who may receive Module 2 (phrase speech) will be enrolled. The sample will be limited
      to children with nonverbal mental ages greater than or equal to 12 months.

      Pre-Intervention Behavioral Testing: We will administer the ADOS and Mullen Scales of Early
      Learning (MSEL), ESCS, SPA, and CCX. Parents will complete the interview version of the
      Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales -3rd edition. In addition, the investigators will
      administer ELSA-T (following the same procedures that we developed in the first phase of this
      project described above) as well as the BOSCC with clinicians and caregivers (independent,
      standardized administration by caregivers). A subset of children (n=20) will be invited
      within a week of the first assessment for another ELSA/BOSCC sessions for test-retest
      reliability.

      Responder vs. non-responder criteria: Children who show improvements in core ASD symptoms
      based on the treating therapists' CGI-Improvement ratings will be considered as "responders."
      Children who show stability or worsening on the CGI-I will be considered as "non-responders."
      Children will be stratified based on age and language levels across sites, and randomized
      into 10-week clinician- vs. caregiver- mediated JASPER interventions initially by the
      statistician at BU who will not be directly involved in the data collection. Non-responders
      will be then offered to receive a combined clinician-AND caregiver-mediated JASPER
      interventions for additional 10 weeks. "Responders" will continue with the same intervention
      for the additional 10 weeks.

      At T2 (after first 10 weeks) and T3 (after 20 weeks, end of study), the investigators will
      again administer ELSA-T, BOSCC, as well as CGI, ESCS, SPA, and CCX.

      Coding ELSA: Naïve coders will be trained to use ELAN to mark the beginning and end of each
      child speech vocalization/utterance and each examiner/parent utterance, which are coded on
      separate tiers. Coders will be blind about which kind of intervention the child received and
      when the ELSA recording was collected pre- or post-intervention. ELAN provides as output
      frequency of child utterances and frequency of adult utterances (corrected per unit time).
      The investigators have developed an algorithm that takes ELAN exported files containing the
      start and end time of each utterance from each speaker to derive a measure of conversation
      turn-taking (number of consecutive utterances produced by same speaker).

      Note that these two measures are not independent, but clinical trials could define either one
      as a primary outcome measure depending on whether the targeted outcome focuses on the child's
      communicative abilities or social engagement. ELSA-T recordings will be collected at three
      sites, but all ELSA coding will be completed at BU.

      Coding BOSCC: PI Dr. Kim's research team has trained, blind coders who will score the BOSCC
      without previous knowledge of the child and the time points of interactions. Different coders
      will be assigned for the clinician vs. caregiver BOSCC videos and for the parent behavioral
      coding. BOSCC videos will be collected at three sites, but all BOSCC coding will be done at
      Weill Cornell.

      The same research activities will be conducted at UCLA, Boston University, and Weill Cornell.
    
  