
    
      The investigators first provided evidence that human colorectal cancer (CRC) cells can
      undergo EMT during local invasion, and that EMT transcription factors (i.e.Twist family basic
      helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 (TWIST1)) are increased in the blood of CRC patients.
      In addressing the relevance of EMT in the metastatic process, the prognostic role of M-like
      cancer cells entering into the circulation remains to be determined.

      Currently, the notion that cancer disseminates via the circulation led to increased attention
      on the identification of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in blood samples ("liquid biopsy";
      LB), so far mostly based upon epithelial (E) markers. However, an un-biased evaluation of
      CTCs, providing meaningful information for cancer diagnosis up to therapy, cannot exclude
      cells with M features. LB data show that circulating TWIST1 mRNAs are significantly and
      steadily increased in the blood of CRC patients. These findings indicate that EMT players in
      the circulation change during different phases of CRC progression.

      The present study is aimed at detecting and measuring messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA)
      levels of genes involved in epithelial to mesenchymal transition in biological samples, i.e.
      in peripheral blood samples of tumor patients, to determine the presence of disease, its
      progression and possibly the risk of recurrence, even in patients who will be treated with
      adjuvant therapy on clinical ground.

      Aim of this study is to depict the molecular profile of EMT transcription factor (EMT-TFs)
      variations in the blood of patients with early, intermediate or advanced CRC, with respect to
      disease progression and delivered treatments.

      Primary endpoint: To determ the stage, the remission or the progression of a colorectal
      cancer in a colorectal cancer affected subject not administered with an appropriate antitumor
      treatment (e.g., neo-adjuvant therapy) comprising the step of assaying a biological sample
      from said subject for the presence of a panel of mRNAs encoding for transcription factors
      involved in epithelial to mesenchymal transition.

      Secondary endpoint: To identify biomarkers suitable for the selection of patients amenable of
      responsiveness to medical and surgical treatment.
    
  