
    
      Patients undergoing treatment with adriamycin-containing chemotherapy frequently develop
      significant anemia. Agents that can increase the amount of hemoglobin in cancer patients
      undergoing treatment with non-platinum-containing cyclic chemotherapy may improve the
      patients' reduced physical strength and reduced stamina resulting from anemia, improve the
      patients' ability to continue chemotherapy, and improve the patients' overall qualify of
      life. Epoetin alfa is a genetically engineered form of a natural hormone, erythropoietin,
      that is used to treat anemia by stimulating red blood cell production. This is a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, multicenter study. The study evaluates the
      safety and effectiveness of epoetin alfa in treating patients who develop persistent anemia
      as a result of treatment with aggressive non-platinum-containing cyclic chemotherapy for any
      cancer type (except rapid and severe onset of leukemias and malignancies of the bone marrow
      and spleen). The study consists of a screening period when patients' eligibility is
      determined, a 12-week double-blind treatment period when patients receive 3 injections each
      week with either epoetin alfa or placebo, and an optional open-label treatment period when
      patients who choose to continue will receive 3 injections of epoetin alfa per week during any
      remaining cycles of their chemotherapy. Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to one of
      two treatment groups: one group receiving epoetin alfa 150 units/kilogram and the other group
      receiving a comparable volume of placebo. Study drug is administered by injection beneath the
      skin 3 times weekly for 12 weeks. The dose of study medication may be increased or decreased
      at the discretion of the physician, based on the results of blood tests. Depending on the
      patient's chemotherapy cycle, he or she will return to the study site every 3 or 4 weeks for
      administration of study medication. Safety evaluations (laboratory tests, vital sign
      measurements, reporting of adverse events, physical examination, and electrocardiogram) are
      performed throughout the study. The primary measures of effectiveness of the study drug will
      be determined by the number of transfusions patients require and by changes in blood test
      results for hemoglobin, hematocrit, and reticulocytes (immature red blood cells) from before
      the start of the study to the end of the study. The study hypothesis is that epoetin alfa
      will, more effectively than placebo, stimulate adequate production of red blood cells to
      increase the hemoglobin level in cancer patients who are anemic as a result of undergoing
      treatment with aggressive non-platinum-containing cyclic chemotherapy. Double-blind: Epoetin
      alfa 150 units/kilogram (U/kg) or matching volume placebo injected beneath the skin 3 times
      weekly for 12 weeks. Open-label: Epoetin alfa at the dose received at the end of the
      double-blind study injected beneath the skin 3 times weekly for any remaining cycles of
      chemotherapy.
    
  