
    
      The geriatric rehabilitation inpatients recruited for this study primarily have difficulties
      with muscle weakness and walking generally due to a prolonged period of bed rest (as opposed
      to patients who primarily have cognitive disorders or neurological diseases), generalized
      muscle weakness and deconditioning. The rehabilitation goal for these patients is to be
      discharged home (not institutionalized) with improved mobility. Geriatric patients require
      intensive training in order to reach their pre-hospital levels of mobility and physical
      functional performance. Usual care involves physical therapy sessions, generally six times
      per week. Regaining mobility is crucial for quality of life and functional independence.

      The aim of this intervention trial is to compare the effectiveness of Lyra gait training plus
      conventional physical therapy (intervention group) on gait compared to conventional physical
      therapy alone (control group) in geriatric rehabilitation patients. We hypothesize that,
      post-intervention, the intervention group will have better mobility and physical functional
      performance than the control group. Trial results will provide physical therapists and
      rehabilitation physicians with valuable information to better treat their inpatients and more
      efficiently use the limited time available for inpatient physical therapy sessions.
      Specifically, physical therapists should be better able to determine if the benefit of the
      Lyra gait trainer for geriatric rehabilitation inpatients with primarily muscle
      deconditioning is strong enough to warrant their extra time investment of providing the Lyra
      gait training. Results should also help determine in the future if the target population
      should continue with outpatient therapy after their discharge home. If this trial supports
      our hypothesis, then the trial results will provide data needed for the sample size
      calculation for a subsequent, larger trial.

      The THERA-Trainer Lyra (from Ability AG, distributed by medica Medizintechnik GmbH) is an
      automated gait trainer with adjustable body weight support (no exoskeleton) and adjustable
      pedals (not a treadmill) that move in a physiological gait pattern derived from natural human
      walking movements. The upright position and the repetitive movement patterns activate muscle
      memory and allow safe gait training at the individual's performance limit throughout
      rehabilitation. The Lyra gait training is used to regain walking ability, improve gait speed,
      improve endurance and improve the gait pattern in geriatric rehabilitation patients.

      Ten patients should be enrolled in this study:

      Intervention group (n=5): Lyra gait training thrice weekly and conventional physical therapy
      (6 times per week) during inpatient period. After discharge home, continuation of thrice
      weekly Lyra gait training and discontinuation of physiotherapy.

      Control group (n=5): Conventional physical therapy (6 times per week) during inpatient
      period. After discharge home, discontinuation of physical therapy.

      At enrollment (Visit 1), all participants will be rehabilitation inpatients. The duration of
      the inpatient period will be determined clinically based on medical need and will thus vary
      from patient to patient. The average length of stay for the targeted population is
      approximately two weeks. Visit 2 will be performed shortly before the patient is discharged
      home. For each participant, the outpatient period (between Visit 2 and Visit 3) will be the
      same duration as the inpatient period (between Visit 1 and Visit 2).
    
  