
    
      Our understanding of cardiac involvement in FD is limited because the myocyte storage cannot
      be assessed non-invasively. However with the development of CMR T1 mapping this maybe
      possible. T1 mapping demonstrated excellent discrimination between FD and other causes of
      LVH, and this property is highly suggestive of a direct but intricate relationship between T1
      signals and abnormal fat storage. Specifically, 50% of patients without LVH have low T1
      values, suggesting that T1 is an early disease marker in FD. This property may prove
      particularly useful for assessing disease progression and treatment response in early
      disease.

      In CMR, LGE in FD characteristically occurs in the basal inferolateral wall. LGE is
      associated with a poor response to therapy and adverse outcomes. Hybrid imaging with PET/MR
      has shown that some FD LGE may be inflammation. T2 mapping may be useful as it is a sensitive
      detector of inflammation and oedema, for example discriminating acute from chronic myocardial
      infarction, and diagnosing myocarditis, particularly in the setting of chronic myocarditis or
      heart failure.

      The aims of this study are:

        1. Improve the diagnosis of cardiac involvement by recognition of early disease

        2. Detect early changes and responses to therapy

        3. Improve the understanding of the pathophysiology of cardiac involvement using
           multiparametric mapping by CMR

      Study Method:

      This is a cohort observational study of FD patients including children, patients starting
      ERT, ERT naïve patients and LVH positive patients. Follow up scans at 6 months and 12 months
      will be done on patients starting ERT. CMR Scanning will use T1 and T2 mapping techniques
      against established gold-standard sequences. The patients will also have ECHO and ECG. Blood
      biomarkers will be collected (serum, plasma and urine).
    
  