
    
      Little is known about the role of diet in the treatment of lung and other cancers, yet
      physicians are constantly confronted with the question 'what should I eat' by their patients.
      Very few randomized controlled dietary interventions have been carried out in this
      population, hence physicians and dietitians must use their best professional judgement to
      provide nutrition advice to their patients. Because most believe that nutrition is an
      important part of the treatment process, patients are eager to implement dietary
      recommendations and take control of this portion of their medical care. As such, upwards of
      64% of patients use the internet to access health information related to cancer treatment
      with nutrition websites being among the most popular sites visited. However, the dietary
      advice on the internet aimed at cancer patients is highly discrepant, and even so among
      cancer treatment centers and research institutions. Within the National Comprehensive Cancer
      Network (NCCN), of which Fred Hutchinson is a member, only 43% (9 of 21 centers) either
      provide nutritional information on their website or linked to outside websites. Of those,
      roughly half recommended a low-fat diet during cancer treatment and the other half
      recommended a calorie-dense eating plan with the inclusion of high-fat foods. Clearly, this
      presents a potential pitfall for patients as they, without guidance from their physician or
      dietitian, may follow dietary advice that is misleading or potentially harmful.

      While there is a need for further studies to elucidate the role diet plays during the
      treatment of cancers in general, lung cancer in particular is understudied in comparison to
      other types of cancers, and presents a unique opportunity to study the impact of diet during
      treatment. Primarily, lung cancer patients do not typically suffer from constraints to eating
      that affect colorectal, esophageal, or head/throat/neck cancer sufferers. Therefore, diet
      interventions using whole-foods may be fairly well tolerated in this population. A review of
      nutrition interventions in lung cancer patients carried out through October 2012 indicated
      that only three controlled studies in 149 patients had been completed, all of which used
      nutritional supplement products to prevent unintentional weight loss. The authors concluded
      that nutrition interventions in this population are safe and that more research is needed to
      determine optimal nutrition recommendations for advanced, inoperable lung cancers

      . Through the manipulation of diet, it is possible to selectively target key pathways
      involved in cancer growth and proliferation. For instance, it is known that cancer cells
      generate energy through the process of anaerobic glycolysis (the Warburg Effect) which relies
      primarily on glucose as a fuel source. Evidence from in vitro studies of non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) suggests that reducing the glucose availability from the diet might be
      particularly effective in the treatment of squamous cell carcinomas because the glucose
      transporter (GLUT-1) expression is markedly elevated in these cancer cells and is associated
      with enhanced uptake of, and dependence upon, glucose. Case-control studies show that dietary
      glycemic index is strongly associated with squamous cell carcinoma among NSCLC patients,
      suggesting that dietary strategies that limit carbohydrate may be effective in 'starving'
      these predominately glycolytic cells. A diet pattern in which overall energy is not limited,
      but sources of glucose are selectively reduced, is one mechanism by which cancer progression
      might be abated. Such low-carbohydrate or - in their most extreme form - ketogenic diets,
      which provide energy primarily from fat and protein while minimizing carbohydrates, are
      increasingly shown to be therapeutic for the treatment of glioblastoma and other cancers, as
      well as neurological diseases, including epilepsy, and cardiovascular disease risk factors.

      It is also known that activation of the IGF pathway is critical for tumor cell proliferation,
      invasiveness, and survival in NSCLC and downregulation of this pathway through dietary
      manipulation might also be an effective means to suppress cancer growth. The insulin-like
      growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) is abundantly present on surfaces of tumor cells, and high
      circulating levels of IGF-1, the ligand for the IGF-1R, are a risk factor for future lung
      malignancy. As individuals who consume diets high in protein from animal sources have greater
      levels of circulating IGF-1 compared to those consuming a vegetarian/vegan diet, limiting the
      intake of animal products may be an intriguing dietary strategy that might influence cancer
      progression. In our lab, we have shown that insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance
      improved after subjects adhered to a diet rich in whole grains, legumes, fruits, and
      vegetables, that excluded refined sources of energy (added sugar, refined grains, added fats
      and oils) (Kratz et al. unpublished data). This suggests that such a diet would also reduce
      the diurnal exposure of tumor cells to both glucose and insulin, which would decrease the
      availability of fuel and growth hormones for cancer cells. Taken together, both
      low-carbohydrate/ketogenic diets and low-fat, whole foods plant-based diets could plausibly
      affect pathways involved in cancer growth or progression by minimizing diurnal exposure to
      glucose, insulin, and IGF-1.
    
  