
    
      Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) are frequently occurring tumors with more than
      500,000 new cases worldwide and 45,000 in the USA yearly . Most patients present with
      local-regionally advanced diseases. Chemotherapy given concurrently with radiation is an
      integrated treatment component in the management of these patients. Concurrent chemoradiation
      can be given in unresectable diseases, in organ preservation to avoid surgery and preserve
      functions, and in high risk patients after surgery . Randomized clinical trials and
      meta-analyses have shown that concurrent chemoradiation are superior to radiation alone in
      these settings.

      One way of reducing overall treatment time and toxicity is to reduce the number of fractions
      by increasing the daily radiotherapy dose. The consequence of increased daily dose is both an
      increase in acute side effects as well as an increase in late toxicity. A widely accepted
      model of these radiobiologic effects over the range of typical 2-4 Gy daily fractions is the
      alpha-beta model that distinguishes acute responses and late responses based on a
      linear-quadratic fitting of extrapolated clonogenic survival curves. A time factor can be
      incorporated to account for the effect of repopulation. Equivalent biologically effective
      dose schedules using a reduced number of fractions may be calculated for any conventionally
      fractionated course. Because 70Gy/35/6 weeks with chemoradiation has been demonstrated to be
      tolerable, and because 66Gy/30/6 weeks has been shown with IMRT to produce 90% control for
      T1/2 oropharyngeal primary tumors, we will take the biological equivalent of 66Gy/33
      fractions over six weeks as the biologic equivalent standard we wish to maintain in
      hypofractionated courses of radiation. Because 54Gy/30 over six weeks is a well-known
      elective radiation dose schedule producing 95% control of occult nodal disease, we will take
      this as the biologically equivalent standard we wish to maintain in our hypofractionated
      schedules.
    
  