
    
      Primary Objective The primary objective of this study is to generate preliminary data in
      support of the hypothesis that noninvasive UHR-CT is not inferior to invasive coronary
      angiography by cardiac catheterization for identifying patients with hemodynamically
      significant CHD.

      Secondary Objectives Secondary objectives include testing the diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT
      vs. cardiac catheterization on a vessel and segment based analysis, comparison of UHR-CT
      Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) to conventional angiography, and comparison of adverse events
      and radiation doses between the CT and conventional angiography groups.

      Patient-Based Hypotheses

        1. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using visual assessment of coronary artery disease is
           non-inferior to invasive, conventional coronary angiography for identifying patients
           with hemodynamically significant CHD defined by an FFR or QFR-value of <0.8 in at least
           one vessel of 2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

        2. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using quantitative assessment of coronary artery disease
           is non-inferior to invasive, conventional coronary angiography for identifying patients
           with hemodynamically significant CHD defined by an FFR-value of <0.8 in at least one
           vessel of 2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

        3. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using CT-FFR is non-inferior to invasive, conventional
           coronary angiography for identifying patients with hemodynamically significant CHD
           defined by an FFR-value of <0.8 in at least one vessel of 2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

        4. UHR-CT coronary angiography is associated with lower radiation dose than conventional,
           invasive coronary angiography.

        5. UHR-CT coronary angiography is associated with lower adverse effects than conventional,
           invasive coronary angiography.

      Vessel Based Hypotheses

        1. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using visual assessment of coronary artery disease is
           non-inferior to invasive, conventional coronary angiography for identifying vessels with
           hemodynamically significant CHD defined by an FFR or QFR-value of <0.8 in a vessel of
           2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

        2. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using quantitative assessment of coronary artery disease
           is non-inferior to invasive, conventional coronary angiography for identifying vessels
           with hemodynamically significant CHD defined by an FFR-value of <0.8 in a vessel of 2.0
           mm or larger in diameter.

        3. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using CT-FFR is non-inferior to invasive, conventional
           coronary angiography for identifying vessels with hemodynamically significant CHD
           defined by an FFR-value of <0.8 in a vessel of 2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

           Segment-Based Hypotheses

        4. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using visual assessment of coronary artery disease is
           non-inferior to invasive, conventional coronary angiography for identifying arterial
           segments with hemodynamically significant CHD defined by an FFR-value of <0.8 in a
           vessel of 2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

        5. Diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT using quantitative assessment of coronary artery disease
           is non-inferior to invasive, conventional coronary angiography for identifying arterial
           segments with hemodynamically significant CHD defined by an FFR-value of <0.8 in a
           vessel of 2.0 mm or larger in diameter.

      3. Background Cardiac catheterization with invasive coronary angiography has remained the
      gold standard for determining the presence or absence of significant coronary luminal
      stenosis despite its limited accuracy compared to the standard of intravascular ultrasound.
      Because of the inherent risks involved with this invasive procedure (e.g., stroke, myocardial
      infarction, death or need for emergency surgical intervention) with a major complication rate
      of 1-2%), and considerable costs, non-invasive assessment of coronary artery disease would be
      preferred. Advances in multi-detector computed tomography angiography (CTA) have made the
      non-invasive imaging of the coronary arterial lumen and wall feasible. Numerous studies have
      since demonstrated good accuracy of CTA to identify patients with obstructive coronary artery
      disease. However, studies also demonstrated that CTA's diagnostic accuracy is only modest in
      patients with severe coronary artery calcification or stents, representing a major limitation
      of the technology. This limitation is due to fair spatial resolution and associated image
      artifacts in the setting of an attenuation-based image reconstruction algorithm. In this
      situation, high density structures, such as calcium or metal, will disproportionally dominate
      information derived from an affected image voxel leading overrepresentation of these
      structures on image display (partial volume effect).

      Recently, an ultrahigh-resolution CT scanner has been released which has shown promise to
      overcome the limitation of conventional CTA in the setting of severe coronary artery
      calcification or stents. This ultrahigh-resolution "precision" CT scanner (UHR-CT) contains
      detector rows with half the width than currently available systems (0.25 mm vs. 0.5 mm)
      resulting in approximately twice the spatial resolution. It is likely that this improvement
      will lead to improved diagnostic accuracy in high-risk patients. To conclusively test this
      hypothesis, a larger, multi-center study is required. The purpose of this investigation is to
      test the feasibility of such study and to generate initial data on the hypothesis that
      high-resolution CTA is not inferior to the current standard of cardiac catheterization for
      identifying significant CHD in patients with high-risk characteristics.

      4. Study Procedures

      a) Study design The CORE (CORonaryEvaluation)-PRECISION Pilot study is a prospective single
      center study of comparing the diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT to conventional, invasive
      coronary angiography by cardiac catheterization for the presence of hemodynamically
      significant CHD in 43 patients with CHD. For each participant, the screening evaluation
      periods will last less than 60 days and will be followed by the imaging period (less than 60
      days). All patients will be followed by additional 30 days after cardiac catheterization for
      occurrence of adverse events.

      Screening-Evaluation Period: The screening period will begin when a patient is scheduled for
      a clinically indicated coronary angiogram. The protocol inclusion and exclusion criteria will
      be reviewed for each potential participant. If the patient appears to be eligible for the
      study based on the initial evaluation, informed consent will be obtained. Baseline
      information and medical history will be collected. Blood will be obtained at the time of CTA
      (during intravenous cannula [IV] placement) for laboratory testing of cholesterol profile and
      serum biomarkers. No genetic testing will be performed.

      The clinically indicated coronary angiogram will not be delayed to complete the research
      protocol. If the CTA scan cannot be scheduled prior to the clinically indicated coronary
      angiogram the patient will not be enrolled in the trial. Consented patients will continue to
      be evaluated for participation in the trial through the imaging period.

      Imaging Period The imaging period will consist of two tests: 1) ultra-high resolution CT
      (UHR-CT) angiography; 2) conventional coronary angiography (CTA). All enrolled patients
      referred for a clinically indicated catheterization will first a UHR-CT angiogram.

      UHR-CT Imaging Patients will have one 18-20 gauge intravenous lines placed, preferably in an
      antecubital vein for contrast administration. The patient will be hydrated with normal saline
      intravenously (250 - 500 ml) prior to UHR-CT scanning. The patient will lie supine on the
      scanner table and be attached to a 12 lead electrocardiographic monitor and an automated
      blood pressure monitor. Baseline electrocardiogram (ECG), heart rate, and blood pressure will
      be recorded and reviewed by one of the study investigators. Due to resultant artifacts from
      precordial leads, the 12 ECG leads and electrodes will be removed and rhythm monitoring will
      continue using the 3-lead system attached to the scanners monitoring system during scanning.
      Patients may receive oral metoprolol and/or oral ivabradine 1-2 hours prior to the CT
      according to a hospital approved heart rate control algorithm. Specifically, if the heart
      rate (HR) is >70 beats per minute, 50 mg of oral metoprolol will be given along with 15 mg of
      oral ivabradine. If the heart rate is >65 but lower than 70 beats per minute, 25 mg of oral
      metoprolol will be given along with 15 mg of oral ivabradine. If the heart rate is >60 beats
      per minute but lower than 65 beats, only 15 mg of ivabradine is given. If HR remains >60
      beats per minute after 60 minutes post initial dosing of metoprolol and ivabradine, a second
      doses of 25-50 mg oral metoprolol is given. Scout images for determining scanning range will
      be obtained in the anterior-posterior and lateral views. Patients with systolic blood
      pressure ≥110 will receive 0.8 mg sublingual nitroglycerin for vasodilation. The adequate
      calcium score scan protocol will be confirmed on the scanner for each participant prior to
      the initiation of the calcium score scan. Patients will then be asked to hold patients'
      breath (approximately 10-15 seconds) and non-contrast CT imaging will be performed starting
      just cranial to the coronary ostia and extending just caudal to the apex of the heart in
      order to obtain a coronary calcium score. To limit radiation exposure, a coronary calcium
      score will only be generated for patients who have not previously been stented as the
      presence of stents affects the accuracy of the calcium score. CT angiogram will then be
      performed to evaluate the coronaries using iodine contrast.

      UHR-CT Protocol for Coronary Angiography

        1. If no previous stents, coronary calcium scan will be performed using the following
           protocol:

             -  No contrast.

             -  CT Imaging: tube voltage = 120 kilovolt (kV), tube current = 140 milliAmpere (mA),
                gantry rotation speed = 0.275 seconds, slice thickness = 0.25 mm, rows = 100, range
                = 40 mm. Estimated radiation dose = 1.0-2.5 milli-Sievert (mSv).

        2. Coronary arterial imaging Coronary arterial imaging will be performed during a 4-6
           ml/sec intravenous iodinated contrast iohexol (Omnipaque-350) infusion for a total
           volume of 60-100 ml. The automated bolus tracking feature will be used to judge contrast
           bolus arrival and optimize image quality. Bolus tracking will result in approximately
           0.7-1.2 mSv radiation dose to the patient (weight dependent).

      Images will be prospectively triggered using ECG gating which reduces radiation exposure to
      the patient compared to retrospective gating. The estimated range of radiation dose for CT
      coronary angiography will be 3.2-8.0 mSv depending on patient size and weight.

      Total estimated radiation dose, including calcium scoring, bolus tracking, and CT coronary
      angiography, will therefore range between 4.9-11.7 mSv. For comparison, a standard nuclear
      stress test typically results in a radiation dose of 10-12 mSv to the patient. Diagnostic
      cardiac catheterization for conventional coronary angiography typically averages 12 mSv
      radiation dose.

      CT raw data and reconstructed data will be saved by the site for at least 2 years after
      completion of the study. Within 3 weeks of the CTA, the CTA will be reviewed for non-cardiac
      findings by a locally qualified, institutionally approved radiologist, and reported. The
      investigator will report these findings to the patient's clinical physician and patient in a
      timely fashion preferably prior to or during the 30-day follow-up.

      A pre-catheterization serum creatinine should be obtained post CTA (per local standard, or
      preferably > 3 days post CTA).

      Conventional Coronary Angiography Patients will undergo patients' clinically indicated
      cardiac catheterization/coronary angiography, within 60 days of CT imaging with a recommended
      goal of completing all imaging within 30 days. A time window of ≥ 48 hours is recommended
      between CT imaging and conventional coronary angiography to minimize cumulative risk of
      contrast exposure from these two tests. Coronary angiography guidelines to obtain optimum
      angles and images for comparison will be enforced. Isocenter calibration will be performed
      for all studies to enable quantitative flow reserve (QFR) assessment. Intracoronary
      nitroglycerine will be administered (150-200 mcg) prior to first image of the left coronary
      artery system and right coronary artery. This is to standardize the vasomotor state of the
      coronary artery and eliminate any potential for catheter-induced changes (i.e., catheter
      induced spasm).

      Fractional-flow-reserve (FFR) assessment will be performed as clinically indicated but not
      solely for research purposes. Coronary angiographic images will be saved in the universal
      DICOM format and forwarded to the Angiographic Core Laboratory for Quantitative Coronary
      Angiographic Analysis. Quantitative coronary analysis (QCA) will be performed using standard,
      validated analysis software from Pie Medical Systems. QFR will be performed using a dedicated
      software (QFR, Medis Medical Imaging Systems).

      A post-catheterization serum creatinine should be obtained per local standard, or preferably
      within 48-72h post invasive coronary angiogram. Primary Objective The primary objective of
      this study is to generate preliminary data in support of the hypothesis that noninvasive
      UHR-CT is not inferior to invasive coronary angiography by cardiac catheterization for
      identifying patients with hemodynamically significant CHD.

      Secondary Objectives Secondary objectives include testing the diagnostic accuracy of UHR-CT
      vs. cardiac catheterization on a vessel and segment based analysis, comparison of UHR-CT
      Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) to conventional angiography, and comparison of adverse events
      and radiation doses between the CT and conventional angiography groups.
    
  