
    
      This research is to develop and test on a pilot basis the clinical efficacy of the IPCST on
      the clinical and recovery outcomes of outpatients with first and recent-onset psychosis in
      one-year follow-up period in one regional outpatient care service of both Hong Kong and
      Beijing, China. All outcomes will be assessed by a trained Research Assistant who is blind to
      group assignment in each city separately. In Hong Kong, the study venue will be one Early
      Assessment Service for Young People with Early Psychosis (EASY) in Kwai Chung Hospital under
      the Kowloon West Hospital Cluster, Hospital Authority Hong Kong. In Beijing, the study venues
      consist of the Sixth Hospital of Peking University, the Chaoyang Third Hospital, and the
      Haidian Mental Health Hospital.

      In both sites, the study venues are serving for first or recent-onset psychosis residing in
      the community.

      Similar to previous psychosocial interventional studies, the primary outcomes of this study
      are patients' mental status and level of functioning. Secondary outcomes include the rate and
      length of psychiatric hospitalizations, vocational status, social skills, family functioning,
      and quality of life.

      A total of 100 participants would be recruited for this project, 50 to be recruited from Hong
      Kong Kwai Chung; 50 to be recruited from mainland China sites.

      Part I: Participants of this part will be randomly allocated to experimental or control
      group.

      Experimental group participants will receive a 12-week, 48-hours of IPCST programme which
      includes both individual and group training on psychoeducation, motivational interviewing
      skills, neurocognitive and social cognition, and augmented supported employment with social
      skills.

      Control group participants will receive the usual psychiatric treatment they have been
      receiving from the hospital.

      All participants will receive assessment on their primary (symptom severity and functioning)
      and secondary (re-hospitalisation rates, family functioning, social skills, and employment
      status and satisfaction, and quality of life) outcomes at baseline and immediately (Post-test
      1), 6 months (Post-test 2), and 12 months (Post-test 3) after completion of the interventions
      by a research assistant. Each assessment episode lasts about 1.5 hours.

      Part II: Participants of this part will undergo a 30 minutes to 1 hour individual interview
      conducted by a research assistant that covers semi-structured open-ended questions and basic
      assessment of psychosocial stress, health and mental health status, and quality of life using
      quantitative measures.
    
  