
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of a staged treatment regimen
      in Wegener's granulomatosis and related vasculitides in which patients will receive
      glucocorticoid plus cyclophosphamide at disease onset; cyclophosphamide will be switched to
      methotrexate upon disease remission. At the current time, cyclophosphamide plus
      glucocorticoids are the standard of care for the treatment of these disorders. Although this
      regimen has brought about a marked improvement in survival rate, it has been associated with
      significant toxicity. Methotrexate plus glucocorticoids have recently been investigated in
      patients with non life-threatening disease and while this regimen appears to have less
      toxicity than standard therapy it may be associated with a higher rate of disease relapse. By
      inducing patients with cyclophosphamide and glucocorticoids then switching to methotrexate at
      remission, we hope to combine the efficacy of cyclophosphamide with the more favorable
      toxicity profile of methotrexate. If successful, this regimen could provide a safer, yet
      effective therapeutic option which would be applicable to all patients regardless of disease
      severity. In this study, patients will be initially treated with cyclophosphamide and
      glucocorticoids and then switched from cyclophosphamide to methotrexate upon quiescence of
      disease activity. If at the end of two full years of methotrexate therapy there is continued
      evidence of disease remission, the drug will be tapered and ultimately discontinued. Patients
      will be prospectively monitored for evidence of disease activity and drug toxicity. Specific
      parameters that will be obtained include the time to disease remission, the rate and time of
      disease relapse, and the incidence of drug related adverse effects. This study will be open
      to patients with systemically active Wegener's granulomatosis or related vasculitis
      regardless of their degree of disease severity.
    
  