
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with an association of akinesia,
      rigidity and tremor, but also so-called "axial" motor signs (disturbance of posture, gait and
      balance) that usually appear after several years of disease evolution. These axial signs,
      generally resistant to drug treatment and deep brain stimulation (DBS) of subthalamic nucleus
      (STN), can generate a loss of autonomy and traumatic complications due to frequent falls. An
      improvement of axial signs by DBS of the pedunculo-pontin nucleus (PPN) has been described
      for a small number of patients. Nevertheless, this effect needs to be confirmed in more
      patients and there is need for complementary knowledge, including optimal stimulation
      modalities.

      The primary objective of the current prospective monocentric pilot study is to determine the
      optimal stimulation parameters (site of stimulation, frequency, amplitude) of PPN-DBS in
      patients with severe PD. Secondary objectives are 1) to confirm the effect of PPN-DBS on
      disturbance of posture, balance and gait; 2) to evaluate long term tolerance of this
      technique; 3) to determine the components of gait that are most improved by PPN-DBS; 4) to
      evaluate unilateral versus bilateral stimulation; 5) to evaluate the effects of PPN-DBS on
      other PD symptoms; 6) to determine the impact of PPN-DBS on quality of life. Five patients
      fulfilling the following criteria, will be included: age between 18 and 70 years, idiopathic
      PD for more than 5 years, predominant axial motor signs (disturbance of gait and balance,
      falls, freezing of gait) responsible for disability in daily living and resistant to optimal
      treatment.

      The DBS electrodes (model 3389, Medtronic) will be stereotactically implanted bilaterally in
      the PPN, according to the technique usually used for STN-DBS, and connected to the
      subcutaneously implanted stimulator (Kinetra, Medtronic). After the surgery, the study will
      comprise two phases: a 6-month phase dedicated to optimisation of the stimulation parameters
      (including systematic evaluation of defined parameters); followed by a phase of evaluation,
      that will compare, in a double-blind setting, 4 conditions (right unilateral, left
      unilateral, bilateral and off stimulation). Efficacy of PPN-DBS will be evaluated by clinical
      rating scales quantifying motor disturbance, cognitive function and quality of life, and by
      the means of computer-based measure of gait and balance (system Gaitrite and Vicon).

      Expected results are 1) an improvement of gait, postural and balance disturbance, due to
      PPN-DBS. 2) Identification of the optimal PPN-DBS parameters, improving most the axial PD
      symptoms, will allow to abbreviate the adjustment period, by using as default setting these
      parameters when turning on the stimulator for the first time; 3) Identification of the axial
      signs which are the most improved will allow to select patients that could most benefit from
      PPN-DBS 4) The use of diverse specific rating scales and quantitative gait analysis will
      allow to determine the most relevant clinical criteria to be evaluated in further studies.

      Thus, this project will allow to obtain data (selection criteria, relevant rating scales,
      optimal stimulation parameters) mandatory for the construction of further comparative
      large-scale studies, if the efficacy of PPN-DBS was confirmed by the present study.
    
  