
    
      This trial will evaluate the functions and impacts of the SmartCare pilot services from the
      point of view of the different principal roles/stakeholders, such as end users (care
      recipients), voluntary and non-voluntary informal carers, formal care staff/professionals,
      managers and fund-holders. Evaluation of integrated care service delivery processes (process
      evaluation) will improve the current scientifically based knowledge base on barriers and
      facilitators towards integrated care delivery.

      Comparators were chosen to be current delivery of health and social care processes ('normal
      care'), as provided by pilot sites individually. The project uses local scenarios as the
      comparator in order to enable the evidence generated to contribute to local decision making
      on using the technologies. Thus, the control groups were as similar as possible to the
      intervention groups (receiving 'new care'). In addition, a number of possible confounding
      factors were measured for all participants.

      The overall aim of the scientific studies carried out in SmartCare is: To identify the
      differences induced by implementing ICT supported integrated health and social care.

      Any impact that ICT supported integrated health and social care might have on all users will
      be the subject of analyses according to the framework presented in the MAST model (Kidholm et
      al. 2012).

      In addition, the objectives that will be tested in SmartCare are:

        -  Difference in number of contacts to health care.

        -  Difference in number of contacts to social care.

        -  Differences in use of health care services.

        -  Differences in use of social care services.

        -  Differences in costs.

        -  Differences in organisational aspects caused by implementing ICT supported integrated
           care.

        -  Difference in end-user empowerment.

        -  Difference in end-user satisfaction.
    
  