
    
      Background:

      Increase in lactate levels (hyperlactataemia) is common in critically ill patients and it is
      a sensitive marker in early identification of patients who are critically ill. Blood lactate
      is also a predictor of clinical outcomes. High level of lactate is associated with high
      mortality as well as increased morbidity. Capillary blood sample is easy to collect, less
      painful, and its measurement using handheld device which may allow more rapid determination
      of test results in ED. This rapid lactate measurement could aid early recognition of patients
      at high risk of mortality and morbidity. However, the accuracy of this rapid capillary
      lactate measurement using handheld devices has not been well studied in ED patients.

      Objective:

      To study the accuracy of capillary blood level measured by handheld lactate analyzers when
      compared with the reference methods e.g.venepuncture blood gas analyzer sample.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective observational study of patients presenting to ED of Prince of Wales
      Hospital (PWH). Patients aged 18 or above who are triage category 3 presenting to ED will be
      recruited. Capillary and venous blood samples will be collected. Venous lactate levels will
      be measured by blood gas analyzer (Siemens Automatic QC RAPID Systems RAPID Point@500) and
      two hand-held lactate analyzers (StatStrip Xpress Lactate Meter and Lactate Scout + ). Venous
      lactate levels measured by blood gas analyzer will be served as "reference method". Capillary
      lactate levels will be analyzed by handheld lactate analyzer. We are aimed to recruited 240
      patients.

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome is the accuracy of capillary blood level measured by handheld lactate
      analyzers when compared with the reference methods e.g. venepuncture blood gas analyzer
      sample. The secondary outcomes are: (1) compare the difference in values of venous lactate
      using blood gas analyzer and hand-held lactate analyzers, (2) compare values of capillary and
      venous lactate using hand-held lactate analyzers, (3) compare the reporting times of handheld
      and blood gas analyzer, and (4) Compare values of capillary lactate using between the two
      hand-held lactate analyzers.
    
  