
    
      Sepsis is a common and devastating disease that is responsible for 215,000 deaths annually in
      the United States and is the leading cause of death in critically ill patients. Sepsis is now
      recognized as a time-sensitive emergency, as patients stand the best chance for survival when
      effective therapeutic interventions are delivered as early as possible. Early goal-directed
      therapy (EGDT), a protocol-directed resuscitation strategy targeting early optimization of
      global hemodynamic parameters, can save lives. Use of an EGDT protocol has been associated
      with the largest mortality benefit demonstrated in sepsis randomized controlled trials to
      date; however, sepsis still carries an extremely high mortality rate (~30%), even with
      effective EGDT. As tissue perfusion in sepsis can remain markedly impaired despite
      normalization of global hemodynamics, targeting macrocirculatory goals of resuscitation (e.g.
      blood pressure, cardiac output) alone may not be sufficient.

      Microcirculatory dysfunction is a pivotal element in the pathogenesis of sepsis.
      Microcirculatory dysfunction causes impairment of tissue perfusion independent of global
      hemodynamics, and is hypothesized to be a critical factor in the development of
      sepsis-induced organ dysfunction, especially in the earliest phase of sepsis therapy.
      Orthogonal polarization spectral (OPS) videomicroscopy is a technique that permits
      non-invasive assessment of the microcirculation in human subjects. Using the OPS technique,
      increasing severity of early microcirculatory derangements in sepsis patients have been
      associated with acute multi-organ failure and mortality. We recently demonstrated that early
      derangements of microcirculatory flow in sepsis patients were more severe in non-survivors
      compared to survivors, even with the application of EGDT. Early recognition of
      microcirculatory dysfunction and its reversal may lead to improved outcome. Currently,
      however, there are no therapies to specifically target the microcirculation in sepsis. Novel
      strategies that go beyond optimization of global hemodynamics and aim to improve
      microcirculatory blood flow could be a new frontier for sepsis resuscitation. Since the early
      resuscitation phase of therapy represents the greatest opportunity for impact on clinical
      outcome in sepsis, it also appears to be the most promising window of opportunity to
      demonstrate a benefit when investigating novel therapies.

      Nitric oxide (NO) is an endogenous molecule that is essential for maintaining
      microcirculatory homeostasis. Nitric oxide becomes especially critical for protecting
      microcirculatory patency, integrity, and function when the microcirculation sustains a severe
      insult (e.g. sepsis). Although NO production is globally upregulated in sepsis, the
      production of NO is heterogeneous between and within organ systems at the microcirculatory
      level. We believe that exogenous NO administration may preserve microcirculatory flow in
      sepsis, and we hypothesize that this will be an effective therapy to augment tissue
      perfusion. Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) can deliver NO effectively to the distal
      microcirculation and "open" low-flow microcirculatory units via modulation of microvascular
      tone as well as anti-adhesive effects on the microvascular endothelium. Because iNO would not
      be expected to induce or exacerbate arterial hypotension in sepsis patients, iNO
      administration is an ideal method to test hypotheses about the effects of exogenous NO on the
      microcirculation in sepsis.

      We hypothesize that iNO will augment microcirculatory perfusion in sepsis resuscitation, and
      this increase in microcirculatory flow will be associated with improved lactate clearance (an
      important marker of resuscitation effectiveness) and decreased organ failure (a critical
      patient-oriented outcome measure). To test our hypothesis, we generated two inter-related
      specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To determine whether iNO can augment tissue perfusion in sepsis
      resuscitation. In a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, we will evaluate the
      effect of iNO compared to placebo on microcirculatory perfusion indices in sepsis patients
      who exhibit persistent microcirculatory flow impairment after achievement of global
      hemodynamic endpoints of resuscitation during EGDT.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine whether iNO-mediated improvement in microcirculatory perfusion
      in sepsis leads to more effective resuscitation and a reduction in organ failure. In a
      randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, we will evaluate the effect of iNO on
      clinical outcomes of sepsis patients: [(a) increase in lactate clearance from 0-2 hours, and
      (b) decrease in the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score from 0 to 24 hours].
    
  