
    
      Objective: Late age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness
      among elderly in the United States. At present the current classification systems do not take
      into consideration advances in imaging technology and genotyping and phenotyping.

      Clinical centers in the US and around the world will conduct a pilot cohort study that will
      bring together resources and commitment to test the feasibility of developing a new
      classification scheme for AMD using imaging and visual function biomarkers, with the
      potential of correlating genetic information obtained in the future. These data could
      eventually help develop an understanding of the mechanisms involved in the development and
      progression of AMD. A database of men and women with and without AMD will be established and
      maintained. The project will recruit participants who have various stages of AMD and
      controls. The pilot study will identify the feasibility of obtaining imaging and visual
      function data and help identify which of these modalities should be included in a full scale
      longitudinal study, as well as how frequently and at which sites they should be obtained. All
      data, images and any potential biospecimens from the full scale longitudinal study will be
      available to researchers worldwide to help in the development of biomarker identification and
      classification development. The initiative should provide an unparalleled state-of-the-art
      standardized phenotype/genotype including AMD status with information on imaging, visual
      function, and biospecimen biomarkers. This study is the first phase of this initiative to
      test the feasibility and logistics of defining a standard database including enhanced
      phenotype and genotype data.

      Study Population: This cohort study will recruit a minimum of 200 total participants with
      various stages of AMD, including controls and obtain the appropriate images and measures of
      visual function needed for the investigation and validation of an AMD phenotype.

      Design: This cohort study is a multi-national, multi-center, observational study focused on
      AMD. The study is a pilot to test the ability to create an archive of data, biological
      samples (collected at other study sites), measures of visual function and ophthalmic images
      collected over time from a very well clinically characterized population of participants with
      a diagnosis of AMD. The database will also include a control group consisting of participants
      without a diagnosis of AMD.

      Outcome Measures: The design of this cohort study and the data being collected will allow
      users to assess phenotypes of AMD, develop and evaluate potential markers and risk factors,
      develop and evaluate an AMD classification scheme(s), and assess the progression of the
      disease and investigate factors that shape it. It is not practical to anticipate all of the
      potential uses of the data, or all the types of analyses that will be performed to address
      user-defined questions.
    
  