
    
      This is a phase II, single institution, and non-randomized study of patients with relapsed or
      refractory CLL/SLL, utilizing a two-stage trial design. The primary endpoint for this trial
      is the combined complete and partial response rate at 3 months (after the end of cycle 3) to
      the protocol therapy. Investigators anticipate this trial will have a complete response and
      partial response (CR+PR) rate of at least 55%.

      A two-stage design is employed for this trial. The null/unacceptable CR+PR response rate is
      ≤35% while the anticipated true response rate to the protocol treatment is at least 55% for
      each disease cohort. At the first stage, 25 patients will be accrued to the trial. If 9 or
      fewer of these patients respond, then the trial will be terminated early and the response
      rate to the protocol treatment will be deemed unacceptable (≤35%). Otherwise, if more than 9
      patients respond during the first stage, an additional 31 patients will be enrolled to this
      trial during stage 2 for a total of 56 patients. If 25 or fewer of these 56 patients respond
      to the protocol treatment at the end of stage 2, no further investigation of the protocol
      treatment is considered warranted. On the other hand, if more than 25 patients out of the 56
      enrolled patients respond, the protocol treatment will be considered promising. If the true
      response rate is ≤35%, the probability of ending the trial at stage 1 is 0.63. If, however,
      the true response rate is at least 55%, then the probability of ending the trial at stage 1
      is only 0.04. This two-stage design has an overall alpha level of 0.047 and a power of 0.90.

      For the purpose of interim analysis at the end of stage 1, the objective response will be
      measured by the end of 3 months (or end of cycle 3) from the start of the protocol treatment
      prior to the initiation of the combination of ofatumumab with lenalidomide. The accrual will
      not be suspended while waiting for the results of the interim analysis unless the observed
      objective response rate among those patients whose objective response data are available is
      below 30%.
    
  