
    
      Dental Caries disease prevented through the antibacterial mouthwash.

      The prevalence of dental caries disease continues to be a challenge for oral health care
      professionals to this day.

      In fact an alarming 92% of US adults (aged 20 to 64 years) have a history of dental caries.
      While strides have been made since the early 1970s the problem persists.

      From the mid1990s until 2004 according to the National Health and Nutrition examination
      survey there was a small but significant increase in primary decay. This trend was even more
      severe in younger.

      Dental Caries disease are not being treated can eventually turn into more serious issues.
      Fluoride has long been known as one of the key components to good oral health and the
      prevention of dental caries disease. It is a naturally occurring mineral that makes tooth
      enamel more resistant to acid producing bacteria that cause dental caries disease while also
      repairing teeth in the very early microscopic stages. While the use of fluoride in toothpaste
      has been responsible for a drop in dental caries disease since 1960 this significant problem
      still persists.

      Yet, many people do not realize that also using a mouth rinse can result in 50% stronger
      teeth than brushing with fluoride toothpaste alone. The American Dental Association (ADA)
      recommends the use of mouth rinses with fluoride to help resist tooth decay. However, while
      it may appear so on the surface, not all fluoride mouth rinses are created the same.

      At the Listerine brand, our commitment to innovation led to the creation of unique
      anti-cavity mouth rinses powered by breakthrough science called rapid fusion technology a
      unique fluoride delivery system which binds calcium ions with fluoride to create fluoride
      reservoirs that attach to tooth enamel and are then released over time for a greater fluoride
      uptake and greater enamel content of fluoride to the tooth surface.

      Rapid fusion technology provides fluoride in a safe acidic environment that rapidly liberates
      calcium and phosphate ions. These ions combine to create millions of tiny fluoride reservoirs
      on tooth enamel and in saliva increasing the amount of fluoride on the tooth surface.

      Throughout the day as enamel is exposed to acids from dietary sugars, the reservoirs dissolve
      and release fluoride to re-mineralize the teeth. The fluoride then binds to areas of weak
      demineralized enamel and attracts calcium and phosphate from saliva.

      These ions penetrate the enamel and combine with fluoride to create a new stronger and more
      acid resistant mineral surface. In this way Rapid fusion technology enhances
      re-mineralization and inhibits demineralization of tooth enamel to provide. stronger teeth
      than brushing with fluoride toothpaste alone and greater re-mineralization of enamel.

      The antimicrobial mouthwash is proved to prevent the development of dental plaque. The use of
      antimicrobial agents will lead to the avoidance of side effects complained by patients
      associated with the use of chlorhexidine.

      And proving their potency against mutans streptococci will dramatically improve the oral
      health of patients as it is the major cause of dental plaque.

      Dental plaque is reported to be a major health problem in public.

      Therefore, reducing the incidence of caries disease through the use of antimicrobial agents
      will decrease the number of visits of patients complaining of plaque and associated health
      problems. Also, complaints of patients regarding side effects of will be of no concern to
      dentists.
    
  