
    
      Background: Despite the overall improvements in malnutrition in the Chinese population, iron
      deficiency (ID) and iron deficiency anemia (low iron and low hemoglobin, IDA) are still
      widely prevalent in China. According to recent studies, the prevalence of anemia in Chinese
      women of childbearing age is 20% and can be as high as 30% in rural areas, with 85% of anemia
      cases resulting from ID. Diabetes, heart disease, and obesity are also highly prevalent in
      China - though the Chinese government is taking actions against these epidemics, often via
      interventions promoting physical activity. Iron deficiency without anemia (IDNA) can impair
      adult physical performance and lowers time spent doing voluntary physical activities.
      However, iron supplementation intended to alleviate IDNA may be less effective in those who
      are physically active, suggesting an intricate, but currently undefined, relationship between
      iron status, exercise, and physical performance capacity. A combined analysis of iron status,
      exercise training, and physical performance in Chinese women could illuminate interactions
      between these factors and their role in diabetes and obesity reduction.

      One common treatment for the symptoms of iron deficiency is the traditional Chinese herbal
      treatment, Ba-Zhen-Ke-Li (BZKL). While studies have shown that BZKL impacts expression of
      some iron-related proteins and increases endurance performance in rats, no studies have
      examined the efficacy of BZKL in improving iron markers or physical performance in humans.
      This study will compare the efficacy of BZKL in improving iron status and physical
      performance with that of ferrous sulfate supplementation.

      Significance and Specific Aims:

      The goal of the proposed research is to clarify the relationship between iron status,
      physical performance, and aerobic exercise training. By conducting an iron intervention study
      in combination with an exercise training program, the investigators can examine the modifying
      effect of iron status on the physical performance changes from aerobic exercise training as
      well as the modifying effect of participation in aerobic exercise in maintenance of iron
      status. To achieve this goal, a randomized double-blind, placebo controlled trial will be
      conducted with Chinese collegiate women.

      The proposed work will be organized along three specific aims:

      Aim I: To determine how changes in iron status, alone or in combination with exercise
      training, influence physical performance. Hypothesis: Subjects who both improve iron status
      and receive exercise training will show improvements in physical performance greater than the
      additive improvements resulting from either treatment alone. This result would suggest iron
      replete individuals benefit more from exercise training than those who are iron deficient.

      Aim II: To determine how aerobic exercise training affects the maintenance of iron
      homeostasis. Hypothesis: Subjects participating in exercise training will show smaller
      improvements in iron status from iron supplementation than sedentary subjects who receive the
      same iron supplementation. This would suggest regular exercise training negatively impacts
      iron absorption, iron excretion and/or iron homeostasis.

      Aim III: To determine whether BZKL can be used as an alternative to iron supplementation for
      improving iron status or physical performance of iron deficient, non-anemic women.
      Hypothesis: Those women who receive BZKL will improve in iron status and physical performance
      measures more than those who receive placebo.

      The proposed research in Aims 1 and 2 is important because there is no known explanation for
      the observed relationships between iron, exercise training, and physical performance in IDNA.
      This research will allow clarification of the role that iron status plays in modifying the
      effects of exercise training on physical performance as well as whether participation in
      exercise impacts effectiveness of iron supplementation in improving iron status.

      The long-term significance of this research is that establishing these relationships will
      further the current understanding of how iron status impacts and is impacted by aerobic
      exercise and physical performance. This knowledge could lead to improved physical activity
      interventions, which help reduce chronic diseases like obesity and diabetes in populations
      with high prevalence of ID, such as the U.S. and China. It will also help to inform iron
      interventions designed to alleviate ID in physically active populations, such as rural
      Chinese laborers and women in developed countries who participate in aerobic training to
      improve fitness.

      Research Design and Methods:

      Participants will be female subjects between the ages of 18-26 years with low body iron but
      normal hemoglobin (Hb) levels, (ferritin <20 μg/L and Hb > 120 g/L) who are otherwise
      healthy.

      The study will be a randomized double-blind, placebo controlled trial with a 3x2 design.
      Power calculations were based on the pilot study performed by the investigators in Shanghai
      in 2013 and a study by Brownlie et al. Sample size was calculated to require 24 women per
      group, which was expanded to 29 subjects per group to allow for sample dropout. Subjects will
      be randomized to receive either 50mg of ferrous sulfate capsule twice a day (20mg elemental
      iron/day), 6 mg of BaZhen KeLi, or identical placebo capsules for 8 weeks. Half of each
      supplement group will also be randomly assigned to receive 8 weeks of aerobic exercise
      training (5 days/week, 25 minutes/day) or no training.

      At weeks 0, 4, and 8 subjects will complete the following:

        1. Anthropometric measurements (height, weight, skinfold thickness)

        2. Physical activity and 4-day dietary intake questionnaires

        3. Resting venous blood draw for iron status assessment

        4. Exercise testing (VO2max test and energetic efficiency test)

      To address Aims 1 and 2, the investigators will compare energetic efficiency, maximum ability
      to use oxygen, ventilatory threshold, and blood lactate concentrations at baseline, after
      supplementation (or placebo), and after exercise training (or no training). The 3x2 study
      design will allow for the determination of whether subjects receiving iron benefit more from
      exercise training. The investigators will also examine whether participating in exercise
      training affects iron homeostasis or lowers iron status.
    
  