
    
      Up to one hundred resident and fellow physicians employed by Banner Health will participate
      in the project. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the TM program or to a
      delayed TM training, treatment-as-usual control group . Study outcomes will be assessed at
      baseline, 1-month and 3-month post-training , with change in burnout as the primary outcome.
      Control subjects (aka delayed TM training or Group 2) will be eligible to learn TM after
      completing 3 month post-testing. Group 2 will also complete post-training assessments at
      1-month and 3-months post-training. The total duration of this project will be 60 months.

      Two experienced certified TM instructors will conduct the instruction. All certified TM
      teachers have been extensively trained in the teaching of the TM program, including teaching
      the course of instruction, verifying continued correctness of effortless practice of the
      technique, and conducting additional follow-up sessions. The same standardized TM course
      sequence will be used for all study participants.

      Outline of Transcendental Meditation Program: TM group will involve 10 total sessions over 12
      weeks (about 75 minutes per session). The core instruction in the TM technique will involve a
      course of instruction, taught over five sessions. The five core instruction sessions will
      include:

        1. Introductory session-Review of previous scientific research on the TM program and a
           vision of possible benefits; Preparation- discussion of the mechanics and origin of the
           TM technique(75 minutes- group session); After the introductory session, a Personal
           Interview is conducted telephonically-with a teacher of the TM program. The participant
           completes a brief interview form prior to the call. The interviewer (a teacher with the
           TM program) reviews the form with the participant.

           The four classes of TM instruction adhere to a standardized teaching protocol and are
           conducted by certified teachers of the Transcendental Meditation program trained and
           approved by the Transcendental Meditation organization.

        2. Personal Instruction-individual one-on-one instruction in the TM technique (75 minutes).
           The student learns the mechanics of the TM technique. At the conclusion of this class
           the student is able to meditate properly.

        3. First Day of Verification of Correct Practice and Further Instruction (90 minutes-group
           session); The first follow-up session provides information to help students incorporate
           TM into their daily life.

        4. Second Day of Verification of Correct Practice-understanding the mechanics of the TM
           technique from personal experiences (90 minutes-group session); The second session
           provides information about how the meditation reduces stress and improves health

        5. Third Day of Verification of Correct Practice-understanding the mechanics of the
           development of higher human potential and wellness (90 minutes-group session). The third
           session reviews students' experiences both during and after meditation, and provides
           further instruction to support their ongoing home practice.

      Following the initial phase of the intervention (5 sessions), there will be 5 additional
      group sessions of 45-60minutes each provided once a month for the remainder of the 6-month
      intervention period. These sessions will include: a) discussion of personal experiences and
      verification of correctness of practice of the TM technique, and b) knowledge of the human
      potential and its relationship to mental and physical health.

      Compliance with treatment sessions will be defined as attending at least 70% of the treatment
      sessions. Subjects randomized to the TM group will continue with their usual care.

      No research data is collected during the sessions described above.

      Although it is the intent for all of these sessions to be conducted at the Tucson
      Transcendental Meditation Center, in small physically distanced groups of participants
      wearing whatever level of personal protective equipment is being recommended by the CD at the
      time of the session, in the event that in person sessions are not possible, the group
      sessions will be held virtually through Zoom video conferencing. Additionally, participants
      may be able to complete sessions 3-5 over the TM App (a series of pre-recorded lectures).

      For participants who choose to use the TM App, they will be asked to create an account
      through the app, and will be given the opportunity to review the Terms of Service and Privacy
      Policies. Maharishi Foundation International (the owners/developers of the App) monitor the
      participants progress through the digital content so that they know when to release the next
      session (as described above). Participants can also use the App to time their meditation
      sessions, although this is not required.

      Home Practice: Home practice will consist of two 20-minute TM sessions daily - morning and
      evening. Compliance with TM practice will be defined as meditating at least once a day.
      Participants will complete a home practice questionnaire at 1 month and 3 months (attached as
      an addendum-will be included in the REDCap bundle with assessments).

      Delayed TM training/Control Condition: Subjects randomized to the control group will continue
      with their usual care. Control subjects will be invited to learn the TM program after 3-month
      post-training assessment. If they chose to complete the TM training, they will be subject to
      the same training as Group 1, and the same assessments after the end of their training.
    
  