
    
      Specific Aims

      AIM 1: To determine the acute effects of the exercise pressor response imposed by PEMI with
      and without CPT on hemodynamics and cardiac autonomic regulation in health overweight/obese
      men.

      AIM 2: To examine the effects of a 14-day course of L-cit supplementation on arterial
      stiffness, aortic hemodynamics, and autonomic regulation at rest and during conditions
      characterized by increased sympathetic activity (IHG, PEMI, and PEMI concurrent with CPT).

      Research Hypotheses

      Hypothesis 1: There will be greater increases in peripheral and central BP, arterial
      stiffness, wave reflection, and cardiac sympathetic activity during PEMI concurrent with CPT
      than during PEMI alone.

      Hypothesis 2: 14 days of L-cit supplementation will attenuate peripheral and central BP, wave
      reflection, arterial stiffness, and cardiac sympathetic activity responses during IHG
      exercise, PEMI, and PEMI concurrent with CPT compared with placebo (PL) supplementation.

      Description of the study

      A total of twenty male young adults (18-35 years) with overweight or obesity [body mass index
      (BMI) >25 and <40 kg/m2] will be enrolled in this study. All of the subjects will be
      nonsmokers, no L-cit or L-arg users or regular exercisers (defined as more than 120 min per
      week) at least 6 months before the study begins. Subjects will be asked to maintain their
      diet and exercise habits during the study period.

      Study design:

      After completion of initial screening, cardiovascular and autonomic function of eligible
      subjects will be evaluated in a quiet temperature-controlled room (22-24°C). After baseline
      measurement, in a cross-over design fashion, subjects will be randomized to either Placebo
      group (Maltodextrin) or L-citrulline group for the first 14 days of the study that will be
      followed by a 14 day washout period and then will be crossed over to their next treatment.
      Cardiovascular function will be evaluated at baseline and after 14 days of the first and the
      second treatment. Measurements will be conducted in the morning after at least 8 hours of an
      overnight fast in order to avoid potential diurnal variations in BP and vascular reactivity.
    
  