
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response rate, duration of response, and survival in patients
      with metastatic or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with
      cetuximab and cisplatin after failure of an initial cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimen. II.
      Determine the efficacy, safety, and toxicity of this regimen in these patients. III. Assess
      the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Part I (courses 1 and 2): Patients are assigned to 1 of
      2 treatment groups based on prior cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimen: Group 1 (prior
      cisplatin with paclitaxel): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
      fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-4. Group 2 (prior cisplatin with fluorouracil):
      Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Both
      groups: Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses. Patients who achieve partial or
      complete response after completion of course 2 are taken off study. Patients with stable
      disease or disease progression after completion of course 2 proceed to part II of the study.
      Part II (courses 3-6): Patients are stratified by response to initial cisplatin-based
      chemotherapy regimen (stable disease vs disease progression). Patients receive a test dose of
      cetuximab IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Patients who do not experience grade 4 anaphylactic
      reaction receive a loading dose of cetuximab IV over 2 hours beginning 30 minutes after
      completion of test dose. Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour beginning 1 hour after
      completion of cetuximab infusion on day 1. Patients receive maintenance cetuximab IV over 1
      hour on day 8. Maintenance cetuximab repeats weekly. Combination treatment repeats every 3
      weeks for a maximum of 4 courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after completion
      of course 6 may continue to receive cetuximab alone in the absence of disease progression and
      at the discretion of the protocol investigator and sponsor. Quality of life is assessed
      before course 1, at the completion of courses 2, 4, and 6, and then at 4 weeks after
      completion of study. Patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 175 patients will be accrued for this study within 8 months.
    
  