
    
      Candida spp. is commonly retrieved from microbiologic specimens of ICU patients with
      suspected VAP. It has been associated with increased systemic inflammation and worse clinical
      outcomes. This association may be due to the propensity for Candida to colonize those who are
      sicker, who have increased levels of systemic inflammation and worse clinical outcomes.
      However, an alternate possibility is that Candida is more than a colonizer and is responsible
      for the clinical and biochemical features observed. The only way to clarify the pathogenic
      role of Candida from this patient population is to treat the organism and see if patients
      improve compared to an untreated group. The purpose of this research program is to conduct
      such a study to determine if Candida in respiratory tract secretions should be routinely
      treated in critically ill patients. Since a definitive randomized controlled trial designed
      to demonstrate a reduction in mortality would be large, require the commitment of large
      amount of resources including both time and money, the investigators propose to first conduct
      a small pilot feasibility study.

      Eligible patients will be randomized to receive antifungal treatment with anidulafungin or
      placebo. Following enrollment, study treatment (or placebo) will be started as soon as
      possible. When the Candida or yeast organisms have been speciated and/or a susceptibility
      profile is known, the study medication will be adjusted based on susceptibility patterns. The
      investigators propose to treat with antifungal therapy for a total of 14 days.

      Patients will be followed daily for their entire stay in ICU or till day 28, whichever comes
      first. For patients discharged from the ICU to the ward, they will be followed until study
      treatment is complete (i.e. day 14). Mortality will be determined for the ICU stay, hospital
      stay and at 90 days. The investigators will record admission and discharge dates to ICU, step
      down units, and to hospital.

      All patients will have 13 mL of blood/day drawn at baseline, day 3, day 8 and at the end of
      the treatment period on day 14 (or last day of treatment). The samples will be prepared on
      site and shipped to a central lab for processing. The investigators will use the blood
      specimens to measure markers of inflammation (C-reactive protein, Procalcitonin, and
      Interleukin-6 and others as determined by the investigators), markers of candida presence
      (b-glucan and other potential future markers) and markers of immune dysfunction (to be
      determined by investigators).
    
  