
    
      Bronchiectasis is a chronic disease arises from progressive airway inflammation and
      infection. Pro-inflammatory mediators, the products of activated neutrophils recruited to the
      inflamed sites, are released in bronchiectatic airways and mediate cascades of neutrophil
      infiltration. This suggests that bacterial infection plays a pivotal role in the
      neutrophil-derived inflammation leading to the vicious cycle that perpetuates the development
      of airway destruction and might result in acute exacerbation. Treatments targeting at
      bacterial infection is therefore necessary, particularly for those with acute exacerbation of
      bronchiectasis.

      Although short- and long-term administration of antibiotics have been evidenced to markedly
      suppress bacterial colonization and inflammatory indices, the roles that potent antibiotics
      play in patients with exacerbation of bronchiectasis are unclear. The assessment of bacterial
      infection and sputum and systemic inflammation during steady-state, acute exacerbation and
      recovery from exacerbation of bronchiectasis may clinically shed light on and indicate the
      efficacy of antibiotic treatments.

      Furthermore, a subgroup of patients may experience the acute exacerbation that may stem from
      non-bacterial pathogens. There has been a dire need to compare the changes in sputum
      bacterial load and inflammatory indices based on sputum bacteriology. This may help uncover
      the mechanism of different responses to antibiotic treatment in patients who had varying
      bacteriologic profiles.

      Unlike assessment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, few clinical indices for
      appraisal of onset of exacerbation and efficacy of treatments are available. Of these, the
      24-hour sputum volume, microbial clearance, C-reactive protein (CRP) and St George's
      Respiratory Questionnaire have been validated. In the present study, we employed sputum
      bacteriology and inflammatory indices, including the aforementioned parameters, for
      assessment.
    
  