
    
      Baseline Tests:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have the following tests and procedures
      when you enroll:

        -  The coating on your tongue will be checked. Researchers think that the thickness of the
           coating on your tongue may be related to the microorganisms in your stomach and/or
           intestines.

        -  A stool sample will be collected for bacteria testing.

        -  You will be asked about your diet and how often you eat yogurt.

        -  You will wear a monitoring device called a Holter monitor for 20-24 hours to check your
           nervous system and heart function.

        -  You will be asked to complete 4 questionnaires about your symptoms in the past 24 hours,
           your irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), your most recent stool, and your quality-of-life.
           These questionnaires should take about 30 minutes total to complete.

      Study Procedures:

      One (1) time during Days 3-7 and 1 time during Days 8-12:

        -  You will be asked to complete the same 4 questionnaires you completed at baseline.

        -  A stool sample will be collected by your bedside nurse for bacteria testing.

        -  You may wear a Holter monitor to check your heart function.

      You will be given at least 2 tablespoons (33 cc) of DannonÒ OikosÒyogurt each day.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the study procedures during
      Days 8 to 12.

      If you are discharged before you complete the study procedures above, you will be called and
      asked about your symptoms and given a stool collection kit. This phone call should take about
      30 minutes to complete. The study staff will give you more information about stool
      collection. Your sample will be collected for bacteria testing at your next clinic visit.

      This is an investigational study. The use of probiotics in yogurt to treat GI symptoms in
      cancer patients is investigational. The study doctor can explain how the probiotics are
      designed to work.

      Up to 40 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  