
    
      HYPOTHESIS:

      H0: Upper-airway (UA) morphology does not change as a consequence of maxilla-mandibular
      advancement (MMA) in patients with moderate-severe obstructive sleep apnoea / hypopnoea
      syndrome (SAHS).

      H1: UA changes as a consequence of MMA in patients with moderate-severe SAHS. To answer this
      hypothesis, the following will be determined: Vertical UA length, volume, axial areas,
      ellipticity, uniformity, prevertebral soft tissue (PST) and soft palate (SP) lengths and
      position of the hyoid bone.

      As secondary hypotheses:

      H0: Clinical outcomes of MMA in moderate-severe SAHS are not successful. H1: Clinical
      outcomes of MMA in moderate-severe SAHS are successful. To answer, the apnoea / hypopnoea
      index (AHI), pulse oximeter oxygen saturation (SPO2) and daytime sleepiness will be
      determined.

      H0: DCF morphology is unfavourable as a result of MMA in moderate-severe SAHS. H1: DCF
      morphology is not unfavourable as a result of MMA in moderate-severe SAHS.

      To answer, the parameters of the Ricketts cephalometric basic analysis will be quantified and
      interpreted, and the patient's self-perception will be assessed.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Specify and quantify morphological changes in key anatomical locations of the UA by computed
      tomography (CT), in terms of vertical lengths, volumes, areas, axial dimensions, and other
      measurements. These changes happen after MMA surgery in patients diagnosed with
      moderate-severe SAHS from a representative cohort. We are intended to demonstrate:
      shortening, increase in volume and areas, more elliptical and uniform shape, modifications of
      PST and SP and more anterior-superior hyoid bone position.

      As secondary objectives, inherent to the treatment received, it is first intended to
      determine and evaluate clinical outcomes: objectively by polysomnography, and subjectively by
      the Epworth scale. Secondary, it is intended to specify and quantify changes in DCF
      morphology: objectively by a two-dimensional cephalometric analysis from lateral
      teleradiography of the cranium (LTC) and right face profile picture (RFP), and subjectively
      by a non-validated facial aesthetics test (FAT).

      DESIGN:

      Observational retrospective-prospective study, which does not make any modification of the
      usual clinical practice (surgical indication criteria, procedures, examinations, surgical
      techniques...), of: clinical outcomes, UA morphology, and DCF aspects of SAHS patients
      undergoing MMA.

        -  Logistic and organizational process for the participants: Explanations, invitation to
           participate, resolution of doubts, delivery of written information sheet and informed
           consent, collection of them and FAT. Everything will be done in two face-to-face clinic
           consultations that are already part of the usual work protocol of the Maxillofacial
           Surgery department of our hospital for patients with SAHS. It is estimated that it only
           involves about 10-15 minutes per consultation of extra time, without the need of
           additional specific appointments for the present study. With regard to clinical history,
           complementary examinations and surgical procedure, nothing additional is required
           regarding the usual workflow for SAHS patients in our department.

        -  Logistic and organizational process for researchers: It is based on office and digital
           work, without biological samples.

      A sample size of 40 subjects is estimated, compiling previous studies and the Granmo®
      calculator. This would achieve significant statistics in all the parameters considered to
      answer the main hypothesis, and most of the secondary ones.

      The Declaration of Helsinki code of medical ethics for research in human beings will be taken
      into account, protecting the health of the participant, being voluntary the inclusion,
      interrupting the investigation if it can be detrimental to the well-being of the participant
      and agreement of confidentiality in the IC. The "CEIC OSI Exkerraldea-Enkarterri-Cruces"
      committee has approved the study (Code CEIC E19/39).

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      We will analyze the qualitative and continuous quantitative variables in categorical
      variables. Descriptive statistics of frequencies will be calculated. For statistical
      inference, only comparisons are made between two continuous variables, all dependent and
      paired (pre- / post-). To verify that the variables follow a normal distribution, the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic will be used. The comparisons will then be made with the
      t-Student test for two dependent samples or the Wilcoxon ranks test if they do not follow a
      normal distribution. Statistically significant results will be considered if p ˂0.05.
    
  