
    
      Temperature regulation and decision-making are vital aspects of human survival where
      relatively small deviations in whole-body heat balance lead to decrements in physical
      performance and cognitive function. Prolonged exposure to cold stress combined with
      inadequate clothing and/or insufficient heat production can lead to decreases in body
      temperature causing mild hypothermia (≤ -1.0˚C in body temperature). Performance in the cold
      is more physically demanding compared to neutral environments (~22˚C) as there is increased
      cardiovascular strain due to a strong peripheral vasoconstriction reducing cerebral and
      muscle blood flow and oxygenation, reduced neuromuscular capacity, as well as changes in
      energy metabolism during shivering and increased catecholamine release. Additionally, there
      is an increased psychological strain where perceptually there is a high thermal discomfort,
      alterations in neurotransmitters (e.g. dopamine, norepinephrine), and alterations in mood.
      These changes lead to decreases in self-paced cycling time-trial performance in the cold with
      mild hypothermia compared to thermoneutral environments. Additionally, there appears to be
      task-dependent cognitive changes with acute cold stress, where higher-order functions such as
      executive function, working memory, and inhibitory control decrease before simple task
      performance such as reaction time and visual recognition/awareness. Currently, it is unknown
      what the potential mechanisms are that lead to these performance decrements.

      The decrements in both self-paced exercise and cognitive function may be due to alterations
      in neurotransmitters caused by hypothermia. Exposure to cold leads to alterations in
      dopamine, and norepinephrine which may affect prefrontal cortex function, which may explain
      why higher-order executive function tasks such as inhibitory control and spatial planning are
      impaired compared to simple task performance. Previously, it has been determined that the use
      of tyrosine (amino acid precursor to dopamine and norepinephrine neurotransmitters)
      supplementation improves working memory and executive function despite a -2.0˚C drop in body
      temperature through cold-water immersion, but not in thermoneutral conditions. However, it is
      unknown what the role of dopamine or central nervous system stimulants are in the cold.
      Methylphenidate is a central nervous system stimulant through dopamine re-uptake inhibition
      is demonstrated to improve executive function task performance in healthy adults in
      thermoneutral conditions. Additionally, methylphenidate has been demonstrated to improve
      self-paced cycling performance by 16% in the heat (30˚C) but not thermoneutral environments
      (1). Methylphenidate is also demonstrated to improve maximal force production during
      fatiguing exercise, indicating it may play a role in reducing the effects of fatigue during
      endurance exercise. The investigators aim to determine the role of the central nervous system
      using methylphenidate on cognitive function and self-paced exercise in the cold.
    
  