
    
      Prosthetic dislocation following total hip arthroplasty (THA) remains a significant concern
      with a reported incidence of 0.2%-7.0% after primary and 10%-25% after revision THA. The risk
      of dislocation following THA is multifactorial and includes both surgeon-related factors
      (i.e. component positioning, surgical approach) and patient-related factors (i.e. gender,
      age). Dual mobility articulations have been shown to reduce the incidence of hip instability
      following THA. Dual mobility implants have been used in Europe for over 30 years, but have
      recently received an increased interest in the United States.

      Initial dual mobility designs consisted of a cementless, monoblock acetabular component with
      a highly-polished metal inner bearing surface. Modular dual mobility prostheses have been
      introduced in which a modular cobalt-alloy liner is inserted into a hemispherical titanium
      acetabular component. Advantages of this construct include familiarity of use of a standard
      titanium acetabular component and the ability to use supplemental screw fixation. However,
      the potential for fretting corrosion between the cobalt-alloy liner and the titanium
      acetabular component remains a concern.

      In a retrospective review of 100 consecutive patients undergoing primary THA using a modular
      dual mobility prosthesis, the authors found 21% of patients to have a serum cobalt level
      above the normal range, with 9% significantly above normal (> 1.6 ug/L), at a mean of 27.6
      months postoperatively. In addition, a recent prospective cohort study of 26 patients
      receiving the same prosthesis showed elevated whole blood mean cobalt levels in patients
      receiving a modular dual mobility prosthesis versus patients receiving a conventional bearing
      (0.23 + 0.39 vs. 0.15 + 0.07ug/L, p<0.001) at 1 year postoperatively. Four patients in the
      dual mobility cohort had a whole blood cobalt level outside the reference range (maximum 1.81
      ug/L).

      To the investigators knowledge no prospective, randomized controlled trial has been performed
      comparing dual mobility bearings to a conventional single-bearing design. Therefore, the
      purpose of this study is to compare the use of a conventional single-bearing
      ceramic-on-polyethylene surface to use of a modular dual mobility bearing in a prospective,
      randomized controlled setting.
    
  