
    
      HYPOTHESIS Early administration of human erythropoietin (EPO) in preterm infants reduces
      perinatal injury to the brain and improves neurodevelopmental outcome at 24 months corrected
      age.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE To determine whether cerebral outcome is improved if infants born between
      28 0/7 and 34 6/7 gestational weeks at birth receive erythropoietin in high dose in the first
      two weeks after birth.

      Biomarkers of encephalopathy of prematurity assessed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at
      term equivalent age.

      RATIONALE Erythropoietin (EPO) was first recognized for its hematopoietic properties;
      recombinant human EPO (rhEPO) has been used to treat a number of anemic states, including
      early and late anemia of prematurity, and it has been found to be safe and to reduce the need
      for blood transfusions. EPO produced in the central nervous system7 is upregulated after
      insult and plays a role in neuroprotection. Experimental studies have reported that rhEPO
      possesses neuroprotective properties in different neonatal brain injury animal models, and
      clinical studies have shown that rhEPO treatment reduces brain injury and the incidence of
      neurological disabilities in infants.8,14-17 In addition, improved neurodevelopmental
      outcomes have been observed in preterm infants with anemia after rhEPO treatment. The
      neuroprotective effect of rhEPO was suggested to be through acting against apoptosis,
      inflammation, and neurotoxicity and by acting as an antioxidant in protecting white matter
      from injury and in promoting neural regeneration, injury repair, and normal development.

      STUDY DESIGN Randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled multicenter clinical trial.
      Research plan 400 infants will be randomized during the first three hours of life to receive
      EPO (5250 U/kg body weight) or placebo intravenously, the first dose(750U/kg) will be
      injected within 24h after birth, subsequent injection will be given each other day for 2
      weeks. Standardized evaluation including cerebral sonography at day 1, 7 and 28 will
      determine the presence or absence of complications. Cerebral volume and white matter volume
      will be assessed at 40 postmenstrual weeks with MRI (only if available).

      Experienced examiners will assess developmental function at 6 and 12 months corrected age
      using the reliable and validly revised Bayley Scales III of Infant Development and determine
      the presence or absence of impairment of motor function (cerebral palsy) and neurosensory
      function (blindness or deafness).

      Primary outcome was cognitive development assessed with the Mental Development Index (MDI;
      norm, 100 [SD, 15]; higher values indicate better function) of the Bayley Scales of Infant
      Development, second edition (BSID-II) at 1 years corrected age.

      Second outcome assess the effect of early administration of rh Epo on white matter
      development in preterm infants using Tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS ). White matter
      disease of the preterm infant, was semiquantitatively assessed from MRI at term-equivalent
      age based on an established scoring method.
    
  