
    
      This study examines the relationship between the structural stability of carotid
      atherosclerotic plaque forming at the bifurcation of the common internal/external carotids
      and the ability of such lesions to cause disease. The theory behind this work is the
      hypothesis that carotid atherosclerotic stroke presents not only as a classical episodic
      clinical condition, but may also involve elements of a continuous process involving large and
      small vessel circulations, microcirculatory changes, cellular metabolic resistance to
      ischemia and micro embolic events. Recent studies suggest for every recognized clinical
      stroke, 5 silent strokes take place.

      The patient implications are enormous as imaging suggests 11 million "silent strokes" occur
      yearly in the US with poor understanding of the pathophysiology or cognitive consequences for
      our patients. Within this framework, the investigators choose to study the hypothesis that
      carotid artery atherosclerosis is likely to cause microemboli, as well as classic
      macroemboli, which may result in more subtle disturbances than those ordinarily detected by
      more obvious clinical events such as stroke and transient ischemia attacks.

      Understanding the structural plaque abnormalities that render a carotid plaque unstable and
      at risk of embolization would help to predict and treat individuals who are likely to suffer
      not only classic episodic major strokes, but also cognitive impairment from the contribution
      of microemboli to this overall disease process. The investigators have previously described a
      non-invasive ultrasound based measure of plaque structural stability which will be further
      studied in this proposal. This study will expand on previous work performed at the University
      of Wisconsin-Madison, and will include patients with carotid artery stenosis, both with and
      without classic stroke symptoms, as well as a control group of patients without known
      atherosclerotic disease.

      Patients will be recruited from the population of patients scheduled to undergo carotid
      endarterectomy for established clinical indications. These indications include patients
      scheduled to have a carotid endarterectomy due to the presence of a high-grade
      atherosclerotic cervical internal carotid artery stenosis with or without clinical symptoms,
      following the ACAS (Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study) or NASCET criteria (The North
      American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial) (carotid artery stenosis of 60% or greater
      without clinical symptoms; stenosis 70% or greater with clinical symptoms). Patients will be
      recruited from University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics Neurosurgery Clinic and inpatient
      units. With this renewal the investigators would like to complete previously approved sample
      size of 194 patient-subjects. In the previous protocol 75 patients-subjects were enrolled,
      remaining 69 patient-subjects to be enrolled in this study.

      The investigators also have previously approved enrollment for 50 control-subjects. Having
      enrolled 20 in the previous protocol the investigators will complete enrollment with
      enrolling additional 30 control-subjects These controls will be recruited by the
      patient-subjects. The investigators will ask the patient-subjects to speak to a spouse or
      family member to see if they are interested in participating. If they do have an interest
      they will contact the research team/study coordinator(s). In case, a spouse or a family
      member is accompanying the patient-subject, they will be recruited at the same time as the
      patient-subject. The Investigators have demonstrated by their experience of carotid
      endarterectomy in asymptomatic and symptomatic disease (>25 per year) and their very high
      recruitment rates in their pilot study (>95%) that sufficient experience exists for
      successful recruitment of this population over the time of the study.

      All patients will undergo confirmation of the degree of stenosis by standard clinical
      methodology including angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomographic
      angiography, and/or ultrasonic determination. Patients enrolled in the study will obtain a
      health questionnaire highlighting atherosclerotic risk factors, history of other
      atherosclerotic events involving other organs, known history of hyperlipidemia, smoking,
      hypertension, diabetes, cardiac disorders, or family history of above. Results will be
      stratified according to these risk factors.

      All these patients will undergo preoperative neuropsychological cognitive testing. These
      patients will undergo ultrasound testing of the atherosclerotic plaque for determination of
      elasticity and strain as outlined, as well as TCD measurement of emboli. At the time of
      surgery, the atherosclerotic plaque through the carotid bifurcation will be removed in total
      and will be examined histopathologically at a point by point comparison with the ultrasonic
      strain and quantitative ultrasound mapping of the attenuation coefficient, scatterer size and
      integrated backscatter measurements. These will be studied for gross ulceration, micro
      ulceration, formation of thrombus and platelet deposition, inflammatory cells and
      neovascularity as measured with immunostaining for the CD 34 marker for microvascular
      endothelial presence. All studies but the histopathologic evaluation will be obtained in the
      immediate preoperative period and will be repeated at one year post surgery to determine if
      CEA durably stabilizes vessel wall elasticity and halts microemboli and cognitive decline.

      The study will run for 5 years from IRB (Institutional Review Board) approval. Recruitment of
      subjects will take place over the first three and half years. All patient-subjects will have
      1-year follow-up, MRI, ultrasound, TCD, blood collection and cognitive study to see if
      endarterectomy affected pre-op change. Change in cognition will be compared to report studies
      in the normal control group. In past, the investigators have recruited carotid patients at a
      greater pace. Given the complexity of these studies the investigators anticipate recruitment
      and complete analysis of 20 patients/year. During this time initial psychological testing
      will be done pre-operatively. During the final year of the study, the data analysis of the
      plaque ultrasounds, MRI and histopathology and 1-year follow-up the patient received in the
      last year of recruitment will take place. Investigators can recruit additional patients to
      fill any missing data points if these results identify a subset of classically asymptomatic
      patients with significant carotid plaques and microemboli causing vascular cognitive decline.
    
  