
    
      Concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) is the treatment of choice for patients with locally
      advanced NSCLC. The cure rates however need to be improved. The main mechanism by which both
      radiation and Cisplatin kill tumor cells is by an accumulation of un- or misrepaired DNA
      damage.PARP inhibitors increase radiation and chemotherapy (Cisplatin) response in
      preclinical studies including lung cancer models.

      This open label dose escalating trial consists of a screening phase, a treatment phase and a
      follow up phase.

      The screening phase: patients who can tolerate concurrent cisplatin will receive Olaparib, RT
      and Cisplatin. Patients who can not tolerate concurrent cisplatin will receive Olaparib and
      RT with or without prior sequential chemotherapy.

      The treatment phase:dose escalation of Olaparib will be performed in cohorts of 3 subjects.
      The decision to escalate to the next dose level will be based on the occurrence of DLTs
      during the DLT evaluation period (i.e. 3 months following the last day of irradiation) and
      will be made after all patients within the cohort have completed their third month of follow
      up.

      Active follow-up phase: frequent follow up will take place during the first 3 months (acute
      toxicity). Thereafter patients will be monitored for late toxicity and for disease activity
      3-monthly throughout the first year and thereafter 6-monthly until 5 years, when patients are
      deemed to be cured and follow up is no longer warranted.

      Olaparib will be given orally BID for 36 consecutive days, administrated with a 12 hour
      interval. Olaparib will start 2 days before start of RT and will continue for 2 days after
      the last RT fraction. Olaparib is also given during the non-radiotherapy days but no
      maintenance treatment is given after radiotherapy is finished.

      Radiotherapy (for all patients): a total dose of 66Gy will be given in 24 fractions from week
      1 to 5.

      Cisplatin (concurrent chemoradiotherapy): daily dose Cisplatin 6mg/m2 (5 days/week), 1-1.5 hr
      before the irradiation (week 1 to 5), given as a 5-minutes intravenous infusion.
    
  