
    
      The present study was designed as a, single-center, prospective cohort study focusing on the
      relationship between smoking status and the severity of periodontitis.

      The research question was " How the Fagerström for nicotine dependence (FTND) and the number
      of cigarette cunsuption (NNC) are correlated to the severity of chronic periodontitis"?
      Thirty-four consecutive smoker patients presenting a chronic periodontitis were included in
      the study, and the smoking status was defined both by NCC and FTND.

      Periodontal clinical parameters were correlated with NCC and FTND.

      All the clinical periodontal parameters were recorded by a single periodontist (L.S).
      Periodontal assessments included: probing depth (PD), gingival recession (RD), clinical
      attachment level (CAL), bleeding on probing (BOP), plaque score index (PI), Furcation (Furc),
      tooth mobility and the percentage of sites of PD ≥ 6mm. A graduated manual periodontal probe
      was used to take measurements at the 6 sites of each tooth. BOP (%) and plaque score (%).

      All the participants of the study respected the following inclusion criteria: 1/ smoker
      patients aged of minimum 18 years old, 2/ chronic periodontitis, 3/ presence of a minimum of
      6 teeth at each arch, 4/ a minimum of 6 teeth with pocket depth of 5 mm, 5/ signed the
      informed consent. The exclusion criteria were: 1/ aggressive periodontitis, 2/ diabetes, 3/
      connective tissue disease, 4/ pregnancy, 5/ radio-therapy, 6/ chemotherapy, 7/ psychological
      disease, 8/ previous periodontal therapy.

      The patient smoking status was defined by FTND and NCC FTND scores were categorized in 3
      groups

        -  scores < 4 for low nicotine dependence,

        -  scores = 4-5 for moderate nicotine dependence

        -  scores > 5 for high nicotine dependence.

      The NCC s was classified in three levels of smokers as described in most of the periodontal
      studies:

        -  Number of cigarette smoking ≤ 10 per day for low consumption

        -  Number of cigarette smoking from 10 to 20 per day for moderate consumption

        -  Number of cigarette smoking > 20 per day for high cigarette consumption
    
  