
    
      In this competing renewal (Year 11) of the investigators' R01 which has used functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study late-life depression (LLD) pharmacotherapy
      (R01MH076079), the primary aim of this study is to characterize functional connectivity
      changes associated with initial medication exposure (12-hour challenge). Preliminary data
      suggests that these initial fMRI changes reflect monoaminergic engagement, regardless of
      monoaminergic class, and predict later treatment response. This study will test a neural
      systems level model that response in LLD is mediated by acute pharmacologically-induced
      changes in cognitive and affective large scale network.

      Depression in older adults is frequently disabling and is often resistant to first-line
      treatments, requiring more prolonged treatment trials than in younger adults, mainly due to
      its heterogeneous pathophysiology (e.g. vascular and degenerative brain changes). Currently,
      there is little neurobiological data to guide changing or augmenting antidepressant
      medications. Thus, there has been a heightened focus on tailoring treatment to optimize
      outcome as described in the 2015 National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) draft strategic
      plan (strategy 3.2). While antidepressant clinical response may take up to 8 weeks, recent
      studies suggest that physiologic changes, as measured with pharmacologic fMRI (phMRI) are
      seen within 12 hours of starting a new monoaminergic antidepressant (1).

      For this proposal, investigators focus on three major Cognitive and Affective Networks (CAN):
      the Default Mode Network (DMN), the Salience Network (SN) and the Executive Control Network
      (ECN). The proposed model suggests that monoaminergic engagement leads to core CAN changes,
      changes that subsequently are related to overall clinical response as well as response in
      specific symptom clusters such as negative bias, somatizations/anxiety and cognitive control.
      The same networks that are functionally connected while individuals are at rest, are also
      selectively engaged during tasks. Investigators' prior work shows that pharmacotherapy -
      regardless of type of antidepressant used - engages these specific networks at rest and
      during standard cognitive and affective tasks. Given the role of cerebrovascular disease in
      LLD treatment response, the moderating role of vascular burden on the proposed association
      between CAN engagement and treatment response will also be explored.

      The University of Pittsburgh will recruit 100 older adults with LLD that will be randomized
      to receive treatment with either a very specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor (escitalopram)
      or a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (levomilnacipran). A pair of fMRI scans one day apart
      will be used to measure functional connectivity (FC) associated with medication titration.
      Investigators will use a very early (12 hours after initiation of treatment) biomarker of
      treatment response, which, when validated, would decrease substantially the waiting time
      between medication changes. Additionally, this study will further increase knowledge of the
      acute neural system changes associated with monoaminergic antidepressants; this knowledge of
      mechanism is essential for both guiding LLD treatment research, and serving as an engagement
      target in LLD treatment research.

      Note: The original study design involved randomization to escitalopram or placebo (instead of
      escitalopram and levomilnacipran). Therefore a subset of participants will complete the study
      according to this design.
    
  