
    
      We will pilot an evidence-based online program for chronic disease self-management that is
      modeled after the widely-replicated in-person Chronic Disease Self-management Program (CDSMP)
      developed at Stanford University.

      The online CDSMP is an internet-based intervention for people with one or more chronic
      conditions. It is built on self-efficacy theory and is structured around a formal curriculum
      that emphasizes problem solving, decision making, and confidence building in weekly sessions
      over six weeks. The curriculum addresses generic topics and skills that are relevant to
      managing any chronic condition.

      The program is structured around three components: 1) password-protected, interactive
      web-based instruction; 2) web-based bulletin board discussion groups to enable participatory
      learning and interaction; 3) and a reference book, Living a Healthy Life with Chronic
      Conditions, that contains the program content and supplemental information. It is facilitated
      by two trained lay moderators, at least one of whom has a chronic condition.

      Piloting the online CDSMP allows Group Health to learn about and maximize the program's
      impact in the Group Health system before launching a full-scale program. Since web-based
      interventions are increasingly recognized as holding promise in health care, our learnings
      and recommendations will likely be applicable beyond this innovation. The pilot provides GH
      the opportunity to explore the following about the online CDSMP and web-based tools, in
      general:

        1. Impact of the online CDSMP on participants' psychosocial and health status, health
           behaviors, and health service utilization

        2. Efficient processes for incorporating the online CDSMP into existing operations through
           use of PDCA cycles

        3. An understanding of demographic characteristics of members who are more likely to
           participate in an online self-management program than an in-person program

        4. Effective recruitment and retention strategies

        5. Feasibility of sustaining the program without external funding

        6. Recommendations for successful implementation of future innovations that utilize
           web-based media, social networking technology, etc.
    
  