
    
      Among people diagnosed with HIV/AIDS, the widespread use of highly active antiretroviral
      therapy (HAART) has greatly improved survival rates and changed the leading causes of death,
      from AIDS-related diseases (e.g., non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Kaposi sarcoma), to cardiovascular
      disease and lung cancer. As such, addressing modifiable risk factors for disease mortality
      among those with HIV/AIDS, including tobacco use, has become a critical priority. To date,
      only three smoking cessation clinical trials have been conducted with those with HIV/AIDS
      none of which investigated the efficacy of FDA-approved medications for nicotine dependence.
      Varenicline is an α4β2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist with greater efficacy
      for treating nicotine dependence than bupropion or nicotine patch. Varenicline may be
      particularly efficacious for treating nicotine dependence among individuals with HIV/AIDS
      given that depression symptoms and cognitive impairment are common in this population,
      increase during smoking abstinence and predict smoking relapse, and are significantly reduced
      by varenicline. Therefore, the investigators will conduct a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial of varenicline with smokers with HIV/AIDS. Specifically, 310 smokers
      with HIV/AIDS will be randomized to varenicline plus 9 weeks of smoking cessation counseling
      or placebo plus 9 weeks of smoking cessation counseling. The primary outcome variable for
      this study will be 7-day biochemically confirmed tobacco abstinence at weeks 12 and 24.
      Secondary outcomes include: prolonged abstinence to week 12, 18, and 24 (relapse defined as 7
      consecutive days of self-reported smoking, after a 2-week grace period), continuous
      abstinence at weeks 12 and 24 (e.g., no smoking between quit day and follow-up), time to
      7-day relapse (no grace period), and lapse and recovery events. The trial results may support
      the use of varenicline for the treatment of nicotine dependence among those with HIV/AIDS,
      thereby reducing tobacco-related morbidity and mortality in this population.
    
  