
    
      Investigations description Subjects sit at a table in front of a 15" computer screen, a
      centrally located joystick and a sliding lever on the right side. All devices are fixed to
      the table.

      The subjects hand is fitted with six adhesive reflexive markers so that hand movements can be
      registered from above by two MX-F20 Vicon-Cameras, attached to a table-fixed metal frame.
      Lever forces are registered by an ATI Nano17 force transducers, lever fore-aft position by an
      inductive encoder, and eye position by an eye tracker (Tobii T60).

      Subjects will perform two different tasks, one representing a typical laboratory (L), one an
      everyday-like task (E). In task L, a visual stimulus on the screen will prompt subjects to
      release the joystick, grasp the lever, move it forwards and back, and then return their hand
      to the joystick. In task E, subjects will use the joystick in a computer game ("spider
      chasing") and occasionally release the joystick, grasp the lever, move it forwards and back
      in order to collect a reward, and then return their hand to the joystick. In both tasks the
      visual stimuli are accompanied with acoustic signals. To hear these signals during the flight
      procedure, subjects are equipped with ear-phones, plugged into a laptop.

      In one 20 second microgravity episode, task L will be performed five times or task E twice.
      The investigator starts each task with a click on the keyboard and it stops automatically
      after 20sec.

      Control data will be registered from each subject for the same length of time during level
      flight at 1g.

      During the whole test procedure the subject is not constraint in its natural behaviour except
      by an easy to open belt which fixes the subject to the chair. The subject can at any time end
      the experiment.

      Equipment used For hand motion measurement and analysis we use a Vicon MX System, consisting
      of two MX20+ infrared high-speed cameras, each connected via cables with an MX Ultranet which
      processes the data. The Ultranet is connected with a network cable to a corresponding laptop
      (Dell).

      Force is measured by a 6 degree of freedom force transducer which is part of an ATI DAQ F/T
      System, consisting of the force sensor Nano 17, a power supply box with booster and a 16-bit
      A/D converter (DAQ-Card, NI 6036E). It uses the PCMCIA bus of a second laptop (Fujitsu).

      The position of the object to move is measured by an inductive position encoder (dc position
      encoder type 8740-5100 by burster).

      The eye movement will be recorded by a standard USB-camera or a commercial eye-tracker (Tobii
      T60) when available.

      All devices are commercially available and are used according their CE marking.

      Experimental protocol Before flight subjects will be familiarised with the protocol. Two
      subjects will be studied during each flight. On ground, each subject gets 6 reflexive markers
      (6mm diameter) stuck on their right hand (4 on index, 2 on thumb, fixed with double sided
      adhesive tape).

      The first subject takes a seat at the experimental set-up, the second one on an aircraft
      seat. The tested subject is then equipped with ear-phones plugged into a laptop. It helps to
      focus the attention on the tasks which are accompanied with acoustic signals. Recording
      devices are then adjusted to the subject by a standard calibration procedure, done by the
      test-operator. Before entering the first parabola the subject executes the same two
      grasping-tasks on level flight. After the first test parabola, during each 0g period it has
      to execute the grasping movements in one of each task - 4 parabolas task L with five episodes
      each, 10 parabolas task E with two episodes each. Entering the 0g phase the operator starts
      the test by a click on the keyboard, afterwards the tasks stop automatically. During 1g and
      1,8g phases the test is interrupted. After the 15th parabola the subjects switch places and
      the second one starts with the tests during the 0g phases. On level flight back to the
      airport it executes the same two tasks again as control condition.
    
  