
    
      Nilotinib is a drug that is designed to block a protein that is responsible for the
      development of CML.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 2-4 nilotinib
      capsules or tablets by mouth 2 times a day (4-8 capsules or tablets a day total) every day,
      at least 8 hours apart. Nilotinib should be taken each morning and evening with a large glass
      of water. The study medication will be given to you every 3 - 12 months. You will also be
      given a "pill diary" to write down when (day and time) you take the drug. You will also write
      in the diary any side effects you may experience. You should bring the diary, any unused
      capsules or tablets, and empty containers of nilotinib with you to every visit to the study
      doctor. Any unused supplies must be returned at the end of the study.

      Every 1-4 weeks during the first 4 weeks of the study, you will have around 2 teaspoons of
      blood drawn for routine blood tests. The blood tests will then be repeated every 4-8 weeks
      (or more often if your doctor feels it is necessary) until you have been on study for 6
      months, then every 3 to 6 months for another 18 months. After that, you may have the blood
      tests repeated as often as the doctor thinks it is needed. A bone marrow sample will also be
      taken every 3-4 months for the first year and then every 6-12 months in the 2nd year, then
      every 2-3 years for as long as you are on the study to check on the status of the disease.
      Additionally, blood (about ½ tablespoon) will be drawn or a bone marrow sample will be
      collected every 3-4 months for the first year and then every 6-12 months until 2 years, and
      then about one time a year for as long as you are on the study to check on the status of the
      disease. However, if you are in complete remission after Year 2, your doctor will decide when
      you will have a bone marrow aspiration. But you will still have blood drawn (about ½
      tablespoon) every 1 - 3 years to check the status of your disease. An ECG will be repeated
      around Day 5, and then at about 6 weeks and about 3 months.

      You will be asked to visit the doctor for a physical exam and to have vital signs measured
      periodically. These visits will be scheduled at least every 3 to 4 months the first year.
      After the first year, the study staff will recommend that you have physical exams once every
      year. The visits may be scheduled more often depending on the status of the disease.

      Treatment may be continued for up to 8-10 years or as long as the doctor feels it is
      necessary to control the leukemia. If the disease gets worse or you experience any
      intolerable side effects, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other
      treatment options with you.

      This is an investigational study. Nilotinib is FDA approved. A total of 150 patients will
      take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  