
    
      Following the clinical and radiographic examinations, pulp vitality was assessed with cold
      thermal test (Chloraethyl; Wehr, Baden, Germany) and electrical pulp test. After local
      anesthesia injection, rubber-dam isolation was performed. In the first step of the IPC
      procedure, cavity preparation was performed and the caries were removed using a high-speed
      dental handpiece with a diamond bur. In the second step, the carious peripheral dentin was
      removed at the enamel-dentin junction using a high-speed tungsten-carbide bur and the
      infected and necrotic soft dentin layer in the center was carefully removed to prevent pulp
      exposure. Cavity excavation was stopped when the residual dentin over the pulp tissue showed
      increased resistance to manual instrumentation, and the demineralized dentin (affected
      dentin) was left at the floor of the cavity.

      After this stage, the teeth were randomly divided into 3 groups:

      Ca(OH)2 Group (Control): The residual demineralized dentin was covered with a thin layer of
      Ca(OH)2 (Dycal; Dentsply/Caulk, Dentsply International Inc. Milford, DE, USA) in accordance
      with the recommendations of the manufacturer.

      Biodentine Group: A thin layer of tricalcium silicate-containing pulp-capping material
      (Biodentine, Septodont, France) consisting of powder and liquid was applied to the
      demineralized dentin tissue and a 12-min setting time was allowed for hardening, in
      accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer.

      TheraCal LC Group: Flowable form of resin-reinforced tricalcium silicate-containing material
      (TheraCal LC, Bisco Inc, IL, ABD) was applied directly onto the demineralized dentin at a
      maximum thickness of 1 mm and was polymerized for 20 sec (Valo LED, Ultradent Products Inc.,
      South Jordan, USA), in accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer.

      Afterwards, in all three groups, capsule glass ionomer cement (Capsule; GC Corporation,
      Tokyo, Japan, Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) was placed on each capping material. Following the
      etching and bonding process, permanent restoration was finished with composite resin (Filtek
      Z250 Universal Restorative System, 3M ESPE Dental products, USA).

      Histological examination A total of 23 primary mandibular second molars that were in their
      regular exfoliation period (in which the underlying permanent tooth germ had completed 2/3 of
      root formation) (24) and were found to be clinically and radiographically successful
      following IPC were extracted by the researcher and were processed for histological
      examination .All the extracted teeth were fixed in 10% formaldehyde solution. Three out of 23
      specimens were excluded from the study since they were unsuitable for sectioning.
    
  