
    
      Objectives: This is a clinical trial to determine an acceptable dose of reteplase in
      combination with a fixed dose of abciximab for ischemic stroke 3-24 hours from onset.

      Study Population: Patients will be selected by criteria to minimize likelihood of toxicity
      and maximize likelihood of response. These criteria include age 18-80 years old, acute
      ischemic stroke of moderate severity (NIH Stroke Scale less than or equal to 16 and lesion
      volume on diffusion MRI less than approximately one third of the volume of the middle
      cerebral artery territory), positive MRI evidence of hypoperfusion corresponding to the acute
      stroke symptoms, no MRI evidence of chronic micro-hemorrhages, and no other clinical,
      radiological or laboratory features associated with risk of hemorrhage with thrombolytic
      therapy.

      Design: The study is open-label, dose escalation, safety and proof of principle study of the
      combination of intravenous abciximab and reteplase. A fixed dose of abciximab will be used in
      all patients: 0.25 mg/kg bolus (to a maximum of 30 mg) followed by a 0.125
      microgram/kg/minute infusion (to a maximum of 10.0 microgram/minute) for 12 hours. The five
      dosing groups for the reteplase dose are 0 U, 2.5 U, 5.0 U, 7.5 U, and 10.0 U. A maximum of
      72 patients will be treated using an adaptive statistical design, in which data on both the
      response and toxicity will be used to determine the dose for subsequent patients, thereby
      minimizing exposure to either ineffective or toxic doses. Non-investigational patient
      management will be standardized across all patients according to the NIH Stroke Center
      Clinical Care Pathway.

      Outcome Measures: The primary efficacy endpoint for response will be reperfusion by MRI 24
      hours after start of therapy. The primary safety endpoint for determination of toxicity will
      be any one of the following: symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), major systemic
      hemorrhage, or other serious adverse event related to study drug administration, including
      death, within 48 hours from start of therapy. The maximum acceptable rate of toxicity will be
      10% of patients treated at any dose level and the minimum acceptable rate of response will be
      50% of patients treated at any dose level. The outcomes will be monitored by a Data and
      Safety Monitoring Committee, which will have the authority to stop or recommend modifications
      of the trial for safety concerns. Other clinical outcome variables and imaging variables will
      be recorded and analyzed in secondary and exploratory analyses. If an acceptable dose is
      identified, then that will be investigated in a subsequent randomized placebo-controlled
      trial.
    
  