
    
      Well-being is understood as the absence of limitations or debilitating conditions that make
      impossible to enjoy a full and satisfactory life. Among these limitations, a reduced or
      impaired motility because of painful and inflammatory processes (acute and chronic), can
      greatly disturb a vital and optimistic attitude.

      Chronic pain affects between one-third and one-half of the population only in the UK, and
      around 20.4% in the US. It is likely to increase with population ageing and tends to be more
      common in women. Ageing is translated in an increase in the incidence and span of chronic
      illnesses, including osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia, lower back pain, non-arthritis joint pain
      or carpal tunnel syndrome, among others. In addition, muscular and joints pain unrelated to
      any specific disease also tends to appear with age. Beyond that, current lifestyle frequently
      involves stressful jobs, eventful agendas and non-stop activity either in professional or
      leisure time. These facts extend the prevalence of chronic pain to younger segments of the
      population and to people not affected by previous disease.

      Sedentary lifestyle and computer-based jobs represent a common cause of muscular contractures
      and pain, especially in the back and neck areas. Another important contributor to chronic
      pain is perceived stress and anxiety response systems. As an emergent antagonist phenomenon,
      increasing awareness of a healthy lifestyle has entailed a rise in the popularity of physical
      exercise in the last decades. As an example, the number of running events finishers in the
      U.S. stabilized in 2014 at almost 20 million people, with figures having been on the rise for
      the previous 25 years. The popularization of exercise programs such as CrossFit illustrate
      that the trend is directed not only towards a rise in practice, but also in intensity. Thus,
      the increase in the practice of high-intensity physical activity and the alternation between
      sedentary and exercise periods involve an increase in inflammatory and acute painful
      episodes, being tendinitis and joint lesions the major problem, followed by sprains or
      bruises.

      The pharmacological management of these conditions involves nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs), local corticosteroids, acetaminophen, chondroitin sulfate or even opioids.
      These are effective drugs but with serious side effects in some cases, especially in the
      long-term utilization. Severe drawbacks related to the prolonged utilization of these drugs
      include drug ineffectiveness, toxicity of certain agents, hypersensitivity, gastrointestinal
      hemorrhage, nauseas and even fatal outcomes including death and suicide. Importantly,
      increased abuse of painkillers has been reported in several countries, exceeding tobacco
      consumption and being considered a public health problem. Furthermore, the use of painkillers
      should be avoided in sensitive population groups including children and pregnant women, who
      are equally exposed to sustained or acute pain episodes.

      Alternative solutions of greater safety but equivalent rapid relief and recovery
      effectiveness are a necessity. In this sense, the most useful approach are natural products,
      without tolerability concerns, compatible with other interventions and providing a rapid
      effect. These generalize access to effective treatment to both patients and physiotherapy
      professionals. Considering the well-established beneficial effects of physiotherapy in
      handling chronic pain, professionals need effective and safe solutions that they can use
      without concerns of side effects or pharmacological interactions, since they may not have
      access to the full medical record of the patients. In turn, the ability of handling
      self-treatment without concern increases the quality of life in patients suffering from
      pain-involving conditions.

      This study evaluates the use of a topical cream composed by natural extracts with
      complementary and synergistic effects for pain management. Menthol reduces pain and increases
      blood flow, warming up the muscle and enhancing absorption of the rest of the extracts.
      Arnica montana reduces pain, has anti-inflammatory effects and potentiates tissue repair.
      Hypericum perforatum provides anti-inflammatory effect and drives tissue regeneration and
      scarring. Calendula officinalis reduces swelling and distension, boosts healing of mild
      injuries and prevents infection. Finally, Melaleuca alternifolia complements the
      anti-inflammatory effect and acts as a natural preservative due to its potent antimicrobial
      effect.

      The synergistic combination of these natural ingredients may provide a convenient solution
      for the management acute or chronic pain. The aim of this study is to assess the benefits of
      the topical formulation in reducing musculoskeletal pain, both as an immediate relief of pain
      and as a solution for injury recovery.
    
  