
    
      1. Introduction

      1.1 Background

      Living donor kidney transplantation is the optimal treatment for end stage renal disease
      (ESKD). This process involves a mandatory period of warm and cold ischaemia before the donor
      kidney is reperfused. The reperfusion injury causes damage to the transplanted kidney that
      may affect its long term outcome. In living donor kidney transplantation this period of
      ischaemia is kept to a minimum. However, minimally invasive kidney transplantation (MIKT) has
      been shown to increase the warm ischaemia time for these patients due to the prolonged
      anastomosis time and the graft and patient are exposed to pneumoperitoneum for a significant
      amount of time. It is not clear if these events affect graft outcomes.

      Biomarkers of acute kidney injury are of interest in transplantation as they may be used to
      assess the severity of graft injury and predict the likely clinical outcomes at an early
      stage. There is evidence that they can predict delayed graft function after kidney
      transplantation.

      MIKT also has the potential in reducing the surgical trauma associated with open surgery due
      to smaller incisions; this may reduce infections and improve wound healing. Evidence from
      laparoscopic donor nephrectomy shows clear benefits to patients.

      1.2 Rationale

      A key issue arising from MIKT is its effect on the kidney allograft. The robotic kidney
      transplant technique prolongs the re-warming time due to the longer anastomosis time. Results
      suggest that this may reduce the glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) in the early
      post-transplant period when compared to open kidney transplant with no difference in function
      at 1 and 2 year follow-up. The long-term consequences for the graft beyond this period are
      unknown. The effects of pneumoperitoneum on the transplant kidney have also been questioned
      with suggestions that higher intra-abdominal pressures may reduce allograft perfusion during
      surgery with negative consequences for the allograft based on experience with other studies
      of both human and animal models. There is unpublished data that suggests that the effects on
      longer term graft outcomes are not significant.

      MIKT promises to offer significant benefits to kidney transplant recipients including less
      manipulation of the graft during surgery and a reduction in surgical site infections which
      has already been noted in obese patients undergoing robotic MIKT. Smaller incisions with
      reduced analgesia requirement are a key benefit which may affect length of stay and
      associated co-morbidity, hospital costs and the patient experience which has been
      demonstrated with the donor nephrectomy operation.

      The expression of several biomarkers of kidney injury has been demonstrated to reflect damage
      to the graft and subsequent kidney function in living donor kidney transplantation. These
      biomarkers, including Kidney Injury Molecule 1 (KIM-1), neutrophil gelatinase associated
      lipocalin (NGAL) and interleukin 18 (IL-18) are expressed in both serum and urine. Changes in
      their expression can predict some outcomes after transplantation. These biomarkers offer an
      advantage over traditional means of assessing kidney injury and function after
      transplantation such as serum creatinine measurement, urine output and kidney biopsy in that
      they can be detected early in the spectrum of acute kidney injury.

      Patients with ESRD usually have multiple co-morbidities and are less able to withstand the
      stress of major surgery compared to other patients leading to greater mortality and
      complications. MIKT may reduce the surgical stress burden for these patients, compared with
      open surgery, but this is currently uncertain. Evidence from other fields of surgery has
      shown that the changes in the metabolic stress response to open and minimally invasive
      surgery can be quantified.

      We therefore propose to perform this study to assess the impact of minimally invasive kidney
      transplantation on the transplant kidney and the recipient by observing the expression of
      biomarkers and establishing their relationship to outcomes after transplantation.

      2 Study Objectives, Design and Statistics 2.1. Study Objectives

      This study aims to investigate the effect of the warm ischaemia time and pneumoperitoneum on
      kidney injury by measuring biomarkers of acute kidney injury which are found in blood and
      urine to establish if there is a significant difference between robotic and open surgery. The
      study will also investigate the potential benefits of minimally invasive surgery on the
      surgical trauma associated with open surgery by assessing the surgical stress response and
      wound healing between groups of kidney transplant patients receiving either open or minimally
      invasive kidney transplants. Wound healing will also be compared with patients undergoing a
      different minimally invasive surgical technique (laparoscopic donor nephrectomy) as they will
      have a similar incision.

      The primary outcome measure is the difference in expression of plasma and serum biomarkers of
      kidney injury and surgical stress in the recipient groups. The secondary outcomes will
      include clinical outcomes such as infection, graft function and acute rejection, evidence of
      wound healing as assessed by ultrasound scan and quality of life outcomes assessed by
      questionnaire.

      2.2 Study Design & Flowchart The study will be conducted on an observational case-control
      basis comparing groups of patients receiving standard care in three arms: open living donor
      kidney transplantation, robotic living donor kidney transplantation and laparscopic donor
      nephrectomy. Biomarkers of kidney injury and the surgical stress response will be measured in
      plasma and urine of the recipients only.

      Participants will receive information leaflets during education sessions prior to
      transplantation or donor surgery. Information about the study will be given during this
      period and they will also be approached in clinic prior to surgery to gain their informed
      consent after they have had the time to consider the information about the study.

      Participants will have blood samples collected for the study at the same time as their
      routine clinical samples are taken wherever possible. These samples will be collected on the
      day of surgery and all post-operative days until day seven after surgery if they are
      inpatients. Additional samples will be collected at non-routine times in the first 24 hours
      after transplant surgery only.

      Urine samples will be collected from the catheter during surgery and each post-operative day
      up till day seven after surgery if they are inpatients.

      All participants will be offered the opportunity of undergoing an optional bedside ultrasound
      scan of their abdominal wall incision at day three post-surgery.

      Final blood and urine samples will be collected at the time of the participant's routine
      post-operative visit at 1 month.

      Biomarkers will be measured using Luminex and ELISA techniques as appropriate. The biomarkers
      to be measured will include Kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1), Neutrophil
      gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) and Interleukin-18 (IL-18).
    
  