
    
      Volunteers (aim is 36 completers) will participate in a double-blind study conducted over a
      period of about 10-12 weeks including sessions for screening, food and beverage diary review,
      and drug exposure sessions. During screening, participants will be asked questions about
      participants' general characteristics including demographic information, mood, and
      personality. Participants will also be examined to determine medical eligibility. Eligible
      participants will complete diary sessions (4 total), experimental sessions (12 total) and end
      of study sessions (2 sessions). At food diary sessions, participants will be asked to
      eliminate certain foods and beverages from participants' diet, record daily food and beverage
      consumption and attend the laboratory approximately two times to discuss participants' food
      diaries. At these sessions, participants will orally ingest capsules containing commonly
      prescribed medications, over-the-counter medications, and/or placebo and will receive study
      capsules in blister packs which participants will take three times daily throughout the
      study. During experimental sessions, food and beverage restrictions will remain in place,
      participants will continue thrice daily capsule administration and will also be exposed to
      experimental test sessions. Participants will report to the laboratory 2-3 times weekly in
      order to ingest study capsules, receive blister packs and fill out questionnaires. After
      leaving the laboratory, participants will be asked to fill out surveys remotely in order to
      describe the effects of that session's capsules on mood and preference. After completing the
      first six sessions, participants will receive a mid-study bonus and have a 1-week break from
      attending sessions, during which participants will continue to swallow capsules thrice daily.
      Participants will return to the lab and complete two food diary sessions. After this,
      participants will complete experimental test sessions 7-12, where participants will again
      swallow capsules and complete questionnaires. After completing experimental test sessions
      1-12, participants will complete a final experimental test session to facilitate the study
      assessment of subjective monetary value of drug conditions. Finally, participants will return
      to the laboratory to receive a bonus payment for study completion and to complete an
      end-of-study questionnaire.
    
  