
    
      Potential participants will be identified at their office visits to the University Women's
      Health Specialists. If a patient desires uterine aspiration of a first trimester pregnancy or
      management of a failed pregnancy in the first trimester, they will first receive standard
      counseling. Only after providing written informed consent for the procedure will the
      patient's be screened for eligibility for our study. If the patient is eligible, she will be
      asked by a member of the research team if she is interested in participating. If she is, the
      study will be explained to her and written consent will be obtained after she is given the
      opportunity to have all of her questions answered. The patient will then complete a written
      questionnaire to collect demographic data.

      This prospective randomized control trial will consist of two study arms. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to Arm 1, where a paracervical block will be administered with 20 cc of
      1% lidocaine, which is our standard office protocol, or to Arm 2, where a paracervical block
      will be administered with 20 cc of 1% lidocaine buffered with 8.4% sodium bicarbonate. Prior
      to the start of the study, study assignments will be generated in a 1:1 ratio.

      All patients who consent to the study will receive standard counseling prior to their
      procedure. The procedure will start with a bimanual exam by the provider. Next, the provider
      will place a speculum, cleanse the cervix with betadine solution, and place a single-tooth
      tenaculum on the anterior lip of the cervix. At this point, participants assigned to Arm 1
      will receive a paracervical block loaded with 20 cc of 1% lidocaine and injected at 2, 4, 8
      and 10 o'clock positions of the cervicovaginal junction. Participants assigned to Arm 2 will
      receive a paracervical block loaded with 18 cc of 1% lidocaine and 2 cc of 8.4% sodium
      bicarbonate and inject the block in the same fashion. The research assistant will ask the
      patient to verbally report their level of pain based on the 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS)
      at the following points of the procedure:

        1. Prior to the start of the procedure (baseline anxiety)

        2. After speculum placement

        3. After paracervical block

        4. After cervical dilation

        5. After suction curettage

        6. At end of procedure
    
  