
    
      Open management of extensive pathology of the proximal aorta, namely ascending aorta, aortic
      arch, and descending thoracic aorta (DTA) requires sequential treatment of each segment
      involved. According to the etiopathogenesis and clinical history of the disease, each segment
      can be treated independently or in association with the other portions of diseased aorta.

      The current standard of treatment for arch aneurysmal disease extending into the DTA is the
      elephant trunk technique: both conventional and "frozen". The first requires open repair of
      the aortic arch with the use of a conventional surgical graft which distal end is left
      dangling in the DTA and will be the site of the proximal anastomosis of the subsequent repair
      of the thoracic aneurysm. The frozen elephant trunk (FET) technique differs from the first
      for the graft employed: this graft has a distal stented portion which is deployed in the DTA
      and facilitates subsequent endovascular management of the thoracic pathology.

      In both the conventional elephant trunk and frozen elephant trunk the supra-aortic trunks
      (innominate artery, left carotid artery and left subclavian artery) need to be reimplanted on
      the surgical graft with variable configurations.

      Debranching and reimplantation of such vessels can occur with variable configurations and
      either before or after the substitution of the pathologic aorta which is performed during
      cardiac arrest and extra-corporeal circulation (ECC) The first design has a straight tubual
      graft with self-expanding stents in the distal portion and has been employed at department of
      Vascular Surgery in San Raffaele Hospital, from December 2009 to February 2016. The second
      design has two side-branches on the non-stented proximal portion which facilitate debranching
      of the supra-aortic trunks before cardiac arrest and allow early reperfusion of the visceral
      vessels during extra-corporeal circulation . This graft has been introduced in practice at
      department of Vascular Surgery at San Raffaele Hospital in November 2016.

      The investigators review a prospectively compiled Microsoft Office Excel database with the
      procedural details of the 30 patients affected by extensive proximal aortic pathology treated
      at department of Vascular Surgery in San Raffaele Hospital between December 2009 and January
      2017 by means of Frozen Elephant Trunk technique, and of those of the next 20 patients who
      will be treated with the same procedure.
    
  