
    
      Introduction : Several factors may influence cerebral organization of language, age being one
      of the most important. We previously showed that activations were different in old subjects
      compared to young for a silent word generation task : In Old subjects, activations appeared
      less important and more parceled but involved the same regions of the left hemisphere than
      for young subjects. Several small clusters of activation were present on the right hemisphere
      of old subjects and more or less mirrored left activations in the same group, leading to a
      less lateralized pattern than in young subjects. Moreover, during the same task, activations
      decreased for about of 1/3 subject whereas is increased or was stable for young. These
      changes may be a preclinical indicator of cognitive decline.

      Objective: In this study, we propose to rescan the same subjects 2 years after the first
      protocol using the same paradigm, and to look for possible changes in location, extend and
      time course of activations. These results will be compared to neuropsychological examination
      in order to find a possible correlation between possible changes and cognitive impairment.

      Subjects : the 22 old right-handed subjects (age>76y, 11M, 11F) enrolled in the preliminary
      study will be included.

      Method :

        -  fMRI : Data will be collected on a 1.5 T General Electric Signa MR scanner. Functional
           images will cover the whole brain and will be scanned using a single-shot echoplanar
           imaging sequence (FOV : 24 cm ¡thickness : 5 mm - 64 x 64 matrix - TE : 60 ms ¡ TR : 3s
           ¡ flip angle : 90°). The paradigm will follow a box car design and 3 periods of
           activation (30 s duration) will alternate with 3 periods of fixation (30s duration).
           During the active conditions subjects will have to mentally generate words corresponding
           to a visually presented semantic category (condition 1), or beginning by a visually
           presented letter (condition 2). During the control condition, they will be requested to
           concentrate on their breathing. Data will be analyzed using the FSFAST package. MR data
           will be motion corrected using AFNI and then smoothed with a FWHM of 5 mm. The voxel
           intensities will be rescaled such that the in-brain grand mean will be 1000 for all
           subjects. The hemodynamic response will be modeled as a gamma function (delay : 2.25 s -
           dispersion :1.25 s). The offset and linear drift in the BOLD signal will be removed by
           estimating those components simultaneously with the amplitude of the hemodynamic
           response. A t-test will then be performed on the amplitude of the hemodynamic response
           to determine which voxels has significant paradigm-related activity. Time course of the
           signal will be separately studied for each condition

        -  anatomical MR : Results will be displayed on the inflated cortical surface for each
           subject. A group analysis will be performed for each contrast using a surface coordinate
           system and random model effect and General linear model using age an neuropsychological
           scores as regressors.

        -  Neuropsychological examination : subjects will be interviewed by a psychologist 4-6
           weeks after scanning session. Semantic and lexical verbal fluency will be evaluated, as
           will general cognitive function (MMS, lokk for Alzheimer's disease, IADL, BEC96), and
           episodic memory (Grober & Buschke).
    
  