
    
      This study will gather empirical evidence of the effectiveness of WOWii intervention in
      promoting changes in exercise behavior, fitness, and perceptions of exercise over the 16 week
      intervention as well as 2 months later for individuals living with SCI. The study staff will
      assess effectiveness by measuring participants (a) time spent each week doing aerobic
      exercise by self-report and objective monitoring, (b) aerobic capacity to assess fitness
      changes, and (c) self-reported perceptions of exercise barriers and self-efficacy at
      baseline, 4 months, and 6 months.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to an experimental (WOWii) or a wait-list control
      group in one of four cohorts over a two-year period. This was an effective strategy in our
      previous trial in helping us achieve the full sample size. We will use a blocked
      randomization procedure to assure equal distribution of those with paraplegia and
      tetraplegia. Four cohorts will be enrolled over two years, with each having up to 36 people.
      This allows for up to 18 participants in the experimental and control groups, which permits
      us to offer two different time options for participants to attend the weekly meetings, as our
      video conferencing software allows up to 10 people to participate in the group video chat.
      Each cohort will be divided into two groups of 18 study participants as experimental and
      wait-list control groups. The experimental group will be divided into two groups of nine
      participants. Each cohort will begin the intervention at the same time and attend weekly
      calls together. All participants will undergo a pre-screen assessment which includes
      eligibility assessment. Participants will undergo 2 in-person fitness testing assessments at
      baseline at the end of the 16 week internet intervention with online meetings, before or
      during which they will complete an online survey and follow. A third follow up assessment
      will be conducted as an online survey at 6 months, which is 2 months after the intervention
      is complete, and an exit survey will be conducted individually over the phone after within
      one week of completing the final online survey. The wait-list control group will be offered
      the intervention at the end of the 6 month period. Due to low enrollment numbers, we will
      likely add a 5th cohort for enrollment.
    
  