
    
      African American adolescent females in youth detention centers are at high risk for HIV
      infection. There are, however, no evidence-based interventions (EBI) for this vulnerable
      population. The aim of this project is to develop and test a culturally and
      gender-appropriate sexual health education program designed to promote HIV preventive sexual
      behaviors among African American adolescent females in youth detention centers. The study
      will be conducted in four stages: (1) adaptation of SiHLE intervention; (2) pilot adapted
      intervention; (3) revisions to adapted intervention, measures, and implementation; and (4)
      implementation and evaluation.

      We will work closely with the Metro Regional Youth Detention Center (RYDC), in Atlanta,
      Georgia for all four stages of the project. The first stage, adaptation of SiHLE
      intervention, will be implemented using data collected from a prior study and with use of
      Community and Teen Advisory Boards (CAB and TAB). The pilot intervention will be completed
      with 20 participants from Metro RYDC and will test recruitment and retention strategies, the
      adapted intervention, and all measures. Revisions will be made based on findings from the
      pilot. For stage four, implementation and evaluation, we propose to recruit 350 unmarried
      African American adolescent females, 13-17 years of age, from Metro RYDC. While at the Metro
      RYDC, adolescents will be invited to participate in the proposed study. All adolescents will
      be required to have verbal informed parental/guardian consent and complete signed assent
      forms. Adolescents who are eligible and willing to participate in the project will complete
      an initial survey conducted on a computer(ACASI). The survey is designed to assess
      adolescents' sexual risk and preventive behaviors. After they complete the survey,
      adolescents will then be assigned, by chance alone, to receive either the adapted SiHLE
      intervention or the control condition. All adolescents will complete 3 individual sessions
      implemented by an African American health educator.

      As we anticipate the participants will be released prior to the follow-up assessment,
      adolescents will come to a central community site to complete follow-up interviews at 3 and
      6-months after completing their initial survey. We will also obtain a self-collected vaginal
      swab specimen to test for chlamydia and gonorrhea. We will compare the new adapted SiHLE
      intervention, IMARA, to the control condition in its ability to maintain or enhance
      adolescents' use of HIV prevention behaviors. If successful, the findings could have
      important implications for HIV prevention in this vulnerable population.
    
  