
    
      This is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter cohort study evaluating the efficacy, safety,
      and tolerability of TAF monotherapy in in Asian CHB adults with SOR to the nucleos(t)ide
      therapy by assessing the HBV DNA suppression in 48 weeks. Approximately one hundred adults
      who received the aforementioned nucleos(t)ide therapy will be prospectively enrolled during
      the period from December 2019 to June 2021. Subjects will be enrolled by medical clinic in
      about 10 university centers in different regions in China. Approximately 10-15 consecutive
      eligible patients will be enrolled from each participating sites. This study will be
      conducted in accordance with the guidelines of Good Clinical Practices (GCPs) including
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval and consent will be applied. Patient identification
      (ID) will be de-identified for submitting to the central database for analyses from all study
      sites. Free TAF treatment will be provided to all enrolled patients for 48 weeks. Patients
      will be under the local standard of care upon the completion of the current study.

      Patients aged 18-80 with CHB infection who had received nucleos(t)ide therapy over 24 weeks
      of LAM/LdT/ADV or 48 weeks of ETV with medication adherence, but failure to achieve the
      levels of HBV-DNA below 300 IU/mL will be eligible. Subjects will be excluded if they meet
      the following criteria: co-infected with HIV or other viral hepatitis; the serum levels of
      HBV DNA are too low (i.e. about 300 IU/mL) to be analyzed for the genotypic mutation(s);
      nucleos(t)ide resistant mutants have been detected at screening visit, patient is under a
      clinical research protocol of phase I-III development; unable to consent or unlikely to
      complete one year follow up after the enrollment; and other medical condition may affect the
      ability to participate the study.
    
  