
    
      Congenital heart defects (CHD) occur in approximately 1% of all live births. Around 5% of
      adults with CHD develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), with 25-50% of these patients
      exhibiting the most serious form, Eisenmenger syndrome. Eisenmenger syndrome is caused by a
      systemic-to-pulmonary shunt, which eventually leads to high pulmonary vascular resistance
      with right-to-left or bi-directional shunt. Right-to-left shunting reduces the systemic
      arterial oxygen capacity and consequently causes cyanosis, which may result in hypoxic tissue
      damage and multi-organ disease.

      The natural history of Eisenmenger syndrome (ES) is generally poor compared to the general
      population with the latest reported actual survival rates of 94%, 74% and 52% at 40, 50 and
      60 years of age, respectively. Until recently conventional symptomatic treatment with
      diuretics, digitalis, antiarrhythmic, anticoagulants, iron supplement, oxygen therapy, and
      ultimately heart-lung transplantation were the only options. Most patients die from
      progressive cardiovascular disease and heart failure, sudden heart death or haemoptysis.

      However, the introduction of advanced therapy (AT) has improved symptoms and may also have
      changed to prognosis of these patients. Thus, newer studies have shown beneficial effect of
      treatment with advanced therapy including endothelin receptor antagonists,
      phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors, and prostanoids. These pulmonary vasodilators are now
      recognized as targeted therapy in Eisenmenger syndrome.

      Sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) with predominantly obstructive or central sleep apnoea
      (OSA/CSA) with Cheyne-Stokes respiration (CSR) is shown to be a common comorbidity in
      patients with heart failure (HF), as it is present in at least 50 % of these patients. In the
      general Danish population the estimated prevalence is 3-18% in men and 5-7% in women.

      Studies in HF patients also suggest an increased rate of central sleep apnoea (CSA) versus
      obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) compared to the general population. SDB may promote the
      progression of chronic heart failure (HF) and is independently associated with a decreased
      survival rate.

      The standard treatment for patients with OSA is nocturnal continuous positive airway pressure
      (CPAP) usually delivered with a tight fitting nasal mask. The benefits of CPAP are well
      established in this group of patients, as opposed to CSA-patients. The largest randomized
      study demonstrated no effect of nocturnal CPAP in patients with HF and CSA on heart
      transplant-free survival, but improvements in apnoea frequency, blood oxygenation and left
      ventricle function. While CPAP and other assisted breathing devices may be used in SDB
      related to HF, this have no place in the treatment of patients with ES, as any rise in the
      intra-thoracic pressure and consequently increased PVR and right-to-left shunting will worsen
      the cyanosis.

      The treatment of CSA in HF remains controversial; however aggressive optimization of the
      medical treatment in congestive heart failure seems to improve the condition.

      In these patients, the effect of CPAP, nocturnal oxygen and drugs stimulating the central
      respiratory drive are less well documented or related to adverse events such as increased
      risk of arrhythmias.

      Though the relationship between HF and SDB is well established, the prevalence and influence
      of SDB in Eisenmenger syndrome has not previously been examined.

      There are many similarities between ES and HF, but several important differences are also
      present. In congestive heart failure the ventricular insufficiency is related to an increased
      left side filling pressure followed by pulmonary stasis or oedema, whereas ES patients often
      have a normal filling pressure and normal systemic vascular resistance, but high pulmonary
      vascular resistance (PVR) and cyanosis due to the right-left shunt.

      The aims of this study are to examine a group of Eisenmenger Syndrome patients to establish
      the prevalence of SDB in this patient group, to examine the mechanism (CSA or OSA) behind SDB
      in Eisenmenger syndrome, and to relate the presence of SDB to a higher level of secondary
      erythrocytosis.

      If a role of SDB in ES is demonstrated, further studies will be necessary to demonstrate
      whether SDB in Eisenmenger syndrome can be altered by advanced therapy.

      Hypotheses

        -  The prevalence of SDB in Eisenmenger syndrome is higher than in the general population.

        -  SDB in Eisenmenger syndrome is caused by a central rather than obstructive mechanism.

        -  SDB in Eisenmenger syndrome is related to a more pronounced secondary erythrocytosis
           than explained by a daytime measurement of oxygen saturation.
    
  