
    
      This is a prospective population cohort study of newborns that are born at Community Regional
      Medical Center (CRMC). Legally authorized representatives (LAR) of the newborn will be
      approached by research staff after the birth of their baby, informed about the study and then
      asked if they would like to participate. Due to the high volume of births at CRMC, LARs will
      be approached approximately once a week for a convenience sample.

      If a LAR is interested in participating, they will be consented to be in the study.

      After a LAR consents for participation the newborn will receive an ultrasound of their hips
      while in the hospital (done by a trained sonographer). This will happen in the patient's room
      with the LAR present. An ultrasound of the hip takes approximately 15 minutes and is
      non-invasive, non-painful and does not utilize any ionizing radiation.

      Study Follow-Up LARs and newborns will be scheduled to return once a week until the newborn's
      hips reach criteria for normal hip morphology or the newborn reaches 6 weeks of corrected
      age. Normal infant hip ultrasound maturity is defined as an alpha angle of > 60 degrees (this
      is the angle between the roof of the acetabulum and the lateral iliac wing and indicates
      morphology of the acetabulum) and a percent coverage of the femoral head in the acetabulum of
      > 50%. A Board Certified Pediatric Radiologist, a Board Certified Pediatric Orthopaedic
      Surgeon and an Orthopaedic Resident will interpret each study. If there is less than 5 degree
      or 5 percent difference between the interpretations the mean will be used as the reading. If
      there is a greater difference, the case will be reviewed for consensus. Corrected age is
      defined as actual age in weeks minus weeks premature. For example, a newborn born at 32 weeks
      gestational age (8 weeks premature) would be followed for 14 weeks total (14 weeks actual
      age-8 weeks premature=6 weeks adjusted age).

      If a newborns hips reach the criteria for newborn hips before they reach 6 weeks adjusted
      age, they will discharged from the study as they have reached the standard for infant hip
      maturity (this could happen at their initial scan or any time after). LAR and newborns will
      return to CRMC Radiology Department to get the follow up ultrasounds therefore there will be
      an incentive of $15 a follow up visit. Incentive will not be provided for studies performed
      while a hospital inpatient. If a patient shows persistent radiographic signs of dysplasia at
      any point while they are in the study, they will exit the study protocol and receive standard
      treatment for hip dysplasia as medically indicated.

      Basic demographics initially (gender, race/ethnicity, age of the mother), birth presentation
      (normal or breach), multiple birth, the number of births that the mother has had, family
      history of hip dysplasia, gestational age, alpha angle and percent coverage as defined above
      (measured by three independent observers) will be collected at the initial exam. At each
      follow up exam the following data will be collected; date of exam, gestational age, corrected
      age, alpha angle, percent coverage and any notes about the exam. In addition, contact
      information will be collected so that follow up visits can be scheduled. All data will be
      entered into REDCap, UCSF's HIPAA compliant data entry site.
    
  