
    
      NASH is a disease characterized by elevated plasma aminotransferases and histopathological
      changes in liver characterized by hepatocellular steatosis, chronic inflammation and
      perisinusoidal fibrosis. NASH affects (~30-40%) of obese and type 2 diabetic subjects. While
      the pathogenesis of NASH is poorly understood, there is consensus that insulin resistance and
      its associated abnormalities in lipid metabolism play a key role in the development of liver
      fat accumulation. Insulin resistance in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is frequently associated
      with chronic hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, and an excessive supply of plasma free fatty
      acids to the liver. This in turn promotes hepatic lipogenesis. Pioglitazone, a
      thiazolidinedione (TZD), reverses these abnormalities by ameliorating insulin resistance in
      adipose tissue, liver and muscle. TZDs decrease excessive ectopic triglyceride accumulation
      in liver and muscle, reduce visceral fat, and redistribute fat to subcutaneous adipose
      stores. We have shown in a proof-of-concept 6-month study that pioglitazone is safe and
      effective for the treatment of T2DM. Patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis are also
      characterized by a low plasma adiponectin level. Thiazolidinediones increase plasma
      adiponectin levels, may activate AMP-activated protein kinase, stimulate hepatic/muscle fatty
      acid oxidation, and inhibit hepatic fatty acid synthesis in NASH nonalcoholic
      steatohepatitis. Thiazolidinediones also have antiinflammatory effects which are believed to
      be of value for therapy for NASH.

      In order to evaluate this hypothesis, the investigators will treat for up to 36 months a
      group of patients with impaired (IGT) glucose tolerance and T2DM patients recruited from the
      University Hospital and medical school clinics and by newspaper add targeting the San Antonio
      and South Texas geographical area, with pioglitazone in a randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled trial. The primary endpoint will be liver histologic response assessed by
      liver biopsy performed at 18 and at 36 months of treatment.
    
  