
    
      Increasing or maintaining muscle mass is of great importance for populations ranging from
      athletes to patients and elderly. Resistance exercise and protein ingestion are two of the
      most potent stimulators of muscle protein synthesis. Both the physical characteristic of
      proteins (e.g. different digestion rates of whey and casein) and the amino acid composition,
      affects the potential of a certain protein to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. Given its
      superior ability to rapidly increase blood leucine concentrations to high levels, whey is
      often considered the most potent protein source to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. Native
      whey protein is produced by filtration of unprocessed milk. Consequently, native whey has
      different characteristics than WPC-80, which is exposed to heating and acidification. Because
      of the direct filtration of unprocessed milk, native whey is a more intact protein compared
      with WPC-80. Of special interest is the higher amounts of the highly anabolic amino acid
      leucine in native whey.

      The higher levels of leucine can be of great interest for elderly individuals as some studies
      in elderly has shown an anabolic resistance to the effects of protein feeding and strength
      training. By increasing levels of leucine one might overcome this anabolic resistance in the
      elderly.

      The aim of this double-blinded, randomized, partial cross-over study is to compare the acute
      fractional protein synthesis and intracellular signaling response to a bout of strength
      training and intake of 20 grams of protein from either native whey, whey protein concentrate
      80 or milk, in young and old individuals. Furthermore, the investigators wil investigate
      fractional protein breakdown, markers of protein breakdown, amino acid concentrations in
      blood.

      The investigators hypothesize that native whey will induce a greater anabolic response than
      whey protein concentrate 80, and that whey protein concentrate 80 will give a stronger
      anabolic response than milk.
    
  