
    
      This study represents the natural history protocol for NIAAA with the main objectives of
      providing assessment, clinical care, evaluation, characterization and screening. The specific
      goals of this protocol are the following:

        -  To provide clinical care, including but not limited to medically assisted withdrawal
           from alcohol ( detoxification ), as well as standard behavioral and/or pharmacological
           therapies where indicated to those who wish to receive treatment for alcohol use
           disorders (AUD) and related clinical conditions.

        -  To gather characterization measures for individuals wishing to participate in this
           protocol and in future NIH protocols (for which this protocol serves as the screening
           protocol), including a standardized set of clinical, behavioral, biochemical and
           structural MRI-based phenotypic assessments, as well as whole genome genotypes

        -  To screen and evaluate individuals wishing to participate in NIH clinical protocols
           (both those providing treatment and those that do not provide treatment for AUD) for
           which the present protocol serves as the screening platform. Participants may be
           individuals with no current or past AUD, as well as individuals who meet current or past
           DSM criteria for AUD. Healthy volunteers and other volunteers will also be enrolled in
           this protocol.

        -  Finally, this protocol may also serve for training purposes, as it may provide
           opportunities for training of fellows and other staff members of the NIAAA Clinical
           Programs.

        -  ANA Substudy objective: To obtain assessments built around three neuroscience domains,
           incentive salience, negative emotionality, and executive function, related to addiction
           for purposes of identifying neuroscience-based, clinically-relevant subtypes of alcohol
           use disorder and alcohol use patterns

      We will collect information including such items as psychiatric diagnoses and symptoms,
      biomarkers of liver and other organ damage, quantitative alcohol use history, other substance
      use, and family history of alcoholism. Using this information, investigators will be able to
      clinically manage any disorders in need of clinical attention, and determine whether subjects
      are eligible for any NIH research studies (for which this protocol serves as the screening
      platform) based on results of screening evaluations and the participants interest in
      receiving treatment for AUD. We will also acquire whole genome data, with which investigators
      will be able to examine the relationship between genetic variation and alcohol-related
      phenotypes.

      Consenting for this protocol will be a two-step process. The first consent (named Clinical
      Management Consent) will allow Investigators to assess the acute needs and provide
      appropriate clinical care. The second consent (named Screening and Research Consent) will
      allow Investigators to conduct screening and research data collection and analysis.The
      substudy will have its own consent, the Addictions Neuroclinical Assessment (ANA) consent.
    
  