
    
      This is a prospective, single site study. Up to 60 subjects will be enrolled at Duke.
      Subjects will be asked to complete the 4-meter walk test, three (3) times. Three speed
      measuring methods will be conducted simultaneously: NIH toolbox 4 meter clinic walk test and
      the Sprint System device (commercially available device typically used for timing track and
      field events), and the Gaitbox.

      NIH toolbox 4 meter clinic walk test: The walking path will be set according to the
      directions of the NIH toolbox 4 meter clinic walk test which includes marking the beginning
      and end of the walking path. Tape will be used to mark beginning and end of timing section of
      the walking path to allow for acceleration and deceleration. A standard manual stopwatch will
      be used to record time. The examiner will demonstrate the task then instruct the participant
      to "Walk at a comfortable pace" and count down by saying: "3, 2, 1, go." The stop watch will
      be used to time the amount of time it takes to walk between the cones. Subjects will complete
      3 timed trials. The time will be recorded in the log.

      Simultaneously, the Sprint System will be operated according to manufacturers instructions.
      The device will be setup on tripods 4 feet from the floor so as to be triggered by the
      subject's torso rather than feet and set to measure data at the same distances as the gait
      box. The device will be set up to record times at the same distances as the Gaitbox. The
      Sprint System is used to time track running events by breaking two invisible light beams.
      Timing starts when the subject crosses the first line and stops when the second line is
      crossed. The times are displayed on a handheld display. Times will be transferred to the log
      sheet.

      The Gaitbox will be set up at the end of the 4 meter walking path at a height of 4 feet from
      the floor. To operate, investigator presses reset button, waits for ready light and tells
      subject to go. Speed is measured automatically and result is displayed. Times/speeds will be
      recorded on log sheet.
    
  