
    
      We evaluated a non-probability convenience sample. Participants were recruited in the
      rehabilitation clinic of the university and care facilities, between July of 2013 and July of
      2014.

      Body structures and functions and functionality component of the International Classification
      of Functioning, Disability and Healthy, were evaluated. Muscle activity (electromyography)
      and trunk and lower limbs alignment (kinematics) were evaluated as body structures and
      functions measures. Time used to perform STS was used as functionality measure.

      We evaluated sit to stand in three conditions: a) without taping; b) with KT, which was
      characterized as the use of KT with tension; c) placebo.

      Baseline measurement: STS without taping. The child was seated in a seat with adjustable
      height, without shoes. Both feet were symmetrically positioned shoulder width apart and arms
      were crossed over the chest. The participants could not use their arms to push up off the
      chair. Also, the child should be seated with gluteal and the upper thighs regions supported
      in seat. Children performed STS in a speed that simulated the one usually adopted in daily
      routine.

      Baseline measurement was evaluated in three seat heights: neutral, elevated and lowered.
      Neutral corresponded to a seated position with 90° of hip, knee and ankle flexion. Lowered
      and elevated were defined as, respectively, 80 and 120% of neutral height.The order of seat
      heights was randomized by drawing lots. A interval of 5 minutes was allowed between each seat
      height.

      Evaluations were carried out in two testing episodes, with one-week interval between them. On
      the first day, additional to baseline, the child performed STS with KT or placebo. The
      determination of which tape condition would be applied was randomized by drawing lots. A
      15-minute interval between baseline and tape condition was established. On the second day,
      the tape condition that was not performed on the first day was evaluated. In all conditions,
      the child performed STS in three seat heights.
    
  