
    
      There is a global epidemic of AF, the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia, and type 2
      diabetes (T2D). Given an aging population and physically inactive lifestyles, the prevalence
      of AF and T2D is expected to increase. AF is a progressive disorder with three principal
      subtypes: paroxysmal AF (AF that self-terminates within <7 days), persistent AF (AF that
      lasts >7 days and is terminated by medications or procedures) and permanent AF (patient and
      treating physician agree not to pursue further intervention). AF-related symptoms are
      disabling and highly variable, including exercise intolerance, palpitations, breathlessness,
      fatigue, dizziness and mental distress. Patients with non-permanent AF experience more severe
      symptoms when compared to those with permanent AF, and suffer from substantial reductions in
      quality of life (QoL) and increased risk of major cerebrovascular events, cardiovascular
      events and mortality.

      T2D is a risk factor for developing AF and approximately 20% of non-permanent AF patients
      (i.e. paroxysmal and persistent AF) suffer from this condition. T2D is characterized by
      insulin resistance and insulin insufficiency leading to high blood glucose concentrations.
      Inadequate or poor glycemic control leads to increases in glycemic variability (GV, amplitude
      and frequency of blood glucose oscillations from either high to low or low to high). GV is
      considered to exacerbate AF symptoms severity by increasing: (1) inflammation; (2) oxidative
      stress; and, (3) autonomic nervous system dysfunction. Emerging evidence also highlights
      associations between GV and poor QoL and negative mood in patients with T2D.

      High-intensity interval training (HIIT), a form of exercise that involves periods of short,
      intense exercise bouts interspersed by less intense recovery periods, has emerged as a
      time-efficient and practical approach to improving GV. Importantly, only 10 HIIT sessions
      over 2 weeks have been shown to lower GV in patients with T2D. A systematic review (N=50
      studies) revealed that HIIT improves insulin resistance and blood glucose control (glycated
      hemoglobin A1C) when compared to controls (i.e. no exercise) in patients with metabolic
      syndrome or T2D. HIIT also increases QoL in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD)
      following 4 weeks of exercise training; reduces inflammatory markers (i.e. interleukin-6
      [IL-6] and C-reactive protein [CRP]30) in patients with CAD; attenuates markers of oxidative
      stress in healthy adults in 3 weeks; and improves cardiac autonomic nervous system function
      in healthy sedentary men in 2 weeks.

      The recent American Diabetes Association guidelines recommend HIIT as a strategy to control
      blood glucose in patients with T2D. However, neither national nor international clinical
      guidelines for managing AF include exercise. The absence of exercise from these guidelines in
      the face of increasing evidence of its physical and mental health benefits reflects a lost
      opportunity to provide AF patients with better treatment options, particularly those who
      suffer from concomitant T2D. The effects of HIIT on GV, AF symptom severity and QoL in
      non-permanent AF patients with T2D are unknown, and the associations between GV and AF
      symptom severity and QoL remain to be investigated. Examining the impact of HIIT on GV, AF
      symptom severity and QoL may provide a novel, feasible and time-efficient therapeutic option
      for non-permanent AF patients with T2D who are searching for better treatment options.
    
  