
    
      Patients selection:

      In this clinical trial, investigators considered therapeutic effect of MSCs in SM-exposed
      male patients.Patients, had a documented encounter with SM during the Iran-Iraq war. The
      patients signed informed consent before study. They were selected according to the following
      criteria: (a) the severity of lung injury was ranged from moderate 50< forced expiratory
      volume in 1 second (FEV1) <65 to severe 40<FEV1<50; (b) absence of contraindications
      spirometry (hemoptysis, cerebral arterial aneurysm or aortic, pulmonary embolism,
      uncontrolled blood pressure, recent pneumothorax, no doubt surgery/thoracic recent, recent
      stroke); and (c) no coagulation. The exclusion criteria for the selection process were as
      follow: (a) participate in another study at the same time; (b) smoking habitat; (c) the
      existence of pneumonia during the study; (d) the incidence of transfusion reaction; (e)
      underlying other diseases (cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes).

      Isolation and culture of adipose derived stem cells:

      200mL of abdominal adipose tissue was obtained under local anesthesia by liposuction
      aspirates protocol. The lipoaspirate was washed with PBS to remove tissue debris. 100mL PBS
      containing 0.1% w/v collagenase A type I was added to isolated tissue and then incubated at
      37ºC for 60 minutes. Collagenase activity was neutralized using MEM medium along with 10%
      fetal bovine serum. Cell pellets were resuspended in culture medium after centrifugation at
      2000rpm for 10 min, and then transferred to culture flasks for 72 h at 37ºC in 5% CO2
      condition. The culture medium in the flasks was changed every 3 days, and cells were passaged
      for two times.

      Flow cytometry analysis:

      To analyze the cell surface antigen expression, 5×105 fresh cells from third passage were
      harvested by trypsin-EDTA. Cells were centrifuged at 100 g for 1 min, resuspended in stain
      buffer (PBS, 2% FBS) and then incubated on ice for 10 minutes. Trypsin was neutralized by
      centrifuge and isolated cells were washed twice with PBS and finally resuspended in stain
      buffer. Cells were incubated in dark environment for 30 minutes. After incubation, the cells
      were labeled with anti-human monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) conjugated to fluorochromes. These
      antibodies were as follow: anti-CD90-fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), CD73-phycoerythrin
      (PE), CD11b-FITC, CD34-FITC, CD44-FITC, CD45-PE, CD105-PE. The frequencies of all
      immunolabeled cells were analyzed by FACS Canto II flow cytometer, in which approximately
      500,000 events were assessed and data were analyzed using FlowJo software (version 10.0).

      Karyotype analysis for abnormalities detection:

      Standard Giemsa staining procedure was performed and chromosome preparations were obtained
      from 80% confluent cells. To stop microtubule formation, the cells were treated with Colcemid
      solution. The mitotic arrested cells were then harvested using trypsin-EDTA. The cells were
      extracted and then immersed in 75 mmol/l KCl for 30 minute at laboratory temperature.
      Finally, they obtained by a centrifugation. The supernatant was replaced with fixative
      solution and the suspension was spread over slides for microscopic examination and imaging.
      At least, 15 metaphase spreads were analyzed. The karyotypes were considered with light
      microscope using a cytovision software.

      Freezing and Storage of Adipose-derived Stem Cells:

      ADMSCs were harvested at 90% confluence before injection for freezing. To collect cells,
      culture medium was removed and replaced with sterile PBS and after three minutes it was
      replaced with trypsin-EDTA solution and then incubated at 37°C for 5 minutes. Complete medium
      (MEM with 10% FBS) was added to inactivate the trypsin, and centrifuged at 1500 rpm for 5
      minutes. Cell pellet was resuspended in cryopreservation medium (80% FBS, 10%
      dimethylsulfoxide and 10% MEM medium) with a final concentration of 5 million cells per
      milliliter and aliquoted into cryovials. The vials stored at -80 °C overnight and then
      transferred into a liquid nitrogen container for long-term storage.

      MSCs injection and Study plan:

      Patients received 100×106 cells every 20 day for four injections within 2 months and screened
      for 7 times. MSCs were injected intravenously along with 300 ml normal saline to the patient
      at a maximum rate of 2×106 cells/min. Each infusion took approximately 30 minute to be
      completed. After each injection, patient stayed at hospital for at least 6h as recovery time.
      Efficacy of MSCs treatment in these patients were evaluated using the following parameters:
      pulmonary functions test (PFTs) [forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), Forced vital
      capacity (FVC), FEV1/FVC], total lung capacity by body plethysmography, single-breath carbon
      monoxide diffusing capacity (CO diffusion) , exercise performance [6-minute walk test
      (6MWT)], Borg scale dyspnea assessment (BSDA), COPD Assessment Test (CAT), St. George's
      Respiratory Questionnaire (SRGQ) and comprehensive safety evaluation.
    
  