
    
      Mood disorders are important public health problems. Bipolar disorder is a major psychiatric
      disorder characterized by mood cycles alternating between mania and depression and affects
      approximately 1% of the population. Most patients are treated beginning in the early twenties
      and then embark on a course marked by multiple recurrences, hospitalizations, and encounters
      with legal authorities. These disorders inflict substantial morbidity which yields important
      deficits in occupational and interpersonal function. The risk of suicide in mood disorders
      may be as high as 10%.

      Although the outlook for recovery from acute manic or depressive episodes is generally
      excellent, the long-term prognosis of the disorder varies tremendously across the patient
      population. The introduction of lithium, anticonvulsants and atypical antipsychotics
      significantly changes the outlook for bipolar disorder, with some individuals on chronic
      treatment attaining complete remission and indefinite prophylaxis against mood episodes.
      However, such optimum outcomes may be limited to as few as one-third to one-half of all
      treated patients. The remaining experiences various combinations of breakthrough mood
      episodes, including chronic mood instability, persistent depression, and rapid cycling.

      Very little research has been conducted with bipolar disorder, and no medications have an FDA
      indication to treat bipolar depression. Previous studies suggest that Depakote is promising
      in the treatment of mixed and depressed episodes of bipolar disorder. This study utilizes the
      extended release formulation of divalproex sodium, with demonstrated increased tolerability.

      We propose investigating safety, tolerability and efficacy of Depakote ER monotherapy in
      Bipolar I, II or NOS depression, and monitoring associated changes in brain GABA levels. In
      addition, we intend to evaluate and assess the differences between brain metabolic rate and
      GABA levels in bipolar disorder patients and healthy volunteers.
    
  