
    
      If the patient and their donor are eligible, we will take 100-120 ml (20-24 teaspoonfuls) of
      blood from the donor 3-4 weeks before the transplant. We will only take as much blood as is
      safe for the patient and their donor.

      We will use this blood to grow T cells. We will first infect the peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells with a specially produced human virus adenovirus) that carries part of the CMV gene to
      the monocytes which will stimulate the T cells. This stimulation will train the T cells to
      kill cells with the pp65 from the CMV virus on their surface. If this approach is
      insufficient to stimulate T cells which will kill the pp65 from the CMV virus then we will
      grow a special type of cell called dendritic cells which will stimulate the T cells and we
      will put the specially produced human virus (adenovirus) that carries the parts of the CMV
      gene (called pp65) into the dendritic cells. These dendritic cells will then be treated with
      radiation so they cannot grow. They will then be used to stimulate T cells. This stimulation
      will train the T cells to kill cells with the pp65 from the CMV virus on their surface.

      We will then grow these CMV specific CTLs by more stimulation with EBV infected cells (which
      we will make from the blood of the donor by infecting them with EBV in the laboratory). We
      will also put the adenovirus that carries the CMV pp65 gene into these EBV infected cells so
      that they too have CMVpp65. These EBV infected cells will be treated with radiation so they
      cannot grow. Once we have made sufficient numbers of T cells we will test them to make sure
      they kill cells with CMVpp65 on their surface. To make sure that these cells won't attack the
      patients tissues, we test these cells against the lymphoblasts that we grow in the
      laboratory. These will be used to check if the CMV CTL can attack them. Alternatively, we
      could take a small piece of skin from the patient to grow skin cells which can also be used
      to check if CMV CTL can attack them. The skin biopsy can be done at the same time of another
      procedure such as a bone marrow.

      The donor's CMV CTL cells will be thawed and injected into the patients intravenous line for
      a period of 10 minutes after the patient received Benadryl and Tylenol. The patient will
      receive the dose of CMV CTL cells on or after day 30 following their transplant if they agree
      and are well enough. We will not give antiviral medications during this study but we will
      monitor the CMV levels weekly for at least 30 days after the transplant. If after the initial
      dose of CMV CTL cells the patient develops a viral infection, then they may be eligible to
      receive one additional injection of CTLs at the same dose as the first injection. If the CMV
      levels in the blood continue to rise after the dose of T cells then the patient will receive
      treatment with Ganciclovir, Foscarnet, or Cidofuvir.

      The patient will continue to be followed in the BMT clinic after the injection. They will be
      seen in the clinic, in the hospital or contacted by the research nurse and have blood tests
      (to monitor the blood counts, the kidney and liver function and to monitor for viruses)
      weekly for the first 60 days after the CTL infusion, then at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. To learn
      more about the way the T cells are working in the body, an extra 20-40 mls (4-8 teaspoons) of
      blood will be taken before the infusion and then 24 hours after the infusion (optional
      depending on the patients preference), and then at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks after the infusion.
      After this, blood will be taken every 3 months for 1 year. The amount of blood taken in the
      first 12 months will be 260-460mls (1-2 cups). Total time participation for this study will
      be 1 year.
    
  