
    
      The study is designed as a randomized, double-blind, non-inferiority trial among patients
      suffering envenoming following snakebite in Paoua, Central African Republic. The primary aim
      of the study is to assess the non-inferiority of EchiTabPlus-ICP compared to FAV-Africa, at
      preventing a composite primary endpoint consisting of death from any cause, need for blood
      transfusion or need for a third dose of antivenom.

      A total of 196 patients will be individually randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive FAV-Africa
      or EchiTabPlus-ICP.

      The first dose of intervention antivenom will be administered at study enrollment, and the
      need for further doses will be judged by clinical exam and the 20 minute WBCT, following the
      protocol. All other necessary medical care will be provided as per routine in the Paoua
      Prefectural Hospital. Study followup and surveillance for adverse events and serious adverse
      events will continue until 28 days after the initial dose of antivenom.

      Unique identification numbers will be allocated by an individual independent of the study
      team using a computer-generated random number list using permuted blocks of random sizes.
      Block sizes will not be disclosed to reduce predictability of the random sequence and ensure
      allocation concealment. The Site Principal Investigator who will oversee randomization will
      be given a set of sequentially numbered silver coated booklets. The Site Principal
      Investigator will be instructed to assign the next sequential randomization code noted in the
      booklet to each eligible participant as (s)he is enrolled.

      Study antivenoms will be prepared by the unblinded study pharmacist, and will be provided to
      the clinical staff in identical presentations. Group assignment will remain concealed from
      study personnel, investigators, and participants for the entire study period. The Data and
      Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will also be masked to the group assignment. The DSMB will
      remain masked unless otherwise deemed necessary by the DSMB members for any safety related
      issues. Investigators conducting the final analysis will remain masked to the group
      assignment until the end of the analysis.
    
  