
    
      1. Research purpose: Collect and analyze the medical data in clinical work, in order to
           provide further theoretical guidance for the clinical application of FCVB.

        2. Inclusion criteria: 1) Patients with severe retinal detachment, cannot be cured with
           existing vitreous substitutes, and are scheduled for FCVB implantation surgery; 2)
           Patients with silicone oil dependent eye, silicone oil emulsification, and chooses FCVB
           surgery; 3) Patients whose eyeball Atrophy, and strongly demand eye protection.

        3. Exclusion criteria: 1) Patients with positive urine pregnancy test; 2) Patients with
           FCVB removed and switched to other alternative treatments; 3) Patients the investigator
           consider are not suitable for this clinical trial.

        4. Endpoint Primary endpoint: Changes in corneal transverse diameter and ocular protrusion
           after 1 year of FCVB implantation.

           Secondary endpoints: visual acuity and intraocular pressure; local inflammatory response
           and complications evaluation; satisfaction investigated by questionnaire survey.

        5. Process Before surgery, collecting the patient's medical history and pre-operative
           related specialist examination data and subjective opinions of doctors on surgical
           indications. Recording the surgical procedure, intraoperative complications. After
           surgery (3 days, 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 3 months, 6 months after surgery, 1 year and
           1 year follow-up every year), using visual acuity chart, slit lamp microscope,
           ophthalmoscope, intraocular pressure, Hertel exophthalmometer, vernier caliper to
           observe the patient's visual acuity, local inflammatory reaction, intraocular pressure
           and eyeball atrophy changes.

        6. Efficacy evaluation Main indicators: the changes of corneal transverse diameter and
           ocular protrusion were observed 1 year after FCVB implantation.

           Secondary indicators: visual acuity and intraocular pressure; local inflammatory
           response and complications evaluation; satisfaction investigated through questionnaire
           survey.

        7. Safety evaluation Adverse events that occurred during all studies.

        8. Termination criteria During the clinical trial, the clinical trial shall be terminated
           in any of the following cases; (1) FCVB cannot be implanted (2) Subjects who fail to
           comply with the program requirements (including loss of follow-up) are subject to
           termination by the study physician; (3) a female patient who is intentionally pregnant
           or a female subject who has been confirmed to have been pregnant; (4) Participated in
           other clinical trials after participating in this clinical trial; (5) Adverse events or
           serious adverse events occurred during the trial and were unable to continue
           participating in the study; (6) The subject withdraws the informed consent or requests
           termination of the trial for some objective reason.
    
  