
    
      The study is designed as a single-blinded randomized controlled trial, preceeded by a Phase 1
      pilot trial of the VR physiotherapy and standard therapy only.

      Phase 1 will comprise of recruitment of up to 5 patients who have recently suffered a stroke
      who will be informed that they will receive ten 15- 30 minutes of VR therapy in addition to
      their standard stroke therapy. They will not receive any pharmacotherapy during this period.
      At the start and end of the VR phase, clinical assessment (Fugl-Meyer scores, Action Research
      Arm Test) will be made of each patient by a blinded clinician investigator.

      From this data, calibration to the VR program will be made to ensure reproducibility of
      effectiveness of movements assessed.

      Subsequently, for the main phase of the trial, recruited in-patients who have recently
      suffered stroke will be randomized, through a computer-based random number generator, to
      either one of two treatment arms:

        1. Control occupational therapy + pharmacotherapy

        2. Assisted Virtual-Reality physiotherapy + pharmacotherapy

      Each patient will receive an initial functional Magnetic Resonace Imaging (fMRI) scan prior
      to the start of the study. The initial pilot single-centre study will be run in the Singapore
      General Hospital Rehabilitation Ward across a 2-week period, where participants will undergo
      daily 15-30 minute VR based therapy in addition to the physiotherapy/occupational therapy
      session they receive daily.

      The VR therapy session consists of the subject interacting with a computer-based program in
      which they guide an avatar to gather items by using flexion and extension gestures of the
      affected upper limb. VR therapy sessions will last for 15-30 minutes depending on the
      subject's tolerance and participation. For patients who are unable to overcome gravity fully,
      they can still participate in this therapy by resting their arm on a table.

      Patients will receive a single dose of 100mg levodopa in combination with benserazide 2-3
      hours before an additional half an hour of occupational therapy to the weaker arm or VR
      therapy session, depending on the assigned group.

      At the start and end of the trial, clinical assessment (Fugl-Meyer scores, Action Research
      Arm Test and Functional Independence Measure) will be made of each patient by a blinded
      clinician investigator. At the final (10th) session, patients will undergo the final fMRI
      scan. MRI scans will be analysed by blinded assessors.
    
  