
    
      Chronic ischaemic mitral regurgitation (IMR) is a frequent complication of coronary artery
      disease (CAD), and is associated with a poor prognosis and outcome. The role of concomitant
      mitral valve surgery for IMR in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG)
      remains controversial. After myocardial infarction IMR is associated with poor outcome and
      prognosis with double mortality rates, it reduces survival following surgical or percutaneous
      revascularization. However, there is no consensus on the cut-off value of IMR. The thresholds
      to define severe secondary mitral regurgitation are need to be evaluated with regards to
      their impact on prognosis after mitral valve intervention. The European guidelines is defined
      effective regurgitant orifice (ERO)-0.2 cm2 and regurgitant volume (RV)-30ml, as the
      threshold for severe IMR, because of severe prognosis of this group. Whereas American
      guidelines are defined it as ERO-0.4 cm2 and RV-60ml, as it was no evidence to impact
      intervention on the IMR with ERO-0.2 cm2 and RV-30ml. Partly it's explained by the dynamic
      nature of the secondary MR. About 30% of patients from the group with non-massive
      regurgitation at rest, have dramatically increasing it during exercise. However, some patient
      have not changes or decreasing IMR during exercise and, probably, they have not such a
      negative impact on the hemodynamic by IMR. The pervious comparative studies, that were the
      base for recommendations did not differ the patients with and without changes IMR during
      exercise. The current guidelines doesn't support the stress echo (SE) exams before operation
      for assessing necessity in mitral valve operation. It's due to lack of information that prove
      of influence for survival after surgery depending on IMR dynamic parameters.

      IMR study hypothesis: Stress echocardiography data, including ERO, RV, pulmonary pressure
      (PA) pressure, beta-lines - B-lines, contractile reserve, could be indications for mitral
      valve intervention in patient with CAD and chronic secondary mitral regurgitation, undergoing
      CABG. The patients of the group with non-massive (ERO-0.2 cm2 and RV-30ml) IMR have positive
      effect by mitral surgery if they have increasing IMR during exercise test. The group with
      massive IMR (ERO≥0.4 cm2 and RV≥60 ml) will be better according clinic, echo, stress echo
      results in comparison with non-massive non-operated subgroup.

      Aim: To assess the value of stress echo testing for ischemic mitral surgery indication in
      patients undergoing CABG.

      Inclusion criteria for all projects are:

        1. Age > 18 years

        2. IMR, ERO≥0.2 cm2 and RV≥30 ml.

        3. Indication for CABG

      Exclusion criteria for all projects are:

        1. Unwillingness to give informed consent and to enter a regular follow-up program.

        2. Contraindications for stress echo.

      Methods and design:

        1. In a prospective multicenter international randomized study, we will recruit patients
           whom CABG is planned.

        2. Conventional transthoracic echo. Patients will include into two groups:

           Group 1 - "Non-massive IMR" - ERO-0.2-0.39 cm2, and RV-30-59ml. Group 2 - "Massive IMR"
           - ERO≥0.4 cm2 and RV≥60 ml.

        3. Randomization of Group 1 (surgery/non-surgery).

        4. Exercise stress echocardiography of all the patients (Group 1 and Group 2). regional
           wall motion abnormality (RWMA), ejection fraction (EF), end diastolic volume (EDV), end
           systolic volume (ESV), contractile reserve, B-lines, ERO, RV, PA pressure at rest and
           during stress.

        5. 1-year clinical outcomes

        6. 1-year transthoracic echo data.

        7. 1-year stress echocardiography data.

        8. 3-year clinical outcomes

        9. 3-year transthoracic echo data.

       10. 3-year stress echocardiography data. Primary end-points: death, myocardial infarction,
           new hospital readmission, heart transplant, ventricular assist device implantation,
           aborted sudden death, pulmonary oedema (MACE).

      Secondary end-points: physical capacity (changes in Watts, minutes of stress
      echocardiography), EDV, left atrium volume, EF at rest and during SE, ERO, RV, PA pressure,
      B-lines, contractile reserve at rest and during exercise in comparison with pre-operative
      data.

      Expected results. Group 1, CABG - subgroup, CABG+mitral surgery subgroup. It's expected the
      improvement of physical capacity (changes in Watts, minutes of stress echocardiography), EDV,
      left atrium volume, EF at rest and during SE, ERO, RV, PA pressure, B-lines, contractile
      reserve at rest and during exercise in comparison with pre-operative data in CABG+mitral
      surgery subgroup already in 1-year follow-up. It's expected the improvement of physical
      capacity (changes in Watts, minutes of stress echo), EDV, left atrium volume, EF at rest and
      during stress echo, ERO, RV, PA pressure, B-lines, contractile reserve at rest and during
      exercise in comparison with CABG-subgroup already in 1-year follow-up. It's expected that
      more pronounce changes will be in CABG+mitral surgery subgroup with previously increasing
      IMR. The worst results are expected in CABG-subgroup with previously increasing IMR during
      exercise. There will be clarified which parameters would be more correlate with the clinic
      improvement (contractile reserve, B-lines, ERO etc). We expected reduced MACE till 3 year in
      CABG+mitral surgery subgroup with increasing IMR in comparison with CABG-subgroup with
      increasing IMR.

      Group 2, The group with massive IMR (ERO≥0.4 cm2 and RV≥60 ml) will be better according
      clinic, echo, stress echo results in comparison with CABG-subgroup with increasing IMR from
      group 1. There will be clarified which parameters would be more correlate with the clinic
      improvement (contractile reserve, B-lines, ERO etc).
    
  