
    
      This is an exploratory, single group, observational study involving patients recruited from
      the dialysis patient population of the London Health Science Centre (LHSC) Regional Renal
      Program. Recruited patients will undergo insertion of the Reveal LINQ insertable cardiac
      monitoring system and will continuously be examined over a time period of up to 12 to 24
      months to gather data on the incidence of arrhythmia.

      Those patients enrolled into the study will have their first study session on their midweek
      dialysis treatment day (Wednesday or Thursday) at St. Joseph's Hospital. During the first
      study visit, all participants will have an external multichannel ECG, CT scan, CT angiogram,
      and 2D echo done. In addition to this, all participants will have non-invasive monitoring of
      circulatory stress using the CVInsight contact device, and blood work will be drawn. Within
      one month, all participants will have a second study visit where they will undergo the same
      study procedures as in session one with the addition of up to 30 minutes of intradialytic
      exercise. This visit will also take place at St. Joseph's Hospital on a mid-week dialysis
      treatment day. If a patient would like to, they will then undergo an insertion procedure of
      the Reveal LINQ insertable cardiac monitoring system on a dialysis or non-dialysis treatment
      day at University Hospital. Dr. Allan Skanes (CoInvestigator) will perform this procedure at
      his earliest convenience. The implantable loop recorder will be interrogated at least once a
      month for up to 12 months to retrieve the information that has been recorded during their
      hemodialysis treatment. During this time, the patient participant will complete a
      questionnaire too using the LEVIL application. Then, 12 months after the initial insertion of
      the device, a follow-up call will be completed by a member of the research team where the
      patient will have the choice to have the device removed if desired. If the patient chooses to
      keep the device, we will monitor the implantable loop recorder for another year and the
      patient will be transferred to LHSC's Inherited Heart Rhythm Clinic at University Hospital
      for clinical monitoring after this. Completion of the questionnaire will continue during this
      time. If they choose to have the device removed, the cardiac electrophysiologist will remove
      the device at his earliest convenience.

      Bloodwork will be obtained pre and post dialysis as well as at peak stress of each imaging
      session. This will allow us to assess for relevant biomarkers of oxidative stress, myocardial
      ischemia, and volume overload.
    
  