
    
      The SWIFT study recruited women during pregnancy, and enrolled 1,035 women diagnosed with GDM
      who delivered a singleton, live born infant of at least 35 weeks gestation at a Kaiser
      Permanente Northern California hospital from 2008 to 2011, and met other study eligibility
      criteria. Women with recent GDM consented to three in-person research exams with the first
      exam at 6-9 weeks postpartum (study baseline) and the two follow up research exams continuing
      annually thereafter for two years post-baseline. SWIFT participants continued to be followed
      for clinical diagnoses of diabetes via the KPNC electronic health record system during the
      subsequent years through present. The study enrollment of participants began in late 2008 and
      ended in December 2011, and in-person follow up exams through 2014. The SWIFT cohort is
      racially and ethnically diverse (75% minority) with 35% Asian, 9% Black, 31% Hispanic, 23%
      White, and 2% other race groups, and includes a longitudinal Biobank, and research datasets.

      Each woman provided written informed consent for three in-person exams involving
      administration of the 2-hour 75 gram Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) to classify glucose
      tolerance in women following GDM pregnancy and numerous other assessments. At baseline, 21
      women were classified with diabetes and excluded from follow up, 2 women dropped out, and 2
      women were ineligible. There were 1,010 women with recent GDM and no diabetes at baseline who
      were followed to evaluate the primary study outcome, the progression to glucose intolerance
      during the two year follow up period, defined as incident diabetes by American Diabetes
      Association (ADA) criteria from the 2-hour 75 gram OGTT glucose values, and/or clinical
      medical diagnosis of diabetes. The annual study follow up exams during the 2 years
      post-baseline occurred from 2009-2014. The study cohort continues in ongoing follow up for
      progression to diabetes and subsequent pregnancies via laboratory testing from the Kaiser
      Permanente electronic health records.

      The primary exposure for the study is lactation intensity and duration assessed
      quantitatively using the method by Piper et al. 2001 to estimate a continuous lactation
      intensity and duration score up to 12 months postpartum. The study assessed infant feeding
      prospectively from prenatal telephone contacts to assess breastfeeding intention via a
      standardized method, inpatient hospital delivery records, participant infant feeding diaries,
      telephone contacts at 1 month postpartum, self-administered monthly mailed surveys (from 3 to
      11 months postpartum), and from surveys at the three in-person annual study exams. Data
      collection during and after pregnancy was also obtained from electronic health records
      related to perinatal course (e.g., laboratory diagnosis of GDM phenotype severity: 3-hr OGTT
      z-score and GDM treatment, gestational age at GDM diagnosis, maternal pre-pregnancy BMI,
      gestational weight gain), medical history, prenatal measures, subsequent pregnancies, and the
      maternal and newborn outcomes.

      At each of three study exams, trained research staff assessed maternal characteristics
      (infant feeding, sociodemographics, medical and reproductive history, subsequent pregnancies,
      medication use, recurrence of GDM, physical activity, dietary intake, depression, and sleep
      habits/disorders), as well as breastfeeding intensity and duration, infant health, and
      complementary infant dietary intake using self- and interviewer-administered questionnaires.
      Trained research staff measured participant anthropometry and body composition via
      bioelectrical impedance assessment according to standardized research protocols, as well as
      collected, processed, and stored biospecimens from 2-hour 75 g OGTTs (fasting and 2-h plasma
      and buffy coat), and administered questionnaires at each in-person exam.

      The SWIFT Offspring Study, an ancillary study of mother-infant dyads, conducted three
      in-person exams from 6-9 weeks, 6 months and 12 months to evaluate infant ponderal growth
      (weight and length) during the first year of life as well as sleep, infant temperament,
      dietary intake, skinfold thickness, breastfeeding and formula feeding, and collect saliva
      specimens in the infants of the SWIFT mothers.

      Ongoing surveillance to ascertain new diagnoses of diabetes in the SWIFT cohort occurred both
      during and after the study period via the KPNC electronic health records from 2009 to 2018.
      The SWIFT study plans to recontact all 1,033 active participants in 2019 to conduct a fourth
      in-person exam at 10 years post-baseline from 2020-2024. The fourth in-person research exam
      at 10-years post-baseline will reassess glucose tolerance, anthropometry, body composition
      and other attributes as described previously. The SWIFT study also utilizes fasting plasma
      specimens sampled within the early postpartum period to identify metabolites for the early
      prediction of future progression to type 2 diabetes. Changes in anthropometry, lifestyle
      behaviors, and risk factors for diabetes will also be assessed at the 10-year post-baseline
      in-person exam.
    
  