
    
      Introduction Five percent of Canadians suffer from Chronic Rhinosinusitis (CRS) based on a
      national survey.1 CRS sufferers have debilitating facial pain, nasal congestion, nasal
      discharge and poor sense of smell. Relative to other chronic diseases, the quality of life of
      patients suffering with CRS is comparable to diseases such as congestive heart failure,
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, angina and back pain.3 Currently, CRS patients in
      Vancouver, British Columbia wait just over a year for surgery. British Columbia's (BC) health
      care policy recommends that CRS patients waiting for surgery be done in twelve weeks. It is
      well recognized that patients who wait longer than medically reasonable for surgery result in
      an excess costs, both directly to the patient, the healthcare system and the economy as a
      whole.5 Unfortunately, no studies done in Canada have illustrated the direct and indirect
      costs associated with CRS annually.

      Patients' waiting time for elective sinus surgery in BC has come under public scrutiny in
      recent years. As a result, policy-makers are keen to address this waitlist issue.4 The
      government has identified sinus surgery as an elective day procedure that requires the
      Patient Focused Fund (PFF) to increase volume and address its disproportionately large
      waitlist. This likely has resulted in savings to VCH patients and the BC Health Ministry that
      would not have occurred had the PFF not been initiated. However, policy-makers must explore
      other innovate ways to supplement the PFF to provide further savings to VCH patients and the
      BC health care system.

      An approach that has been adopted by other specialities such as orthopaedics, ophthalmology,
      and radiology is the use of a validated tool to prioritize waitlists.6-8 There are no
      validated tools published for prioritizing sinus surgery waitlists. The Canadian Institutes
      of Health Research provided funding to establish the Western Canada Waiting List Project
      (WCWL) to "improve the fairness of the health care system so that Canadians' access to
      appropriate and effective medical services is prioritized on the basis of need and potential
      benefit."9 Despite the work done by the WCWL being limited to five clinical areas (cataract
      surgery; general surgery procedures; hip and knee replacement; magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) scanning, and children's mental health), the methodology utilized in establishing their
      prioritization tool can be used to establish one for the sinus surgery waitlist;10 The impact
      of chronic diseases, including CRS, varies among patients11; therefore, prioritizing patients
      based on clinical measurements and cost-effectiveness from an individual and healthcare
      system perspective would be a novel approach to addressing waitlists for sinus surgery.
      Currently, VCH CRS patients are treated on a first come, first served basis. Despite this
      being the most transparent way of ordering the waitlist, the investigators feel VCH CRS
      patients need a waitlist system that promotes wellness and ensures care that focuses on
      quality - this can be achieved with a prioritized waitlist based on quality of life
      improvement and decreased healthcare expenditure.

      Prior to establishing a validated tool for the prioritization of sinus surgery waitlists, one
      must first determine if VCH patients and the BC health care system would benefit from
      prioritized surgery. Providing a solution to this question requires moderate amount of
      resources and would take several of years to complete. The investigators propose a
      feasibility study coupled with an economic evaluation to determine if the disproportionately
      long wait list faced by CRS patients can be optimized and thus improve patient outcomes.

      Current State of Knowledge Researchers must determine if CRS patients and the BC health care
      system would benefit from a prioritized waitlist for sinus surgery. It is accepted that sinus
      surgery compared to medical therapy improves the quality of life of CRS patients.12-14
      However, to determine whether VCH CRS patients would benefit from a prioritized waitlist, the
      investigators must answer the following questions. If patients were to have surgery sooner:
      1) how does their quality of life change with time compared to those on the waitlist? 2) do
      they experience a reduction in out of pocket costs?; 3) does the healthcare system experience
      a decrease in healthcare expenditure? and 4) is there are a subgroup of patients who would
      particularly benefit more than others from early surgical intervention? Providing this
      information is vital in determining if a prioritized waitlist would be beneficial for sinus
      surgery.

      Patient Recruitment:

      Recruitment of patients will occur at two centres. Patients classified as "prioritized
      surgery" will be recruited from Stanford Sinus Centre, Palo Alto, California. Patients
      classified as "standard waitlist" patients will be recruited from Vancouver General Hospital,
      Vancouver, Canada. The PI will identify consecutive patients that fit the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria and are being enrolled for sinus surgery. The study coordinator (or designate) will
      discuss the study with the identified patients and allow patients up to 7 days to provide
      consent.

      On the day of consent:

      A diagnosis of the patient's medical health will be conducted by the study investigators and
      a Lund-Mackay and Lund-Kennedy score systems will be used to assess the patient's chronic
      rhinosinusitis. Additionally, the state of the rhinosinusitis will be evaluated on the day of
      consent and on every subsequent follow-up visit. A questionnaire relating to demographics
      will be obtained as well (Appendix D).

      Approach to Each Aim:

      Aim 1: The investigators will compare how the quality of life of CRS patients change with
      time when prioritized to early surgical intervention compared to those on the standard
      waitlist.

      All CRS patients participating in the study will fill in a disease-specific health related
      quality of life instrument for CRS patients known as the Sinonasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) and
      two generic assessment of health status known as the WPAI-SHP and EQ-5D (Appendix A) every 2
      months for 1 year.

      The study coordinator (or designate) will contact patients every 2 months via email and
      provide them with a secure link to fill in each questionnaire. When questionnaires are
      complete, they will be saved directly into their medical records.

      Rationale for Questionnaires: The Sinonasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) is a validated
      questionnaire.16 SNOT-22 is a disease-specific health-related quality of life instrument in
      CRS patients. The EQ-5D has 5 questions addressing: mobility, self-care, usual activities,
      pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. The Work Productivity and Activity - Specific Health
      Problem (WPAI:SHP) is a validated instrument to evaluate impairment of daily activities and
      work productivity associated with a specific health problem (Chronic Rhinosinusitis). The
      work productivity impairment domain is a sum of impairment in work productivity due to
      absenteeism and due to decreased productivity while working (presenteeism); this domain is
      assessed only in employed patients. The activity impairment domain is assessed in all
      participants regardless of their employment status and represents impairment in daily
      activities other than work.18 The investigators would prefer to use an easy to administer
      generic health measure like the EQ-5D compared to the WPAI-SHP, but during the feasibility
      stage, the investigators will administer both questionnaires and at the completion of the
      study determine the most appropriate questionnaire for this study.

      Aim 2: To determine if patients prioritized to early surgical intervention experience a
      reduction in out of pocket costs compared to patients on the standard waitlist.

      All CRS patients participating in the study will fill in a questionnaire regarding personal
      costs incurred over 1 year. To ensure the most accurate costs are tabulated, patients will
      fill in this questionnaire every two months (Appendix B).

      The study coordinator (or designate) will contact patients every two months via email and
      provide them with a secure link to fill in questions from Appendix B similar to Aim 1. The
      study coordinator (or designate) will follow the same protocol of contacting the patient if
      the questionnaire is not filled in a timely manner. Patients can also complete this Aim on a
      hard copy similar to Aim 1.

      To ensure the investigators were inclusive of all the cost incurred by CRS patients, a sample
      population of 30 VCH CRS patients were surveyed. Moreover, a panel that included multiple
      Rhinologists and a Health Economist established questions that were pertinent to costs
      incurred by the patient that may have been overlooked by the sample population. This process
      ensures that the most accurate estimate of personal costs incurred by CRS patients while
      waiting for surgery and those prioritized to early surgery. (Appendix B) Aim 3: The
      investigators will determine if the Canadian health care system experiences a decrease in
      healthcare expenditure if CRS patients are enlisted for early surgical intervention versus
      patients on the standard waitlist.

      When VCH CRS patients are addressing Aim 2, they will also have additional questions that
      pertain to costs incurred by the health care system (Appendix B). The PI will fill in a
      questionnaire regarding costs incurred by the health care system for 1 year for each patient
      when there is a believed cost to the public system that is atypical compared with expected
      costs (Appendix C). During each clinical for each patient, the PI will tabulate the costs
      incurred during the patient's clinical visit.

      Like in Aim 2, a panel consisting of multiple Rhinologists established Appendix C. Moreover,
      during three clinical days by the PI, extra costs incurred by the VCH health care system were
      noted and included into Appendix C.

      Aim 4: The investigators will determine if there is a subgroup of CRS patients who would
      benefit from early surgical intervention.

      Stratification of VCH CRS patients and determining if patients benefited from early surgical
      intervention will be established through demographic information, clinical findings and
      comparison of outcomes obtained in Aims 1-3. Demographic information will be obtained on the
      day consent is obtained (Appendix D). The PI will also complete a standardized
      consultation/follow-up form for each visit to report clinical findings.

      The PI will also complete a standardized consultation/follow-up form, including an evaluation
      of healing subsequent to nasal surgery based on the Lund-Kennedy score, for each visit to
      document clinical findings.

      Analysis:

      Pre-Study Sample Size Calculation - Sample size for comparison on average difference in
      SNOT-22 scores between two equally sized group over time followed the Diggle et al formula.19
      Based on an effect size of 9 points15 between the early intervention and standard waitlist
      patients, type 1 probability of 5% (α = 0.05), a type 2 probability of 20% (β = 0.20),
      standard deviation of 20 from pre- and post surgical values15 and 6 measurements of SNOT-22
      over 12 months, the assumed correlation (p) will range from 0.75 and 1.00 if 124 to 156
      patients are recruited, therefore allowing for a conservative estimate of 10% drop-out.

      Post-Study Completion - Aim 1 will be analyzed using 2-sample t-test. The investigators will
      conduct a cost-utility analysis to evaluate Aims 2 and 3. the investigators assume the cost
      of surgery for the early intervention group will be the same as those who will receive in it
      on the standard waitlist; therefore, this cost will be removed from the early intervention
      group. The economic model will evaluate costs and utilities (measured by EQ-5D and WPAI-SHP)
      and calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). The time horizon for this
      evaluation will be 1 year. No other discounting of costs or utilities is required given this
      time horizon. Uncertainty around the ICERs will be quantified using bootstrapping. Aim 4 will
      be analyzed using linear regression models. The best-fit model will provide insight to
      sub-population of CRS patients who would benefit from early surgical intervention.
    
  