
    
      The investigators project is a randomized controlled pilot study that will take place at
      MedStar Washington Hospital Center (MWHC), a 912-bed academic medical center in Washington,
      D.C. MedStar Washington Hospital Center's patient population is predominantly African
      American (66%); and the majority live in low-income areas of the District. Over 20% are from
      the District's two most underserved areas -- Wards 7 and 8. Nearly 50% of the patients rely
      on public insurance as their primary form of insurance.

      After consenting to participate, in addition to usual advanced heart failure medical therapy,
      74 patients will be randomized with a 1:1 ratio to either a massage therapy experiment group
      or a usual care control group. Subjects randomized to the massage therapy arm will receive
      massages during post LVAD implant follow-up visits in the Advanced Heart Failure clinic at
      predetermined intervals: every week for 4 consecutive weeks, then every other week for 4
      consecutive weeks. The investigators chose these intervals for two reasons: first, current
      massage therapy research indicates that massages administered every week or two weeks may
      lead to successful clinical outcomes (CITE); second, these specific intervals coincide with
      predetermined LVAD clinic visits for this patient group, facilitating subject participation
      and decreasing extra clinic visits just for research purposes. Since this study is designed
      to coincide with predetermined LVAD follow-up visits, the usual care control group will also
      be making LVAD clinic visits at the same intervals: every week for 4 consecutive weeks, then
      every other week for 4 consecutive weeks. After study completion, each subject randomized to
      usual care will be offered a massage, if interested. The investigators believe this sample
      size is easily achievable given current MHVI annual LVAD implants (see above). Because the
      study will take place during scheduled LVAD clinic visits, the investigators expect a very
      high study completion rate.
    
  