
    
      Motivational enhancement therapy (MET) is grounded in research that explores the process of
      change. The MET approach assists individuals to move through increasingly higher levels of
      change towards action (making change) and maintaining change. The MET approach aims to invoke
      rapid and internally motivated change.

      The Two MET sessions adapted from Sampl and Kadden (2001) are prepared as two individual
      sessions to reflect the original design of MET, allowing for client's to be met at their
      respective stage of change. Further, individual sessions allow the treatment to be tailored
      to client's individual reasons for change and personal coping strategies. The use of the
      Personalized Feedback Report (PFR) further encourages treatment around client's personal
      concerns and goals (Ramchand et al., 2011; See appendix 1 for further detail).

      In the first treatment session, the therapist provides feedback from the initial CD
      consultation, using the PFR to stimulate discussion about personal substance use and reasons
      for change. Rapport building is also a key element to the first session, during which a
      strong therapeutic alliance is initiated. The second session is aimed at strengthening the
      commitment to change, exploring goal setting, and preparation for group.

      The Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) Schizophrenia Division introduced a CD
      service in 2009. Since the time of its inception, more than 200 consultations have been
      conducted. Of those consultations, more than 80%recommended attending CD groups offered with
      the Schizophrenia Program. However, less than 10% have followed those recommendations and
      attended the CD group.

      Based on what is known about challenges surrounding engagement of CD clients in recommended
      treatments coupled with guidelines for evidence-based treatment with this population
      (Ledgerwood et al., 2008; Tsuang et al., 2006; Roncero et al., 2011), the purpose of the
      current study is to explore the ability of MET to increase engagement in CD interventions for
      clients diagnosed with psychotic and substance use disorders.
    
  