
    
      Until now, there is no well-established evidence based option to treat CL caused by the
      Leishmania tropica, besides antimonial injections. Alternative treatment options are not
      available in Pakistan, or there is limited evidence of the effectivity.

      Effectiveness of thermotherapy in L. tropica is studied in only three studies in OWCL with a
      variable cure rate (54.1% - 98%). But it could be an attractive option, because only one
      treatment session is required and studies report less scarring tissue. Another promising
      treatment option is oral miltefosine. There is considerable evidence in the literature of the
      efficacy of miltefosine in treatment of CL caused by L. major, however no studies have been
      conducted to evaluate the efficacy in CL caused by L. tropica species. This oral treatment
      could have major benefits for CL patients as it can be provided in peripheral health
      facilities and to patients who have contraindications to antimony treatment (elderly, and
      patients with cardiac or renal disease, or diabetes). A combination of thermotherapy and
      miltefosine, the advantages offered by this combination are that a) the use of a topical plus
      a systemic treatment would hypothetically have an additive effect of two treatments with
      different modes of action. For the reason that systemic treatment could eliminate those
      circulating or remaining parasites located in the periphery of the lesion that topical
      treatment fails to remove, which might be the cause of a relapse, b) it may reduce the
      necessary length of treatment with miltefosine. For these above reasons, in a prospective
      trial we aim to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of thermotherapy, miltefosine and the
      combination of thermotherapy and miltefosine in CL caused by L. tropica, with the objective
      to find a treatment with an efficacy which is non-inferior to the standard of care with
      antimony injections.
    
  