
    
      Intraoperative pulmonary aspiration can cause death and lead to morbidity. In addition,
      reliable estimates of aspiration rates are uncertain. In part, this ambiguity relates to the
      lack of prospective data. Relevant studies are retrospective chart reviews or results from
      voluntary reporting databases. Furthermore, aspiration diagnosis can be imprecise. The
      finding is certain when there is aspiration of bile or particulate matter from the
      tracheobronchial tree or there is endoscopic visualization. However, the diagnosis is
      presumptive when there is intraoperative or postoperative development of a new chest x-ray
      infiltrate and attendant tachypnea, hypoxia, wheezing, or changes in ventilator airway
      pressures.

      Most patients undergoing general endotracheal anesthesia are in the supine or horizontal
      position. However, evidence from the literature demonstrates that the supine position in
      mechanically ventilated patients is a risk for aspiration and ventilator associated pneumonia
      (VAP). During intensive care unit (ICU) mechanical ventilation, the Institute for Healthcare
      Improvement recommends elevating the head of the bed to prevent pulmonary aspiration and VAP.
      Other investigations have shown a profound relationship between horizontal positioning and
      intra-operative aspiration. There is substantial operating room, ICU, and animal
      investigative evidence that aspiration occurs despite the presence of a cuffed endotracheal
      tube. Likewise, previous work by this group showed a 30% perioperative hypoxemia rate, which
      was significantly associated with horizontal positioning. The post-operative length of
      hospital stay was 2 days longer with hypoxemia, compared to no hypoxemia (p <0.0001) and this
      represented a total of 300 additional days for the 2 months of the study.

      The purpose of this retrospective study is to repeat the investigation after adopting a
      recent policy change of 10-degree Reverse Trendelenburg position as the routine for surgical
      patients, unless deemed inappropriate by either the anesthesiology or operating room nursing
      staff.
    
  