
    
      1. OBJECTIVES

           Primary research questions To investigate whether the outcome after the randomized
           implantation of the Resolute Integrity versus Promus Element drug-eluting stent are
           similar, as assessed in a non-inferiority setting by comparing target-vessel failure
           (TVF) of both stents at one year follow-up post stent implantation. In brief, we want to
           compare for both drug-eluting stents the combined endpoint of (1) cardiac death, (2)
           myocardial infarction that can be related to the target vessel or cannot be related to
           another vessel, and (3) clinically indicated revascularization related to the
           target-vessel. Based on the results of the RESOLUTE all-comers trial (the study stents
           in the RESOLUTE all comers trial used the same coatings and drugs used in the current
           trial but on different bare metal stent platforms), non-inferiority of Resolute
           Integrity and Promus Element is expected. This is not tested in a controlled randomized
           trial yet.

           Secondary research questions Effectivity, safety, clinical short- and long-term outcome,
           and the acute angiographic results of the implantation of two third-generation
           drug-eluting stents will be compared in a "real world", all-comers scenario.
           Angiographic comparison will be based on the routine coronary angiography runs recorded
           during diagnostic coronary angiography and PCI procedures. No additional mandatory
           angiographic studies after the index PCI are required.

        2. STUDY DESIGN

           The DUTCH PEERS Study is a multi-center prospective single-blinded randomized study.
           Randomization will involve the type of DES used in study population. Patients will be
           blinded to the type DES they will receive. The general practitioner of the patient will
           be requested not to disclose this information to the patient. Analysts who perform the
           data analyses will be blinded to the type DES used as well.

        3. STUDY POPULATION 3.1 Population (base) All patients who fulfil the inclusion criteria
           and undergo PCI with potential DES implantation will be asked to participate in the
           DUTCH PEERS, unless they meet one or more of the exclusion criteria.

      Patients will receive a drug-eluting stent according to the guidelines (Guidelines NVVC/ESC)
      and/or the clinical decision of the interventional cardiologist.

      3.2 Inclusion criteria

        -  Minimum age of 18 years

        -  Coronary artery disease and lesion(s) eligable for treatment with drug eluting stents
           according to clinical guidelines and/or the operators' judgement

        -  Patient is willing and able to cooperate with study procedures and required follow-up
           visits; and patient has been informed and agrees on the participation by signing an EC
           approved written informed consent.

      3.3 Exclusion criteria

        -  Participation in another randomized drug or device study before reaching primary
           endpoint

        -  Planned surgery within 6 months of PCI unless dual antiplatelet therapy is maintained
           throughout the peri-surgical period

        -  intolerance to a P2Y12 receptor antagonist that results in the patient's inability to
           adhere to dual-antiplatelet therapy, or intolerance to aspirin, heparin, or components
           of the two DES examined.

        -  Known pregnancy

        -  Life expectancy of less than 1 year

      4.1 Randomisation, blinding and treatment allocation Patients will be randomised by a
      computer program (block stratified randomization V5.0 by S. Piantadosi). The randomisation
      will be done in blocks of 8 and 4 in random order. No stratification will be employed. The
      study will be single blinded because the physician will know which stent is implanted. The
      patient will not know. Every attempt will be made to do all outcome assessments blinded. The
      analyst performing QCA and IVUS analysis will be blinded to the type of DES used.

      Demographics and Medical Data

      At baseline the data are collected by the researchers, research nurses, and/or nurse
      practitioners. Demographic and medical data are also collected by reviewing the patient's
      medical chart:

        -  demographics including: date of birth, gender, family history of cardiovascular disease,
           smoking habits;

        -  medical history including: arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
           hypercholesterolemia, previous myocardial infarction, previous revascularization by
           means of CABG / PCI, previous cerebrovascular accident (CVA) or transient ischemic
           attack (TIA), renal failure requiring haemodialysis;

        -  current medication;

        -  body-mass index, arterial blood pressure, heart frequency;

        -  indication for PCI;

        -  symptoms prior to PCI: angina pectoris (CCS class), dyspnea (NYHA class).

      Blood samples Laboratory tests will be performed in the local laboratories of the
      participating centres as part of their clinical routine practice. In elective and primary PCI
      before and the day after the PCI procedure, blood tests will be performed (assessment of Hb,
      Kreatinine, CK, CK-MB, and Troponines). If patients suffer from persistent chest pain after
      PCI, additional controls of the cardiac markers will be performed on the day of PCI as part
      of the clinical routine. In case of symptoms suspicious of an acute coronary event in
      patients scheduled for elective PCI, the assessment of cardiac markers prior to PCI is
      considered as good clinical practice and should be performed.

      PCI procedure Routine PCI will be performed according to routine medical practice in
      including centres with no deviation from routine protocols. No additional angiographic views
      will be required. Patients will receive one or more DES during PCI. The type of DES used
      during PCI will be randomized. Detailed technical information on PCI procedures are provided
      in the current European society of cardiology guidelines of PCI. [27] If clinically
      indicated, IVUS-guidance will be used during PCI.

      Mixture of stents should be avoided and is only permitted if the operator is unable to insert
      the study stent, in which case crossover to another non-study stent is possible. Treatment of
      all coronary lesions should be aimed in one session, however staged procedures (defined as
      procedures planned at the time of the index procedure and performed within 6 weeks with the
      same type of study stent) will be permitted. In case of unplanned revascularization
      procedures requiring stent implantation, it is recommended that physicians use the same study
      stent.

      Medical therapy Medical therapy does not differ from current routine medical treatment. In
      brief, patients who are not on oral aspirin therapy receive a loading dose of at least 300 mg
      prior to PCI. In elective PCI patients, clopidogrel therapy of 75 mg daily is started one
      week before the PCI. In urgent PCI, a loading dose of 600 mg clopidogrel is given as soon as
      possible, either before PCI or (at least) directly after the PCI is performed. In case
      prasugrel is used, patients will receive a loading dose of 60 mg of prasugrel followed by a
      daily dose of 10 mg for at least 12 months. Directly prior to PCI, an adequate dose of
      unfractionated heparin is administered i.v. or i.a. In general, an intracoronary bolus of
      nitrates will be administered prior to PCI. The use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors is
      left at the operators' discretion. Following the index PCI procedure, patients are generally
      maintained on aspirin >=80 mg daily during the entire trial (and preferably lifelong). In
      general, clopidogrel 75 mg daily is recommended and prescribed for a period of 12 months in
      addition to aspirin. If patients require oral anticoagulation therapy (e.g. for atrial
      fibrillation), aspirin >=80 mg daily is prescribed for one month after PCI and clopidogrel
      for 12 months. Further medical treatment is performed according to current medical
      guidelines, clinical standards, and the judgment of the referring physicians.

      Follow-up data collection Follow-up data will be collected during routine visits to
      outpatient clinic and/or phone calls. If no data are available from outpatient clinic visits,
      the required data will be collected through a phone call. The phone call follow-up will be
      conducted through blinded members of the research team (nurse practicioners, cardioresearch
      personnel or research fellows). Through an outpatient clinic visit or a telephone call
      patients will be asked about recurrence of symptoms or new symptoms which can indicate the
      presence of restenosis. Patients will be also asked about possible revascularization or
      myocardial infarction during the follow-up period. In case of death, information will be
      obtained from the patient's medical chart, GP or cardiologist. Patients will be called after
      1 month, 12 months and 24 months. The mode of data acquisition of the follow up (telephone or
      outpatient visit) will be registered.

      In order to determine whether a myocardial infarction is related or unrelated to the target
      vessel, a Critical Events Committee consisting of two independent cardiologists will be asked
      to provide an independent conclusion about the location of an infarction on the
      electrocardiogram.

      Adverse events, comprised by the primary endpoint, will be monitored by an independent
      external contract research organisation. In addition, we intend that secondary clinical
      endpoints of at least 10% of patients will be monitored, too.
    
  