
    
      This is an open-label, multi-center, non-randomized, dose escalation Phase 1 study evaluating
      safety, tolerability, PK (pharmacokinetics)and efficacy of PQR309 in the treatment of
      selected patients with advanced solid tumors.

      In the initial phase of the study, patients will be treated once daily until disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient's request for withdrawal, investigator judgment
      or death whichever comes first. Enrollment of an initial patient cohort of 3 or 6 patients
      will follow the traditional 3 + 3 dose escalation scheme to evaluate Dose Levels 1 - 5 with
      continuous q.d dosing schedule. Patients will be treated with PQR309 at starting Dose Level 1
      enrolling exceptionally 6 patients (only applicable for continuous dosing schedule).
      Subsequent patient cohort(s) will be enrolled depending on the safety and tolerability of the
      initial cohort. If < 33% patients treated at Dose Level 1 (80 mg) experience Dose Limiting
      Toxicities (DLT - see definition below) by the end of first treatment cycle (21 days), next
      cohort of 3 patients will be enrolled and treated at Dose Level 2 of the continuous dosing
      schedule, if 2 or more treatment-related DLTs are observed at Dose Level 1, patients will be
      accrued to Dose Level -1. If 2 or more patients experience a DLT during dose Level 2 (120
      mg), the dose of 100 mg will be explored next.The MTD is defined as the maximum dose level at
      which ≤ 1/6 patients have DLTs. After the MTD has been established with the continuous dosing
      schedule, the study will be expanded to evaluate the MTD of intermittent dosing schedules.
      Initially 2 additional dosing schedules, intermittent schedule A and B, will be evaluated in
      parallel. Patients will be assigned to the two schedules in an alternating manner.

      Patients will be treated only within dose and schedule cohort they have been enrolled in. No
      within-patient dose escalation or alteration of dosing schedule will be allowed.Both
      schedules A and B will evaluate intermittent dosing in 21 day cycles:

      Intermittent schedule A:

      Two days of once daily PQR309 administration followed by no treatment for 5 days.

      Intermittent schedule B:

      PQR309 administration on Monday and Thursday. Same dose escalation procedures will apply to
      intermittent schedule evaluation as for the continuous schedule. Based on the overall
      evaluation of safety and tolerability, the PK (pharmacokinetics) data of the intermittent
      dosing schedules and the continuous schedule as well as PQR309 non-clinical data, evaluation
      of additional dosing schedules may be considered and investigated if agreed between sponsor
      and study investigators.

      After the MTD has been established with the intermittent dosing schedules, the study will be
      expanded to evaluate the MTD of one selected schedule in patients with:

        -  Solid tumors with PI3K/mTOR pathway activation

        -  HPV positive HNSCC patients containing activating PIK3CA mutations Evaluation of the
           data from these cohorts will allow for more complete evaluation of tolerability,
           pharmacokinetics, and correlative endpoints as well as the preliminary clinical efficacy
           of PQR309.
    
  