
    
      Current practice guidelines emphasize the use of exercise and weight reduction as the
      first-line management of knee osteoarthritis (OA; affecting 1 in 10 Canadians). However, up
      to 90% of people with OA are inactive. Several modifiable risk factors are associated with
      low physical activity participation, including lack of motivation, doubts about the
      effectiveness of prescribed exercises and lack of health professional advice regarding ways
      to progress their physical activity. The variety of risk factors highlights the need for a
      multifaceted approach that provides support in terms of knowledge, skill development and
      timely advice from health professionals, as well as motivational support to stay active.

      Our primary objective is to assess the efficacy of a Fitbit/Fitviz intervention, involving
      the use of a Fitbit Flex paired with a FitViz application (app), a brief education session,
      and telephone counselling by a physiotherapist, to improve physical activity participation
      and reduce sedentary time in people with knee OA. Our secondary objective is to assess the
      effect of the intervention on patients' OA disease status and self-efficacy in disease
      management. We will carry out three aims: 1) To develop the FitViz app to pair with Fitbit to
      enhance user experience; 2) To conduct a pilot test for the Fitbit/FitViz intervention; 3) To
      evaluate the effect of the Fitbit/FitViz intervention in patients with knee OA. In this
      proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial (RCT), the investigators hypothesize that
      compared to a control group (i.e. the Delayed Intervention Group), participants in the
      Immediate Intervention Group will 1) increase moderate/vigorous physical activity (MVPA) as
      determined by an objective measure, 2) reduce sedentary time during waking hours, 3) improve
      in OA disease status, and 4) improve in their self-efficacy of OA management.

      The investigators will use a mixed-method approach, involving a RCT and in-depth interviews.
      The proof-of-concept study will employ a stepped wedge RCT design, whereby the intervention
      will be sequentially rolled out to participants over a number of time periods. The order in
      which individuals receive the intervention will be determined at random. The strength of this
      design is that it can properly address the efficacy question, while avoiding the dilemma of
      withholding the intervention to some participants, as in a parallel group design.
    
  