
    
      Gall bladder status among children with chronic haemolytic anemia attending to Assuit
      University Children Hospital Hemolysis is defined as the premature destruction of red blood
      cells (RBCs) (a shortened RBC life span). Anemia results when the rate of destruction exceeds
      the capacity of the marrow to produce RBCs. Normal RBC survival time is 110-120 days
      (half-life: 55-60 days), and thus, approximately 0.85% of the most senescent RBCs are removed
      and replaced each day.(1) They may be classified according to the means of hemolysis, being
      either intrinsic in cases where the cause is related to the red blood cell (RBC) itself,
      defects of red blood cell membrane production (as in hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary
      elliptocytosis), defects in hemoglobin production (as in thalassemia, sickle-cell disease and
      congenital dyserythropoietic anemia), defective red cell metabolism (as in
      glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency and pyruvate kinase deficiency). or extrinsic in
      cases where factors external to the RBC dominate, acquired hemolytic anemia may be caused by
      immune-mediated causes, drugs and other miscellaneous causes. Patients with chronic
      haemolytic anemia are subjected to many complications of chronic haemolytic anemia e.g anemic
      heart failure, complications of blood transfusion as hepatitis and AIDS, hypersplenism,
      haemosiderosis ,among them there is incidence of gallbladder stone formation.(2) The
      gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile
      produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated
      balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small
      pear. In response to signals, the gallbladder squeezes stored bile into the small intestine
      through a series of tubes called ducts. Bile helps digest fat.(3) Diseases affecting gall
      bladder in children as:a)Gallstones (cholelithiasis) for unclear reasons, substances in bile
      can crystallize in the gallbladder, forming gallstones which is common and usually harmless,
      gallstones can sometimes cause pain, nausea, or inflammation. b)Cholecystitis( Infection of
      the gallbladder), often due to a gallstone in the gallbladder. Cholecystitis causes severe
      pain and fever, and can require surgery when infection continues or recurs.c) Gallstone
      pancreatitis: An impacted gallstone blocks the ducts that drain the pancreas. Inflammation of
      the pancreas results, a serious condition.(4) While problems associated with the gallbladder
      are rare in children, almost 50 percent of children have gallstones. Many of them--between 80
      percent and 90 percent--have no symptoms. However, even small stones in small children can
      cause problems , Gallstones are mainly categorized in three groups of cholesterol, pigment,
      and mixture, among which the mixture is more common. Imbalance in bile constituents,such as
      cholesterol,lecithin,andbilesalts,is the main cause of gallstone formation.(4-5) In children
      >70% of gallstones are the pigment type, these stones are mostly reported in cases with
      hemolytic disease, such as spherocytosis and sickle cell anemia, cirrhosis, bile tract
      infection, these stones are black-brown in color, the incidence increases progressively with
      age. In sickle-cell disease, the prevalence of pigment gallstones( was reported to be 10% to
      15% in children under 10 years of age, it increased to 40% in those aged 10-18 years, and 50%
      in adults(6-7). The prevalence of gallstones in hereditary spherocytosis was 10% to 20% and
      in adult series it was 40%(7-8). In thalassemia, the reported figure is low (10% to
      15%)(8-9). With longer survival of thalassemiapatients, higher prevalence of gallstones (50%)
      has been reported(9). The highest prevalence of gallstones have been reported in thalassemics
      with Gilbert's syndrome genotype(10). However, in a study on 64 patients with median age of
      10 (range, 5 to 20) years with thalassemia major from Chandigarh, none had gallstones(11).

      Risk factors

        1. Multiple blood transfusions: In patients who periodically receive blood transfusions,
           hemolysis of the transfused cells may supplement the chronic endogenous blood
           destruction as a factor in the formation of gallstones [11-12].

        2. High rates (20% by age of four years) of recurrent biliary tract obstruction in children
           with the sickle cell disease reported [13].

        3. Obesity: With the prevalence of childhood obesity on the rise, there is a need to be
           more aware of obesity-related comorbidity including gallbladder disease. No clear link
           between the diet and risk for cholelithiasis, though foods high in cholesterol and low
           in fiber may increase the risk [14].

        4. Inefficient and infrequent gallbladder contractions, which allow bile to sit in the
           gallbladder for long periods of time, resulting in an over concentrated bile that is
           conducive to stone formation [15].

      1-Aim of the study:

        1. to determine the prevalence of gall bladder diseases among patient with chronic
           haemolytic anemia.

        2. to determine the risk factors of gall bladder diseases among patients with chronic
           haemolytic anemia.

           2-Patients and methods: All cases included in the study will be subjected to:

             -  Full clinical history including (age of onset of chronic haemolytic anemia- type of
                chronic haemolytic anemia -frequency of blood transfusion - use of hydroxy urea -
                splenectomy or not- frequency of admission)

             -  Detailed clinical examination

             -  Abdominal ultrasound

             -  Plain KUB (kidney ureter bladder) x-ray if radiopaque stone.

             -  Compelete blood count

             -  Liver function test

             -  C- reactive protein

           Type of study: cross- sectional study

           Site of the study: Haematology ;general surgery units and out patient clinics ;emergency
           unit at Assuit university children hospital.

           Duration of the study: one year

           Inclusion crieteria: children between 1 :18 years known to have chronic haemolytic
           anemia.

           Exclusion crieteria:

           children below 1 year and above 18 years children had past history of cholecystectomy

           Data analysis : Data will be processed and analyzed using SPSS software and the results
           will be processed in tables and figures .

           Ethical consideration:

             -  Reviewing the proposal will be carried out before starting via the ethical
                committee of assuit faculty of medicine.

             -  The aim of the study will be explained to each patient before beginning of the
                process,written consent will be obtained from those who welcome to participate in
                the study.

             -  Privacy and confidentiality of all data will be assur
    
  