
    
      Migraine headaches can be disabling and can interfere with work and a person's quality of
      life. Preventing these headaches before they start is the best option. Topiramate, an
      anti-seizure medication, has been shown to help prevent migraine headaches from occurring.
      This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study of
      patients with chronic migraine. The Pretreatment Phase for the study will last up to 56 days
      and will consist of 2 study periods: a Screening/Washout Period (Day -56 to Day -29) and a
      Prospective Baseline Period (28 days). Medications being used to prevent migraines will be
      stopped for 14 to 28 days prior to the Prospective Baseline Period and for the rest of the
      study. The Prospective Baseline Period will begin on study Day -28 (Visit 2), and patients
      will maintain a daily headache record during this period. Those who move forward in the study
      must have had at least 15 headache days during this period, half of which need to be migraine
      headache days. Patients who finish the Prospective Baseline Period, who have the required
      rates of headache, and who continue to meet the remainder of the entry criteria will be
      randomized (like with the toss of a coin) to 1 of 2 treatment groups: topiramate 100
      milligrams per day or placebo. The Double-Blind Phase will last 16 weeks. During the first 4
      weeks, patients will titrate up to the topiramate dose of 100 milligrams per day or to the
      maximum tolerated dose, whichever is less. The next 12 weeks is the maintenance phase where
      you will continue to take the dose that you were taking at the end of the 4-week titration
      period. The primary hypothesis of this study is that the mean decrease in the number of
      migraine/migrainous headache days per month is greater in the topiramate group than in the
      placebo group and topiramate is generally well-tolerated.

      Topiramate 25 milligram tablets, 2 tablets by mouth twice daily, or maximum tolerated dose,
      whichever is less, for 12 weeks, or 2 placebo tablets twice daily for 12 weeks
    
  