
    
      Currently, 16 African countries include the use of pre-referral rectal artesunate (RAS) in
      their treatment policies and a number of countries have begun to implement RAS. However,
      guidelines for RAS use vary widely across countries and often do not align with WHO
      recommendations. Of particular concern in this context is the inappropriate use of RAS as a
      monotherapy (i.e. without subsequent ACT treatment).

      In the frame of the Unitaid-funded "Community Access to Rectal Artesunate for Malaria"
      (CARAMAL) Project, quality-assured (QA) RAS will be rolled out through integrated Community
      Case Management (iCCM) schemes in selected areas of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
      (DRC), Nigeria and Uganda. The goal of the CARAMAL Project is to contribute to reducing
      malaria mortality in children by improving the community management of suspected severe
      malaria cases. The project will contribute to this goal by advancing the development of
      operational guidance to catalyse effective and appropriate scale-up of quality-assured rectal
      artesunate (RAS) as pre-referral treatment of severe malaria.

      In the frame of the CARAMAL project, approximately 3,000 treatments of RAS will be dispensed
      by trained community health workers to children <5 years of age in each project country per
      year. Children treated with pre-referral RAS will be referred to a higher-level health
      facility for comprehensive clinical management, including the administration of a full course
      of an artemisinin-based combination therapy, as per WHO guidelines.

      While phenotypic resistance of the Plasmodium parasites against artemisinin has not yet been
      document in the study settings, this potential threat is a major concern. The administration
      of artemisinin monotherapies increases drug pressure, which may lead to the selection of drug
      resistance conferring mutations. Mutations in portions of a P. falciparum gene encoding kelch
      (K13)-propeller domains are the currently known major determinant of partial resistance
      against artemisinin. Data on artemisinin resistance of Plasmodium parasites in the CARAMAL
      Project countries are patchy. K13-propeller polymorphisms previously reported from Cambodia
      have been found e.g. in parasites from northern Uganda, but the mutations linked to
      artemisinin resistance were uncommon and did not seem to increase over time. The general
      notion is that numerous K13 polymorphisms circulate in Africa but their distribution does not
      currently support the spread of artemisinin resistance.

      Linked to the tracking of (severe) malaria patients in the frame of the CARAMAL project, this
      study will assess the frequency of artemisinin resistance markers in the study settings and
      tentatively assess whether the introduction of RAS could increase the selection of resistant
      P. falciparum strains. The study will be conducted in close collaboration with the Global
      Malaria Programme of the WHO. Finger-prick blood samples will be collected from children < 5
      years of age with signs of severe febrile illness and a positive mRDT presenting to
      community-based providers and referral facilities before and after the pilot roll-out of
      pre-referral RAS at community level.

      Dried blood spots on filter papers will be sent to a WHO-chosen laboratory (Malaria Molecular
      Epidemiology Unit at the Pasteur Institute in Cambodia) for molecular analyses to assess the
      presence of markers of artemisinin resistance (K13-propeller sequence polymorphisms).
    
  