
    
      A randomized controlled study design with a waitlist will be used to investigate the effects
      of a 10-week gait retraining intervention on the knee adduction moment. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to either the intervention group or the control group. The intervention
      group will be further split into two groups. One group will consist of participants who
      reduced knee adduction moment (KAM) most with altered foot progression gait and the other
      will consist of participants who reduce KAM most effectively with trunk lean gait during
      pre-assessment. Participants will then perform 8 gait retraining sessions over 8 weeks (one
      session per week) using either their specific gait modification strategy (intervention) or
      with their normal gait (control). As part of the waitlist design, at the end of 10 weeks,
      patients assigned to the control group will be reassigned to their previously determined
      patient specific gait modification intervention. The goal is to minimize attrition and to
      increase the effective sample size.

      On arrival to the laboratory, participants will be required to read and sign an informed
      consent form. Participant height and mass will be recorded. Pain and function will be
      assessed using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis (WOMAC) questionnaire
      and a numeric rating scale (NRS) from zero to 10, where zero represents no pain and 10 the
      highest level of pain. The experimental limb for the purpose of this study is defined as the
      leg diagnosed with symptomatic TFJ OA or the most symptomatic limb in the case of bilateral
      OA. Participants will be equipped with 4 surface electromyogram (sEMG) placed on the rectus
      femoris, vastus medialis, bicep femoris and semitendinosus of the experimental limb. EMG
      sensors will be used to record muscle activity during the baseline test. Participants will
      then have 53 retroreflective markers attached to their trunk and lower extremities. A static
      calibration trial of the VICON motion capture system will be acquired by having the
      participants stand on the foremost force plate with both feet aligned with the
      anterior-posterior axis of the laboratory. Participants will also perform a dynamic
      calibration by completing three clockwise rotations of the hip which will be used to estimate
      the hip joint centers. Participants will then complete 5 baseline walking trials along with a
      6-meter walkway at their preferred speed. Participants will be required to walk for 12
      minutes on a treadmill, and additional data will be recorded. Participants will then be
      required perform 9 conditions with altered foot progression gait or trunk lean gait to
      determine which strategy is most effective in reducing KAM. Participants will first receive
      standardized verbal instructions on how to achieve the instructed gait modification.
      Participants will then be provided haptic real-time biofeedback to ensure that they
      successfully achieve the required magnitudes of gait modification. Kinematic data collected
      in Vicon will be streamed to Matlab (Mathworks, Natick, MA) for real-time computation of
      joint angles. Participants will receive feedback from tactile sensors attached either to the
      lateral-proximal aspect of the fibula (foot progression) or the center of the scapula
      (lateral trunk lean) of the experimental side with hypoallergenic double-sided tape. One
      vibration will indicate a required decrease in the target gait parameter, while two
      vibrations will indicate a required increase. Feedback will be provided on each step and no
      vibration will indicate that no correction is needed. A trial will only be considered valid
      if the participant fully contacted the force plates twice with the foot of the experimental
      limb and the modified parameter was in the prescribed target range. Additionally,
      participants will be required to maintain an average gait speed ±5% relative to baseline for
      trials to be considered successful. The modification to be completed in the baseline session
      will be randomized for each participant. Once these trials are completed, participants will
      return to the lab within the same week to complete 5 additional baseline trials and three
      trials of whichever gait modification they did not perform the first day. Each baseline data
      collection session will take approximately one hour.

      Participants will then be randomly assigned to either the intervention group or the control
      group. The intervention group will be further split into two groups. One group will consist
      of participants who reduced KAM most with altered foot progression gait and the other will
      consist of participants who reduce KAM most effectively with trunk lean gait. Participants
      will then perform 8 gait retraining sessions over 8 weeks (one session per week) using either
      their specific gait modification strategy (intervention) or with their normal gait (control).
      During gait-retraining sessions, participants will walk on a Woodway Desmo treadmill
      (Woodway, Waukesha, WI) placed in the center of a calibrated volume area (approximately 0.5 x
      1.5 meters). A three-camera high-speed motion analysis system (Vicon, Oxford, England)
      sampling at 200 Hz will be used to record gait kinematics. The indicated anatomical landmarks
      (either C7 and T10 or posterior calcaneus and 2nd metatarsal phalangeal joint) will be marked
      with an ultraviolet pen, which will allow for visibility for a week, and will be reapplied at
      subsequent visits. This will improve marker placement repeatability during the gait
      retraining phase. A five-minute dynamic warm-up will be provided prior to the commencement of
      each gait retraining session; participants will then walk with their individualized gait
      modification strategy for 20 minutes. Participants will be provided with haptic feedback in
      the same manner outlined during the individualization phase or will continue to walk without
      feedback. A fading feedback design will be implemented across sessions to gradually integrate
      task acquisition and transfer and to help facilitate the internalization of the learned
      skill. During the first 2 weeks, real-time biofeedback (RTB) will be delivered on every step.
      For the third and fourth week, RTB will be provided on the first 3 foot strikes by the
      experimental leg and withheld on the fourth indicating a 25% reduction. During the fifth and
      sixth week, feedback will be provided on alternating foot strikes reducing RTB frequency
      delivery to 50%. For the final two weeks of gait-retraining, no feedback will be provided on
      the first three steps but delivered on the fourth reducing RTB frequency to 25%.

      Between gait retraining sessions, subjects will be instructed to practice their acquired gait
      strategy on their own outside of the laboratory session, which will occur in the absence of
      feedback. They will be instructed to practice at least 10 min per day and will be provided
      weekly activity logs to record time of day and amount practiced each day during the eight
      weeks of gait retraining. Practice logs will be submitted weekly. Over-ground gait analysis
      and 12 minutes of treadmill walking will be performed at week 4 (first post-test) and 9 (2nd
      post-test) over the course of the intervention to track skill acquisition. This testing will
      be the same as the baseline trials, however, participants will be instructed to walk using
      only their specific gait modification strategy. No feedback will be provided during any of
      the skill acquisition or retention tests. Follow-up testing will occur at one, three, and six
      months as well as one-year post-intervention to measure retention of prescribed gait
      modifications.
    
  