
    
      Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) is an often devastating form of stroke with high
      morbidity and mortality despite advances in surgical management. Approximately 30,000
      patients annually suffer aSAH in the U.S. For patients who survive the initial subarachnoid
      hemorrhage, delayed cerebral vasospasm occurring from days 4-14 is the greatest cause of
      neurological disability and death. A growing body of evidence incriminates
      hemoprotein-catalyzed lipid peroxidation as the mediator of the vasospasm.

      Hemoglobin released from lysed red cells in the subarachnoid space becomes oxidized, in which
      state it acts as a pseudoperoxidase and generates the protein radicals that induce lipid
      peroxidation. F2-isoprostanes formed by this lipid peroxidation are highly potent
      constrictors of cerebral arterioles. We have demonstrated a more than 5 fold mean increase in
      F2-isoprostanes in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with aSAH; this increase is maximal at
      the time of delayed vasospasm, and the level of increase is a function of the severity of the
      aSAH. We hypothesize that such vasoconstrictors are major contributors to the vasospasm
      produced by the hemoproteins, hemoglobin and myoglobin, in diseases in which they are
      released from their cellular confines.

      We have discovered that acetaminophen (APAP) is a potent inhibitor of hemoprotein-catalyzed
      lipid peroxidation with an IC50 for hemoglobin of 15 uM, which is in the range of plasma
      levels resulting from therapeutic doses of the drug in humans. Acetaminophen acts by reducing
      the ferryl-oxo radical form of the heme, and thereby prevents formation of the hemoprotein
      radical that initiates lipid peroxidation. To assess proof of concept in vivo, we determined
      the effect of acetaminophen in a rat model of rhabdomyolysis in which renal failure results
      from intense vasospasm. Acetaminophen blocked lipid peroxidation in this model, and prevented
      the renal failure with a dose that produced plasma levels in the therapeutic range for
      humans.

      We also have demonstrated that N-acetylcysteine (NAC) will inhibit hemoprotein-catalyzed
      lipid peroxidation. Moreover, NAC administration increases the levels of glutathione in vivo,
      and glutathione is a co-substrate for the glutathione peroxidases that can reduce the levels
      of peroxides in the environment of the aSAH . This is important as acetaminophen is most
      potent in inhibiting hemoprotein-catalyzed lipid peroxidation when peroxide concentrations
      are low. This concerted evidence is the basis for a hypothesis that NAC will augment the
      efficacy of acetaminophen as an inhibitor of hemoprotein-catalyzed lipid peroxidation in
      aSAH.

      These finding provide the rationale for a pilot study seeking proof of the concept that
      acetaminophen-based regimens can inhibit lipid peroxidation in patients with subarachnoid
      hemorrhage. Lipid peroxidation will be determined by analysis of F2-isoprostanes in
      cerebrospinal fluid. If such inhibition is seen, that then would provide a basis for a larger
      multi-center investigation to assess the effect on clinical endpoints.

      This pilot study will determine whether APAP, NAC, and APAP in combination with NAC will
      inhibit lipid peroxidation in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
    
  