
    
      This pilot study proposal is designed to perform a chronological measurement of MWF in new
      contrast-enhancing lesions in subjects treated with ACTH during an acute exacerbation of MS.

      The initial course of ACTH (H.P. Acthar®) will be administered as recommended in the package
      insert, a subcutaneous daily dose of 80-120mg units daily for 2-3 weeks. However, as
      recommended in the package insert, the dosage may be individualized according to the medical
      condition of each subject. Therefore, the frequency and dose of the drug may be determined by
      considering the severity of the disease and the initial response of the subject. The typical
      dosing for an MS exacerbation is 80mg/day for 3-5 days and it is expected that this will be
      the initial dosing for the majority of thesubjects.

      MS subjects enrolled in this study will be randomized into:

      One Time Treatment: 80mg/day ACTH for 3-5 days (The dose could be adjusted based on the
      individual needs of the subjects up to 80-120mg units daily for 2-3 weeks.)

      Monthly Treatments: 80mg/day ACTH for 3-5 days (The dose could be adjusted based on the
      individual needs of the the subjects up to 80-120mg units daily for 2-3 weeks.), followed by
      monthly 80 mg/day ACTH for 3 days for up to 12 months of treatment.

      The Judith Jaffe Multiple Sclerosis Center currently has over 1000 subjects in a clinical and
      MRI database. The subjects who have signed consent for the database will have their standard
      of care MRI scans monitored for new enhancing lesions; this will only have to be repeated if
      initial scan is not completed at our MS center with our current clinical protocol. All RRMS
      subjects with new enhancing lesions will be considered for the study and approached regarding
      participation subjects that are considered candidates and consent for the study, subjects
      will then be randomized (1:1) to receive one course of ACTH followed by monthly pulses vs.
      receiving only one course of ACTH treatment. All subjects will have follow-up MRI¿s are 3
      months, 6 months and 12 months post lesion onset for a total of 3 additional scans. If a
      patient is identified as having an enhancing lesion from MRI scan not obtained through our
      database, an additional scan will be obtained through the study and serve as the baseline
      MRI. All subjects will receive the first course of ACTH within 4 weeks of new lesion
      detection.

      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a very dynamic disease both biologically and clinically, which is
      characterized by a temporally complex pattern of inflammation, demyelination/remyelination,
      and axonal loss. The cycle of demyelination and remyelination has been shown to occur in MS
      lesions (1,2). High dose corticosteroids have been a mainstay of treatment for MS relapses.
      Corticosteroid treatment shortens time to recovery from relapses, presumably at least in part
      due to their anti-inflammatory effects. Despite their anti-inflammatory properties,
      corticosteroids have been shown to impair and delay remyelination in animal models of MS
      (3,4) and there is little clinical evidence of a longer-term beneficial effect.
      Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) gel, a long-acting formulation of the full sequence ACTH
      that includes other pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) peptides, is considered an alternative to
      corticosteroids in the treatment of relapses (currently FDA approved for this indication).
      ACTH gel exerts direct anti-inflammatory and immune-modulating effects within the central
      nervous system (CNS). These effects are mediated not only via induction of endogenous
      corticosteroid production but also via effects on melanocortin receptors (5). Studies have
      shown that ACTH and other melanocortins may reduce neuroinflammatory responses (6), and ACTH
      has been shown to protect mature oligodendrocytes from inflammation-related damage and
      excitotoxicity (7). Currently however, there is a paucity of studies using more advanced MRI
      metrics to determine if ACTH may have reparative and neuroprotective properties in subjects
      with MS. We propose to study monthly courses of ACTH in subjects with new lesions and
      compared to the one-time treatment course of ACTH for new activity. We hypothesize that
      continued exposure to the anti-inflammatory effects of ACTH on new lesions would be superior
      to promoting remyelination as compared to a one-time treatment course. Given that the
      majority of endogenous remyelination is felt to begin within months after lesion development
      and likely to be most prominent in the few months following, a one year study is most likely
      sufficient to measure this process.

      T2 relaxometry is a MR imaging technique in which a series of T2-weighted images at different
      echo times are obtained and the contribution of water associated with myelin and other tissue
      compartments can be differentiated using T2 decay curve analysis(8). The relative
      contribution of the myelin water, represented as the myelin water fraction (MWF), has been
      shown to highly correlate with histological myelin measurement in animal models (9) and
      ex-vivo brain (10,11), and has been applied to MS the subjects (12). The histological
      correlation of T2 relaxometry with myelin content makes it an excellent candidate as a
      biomarker for myelin content and it has been found to be reproducible and sensitive marker to
      change over time (13-16). Through the application a multi-slice 2D T2prep spiral gradient
      echo (GRE) imaging, T2 data can be efficiently acquired (17,18) and we have further optimized
      a 3D T2prep GRE sequence at 3T for which full brain coverage can be achieved within 10
      minutes (19). One of the main advantages of using T2 relaxometry and MWF as a surrogate for
      myelin over other advanced MR modalities lies in the T2 spectrum (the T2 decay curve
      analysis). Both MWF and the extracellular T2 component (the intermediate peak) within the T2
      spectrum) can increase with edema (20), thus once the extracellular pool stabilizes, we can
      ensure that any change in MWF is a true reflection of myelination.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if monthly pulse doses of a three-day
      course ACTH (H.P. Acthar®) is more effective at recovering myelin at 12 months, as measured
      by MWF, in new multiple sclerosis lesions as compared to one course of treatment.

      The main secondary objective is to utilize every three-month MWF measurements to determine
      the peak time of remyelination in new multiple sclerosis lesions when followed over the
      course of 12 months.
    
  