
    
      A maximum of 60 participants, who have successfully responded to EEN, will be allocated to
      the study arms with block randomisation, with a 1:1 allocation, in random size blocks. The
      electronic randomisation process will be performed by an independent researcher. Those
      participants who do not wish to be randomised to one of the two study arms, will be offered
      the chance to be allocated to the group of their preference. Using this approach, inclusion
      of all eligible participants will be ensured, as excluding those who do not wish to be
      randomised, may reduce the generalisation of findings and minimise statistical power of a
      study with modest eligible population to recruit from.

      CD-TREAT diet (intervention group)

      Participants in the intervention group will consume the CD-TREAT diet exclusively without
      being allowed to consume additional food, for the first 3 weeks of food reintroduction, after
      EEN completion. They will be provided with a tailored, dietitian-devised diet, which has been
      designed to replicate the nutritional composition of EEN. The intervention will be overseen
      by qualified dietitians, including a National Health Service (NHS) research dietitian.

      Unrestricted diet (control group)

      Participants in the control group will consume a free, unrestricted diet for the same period,
      as the intervention group.

      Participants in both groups will record their diet on a daily basis. The investigators will
      meet the participants weekly to address any potential issues they may have during the trial
      and to review the dietary assessment process. Standard treatment for maintenance of clinical
      remission will be continued, as designated by the medical team.

      Participants will be asked to provide serial faecal and urine samples (n=8). Collection of a
      maximum of 2 blood samples, anthropometric measurements and assessment of disease activity
      and quality of life will be performed before and after the end of the dietary intervention.
      Participants will also be followed through their clinical records until they clinically
      relapse, or maximum up to a year after EEN completion.

      The primary endpoint is the comparison of faecal calprotectin levels between the two groups
      at the end of the dietary intervention (3 weeks after EEN completion).
    
  