
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common form of cancer in men and the second most deadly. Today's
      diagnostic methods and treatments are therefore obviously not adequate. In this study we will
      evaluate a new diagnostic sampling and analysis method for prostate cancer, not try new
      treatments. The test sampling involves the rare tumor cells and tumor DNA found in the blood,
      and sequencing their DNA to determine which, if any, defective genes they contain that may
      explain the disease. There is currently no universally accepted diagnostic test of either
      tumor cells or tumor DNA in blood. We have access to new technology that one of us (CE)
      developed at the Karolinska Institute, which by all accounts can give access to the rare
      tumor cells in the blood so that we can sequence their DNA. In this study we want to try to
      see if it is possible in practical healthcare to apply the new technology for prostate cancer
      patients and if there are signs that it works equally well in the healthcare environment as
      in the laboratory.

      Impact: If the sampling of tumor cells and tumor DNA from blood samples works within the
      healthcare system processes, it will be possible to understand the causal relationships
      behind their occurrence, and their gene defects, we can design follow-up studies that would
      take us closer to clinical use of the new technology to predict which treatment would be most
      effective and which treatment would produce the least side effects.

      Ethical considerations: The risks of blood sampling are limited and known and can be managed
      within the healthcare system. Data is handled safely. The potential future benefit of a new
      cancer cell- and DNA-test is great.

      The study is a collaboration between Region Sörmland, Karolinska Institutet and iCellate
      Medical AB. The data collection is expected to be completed in 2020 and the analyses in 2021.
    
  