
    
      Patients with advanced or treatment-refractory Multiple Myeloma (MM), Hodgkin's Disease (HD)
      and Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) may be successfully treated with high dose chemotherapy
      followed by autologous transplantation of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs). Successful
      engraftment of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) is well correlated with the number of
      CD34+ cells infused.

      Stem cell collection with plerixafor could have a major benefit by increasing the circulating
      number of PBSCs and decreasing the number of apheresis sessions required to collect a
      sufficient number of PBSCs for transplant.

      This is a multi-centre, open label, single-arm study intended to further investigate the
      safety and efficacy of plerixafor in patients with NHL, HD, or MM. Patients who have
      previously failed stem cell mobilisation attempts or who have previously received more than
      one autologous or any allogeneic stem cell transplant are not eligible.

      Screening for eligibility will take place up to 30 days before the first dose of G-CSF.
      Patients will receive a stem cell mobilisation regimen consisting of plerixafor and G-CSF.
      Patients will be given G-CSF for 4 consecutive days in the morning. Starting on the evening
      of Day 4, plerixafor will be administered subcutaneously (SC). The plerixafor dose will be
      timed to allow for a 10- to 11-hour interval between the plerixafor dosing and the initiation
      of apheresis. Patients may continue to receive the evening dose of plerixafor then G-CSF the
      next morning followed by apheresis for up to a total of 5 apheresis procedures until a
      minimum of at least 5 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg for NHL/HD or 6 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg for MM are
      collected. More cells may be collected if done within the 5 apheresis procedures. Stem cell
      collection will take place using standard procedures.

      Following the last apheresis, patients will undergo pre-transplant myeloablative chemotherapy
      followed by transplantation of the collected autologous stem cells, using the established
      protocols and procedures at each site.

      Peripheral blood samples will be collected for determining the number of CD34+ cells in the
      peripheral blood. In addition, a sample will be obtained from each apheresis product to
      determine the quantity of CD34+ cells collected after each procedure.

      Safety data will be reported according to guidelines provided in the protocol. Adverse event
      (AE) guidance is summarised in the protocol. Investigators will grade AEs using the National
      Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0.

      Efficacy will be based on the quantity of CD34+ cells harvested and the subsequent
      engraftment and graft status. Patients who undergo haematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      will be monitored for graft status at 100 days, 6 months, and 12 months.
    
  