
    
      Study design: Prospective population-based study in which cervical cancer patients and their
      partners are included shortly after diagnosis and followed until 10 years after diagnosis.
      Patients from treatment centres in the Netherlands and their partners will be asked to
      complete questionnaires after diagnosis, after 6 months, and after 1, 2, 5 and 10 year.
      Clinical data like disease stage, initial treatment and mortality will be extracted from the
      Netherlands Cancer Registry. In a subsample of patients, additionally objective lifestyle
      (actigraph, biosensor) and biological (blood, hair) measures are assessed at diagnosis and
      after 6, 12 and 24 months. .

      Study population: Newly diagnosed stage 1-3 cervical cancer patients (N=520) and their
      partners (N=312, expected) from any treatment centre in the Netherlands will be asked to fill
      out questionnaires. In a subsample of patients (N=116) additionally lifestyle and biological
      measures are assessed at all time-points.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: psychological distress (anxiety, depression, perceived
      stress, cancer worry)

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Patients and partners are asked to complete a questionnaire at 6 points in time:
      after diagnosis, after 6 months, and after 1, 2, 5 and 10 year. Patients will additionally be
      asked to complete an online food diary for 3 days. A subsample of patients will be asked to
      donate blood samples (2X10 ml, 10 minutes) to assess inflammation markers and telomere
      length, to donate a scalp hair sample (10 mg) to assess hormone production after diagnosis
      and after 6, 12 and 24 months, and to wear an Actigraph activity tracker to assess physical
      activity and sleep and a Philips Biosensor to assess heart rate variability as a marker of
      vagal nerve function at 6, 12 and 24 months.
    
  