
    
      Part A At Day -7, all subjects will be exposed to a range of doses of visible light on an
      approximately 0.90 cm diameter area on the back to ascertain their predisposition for
      pigmentation induced by visible light. The doses will be 30, 40, 60, 80, 100 and 120 J cm-2.
      At the Day 0 visit, subjects' pigmentation will be determined by investigator visual
      assessment. Subjects with a lowest observed pigmentation at the 30 J cm-2 or the 120 J cm-2
      dose will not continue in the study. For each subject that continues, the area where Avène
      Compact Honey will be applied on the back will be randomized. At least 15 minutes later,
      unprotected areas will be exposed to doses ranging from ~1/20th to 1.8 times the lowest dose
      of visible light that induced pigmentation at Day -7. To not unnecessarily over expose
      subjects, the first 3 will have protected areas exposed to doses ranging from ~half to 16
      times the lowest dose of visible light that induced pigmentation at Day -7. All subjects will
      have an additional exposure on the protected side equal to the highest dose of the
      unprotected side for colorimetric comparison. Subjects will be examined at Day 7 (seven days
      after visible light exposure). Pigmentation on all exposed areas will be evaluated by
      investigator visual assessment. The colorimetric measurements on protected and unprotected
      skin will be recorded for the equivalent exposures and for adjacent skin. The exposed area on
      the protected side to be tested with colorimetric analysis will be hidden during the
      investigator visual assessment. The minimum dose on the unprotected side and an area of
      unprotected and unexposed skin will be hidden from the colorimetric evaluator to maintain the
      blind. The lowest visible light dose inducing pigmentation will be recorded for both the
      unprotected and protected areas. If the first three subjects are only pigmented at either the
      16X level or not at all on the protected side, then the remaining subjects in the study will
      be exposed at doses ranging from 0.7 to as high as 24 times the lowest dose of visible light
      that induced pigmentation at Day -7.

      Part B At Day 0, all subjects will be exposed to a range of doses of visible light on an
      approximately 0.90 cm diameter area on the back to ascertain their disposition for
      pigmentation induced by visible light. The doses will be 8, 40, 80, 160, 320 and 480 J cm-2.
      At the Day 7 visit, subjects' pigmentation will be determined by investigator visual
      assessment. Subjects will be divided into 2 cohorts. Cohort A will contain 5 subjects of
      phototype IV with dark skin and cohort B will contain 5 subjects with skin phototype V.

      Part C At Day -7, all subjects will be exposed to a range of doses of visible light on an
      approximately 0.90 cm diameter area on the back to ascertain their predisposition for
      pigmentation induced by visible light. The doses will be 8, 40, 80, 160, 320 and 480 J cm-2.
      At the Day 0 visit, subjects' pigmentation will be determined by investigator visual
      assessment. Subjects with a lowest observed pigmentation at the 8 J cm-2 dose will not
      continue in the study and neither will subjects showing no pigmentation at 480 J cm-2. For
      each subject that continues, the area where Avène Compact Honey will be applied on the back
      will be randomized and then receive the application. At least 15 minutes later, protected
      areas will be exposed to doses of 32, 160, 320, 640, 1280 and 1920 cm-2. Unprotected areas
      will be exposed to the same doses as Day 0. To not unnecessarily over expose subjects, those
      with a lowest observed pigmentation at Day 0 of 40 or 80 J cm-2 will have the maximum
      exposure at Day 0 determined at the investigators discretion. Subjects will be examined at
      Day 7 (seven days after visible light exposure). Pigmentation on all exposed areas will be
      evaluated by investigator visual assessment. The lowest visible light dose inducing
      pigmentation will be recorded for both the unprotected and protected areas. The colorimetric
      measurements on protected and unprotected skin will be recorded for the equivalent exposures
      and for adjacent skin. Four areas of unprotected and protected skin will be hidden from the
      colorimetric evaluator to maintain the blind. Subjects will be divided into 2 cohorts. Cohort
      A will contain 5 subjects of phototype IV with dark skin and cohort B will contain 5 subjects
      with skin phototype V.
    
  