
    
      In this user-driven study, the methods will be workshops, interviews, usability testing and a
      concluding proof of concept testing.

      Workshops constitutes the bigger part of the user-driven design and ideation in this project.
      In workshops a group of people will generate a synergy that opens up for new ideas in a
      framed setting. The workshop format uses methods such as affinity diagrams; innovation jams;
      and ideation guided through artefacts such as Lego or paper cuts, with the researcher as the
      facilitator. After analysing the outcome of each design iteration, the findings will be
      incorporated into the design and focus the planning of the succeeding workshops in an
      iterative process.

      The usability of the design will be tested in between workshops in interviews. The test will
      be performed by think aloud testing with the current prototype, recording for data collection
      and researchers in the room to observe, facilitate and probe for reflection.

      For a more elaborate usability testing to conclude the design phase, a proof of concept will
      be performed. In this living lab scenario, the tool will be used at home by end-users in the
      intended way. Issues with technical functionality, user interphase, data management and
      workflow will surface and can be corrected during the proof of concept, thus consolidating
      the service before the feasibility study. Data collection from this part of the study will be
      by ongoing dialogue with participants, by e-mail and telephone.

      To provide the broadest possible foundation for recruitment in terms of diversity in
      lifestyle and socioeconomic status, invitation to the study is done by mail directly to a
      randomly chosen group of men with prostate cancer.

      All iterations will be based on the results of the previous. The first iteration is based on
      the ethnographic input from the first study.

      All participants in study 2 will be met with a baseline questionnaire to evaluate digital
      readiness and e-health literacy and adjust participant configuration to ensure diversity. The
      questionnaire include self-reported educational level, health issues, treatments, diet,
      physical activity level and other lifestyle factors as well as eHLQ as part of the READHY
      questionnaire toolkit. The 13 dimensions of READHY comes from heiQ, HLQ and eHLQ, and work as
      a multidimensional validated robust psychometric instrument evaluation and can be used in
      combination to describe user's health technology readiness level and degree of enablement.

      Each activity of the user-driven design process will be documented in a report, that will
      serve as the data foundation for a scientific publication.
    
  