
    
      The proposed project will expand the investigators knowledge of the role of compensatory
      cognitive interventions for forensic inpatient populations with schizophrenia. Over the
      course of 6 months, the investigators will conduct a feasibility study of the delivery of a
      modified forensic inpatient version of Cognitive Adaptation Training. The objective of this
      single group study with pre-post and follow up assessments is to determine if preliminary
      outcomes and follow up findings support the feasibility of a modified version CAT within a
      forensic inpatient setting. Feasibility data will be used to inform (i) any necessary
      adjustments to the intervention, (ii) any necessary adjustments to the optimal time of study
      for outcomes to be observed, and (iii) to inform future trials with respect to anticipated
      recruitment and drop-out rates and optimal powering.

      This study would be among the few examinations of CAT as an inpatient intervention to date,
      as well as the first to examine a modified cognitive adaptation training approach in both a
      North American and forensic inpatient setting, and would make a substantial contribution to
      the evidence-based intervention literature. This intervention will be referred to as forensic
      inpatient CAT or finCAT.

      The questions for this project are:

        1. Is finCAT feasible for forensic inpatient populations with a schizophrenia spectrum
           diagnosis? Based on preliminary work the investigators hypothesize that finCAT will
           prove acceptable to patients and inpatient staff and will demonstrate positive outcomes
           with respect to functioning and inpatient room organization.

        2. What are the attitudes of inpatient forensic occupational therapists and clinical teams
           towards implementing finCAT on their units?

      This study will expand on the preliminary work of the investigators at CAMH. The study will
      be implemented on four CAMH general security forensic inpatient units. There will be four
      weeks of CAT Clinician--delivered treatment focusing on two goal areas - room organization
      and personal hygiene, followed by two months of maintenance by CAT Unit Champions with pre,
      post, and two-month follow-up, as well as project-end evaluations. In the first four weeks,
      the investigators will conduct a trial of finCAT for two of the four inpatient general
      forensic units, followed by two months of finCAT maintenance with Unit CAT Champions
      supported by the CAT Clinician. This process would then be repeated on the remaining two
      general units at CAMH. Previous implementation of CAT has demonstrated gains within
      one-month; however, follow-up assessments were not conducted to determine if gains were
      maintained over time. While brief, this time period (i) reflects the intent of this study as
      a pilot test of feasibility and, (ii) aligns with this circumscribed version of CAT (as
      compared to the more comprehensive community version with broader outcome domains). Data will
      be collected from both primary participants (inpatients) and the clinical team.
    
  