
    
      This study is randomized, open-lable, parallel-group and comparator-controlled.456
      consecutive patients with anterior circulation ischemic stroke within 72h from 2
      participating hospitals are enrolled into the study. Those patients who will be randomly
      assigned to receive 2 different treatments for the first 3 days of
      hospitalization(non-statin-therapy group) or to immediately receive rosuvastatin orally at a
      dose of 20mg daily (statin-therapy group). From the fourth day onward, rosuvastatin 10 mg
      daily will be administered in all patients. The total trial will be continued 12
      months.Subject eligibility will be established before treatment randomization. A random
      number table will be generated using a computerized procedure and subjects will be randomized
      strictly sequentially as they are eligible for randomization. The randomization procedure
      will be done like this. The random number will be divided by 2. And if the remainder is 1,
      the subject will be assigned to intensive rosuvastatin group. Correspondingly, if the
      remainder is 0, the subject will be assigned to the non-rosuvastatin group. Subjects will be
      randomized on a 1:1 schedule.

      According to the previous post hoc analysis and SPARCL analysis results, the mRS event rate
      (mRS>2) at 90 days among statin-naïve patients before admission is 42% without statin
      treatment in the first 3 days of admission versus 28% with statin immediately used since
      admission. Previous studies showed there is benefit with statin treatment in the earlier
      period of acute ischemic stroke, so the data from SPARCL reserved conservatively because the
      patients within 6 months of stroke onset were enrolled. It is based on these reported event
      rates, a sample size of 182 patients per group will have 80% power to detect a rate
      difference of 14%, assuming a null rate difference of zero and using Pearson's chi-squared
      test with a two-sided significance level of 0.05. With an estimated 20% rate of dropping out
      from the study, a total of 456 patients will have to be randomized (228 in each group) for
      this study.

      Medical histories were obtained from all subjects before enrollment. Patients are followed by
      1 year. mRS will be investigated at baseline, 3rd month, 12th month ;MMSE and Montreal tests
      will be investigated at baseline and 12th month. Laboratory data include serum lipids, Fg and
      hs-CRP.Among these, serum lipids will be tested at baseline, 8th day and 3rd month, 6th
      month,12th month; hs-CRP will be tested at baseline and 8th day, 3rd month, Fg will be tested
      at baseline, 8th day, 3rd month. Safety will be also assessed by adverse event reports and
      clinical laboratory data including CK-MB, renal and hepatic function at 3rd month, 6th
      month,12th month.

      Primary endpoint is the proportion of poor prognosis(modified Rankin scores>2) at 3 and 12
      months post discharge. mRS scores>2 is defined as poor prognosis. And mRS scores≤2 scores
      were defined as good prognosis. Primary endpoint is the comparison of percentage of poor
      prognosis between two groups. Second endpoints include change from baseline in serum lipid,
      Fg and hs-CRP levels at 8th day, 3rd month, 6th month and 12th month after randomization. The
      incidence of vascular endpoint events including all-cause mortality, any event of recurrent
      ischemic stroke/TIA, hemorrhagic stroke, myocardial infarction and angina, and other
      noncerebral ischemia or hemorrhage. And change from admission in MMSE and Montreal scores of
      all subjects at 12th month.

      Researchers who are responsible for evaluation of mRS, NIHSS scores, MMSE and Montreal scores
      will receive centralized training and be specialized. Specialized doctors follow-up the
      subjects with no knowledge of the statin therapies for the patients. Every month a meeting
      will be held to know if there are problems and to solve them.

      Two special doctors in each center are responsible for follow-up visits. Patients will be
      asked to bring all empty packages to the clinic at each visit. The patient's compliance will
      be assessed by the investigator and recorded in the CRF. A pill count should be done at a
      patient level and recorded in the CRF and a dispensing log by the study site personnel.
    
  