
    
      The study will be performed at the Hemophilia Care and Research Center. We will recruit 20
      participants. Inclusion criteria included age 20 years and above hemophilia A or B patients
      who reported history of hemarthroses of knee, ankle, elbow, shoulder or hip joints.
      Participants will be excluded for any of the following: presence of joint infections, any
      surgery on the joints in preceding 6 months, history of rheumatoid arthritis or other
      inflammatory arthropathy, history of major trauma or presence of neoplasm around joints.

      We will collect clinically relevant information including age, body mass index (BMI),
      hemophilia type and severity, inhibitor titre, schedule of prophylaxis therapy with
      coagulation factor VIII or IX concentrates history of joint hemarthrosis, and bleeding events
      in the previous one year. The history of joint bleeding and the total number of joint
      bleeding events in the previous one year will be obtained from medical chart review recorded
      according to the patient's bleeding diaries.

      18F-FDG PET /CT PET/CT will be performed using a Biograph PET/CT scanner (Discovery 710, GE
      Healthcare, WI, USA). All patients will fast except for water at least 6 hours prior to the
      examination. Sixty minutes after the intravenous injection of 10 mCi 18F-FDG, imaging will be
      performed using a spiral CT scan from the shoulder to the ankle with a 5 mm thickness per
      slice. Subsequently, PET data will be acquired in a supine position. The images will be
      reviewed by an experienced nuclear medicine physician unaware of the severity of hemophilic
      arthropathy in USG and plain x-ray. The analysis method is semi-quantitative and applied
      maximal standardized uptake (SUVmax) values. The SUVmax for each joint will be measured by
      placing regions of interest (ROIs) on the axial image of the joint. The SUVmax will be
      calculated as the maximum FDG uptake within the ROI divided by the injected dose over the
      patient's body weight (SUVmax = maximum pixel activity/[injected dose/body weight]).

      Ultrasonography The USG assessment will be performed according to a standard technique using
      Terason t3000 machines (Teratech™ , Burlington, Massachusetts, USA) with a 5-12 MHz linear
      transducer. The probe scans the joint in the longitudinal view with the elbow in 90 degree
      flexion, or the knee or ankle in full extension. Synovium thickness and hyperemia were
      evaluated from the lateral, middle, and medial aspects of the anterior suprapatellar recess.
      Power Doppler assessment of selected synovial sites is carried out with settings standardized
      to a pulse repetition frequency of 700 Hz. The power Doppler gain is adjusted to a level just
      below the disappearance of artifacts under the bony cortex. The intensity of the blood flow
      in the synovium is scored into 0 to 3 (0=No flag; 1 = 1 flag; 2 = 2-3 flags; 3=>3 flags)
      adapted from Klukowska and Melchiorre et al. Averages of synovium thickness and score of
      hyperemia in lateral, middle, and medial aspects of the joint will be calculated.

      Radiological evaluation Anteroposterior and lateral plain radiographs of joints will be
      performed and scored according to Pettersson classification by the responsible orthopaedic
      specialist in our hemophilia center. The Pettersson score ranges from 0 to 13 and is based on
      the following radiographic features of joints: osteoporosis, osteophytes, narrowing of joint
      space, subchondral irregularity, subchondral cyst formation, erosion of joint margins, and
      bone remodelling. A totally normal joint has a score of zero. The Pettersson scoring system
      has been adopted by the World Federation of Hemophilia as the preferred radiographic
      classification system for hemophilic arthropathy.

      Assessment of joint function ROM of joint is measured in degrees with a goniometer according
      to the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons guidelines. All ROM measurements will be
      performed by the same assessor. The pain intensity will be evaluated subjectively on a visual
      analogue scale.

      For continuous data, the Student's t-test will be used if the data had a normal distribution.
      The Mann-Witney U test will be performed if a normal distribution was absent. For categorical
      data, the Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used. The Spearman correlation
      coefficient will be calculated for each alteration. P value of less than 0.05 is considered
      statistically significant.
    
  