
    
      Cigarette smoking remains the leading preventable cause of morbidity and mortality in the
      United States. While 19% of U.S. twelfth graders smoked cigarettes in the past 30 days, fewer
      than 10% of Californians under age 18 reported recent smoking. In Los Angeles, rates of
      morbidities due to cigarette smoking follow prevalence. While the rate of cigarette smoking
      in Los Angeles County among youth is at historic lows (10.4%), prevalence is not uniform:
      Cigarette smoking is pervasive among residents who have significant economic disparities.
      Alarming racial and ethnic disparities are noted with highest prevalence reported for adult
      Korean males (44.8%). Prevalence of cigarette smoking is also among the highest in the world
      for Korean school-aged youth, with 16.2% for males and 5.3% for females. To date, smoking
      prevention efforts in Korea have had mixed results as they are not interesting to youth and
      are not interactive.

      This project will assess an interactive, culturally adapted, tailored smoking cessation
      intervention delivered through the internet and cell phone. The evidence-based treatment,
      "Cognitive-Behavioral/Motivational Enhancement Therapy for Smoking Cessation" (CBME) for
      adolescent smokers was developed by one of the investigators. Based on input from our
      community partners, consultants, and youth focus group participants, the treatment will be
      culturally adapted for appropriateness and relevance to Korean youth. The refined
      intervention will be programmed for delivery via the Web and mobile technologies. Using
      technology, we seek to increase the reach and access of our intervention and facilitate
      cessation without in-person sessions, a factor that limits smoking cessation interventions
      for youth. A 2-group, randomized control trial design will assign youth either to the
      tailored Web and cell phone based smoking cessation program or to a control condition.

      The specific aim of the study is as follows:

      1. To evaluate the efficacy of the tailored smoking cessation approach for Korean youth
      seeking smoking cessation, randomly assigning 240 youth to either the experimental condition
      or to a standard cessation approach.
    
  