
    
      Approximately 300,000 children in the US have elevated blood lead levels (10 mcg/dl or
      greater). Lead poisoning in children is unequivocally harmful, producing the
      neurodevelopmental consequences of cognitive losses, attentional difficulties and behavioral
      disturbances, including antisocial or delinquent tendencies. Non-neurodevelopmental
      consequences of lead poisoning include impairment of heme synthesis, reduction in 1-
      hydroxylation of 25(OH) - cholecalciferol (the Vitamin D precursor) and renal injury that
      results in microproteniuria, an increased risk of hypertension and a greater likelihood of
      renal failure in adulthood. Despite these well-defined toxicities, treatments for childhood
      lead poisoning have been inadequate. Currently, chelation therapy is uniformly recommended
      only for children with severe lead poisoning (blood lead > 45 mcg/dl). Approved chelating
      agents for severe plumbism are CaNa2EDTA and succimer. For children with blood lead levels
      less than 45 mcg/dl treatment is fraught with difficulties including inconsistent
      recommendations by clinical experts, lack of proven benefit of chelation and the absence of a
      chelating agent approved for use in this range. d-Penicillamine is a lead chelator that has
      been used off-label for almost 4 decades. Several studies have suggested that d-penicillamine
      is both safe and effective in the treatment of low-level lead poisoning. We propose to
      evaluate, in a Phase II/III randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, the effectiveness
      of d-penicillamine in 50 children aged 6 months to 16 years with blood lead levels 15-25
      mcg/dl. The d-penicillamine product will be a newly developed, IND-approved liquid
      formulation. The study will be performed in the Pediatric Environmental Health Center of
      Children's Hospital Boston. The primary outcome measure will be the ability of a 6-week
      course of d-penicillamine to produce sustained reductions in blood lead level. Secondary
      outcome measures will be normalization of non-neurodevelopmental physiologic aberrations
      known to occur with lead poisoning, specifically abnormalities in heme and Vitamin D
      synthesis. If this clinical trial demonstrates safety and efficacy, d-penicillamine will
      potentially provide another option among the limited treatment choices for lead-poisoned
      children. This trial will also provide a basis for examining the drug's efficacy in improving
      neurodevelopment outcome in children exposed to harmful amounts of lead.
    
  