
    
      This study will be a double-blind randomized controlled trial (evaluator and patient),
      parallel in three groups (experimental group, Sham and control). Participants will initially
      be evaluated by a trained investigator who will be blinded and assigned randomly (random
      numbers generated on the computer) block for the experimental, sham, and control groups by
      means of an opaque envelope draw. In group division, participants with pain may not be
      contemplated to participate in the myofascial release protocol intervention group. However,
      the research will count on a group that will be contemplated with the technique of continuous
      superficial sliding (massage), which in turn, the literature points out benefits and
      well-being in its application. Finally, a group of individuals without pain will be evaluated
      and reevaluated and evaluated as a means of preventing pain and reducing TM peripheral muscle
      oxygenation. When making the invitation to participate in the survey, individuals will not be
      required to participate if they do not agree, and therefore will not be penalized.
      Participants who agree to participate in the survey will sign a Free and Informed Consent
      Form (Annex I) and will be informed of the possibility of withdrawing from the survey at any
      stage, without penalty. The collection of the evaluation and intervention will be carried out
      in a salon Clinic School of Physiotherapy in the Center of Health and Sports Sciences (CEFID)
      of the State University of Santa Catarina (UDESC) in the city of Florianópolis - SC. All
      personal identification data of the participants will be preserved according to resolution of
      the national health council, taking into account the possibility of scientific dissemination
      of the results obtained. The risks of these procedures will be medium, since the participant
      may present muscle pain after the intervention protocol. To minimize these risks will be
      available, if necessary, attendance at the Clinic School of Physiotherapy. Volunteers of both
      sexes, aged from 18 years neck pain more specifically, in TM during daily or work activities.
      The sample will be selected in a non-probabilistic way for convenience, and the individuals
      will be divided into three groups: experimental, Sham and control. The control group will be
      formed by healthy individuals and will be paired with the experimental group according to age
      and gender taking into account that they are two relevant variables when addressing the
      fascia.
    
  