
    
      The 3 primary treatment comparisons are:

        1. 2000 IU vitamin D per day compared to placebo (controlling for the other treatment
           strategies)

        2. 1 g of omega-3 fatty acids (EPA+DHA, ratio 1:2, from marine algae) compared to placebo
           (controlling for the other treatment strategies)

        3. Home exercise program (muscle strength) of 30 minutes 3 times a week compared to a
           control exercise program (joint flexibility) 30 minutes 3 times a week

      Follow-up: DO-HEALTH seniors will be followed for 3 years, in-person, and in 3-monthly
      intervals (4 clinical visits and 9 phone calls) at the 7 recruitment centers.

      Study population: DO-HEALTH will enroll seniors age 70 years and older. To represent the
      largest part of the senior population, DO-HEALTH will recruit community-dwelling seniors.
      However, to represent also the pre-frail population at risk of institutionalization, at least
      40% of seniors will be enrolled based on a fall with or without a fracture in the year before
      DO-HEALTH enrolment.

      Study Design: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2×2×2 factorial design
      clinical trial.

      Recruitment Centers: The trial will be performed at 7 recruitment centers located in 5
      countries: Switzerland (University of Zurich, Basel University Hospital, Geneva University
      Hospital), France (University of Toulouse Hospital Centre), Germany (Charité Berlin),
      Portugal (University of Coimbra), and Austria (Innsbruck Medical University).

      Randomization: Stratified block randomization. Labeling of study intervention will be
      performed by a central randomization centre in Switzerland.

      Stratification variables: recruitment centre (7 centers), fall during previous 12 months
      (yes/no), gender, and age (70 - 84 and 85+). At least 40% of Seniors among those who fell or
      did not fall during the last year will be enforced at each of the 7 recruitment centers.
      Gender and age distribution will be monitored within each recruitment centre with the
      DO-HEALTH randomization software. If gross imbalance (less than 30% of fallers/non-fallers in
      a stratum) is detected within a centre, recruitment strategies for the centre will be adapted
      to boost recruitment of participants of underrepresented category.

      website DO-HEALTH: http://do-health.eu/wordpress/
    
  