
    
      The metabolism of mobilized fatty acids as an energy reserve during physical exercise
      produces glycerol, which makes it a marker of the intensity of lipolysis.

      This measurement of the intensity of lipolysis in humans can be carried out according to
      several methods. Since glycerol is a product of lipolysis, its rate of appearance (Ra) in the
      blood represents a physical quantity naturally associated with lipolysis activity.
      Unfortunately, its quantification requires the use of a tracer isotope (deuterated glycerol),
      which limits its applicability. The alternative is the determination of glycerolemia in the
      blood or in the interstitial fluid via a microdialysis probe placed in subcutaneous adipose
      tissue;

      Recently, a measuring device has been proposed which makes it possible to measure
      glycerolemia from capillary blood, in the manner of measuring blood glucose in diabetic
      patients. This device has the advantage of being used repeatedly after a physical exercise.
      This flexibility also makes it possible to consider the personalization of the sports program
      by identifying the circumstances associated with an increase in lipolysis such as the type of
      meal preceding the exercise or its intensity.

      Evidence suggests that moderate-intensity exercise (about 45% -65% VO2max) performed under
      fasting conditions maximizes lipid metabolism as a source of energy, compared with
      carbohydrate metabolism. But these data conceal a likely significant variability in
      individual outcomes, including levels of training, gender, age, and nutritional intake prior
      to exercise. Our hypothesis is that the current recommendation to the diabetic patient, or
      with a metabolic syndrome, to exercise moderate intensity fasting physical activity could be
      adapted individually to each patient in order to optimize the benefits of such a practice. In
      this sense, the easy access to a measurement of capillary glycerolemia could make it possible
      to identify in a personalized way the type of physical activity.

      This research project aims to accurately describe the evolution of capillary glycerolemia in
      several configurations of physical exercise (variable intensity) by controlling the effect of
      the previous meal. It will also seek to identify situations associated with a greater
      increase in capillary glycerolemia to pave the way for personalization of the sports activity
      program.
    
  