
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To establish the safety and tolerability of selinexor when given in combination with
      standard chemotherapy or immunotherapy regimens.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine disease control rate, objective tumor response rate, and progression free
      survival of selinexor administered with standard chemotherapy or immunotherapy treatments.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the correlation of translational biomarkers. II. To compare serial assessment
      of mutation status in biopsies obtained at baseline and progression after clinical response
      to combination therapy.

      III. To assess the efficacy of olanzapine as incorporated in the National Comprehensive
      Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines for the management of chemotherapy-induced nausea and
      cachexia.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of selinexor. Patients are assigned to 1 of 15
      treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive selinexor orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients can
      continue single agent selinexor until disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM B: Patients receive selinexor PO twice weekly (e.g. Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday
      or Wednesday/Friday or Thursday/Saturday or Friday/Sunday) on days 1-14. Patients then
      receive selinexor PO on days 1, 3, 8 and 10 and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on days 1 and 8.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. After 8 cycles, of combination treatment, patients can continue single agent
      selinexor until disease progression.

      ARM C: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and eribulin IV over 1 hour on days
      1 and 8. Combination treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients can continue single agent
      selinexor until disease progression.

      ARM D: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, and 15, doxorubicin IV over 90 minutes and
      cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients can
      continue single agent selinexor until disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM E: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles
      depending on cancer type (6 cycles for non-small cell lung cancer, up to 8 cycles for ovarian
      cancer and other histological malignancies) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After 6 to 8 cycles, patients can continue single agent selinexor
      until disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM F: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      and pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients can
      continue single agent selinexor until disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM G: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, and 15 and topotecan IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. After 8 cycles, patients can continue single agent selinexor until
      disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM H: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, 15 and 22, irinotecan hydrochloride IV
      over 90 minutes, fluorouracil continuous IV and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on days 1
      and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients can continue single agent selinexor until
      disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM I: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8 and 15 and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over
      90 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 8 cycles, patients can continue single
      agent selinexor until disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM J: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8 and 15, capecitabine PO twice daily (BID)
      on days 1-14 and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
      to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 8 cycles,
      patients can continue single agent selinexor until disease progression. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM K: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and olaparib PO BID on days
      1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. (ARM CLOSED)

      ARM L: Patients receive selinexor PO twice weekly (e.g. Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday
      or Wednesday/Friday or Thursday/Saturday or Friday/Sunday) and pembrolizumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM M: Patients receive selinexor PO twice weekly (e.g. Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday
      or Wednesday/Friday or Thursday/Saturday or Friday/Sunday) and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes
      on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARMS N AND O: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, and 15, nivolumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1, and ipilimumab PO QD on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 4 cycles.
      Starting cycle 5, patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and nivolumab IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM P: Patients receive selinexor PO on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36, nivolumab IV over 30
      minutes on days 1, 15, and 29, and ipilimumab PO QD on day 1. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients may continue to receive selinexor and chemotherapy after confirmed progressive
      disease in the absence of clinical deterioration and if the investigator considers that the
      patient continues to receive benefit from the treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year.
    
  