
    
      Whereas several studies indicate that implicit theory of personality interventions (ITP) are
      promising in the prevention of depressive symptoms, evidence about the effects of the ITP
      intervention on stress pathways is scarce. The current study aims to elucidate the effects of
      ITP on psychophysiological responses to social stress in young adults during their transition
      to university. Based on preliminary findings that ITP was more effective among younger
      adolescents in reducing depressive symptoms and that a combination of ITP with
      self-affirmation (SA) was more effective in the prevention of other risky behaviors, the
      current study proposes that the addition of a SA component could increase the effectiveness
      of the ITP intervention when responding to stress. Thus, this study compares the effects of
      the ITP alone and in combination with a SA component in psychophysiological responses to a
      standardized social stressor (the Trier Social Stress Test, TSST). Both interventions (i.e.,
      ITP+SA and ITP) are compared with a control condition (CC) in indicators of the autonomic
      nervous system (heart rate -HR-, respiratory sinus arrhythmia -RSA-, skin conductance level
      -SCL-), the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (cortisol level), and subjective mood. The
      investigators expect that participants in both ITP interventions, and in ITP+SA intervention
      in particular, will display better stress responses during the stressful tasks compared with
      participants in the CC (i.e., lower HR and SCL increase, lower RSA suppression, and lower
      cortisol and negative mood increase). The investigators also expect that participants would
      display better recovery after the stressful tasks (i.e., higher HR and SCL decrease, and
      higher RSA increase).

      Finally, this research will examine whether depressive symptoms moderate the effects of the
      intervention on stress responses. Previous research has shown that depression has been
      associated with dysregulated stress responses both at the autonomic nervous system and
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Moreover, some studies have found that interventions are
      more effective among participants at risk to reduce both depression and stress. Therefore,
      the ITP intervention, alone and in combination with SA, could be more beneficial among those
      participants with higher levels of depressive symptoms.
    
  