
    
      Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) are a group of substances that reduce blood clotting by reducing
      the action of vitamin K. They are used in anticoagulant medications in the prevention of
      thrombosis. The drugs work by depleting the active form of the vitamin by inhibiting Vitamin
      K epoxide reductase and thus the recycling of inactive vitamin K back to the active reduced
      form. The most widely prescribed VKAs are Coumarins. This group is composed of several
      different structurally similar molecules and includes warfarin (Coumadin), acenocoumerol and
      phenprocoumon.

      Within the EU there are country to country differences in preferential VKA prescription (1).
      In Germany and surrounding countries, Phenprocoumon (marketed as Marcoumar or Marcumar) is
      the most commonly prescribed. The majority of data supporting the development and validation
      of the LumriaDx INR test has used samples form patients taking Warfarin. The aim of this
      study is to evaluate the INR levels in patients taking phenprocoumon using the LumiraDx Point
      of Care INR test and comparing the results to the laboratory reference method , the ACL Elite
      Pro. Comparison will also be made with the Roche Coaguchek point of care INR test (point of
      care reference method).

      This study is an observational, cross-sectional study with 100 patients in total. Devices
      used in this study are CE marked for INR measurement by healthcare professionals. This study
      will be conducted according to the principles of Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP E6(R2)),
      International Conference on Harmonization Guidelines as applicable to devices, applicable
      geographical regulations and institutional research policies and procedures.

      For part 1 of the study (25 patients), one venous whole blood draw will be performed (~9mL)
      into two anti-coagulated collection tubes (2 x 4.5mL 3.2% trisodium citrate). These tubes
      will then by processed to plasma by centrifugation, stored in Eppendorf tubes, labelled and
      frozen at -80ºC . These will then be transferred to the LumriaDx laboratory in Scotland, UK,
      for subsequent measurement of INR with the reference device IL ACL Elite Pro Coagulation
      Analyzer (ACL) and with the LumiraDx POC INR test.

      For part 2 of the study (75 patients), one finger-stick sample of capillary blood
      (~10µl/sample) from each subject, will be applied directly to a unique test strip for
      immediate measurement of INR on the LumiraDx Instrument. One further fingerstick sample is
      then obtained (~10µl/sample) from a separate finger for immediate measurement of INR on the
      Coaguchek PRO. Post-testing, samples will be disposed securely. From each patient, one venous
      whole blood draw will also be performed (~9mL) into two anti-coagulated collection tubes (2 x
      4.5mL 3.2% trisodium citrate). These tubes will then by processed to plasma by
      centrifugation, stored in Eppendorf tubes, labelled and frozen at -80ºC. These will then be
      transferred to the LumiraDx laboratory in Scotland, UK, for subsequent measurement of INR
      with the reference device IL ACL Elite Pro Coagulation Analyzer (ACL) and with the LumiraDx
      POC INR test.

      INR results obtained will be used in comparative analyses of performance designed to meet the
      study objectives.
    
  