
    
      ALS is a rare, devastating, fatal neurodegenerative disease of largely unknown cause. Average
      survival after diagnosis is about 3 years. The diagnostic process is often protracted, but
      even though the possibility of ALS may have been mentioned earlier, when the diagnosis is
      confirmed, patients and family members are often shocked and overwhelmed.

      After the diagnostic visit, patients (and accompanying family member) are commonly scheduled
      to return to the clinic or office in 3 to 6 months. At this first routine clinic visit, the
      focus is generally on assessment and management of mobility issues, diet, occupational
      adjustments, advance planning directives, insurance coverage and other pressing issues that
      usually take up the allotted time. Thus, there is often little opportunity to address the
      emotional impact of the diagnosis at that visit.

      Our goal is a manualized intervention suitable for telephone or Skype delivery, for the
      management of distress and enhancement of coping skills among recently diagnosed ALS patients
      and/or their family care partner. We are adapting the intervention developed by Chesney,
      Folkman and colleagues, "Coping Effectiveness Training," as being the most salient and
      theoretically powerful design for our purpose. We base our work on Folkman's revised model
      that incorporates meaning-focused coping and the importance of positive emotions, in addition
      to the original model of problem-focused and emotion-focused coping. The course of ALS
      entails progressive losses, of mobility, fine and gross motor skills, speech, swallowing, and
      respiration. Each requires recalibrating emotional response and coping with new challenges.
      Early intervention to strengthen coping skills may equip patients and care partners to handle
      new challenges as they arise, although in this initial study we will not follow patients long
      enough to observe long-term effects, if present. Based on successful findings in this pilot
      study, the next step will be to conduct a larger RCT of the intervention.

      Specific Aims and Hypotheses

      AIM 1. To adapt and refine a manual for Coping Effectiveness Training for recently diagnosed
      ALS patients and their care partners (CET-ALS) based on Coping Effectiveness Training (CET).
      We will seek input from interviews with patients (whom we know from their participation in
      our ongoing studies), care partners and ALS clinic staff.

      AIM 2. Feasibility and Acceptability: Evaluate acceptability, attrition, participant
      satisfaction and perceived barriers and facilitators to intervention delivery.
    
  