
    
      With a prevalence of about 0.8% in the general population, chronic active epilepsy is the
      most common serious neurological disorder and affects 3.7 million people in the EU alone.
      While the majority of patients with epilepsy can be fully controlled by available
      medications, about 40% fail to achieve seizure control. Refractory epilepsy is associated
      with poor quality of life (QoL), due to the consequences of seizures, the burden of adverse
      effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), and associated comorbidities, especially depressed
      mood. In addition to human suffering, refractory epilepsy entails major costs: observational
      studies in Italy estimated an annual medical costs at 2,190 in adults, or 3,268 euros in
      children.

      The study had a prospective design and mainly observational design (core study). A subgroup
      of patients, participated in a randomized assessment (controlled study) of the impact of
      utilizing a standardized tool for the assessment of adverse effects.

      For the core study, the study population was represented by 1,000 consecutive consenting
      patients with refractory epilepsy seen as in- or outpatients at 10 major secondary/tertiary
      referral centres in Italy. "Refractory epilepsy" was defined as "the persistence of seizures
      after adequate attempts with the maximally tolerated dosage of one or more appropriate
      primary AEDs, excluding situations where a meaningful dose escalation was prevented by
      allergic or idiosyncratic adverse reactions" and at least one seizure during the previous 3
      months while at steady state on the current treatment schedule. The degree of refractoriness
      was classified into categories.

      A subcohort of patients included in the study took part in a randomized assessment of the
      usefulness of providing the treating physician with a standardized assessment of the adverse
      effect profile. The subcohort was represented by all patients enrolled in the core study who
      met at the first assessment visit the following additional eligibility criteria: (i) age >16
      years; (ii) no progressive disorder; (iii) ability to complete the Adverse Profile AEP
      questionnaire, and (iv) an AEP score >=45.

      For the core study, the approach was observational and the study did not interfere with
      clinical management. All patients were treated as considered best by the attending physician.
      Results of questionnaires were not made available to the treating physician until the end of
      the study, except for the AEP questionnaire data that were fed back to the physician only for
      a subgroup of patients included in the randomized assessment.

      In the randomized assessment, patients meeting eligibility were randomized to two groups. In
      the intervention group, AEP score results were made available to the treating physician at
      each assessment visit, while in the other group AEP scores were only made available at the
      end of follow-up. Evaluations were identical to those carried out in the core study.

      Except for making available the AEP scores to the treating physician, the procedures used for
      the collection and the handling of the information were identical in the core study and the
      randomized assessment. Patients were seen in the clinic at the following times: 0
      (enrolment), 6, 12 and 18 months. At the first visit, detailed information were collected
      about demographics, medical history and current medical status. At this visit and at each of
      the other visits, the following information were collected:

        -  QOLIE-31 scores (only patients aged >16years), using the validated epilepsy-specific
           questionnaire, which is the most widely used for QoL tool in epilepsy in different
           countries;

        -  BDI scores (only patients aged >16years), using the validated inventory developed by
           Beck (1961), shown to have reliability and sensitivity in different settings, including
           refractory epilepsy ;

        -  AEP scores (only patients aged >16years), using the epilepsy-specific validated scale
           developed by prof. Baker ;

        -  A 5 digit Global Impression Scale for clinical change, compiled separately by the
           physician and by the patient/caregiver;

        -  Seizure frequency, by using seizure diaries compiled by patients and/or caregivers.

        -  Adverse effects, through general and neurological examination and non-structured
           interview;

        -  Drug treatment details (including, when available, serum AED levels), from the
           prescriber and patient's interview, and drug load scores as described by prof. Deckers;

        -  Items to be used for cost calculations, based on patient's records of laboratory tests,
           doctor's visits, specialist consultations, treatments, hospital admissions, and
           day-hospital days during follow up.

      The study duration was 36 months.
    
  