
    
      Below is a detailed description of what the study would entail (in other words, what would be
      expected during each visit for the duration of the study).

        -  Visit 1 (week -2): Pre-treatment screening (180 min). Participants will complete the
           informed consent process and are evaluated for inclusion/exclusion criteria. A
           medical/pain history and physical examination will be completed and participants will be
           asked to assess current back pain intensity on a VAS scale (0-100mm, no pain to worst
           possible pain). Participants complete questionnaires and return within 2 weeks for
           baseline MR imaging scans. Blood will be drawn for a baseline screen to obtain a
           complete blood count, chemistry panel, and liver function tests. Participants will be
           asked to discontinue their current pain medications 14 days (2 weeks) prior to their
           baseline visit and take only acetaminophen rescue medication during this time.

        -  Visit 2 (week 0): Baseline visit (60-90 min). Participants complete the VAS pain scale,
           and if their pain is above a designated level and no changes in clinical status are
           reported, they complete a battery of questionnaires and undergo fMRI procedures
           (anatomical and functional scans). Participants will then be randomized to one of three
           groups: active treatment, or placebo, or no-treatment groups; this is done in a
           partially blind fashion (explained below), with medication dispensed in sufficient
           quantities until the next visit. The placebo group will receive two placebo capsule bid,
           and the standard of care group will receive one naproxen capsule (500mg) and one
           esomeprazole capsule (20 mg) bid for the treatment period. The active and placebo
           treatment groups are double-blinded, meaning that neither the participant nor the
           researchers will know which treatment participants are receiving (in part through the
           use of identical re-encapsulation of study agents). The no-treatment group allocation is
           not blind, as both participants and study staff will be aware that these participants
           are not receiving study agent. The no treatment group and all participants assigned to a
           treatment group will continue to receive rescue medication (n=20).

        -  Visit 3 (week 2): End of Treatment Period 1/Washout (60-90 min). All procedures will be
           performed as described for Visit 2. A set of questionnaires will be administered.
           Adherence will be assessed by pill counts, use of rescue medication documented, and
           participants will be queried about any side effects experienced. Only rescue medication
           will be dispensed, to all participants, as they will begin a one week washout of
           treatment.

        -  Visit 4 (week 3): End of Washout/Beginning Treatment Period 2 (60-90 min). All
           procedures will be performed as described for Visit 3, plus the addition of brain scans.
           Adherence will be assessed by use of rescue medication documented, and participants will
           be queried about any side effects experienced. Study medication will be dispensed in
           sufficient quantities until the next visit. All participants remain with the same
           treatment assignment as in Period 1.

        -  Visit 5 (week 5): End of Treatment Period 2/Washout 2 (60-90 min). All procedures will
           be performed as described for Visit 3, with the addition of post-treatment imaging
           scans. Adherence will be assessed by pill counts, use of rescue medication documented,
           and participants will be queried about any side effects experienced. Only rescue
           medication will be dispensed.

        -  Visit 6 (week 6): End of Washout 2 (90 min). Participants will return to complete
           questionnaires but no imaging studies will be conducted. Use of rescue medication and
           side effects will be documented. Exit interviews will be conducted at this time.

        -  Interim periods: During weeks in between visits, participant data will be tracked with
           the assistance of a smart phone/computer application designed for the study. Depending
           upon preference, the research staff will download an app onto participants' phones or
           give them a link to use on their computers; in the case that a participant does not have
           a smart phone or easy access to a computer/internet, the study will provide him/her with
           a smart phone that has the app already installed. Participants will be given a login and
           will be asked to use this application twice a day right after they take their
           medication. The app asks participants to rate the severity of their pain and their mood
           on a Likert scale, and probes them as to whether or not they took their medication.
    
  