
    
      Hypothesis:

      The primary research question is whether customized patterned transcutaneous afferent
      electrical stimulation to the median and radial nerves via the Cala TWO wrist-band device
      significantly reduces hand tremors in individuals diagnosed with essential tremor that have
      been approved as candidates for deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery. A second research
      question is whether three months of treatment with the Cala TWO device leads to significant
      changes in regional brain metabolism that is associated with therapeutic efficacy.

      Aims, purpose, or objectives:

      Aim 1: Determine the clinical efficacy of the Cala TWO device to transiently reduce hand
      tremors in the treated hand of subjects with essential tremor (n=20) over a three month
      treatment period prior to their undergoing DBS surgery for treatment of essential tremor at
      Mayo Clinic.

      Aim 2: Compare regional brain metabolism between baseline, after acute stimulation with the
      Cala TWO device, and at exit 3 months after therapeutic treatment with the Cala TWO device.
      18Ffluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) Positron Emission Tomography (PET)/Computerized Tomography (CT)
      scans will be applied in a subset (n=10) of essential tremor subjects to evaluate changes in
      brain tissue metabolic activity corresponding to regional glucose uptake.

      Aim 1 Methods:

      Design of the Cala TWO device Study: Subjects will be recruited exclusively from adult
      essential tremor (ET) patients that have been approved by Mayo Clinic Deep Brain Stimulation
      Group (comprised of neurosurgeons, neurologists, psychiatrists, and radiologists) to undergo
      deep brain stimulation surgery at Mayo Clinic - Rochester for the treatment of ET. As such,
      subjects that consent to this study are expected to readily meet the pre-specified inclusion
      criteria noted below for participation in the study.

      Regardless, all subjects will be pre-screened against the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      through face-to-face interviews. Additionally, baseline function and tremor severity will be
      collected in the first visit phase of the study. Subjects already taking medications for ET
      will be permitted these medications during the study with no changes in medication type or
      dosage.

      All subjects will be fitted with a Cala TWO device based on the subject's wrist circumference
      (small, medium, or large) and stimulation hand (right or left) at the beginning of the study
      visit. The stimulation hand will be the hand with more severe tremor (or the dominant hand if
      both hands had equal tremor severity) as determined by the TETRAS task completed during the
      baseline evaluation and pre-surgery clinical evaluation by the Mayo Clinic DBS group. Once
      the Cala TWO device has been fitted to the subject's hand a frequency calibration procedure
      will be conducted in which the subject's tremor frequency will be determined while the
      subject performs a forward postural hold task. This frequency will then be incorporated into
      the therapeutic stimulation waveform.

      Stimulation will consist of a series of charge balanced biphasic pulses delivered at a
      frequency of 150 Hz, 300 µs pulse width, and 50 µs inter-pulse period. The stimulation will
      be alternated between the median and radial nerve at a frequency equal to tremor frequency
      (i.e. for a measured 5 Hz tremor frequency, stimulation will be applied over the median nerve
      for 200 msec, then alternated to be applied over the radial nerve for 200 msec). To determine
      the stimulation amplitude, the site study neurologist will increase the stimulation level by
      0.25 mA steps until the subject reports sensation of the stimulus in areas in the hand or
      finger area. Final stimulation amplitude will be chosen to be the highest level of
      stimulation below muscle contraction that the subject finds comfortable (mean: 5.4 mA +/-
      2.9). Once the maximum tolerable stimulation level has been identified, subjects will receive
      stimulation at that level during the 40-minute stimulation session. Adverse events will be
      collected before, during, and after each stimulation session. Subjects will then receive
      device training and instructions by on-site study personnel for conducting daily home
      stimulation sessions.

      Power Statement: This is a pilot study with a unique subject cohort.

      Data Analysis Plan:

      An analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model will be used to assess the statistical significance
      of the difference in the mean change in tremor before and after treatment.

      Efficacy will be measured as the change in the TETRAS scale measure of upper limb tremor
      following stimulation compared with pre-stimulation. Additional analyses will include the
      Bain & Findley 4-point scale assessment of typical Activities of Daily Living (ADL) and the
      Patient Global Impression - Severity (PGI-S) 7-point scale of the subjects' personal
      assessment of how much their tremor level improved or worsened relative to their baseline
      state prior to the stimulation session.

      The primary safety endpoint will be an analysis of adverse events types and rates for all
      enrolled subjects, where the adverse event rate will be calculated as the percentage of total
      subjects with an adverse event.

      Aim 2 Methods:

      The investigators propose to recruit subjects (n=10; age 21-70) from the population of
      subjects that have enrolled in the Cala TWO device which is a 3-month treatment duration
      study with the Cala TWO device prior to subject's scheduled deep brain stimulation surgery.
      This optional component of this study will perform three standard PET/CT sessions on these
      subjects at the Mayo Clinic Molecular Research Imaging Facility to evaluate changes in brain
      tissue metabolic activity as a result of 3 months treatment with the device. The advanced
      clinical PET scanner PET/CT will be used in this study, equipped with digital silicon
      photomultiplier detectors.

      First session: Takes place upon a subject's entry into the Cala TWO study (start of month 1)
      and prior to any treatment with the Cala device.

      Second session: Takes place the following day after a 40 minute treatment period with the
      Cala device.

      Third session: Takes place at the end of the third month of use of the device.

      Minimizing the Radiation Risk: By using an advanced clinical PET scanner, equipped with
      digital silicon photomultiplier detectors, the investigators will be using a reduced
      intravenous delivered dose of FDG (8 mCi).

      Attenuation Correction Scans: For PET/CT, a low-dose CT fusion skull scan (~1min) will be
      acquired for attenuation correction and anatomical co-registration.

      Step-by-Step Schedule:

      The FDG scan slots are available at 7:30am, 8:00am, 8:30am, and 10:30am. Participants with
      head tremor would present problems in obtaining quality scans. If this is the case, a head
      secure procedure will be included.

        1. A 4 hour fast is required prior to FDG injection. Patients are given instructions to
           remain well-hydrated and have a low carbohydrate diet 18 hours before their appointment.

        2. No significant alcohol or caffeine consumption and no usage of the Cala TWO device
           within 8 hours of a PET session.

        3. Blood sugar level will be checked by a finger-poke blood test. Fasting blood glucose
           should be under 200 mg/dL.

        4. Women of child-bearing potential will go through a urine-pregnancy test, unless there is
           proof of negative results within 48 hours before the exam.

        5. 8 mCi FDG injection through IV and rest at the uptake room (eyes open in a dimly lit
           room).

        6. At 30 minute uptake time, conduct a PET/CT scan for a 15 min. A 1 min CT fusion skull
           image will be acquired for attenuation correction and anatomical co-registration.

      Power Statement: This is a pilot study with a unique subject cohort.

      Data Analysis Plan:

      CortexID (GE Medical Systems, LLC) and MIMneuro (MIM Software Inc.) will be used to confirm
      quality control of the PET image. Additional quantitative analysis of PET images will be
      conducted using SPM, FSL, and Analyze. CortexID. This quantification procedure uses a
      patient-specific FDG z-score map derived by comparing the surface projection map (z-SPM) with
      an age- and sex-matched normal control FDG database.
    
  