
    
      Subjects were randomized into group A or group B matched by gender, age, and baseline HbA1c.
      Group A began with routine self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) alone (level 1), followed
      sequentially by IBMF-1 (level 2) and IBMF-2 (level 3). Group B began with level 2, followed
      by level 3 and then level 1.

      Each level continued for 3 months and proceeded as follows: level 1 was routine SMBG.
      Subjects were given LifeScan OneTouch UltraSmart meters (LifeScan Inc., Milpitas, CA) and
      free strips, and asked to perform SMBG four to five times per day. No additional instructions
      about the timing of SMBG or the interpretation of the data were given. No changes to
      treatment were recommended. At each visit, the subject was only asked about any health
      concerns or any new medications or change in insulin. This information was recorded but not
      used for feedback. Thus, level 1 should be regarded as a control condition, which was
      different from routine SMBG only because subjects were enrolled in a study and given free
      test strips.

      IBMF-1 (level 2) retained level 1, but an HHC (hand-held computer) was given to the subjects,
      programmed to estimate HbA1c, risk for hypoglycemia (Low BG Index, LBGI), and glucose
      variability (Average Daily Risk Range, ADRR) using previously published algorithms. The
      subjects were asked to carry the HHC and enter all their glucose readings when per- forming
      SMBG. The estimates of HbA1c were updated weekly, and the estimates of risk for hypoglycemia
      and glucose variability were updated at each SMBG entry. Detailed instructions were provided
      on the meaning of these different types of glucose feedback; the study staff was available to
      answer any questions.

      IBMF-2 (level 3) retained level 2, but the HHC asked subjects to provide symptom ratings when
      BG (blood glucose) was low and at an equal number of matching euglycemic readings. From these
      data, the HHC estimated a set of potentially significant symptoms of hypoglycemia for each
      individual, using an iterative algorithm following a previously published symptom
      significance estimation procedure. The patient manual for the HHC program is provided in
      supplementary data of published manuscript.
    
  