
    
      The relationship between performance from neuropsychological tests and subjective complaints
      of cancer patients treated with chemotherapy or adjuvant hormone therapy is not clear, many
      studies have reported no significant correlation between these two measures: the perception
      of patients' their cognitive deficits is generally increased relative to that which is
      measured by neuropsychological testing.

      The reason for this lack of association found is probably multifactorial. 1) It can be
      explained in part by methodological limitations in some studies (lack of sensitivity tests,
      experimental design). 2) psycho-order factors and fatigue are also an explanatory variable in
      the sense that literature data often show that cognitive complaints are correlated with
      levels of anxiety and depression and fatigue. 3) Finally, metacognition, often assessed in
      neurodegenerative diseases or even in normal aging to better understand its impact on
      cognitive disorders, including memory impairment, and the complaint has never been explored
      in patients with cancer.

      Metacognition is a complex but highly sensitive to measure and understand the patient's
      complaint and correspondence or disagree with the actual performance concept. Metacognition
      refers A) metacognitive knowledge, ie knowledge of an individual's own cognitive processes;
      This is a non-dependent activity during which, upstream of the performance of any task,
      implement an appropriate strategy, anticipate and plan cognitive steps that would be
      necessary for its success general knowledge; and B) metacognitive experiences, ie knowledge
      that is based on a cognitive activity in progress, which allows to monitor and control the
      task in order to maintain or otherwise modify the cognitive processes involved.

      While metacognitive knowledge (A) are assessed by multiple choice questionnaires,
      metacognitive experiences (B) allow targeted and precise fine measures of correspondence
      between the prediction performance by the patient himself and his actual performance a
      mnemonic task (for JOL and FOK Judgment of Learning for Feeling Of Knowing). Studies
      exploring the effects of age on metamemory usually show a deficit of these metacognitive
      experiences in normal aging compared to young subjects.

      Collected at the time of learning, JOL is a prediction of future performance for information
      that have just been learned. More specifically, when learning words, the subject must judge
      its ability to further free recall for each item (quantitative data). This prediction is then
      compared to the actual memory performance found in the free recall task. This comparison
      allows to judge the accuracy of the prediction and therefore the accuracy of metamemory
      judgment.

      The FOK corresponds to a prediction of performance information that could not be provided in
      free recall recognition. In practice, when an item is not recovered in free recall, the
      subject must judge its ability to recognize the correct answer among distractor responses.

      Metacognitive processes can refer to the field of memory (metamemory) or attention
      (métaattention), but for now metamemory was much valued neuropsychological tests and the
      testing and are most successful and many more.
    
  