
    
      BACKGROUND: Population aging is an unprecedented worldwide reality, which results in a change
      of epidemiological profile and increased prevalence of age-related non-communicable chronic
      diseases (NCDs). Among age-related NCDs, systemic arterial hypertension (HPT) is the leading
      cause of mortality and disability worldwide and has increased prevalence, morbidity and
      mortality with advancing age. Increase in physical activity level through regular physical
      exercise is one of the main global goals for the prevention and treatment of HPT and others
      NCDs. Among the different exercise types and intensities, high intensity interval exercise
      (HIIT) showed superior benefits for reducing blood pressure (BP) and improving variables
      involved in the pathophysiology of HPT when compared to continuous moderate-intensity
      exercise (MICE). However individuals with comorbidities or injures are not capable to follow
      adequate intensity of both types of exercise. Heated water-based has been used as an option
      to facilitate the individuals adherence to exercise and positive results especially in BP
      levels. Despite this, little is known about the effect of HIIT or MICE in heated water-based
      on BP and other hemodynamic variables involved in the pathophysiology of HPT in older
      hypertensive individuals. PURPOSE: To evaluate the hemodynamic and autonomic response to a
      HIIT versus MICE session and in 12 weeks of training in older individuals with hypertension.
      METHODS: 60 elderly hypertensives of both genders, aged over 60 years, will be randomized in
      the ratio 2: 2: 1 to 12 weeks of high intensity interval training (HIIT), moderate intensity
      continuous (MICE) or control follow-up without exercise (CON), respectively. Exercise
      programs will be discontinued after 12 weeks, and individuals will be followed up for another
      12 weeks. Individuals will have their physical (cardiorespiratory and muscular) and
      functional capacity (walking, sitting and lifting ability), hemodynamic variables (blood
      pressure, arterial stiffness, endothelial function and cardiovascular response to exercise)
      and autonomic variables (variability of heart rate) and quality of life assessed before and
      after 12 and 24 weeks of follow-up. Before the beginning of the follow-up, 20 elderly
      hypertensive patients will also have a hemodynamic response (ambulatory blood pressure,
      endothelial function, arterial stiffness) and autonomic (heart rate variability) to a session
      of HI-HEx, MI-HEx and CON evaluated and compared. The feasibility of HIIE and MICE will also
      be assessed over the 12 weeks of its implementation. HIIT will consisted of warm up (4 min),
      21 min of 1 min high intensity exercise (level 15) and "very hard" (level 17) of the
      subjective Rating of Perceived Exertion Scale (RPE) alternating with 2 min of walking at
      intensity between "easy" (level 9) and "fairly easy" (level 11) of the RPE. MICE will
      performed of 4 min warm up and 26 min of walking or jogging at intensity between "fairly
      light" (level 11) and " somewhat hard " (level 13) of the RPE.
    
  