
    
      This programme will be conducted after obtaining prior permission from the Directorate of
      School Education, Government of Tamil Nadu and school authorities. This study will be
      conducted in 22 schools in Chennai involving 2815 students of age group 12 to 18 years.
      Initially the study and its procedure will be explained to the principal and the teachers of
      the school. Request the school authority to fix a date for each standard/grade to explain
      about the informed consent / assent form and the study process to the students. The students
      will be asked to give the informed consent/assent form to their parents and asked to get
      their signature in the specified place. Instruction will be given to the students that their
      parents can call the Investigator if they have any doubts in the informed consent/assent
      form. After giving ample time for the informed consent process the students will be asked to
      give the informed consent when the research team goes to the school. The informed consent
      should be countersigned by the teachers to confirm the authenticity of the parent's
      signature. The research team gets the signature from the student in the assent form. A date
      is finalized with the school authority for the screening. The students are advised to come in
      fasting for the test. On the day of screening the student will be given a screening number.
      Necessary details such as personal and family information, anthropometry (height, weight,
      waist circumference, body fat) and blood pressure will be measured. Medical history, diet,
      physical activity, and sleep habits and questionnaire on awareness on diabetes will be
      recorded. Laboratory investigations such as fasting blood glucose, plasma insulin and lipid
      profile (Total Cholesterol, Triglyceride, Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL), Very Low-Density
      Lipoprotein (VLDL) and High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL)) will be measured.

      After the assessment, the students will be given refreshments and a few minutes of rest. The
      samples will be sent to the central laboratory for analyses. The reports will be distributed
      to the students within a week's time. Parents will be personally contacted by the research
      team if there is any concern in the lab report which requires medical attention.
    
  