
    
      Febrile young infants younger than 3 months old present a diagnostic dilemma to the pediatric
      emergency department (ED) physician. The potential for a missed serious infection (SI) poses
      the threat of premature death and long-term disability among these infants. Despite
      decreasing early-onset neonatal sepsis rates due to obstetric prevention strategies, high
      rates of hospitalization and administration of parenteral antibiotics occur in this age
      group. Continual tension remains between the need for early and aggressive intervention among
      patients suspected with sepsis and the global phenomena of increasing antibiotic resistance.
      Research networks have attempted to build diagnostic algorithms to guide the identification
      of these ill infants. These are often useful as adjuncts to the clinician's gestalt, but
      generalizability remains questionable.

      Vital signs are of paramount importance in recognizing ill children and have been used in
      pediatric early warning system scores (PEWS) and various triage systems. Vital signs have
      resurfaced as the focus of research in recent years, with various groups purposing to update
      evidence-based normal heart rate ranges among children. Normative heart rate ranges are
      infamously difficult to define due to the hemodynamic lability in these young infants,
      multiple confounders for abnormal heart rate, and the variable physiological response during
      acute stress states.

      Previous pilot data showed that the Advanced Paediatric Life Support (APLS) and Fleming
      (<10th or >90th centile) guidelines performed with the highest sensitivity (66.0% and 62.6%,
      respectively) and the highest Negative Predictive Value (NPV) (73.3% and 71.4%,
      respectively). No single guideline reached a sensitivity of greater than 70%.

      Objectives and Hypothesis

        1. To study the association between heart rate variability (HRV) and the presence of a
           serious infection (SI) among infants younger than 3 months old. The investigators
           hypothesize that a reduced HRV is associated with the presence of SI.

        2. To compare HRV between febrile infants < 3 months with non-febrile infants. The
           investigators hypothesize that the variability will be reduced in febrile infants with
           SIs when compared to non-febrile well infants, but not among febrile infants without SIs
           when compared to non-febrile well infants.

        3. To study if HRV will provide incremental diagnostic information over current triage
           tools.
    
  