
    
      Uterine leiomyoma is the commonest benign tumour affecting women in their reproductive age.
      Around 20-50% can cause symptoms that warrant treatment. Different medical therapies,
      including gonadotrophin releasing hormone analogues, mifepristone, progestins and androgens
      have been tried. However, most of the medical therapy have significant side-effects that
      would only allow a short-term treatment. Total abdominal hysterectomy is the definitive
      treatment for large, symptomatic fibroids. Operative mortality of total abdominal
      hysterectomy is rare. However, the operation may be associated with significant morbidities.
      Significant operative blood loss that required blood transfusion and oral iron supplement is
      not uncommonly encountered after total abdominal hysterectomy.

      Various methods have been tried to reduce the operative blood loss during total abdominal
      hysterectomy. A course of hormonal therapy for a few months before operation aiming to shrink
      the size of fibroid(s) and reduce the vascularity is the commonest approach. Although it is
      effective, there are significant side effects and the cost of gonadotrophin releasing hormone
      analogues is high. Intramyometrial vasopressin injection has been reported, but serious
      complications have been reported.

      Misoprostol, a prostaglandin E1 analogue, has been widely used in clinical practice in
      obstetrics and gynaecology. It stimulates uterine contractions and this increase in
      myometrial contraction will lead to contraction of the vessels supplying blood to the
      leiomyomas. Misoprostol has also been shown to increase the uterine artery resistance and
      reduce the blood flow to the leiomyomas. Study by Celik et al has shown that pre-operative
      misoprostol can reduce intra-operative blood loss and need for post-operative blood
      transfusion after abdominal myomectomy. Chang et al investigated the use of misoprostol and
      oxytocin in laparoscopy-assisted vaginal hysterectomy and found that the combination of
      pre-operative misoprostol and intra-operative oxytocin can reduce blood loss by 200 ml. As
      misoprostol can stimulate uterine contraction and reduce uterine blood flow, based on the
      hypothesis that pre-operative misoprostol may redistribute the blood from the diseased uterus
      back to the circulation hence reducing operative blood loss during total abdominal
      hysterectomy, we use a double-blind randomized controlled trial to investigate whether a
      single dose of sublingual misoprostol before total abdominal hysterectomy +/-
      salpingo-oophorectomy for symptomatic uterine leiomyomas can reduce operative blood loss and
      need for post-operative blood transfusion.
    
  