
    
      Acne is a multifactorial inflammatory dermatosis of the pilosebaceous unit, affecting up to
      80 percent of teenagers and approximately 20 percent of adults. Scaring can occur early in
      acne development and may affect up to 95% of patients with this disease. However, the
      prevalence of acne scarring varies depending on the study.

      Acne scars causes impairment of quality of life and has been described as a risk factor for
      suicide. Furthermore, it has also been linked to poor self esteem, depression, anxiety and
      lowered academic performance.

      The most common type of acne scarring is atrophic, which includes: ice pick, rolling scars
      and boxcar scars.

      Many treatments have been used for atrophic scars, including resurfacing procedures (chemical
      peels, dermabrasion and laser treatments), excisional procedures (punch excision, elevation
      by punch and elliptical excision of scars), application of fillers and microneedling, the
      latter since 2005, with satisfactory results and minimum time recovery.

      Previous studies have shown promising results for the treatment of acne scars with
      non-ablative fractional laser and microneedling. Previous reports have also shown that the
      latter is associated with rapid healing period, a low complication rate and a low risk of
      post inflammatory hyperpigmentation.

      However, there are no studies comparing the efficacy of microneedling with other techniques
      of resurfacing.

      This study will be a single-blinded randomized clinical trial, comparing the application of
      non-ablative fractional erbium laser ProDeep 1340 nm and the technique of induction of
      neocollagenesis by microneedling. The primary objective of this study is to compare the
      effectiveness of treatment of atrophic acne scars on the face with non-ablative fractional
      erbium laser and microneedling. The secondary objectives are: assess the degree of
      satisfaction of participants with both techniques; check tolerability and incidence of
      adverse effects with both techniques; assess time needed for recovery and number of days
      absent from work or social activities after the procedures and evaluate the opinion and
      physical discomfort of each technique.

      For each participant, a questionnaire will be filled out with the following information:
      gender, age, skin type, profession, current or previous history of smoking, use of
      medications, and presence of active acne. To assess the degree of scarring of the
      participants, the scale "Quantitative Global Scarring Grading System for Postacne Scarring"
      will be applied. After this evaluation, patients will be randomly allocated in each study
      groups (simple randomization). The randomization system was performed with the Microsoft
      Excel randomization program. Patients in both groups will undergo three sessions of laser
      treatment or three treatment sessions with microneedling, with an interval of six weeks
      between them.

      Two independent dermatologists, blinded to the group of treatment which each patient belongs
      to, will apply the Quantitative Global Grading System for Postacne Scarring before treatment,
      two months and six months after treatment. There are no clinical signs or characteristics
      that enable the evaluators to identify which group each patient is allocated and patients
      will be instructed to not provide this information. Six months after completion of treatment,
      patients will answer a questionnaire to assess their perceptions of the degree of improvement
      of their scars, pain during treatment and recovery time, assigning values from 0 to 10, where
      0 means maximum dissatisfaction and 10, maximum satisfaction.

      To detect a difference of one standard deviation in the range between the groups (laser and
      microneedling), with a power of 90% and an α error ≤ 0.05, 23 patients are required for each
      group. Data will be inserted in Excel and then exported to SPSS v18.0 for statistical
      analysis. Quantitative variables will be analyzed by mean and standard deviation and the
      groups will be compared by Student's t test for independent samples. To compare the variation
      of the measurements between the groups throughout the sessions the analysis of variance for
      repeated measures will be used. For the analysis of interobserver agreement the intraclass
      correlation coefficient and the Bland - Altman method will be used.

      This project was approved by the Committee of Research Ethics of our Hospital and all
      participants will sign an informed consent.
    
  