
    
      Prostate cancer is a leading cause of cancer death among men in the Western world. Early
      detection of prostate cancer has been shown to decrease mortality. When a test for prostate
      cancer yields an elevated risk of prostate cancer, tissue sampling from the prostate is
      warranted. The common practice is to acquire these biopsies has been via transrectal biopsies
      under ultrasound guidance (TRUL-biopsies). A low estimate of the risk of hospital-requiring
      infection is 5%, yielding unnecessary and costly sepsis cases.

      In addition to suffering and loss of production, as well as healthcare costs, in a material
      from Taiwan, the mortality risk of biopsy-induced sepsis has been estimated at 0.13%. In a
      publication from Norway, it is estimated that infection complications from tissue sampling of
      the prostate cause 10 deaths per year (population 5 million).

      Previous international studies show that the risk of infection with bacteria from the gut can
      be completely eliminated by taking the tissue samples through the skin of the perineum,
      transperineal biopsies (TPb), with guidance from transrectal ultrasound. This method is well
      established for systematic biopsies and has been proven safe in large series.

      Studies have showed how multiparametric magnetic-resonance imaging (mpMRI) of the prostate
      accurately can identify lesions harboring clinically significant prostate cancer (csPC,
      defined as ISUP Gleason Group (GG) ≥ 2)3. Prostate MRI reading and reporting according to the
      PI-RADS protocol is widely accepted and recommended.

      The image material from the MRI can be used to produce maps of the prostate used for tissue
      sampling of suspected areas. This is referred to as MRI/ultrasound fusion biopsy, or targeted
      biopsies (TBx). Regions of interest are marked as Lesions. Several studies have shown
      improved cancer detection using MRI and fusion targeted biopsies in clinical-practice cohorts
      5,6 78 MRI/ultrasound fusion biopsies can be performed in a variety of ways, where software
      assisted transrectal biopsies has gained the most attention during the last few years,
      earning to development of equipment more readily available to the urologist as well as a rise
      in the quantity and quality of prostate MRI's.

      The combination of transperineal prostate biopsies and targeted biopsies can be done with a
      rigid system of stepper and brachy-grid guiding. Recently, several systems for free-hand
      transperineal biopsies have been introduced, but data and recommendations on biopsy
      strategies and accuracy is lacking. The detection rates of cancer has not been evaluated in
      In comparison with transrectal prostate biopsy, transperineal prostate biopsy has the
      advantage of better sampling from the anterior area of the prostate, an area that is
      technically more challenging to sample with the transrectal approach. Other advantages of the
      transperineal route is believed to be the low risk of infection, and no risk ofrectal
      bleeding. The main challenge associated with the transperineal method is patient discomfort
      and pain management.
    
  