
    
      Inclusion criteria :

        -  RA patients

        -  Above the age of 18

        -  Treated with tocilizumab at least 3 months

      Exclusion criteria:

      -egg allergy

      Design of the study :

      - Patients and controls will be vaccinated against sesaonal influenza. Blood will be taken
      the day of vaccination and 4 weeks after.

      PBMC isolation The PBMCs will bere isolated from heparinized venous blood by density gradient
      centrifugation on Lymphoprep (Axis-Shield, Oslo, Norway) immediately after blood was drawn.
      The cells will be counted and suspended in RPMI 1640 supplemented with heat-inactivated 10%
      fetal calf serum, penicillin 100U/ml, streptomycin 0.1 mg/ml, and 2 mM L-glutamine
      (Biological Industries, Israel).

      IFN-gamma secretion from PBMCs IFN-gamma secretion levels will be measured by ELISA in the
      supernatants of PBMCs that will be stimulated with either an influenza antigen mixture or
      with SEB, or left untreated.

      Granzyme B activity assay The PBMCs will be cultured at 0.5 ml/well in 48-well plates
      (1.8X106 cells/well) and stimulated with an influenza antigen mix and SEB as described above.
      The cells will be lysed in lysis buffer (150mM NaCl, 15mM Tris, 1% Triton x100), then stored
      at

      -760C. Granzyme B activity will be measured according to the protocol described by Gijzen et
      al. [13]. Briefly, frozen cell lysates will be subjected to three freeze/thaw cycles to
      enable the release of Granzyme B. Recombinant Granzyme B standards (Enzo Life Sciences
      International, Inc., PA) and cell lysates will be added in duplicate to a 96-well plate (20
      µl/well). The reaction will start upon the addition of 80 μl of substrate solution containing
      400 μM of Ac-IEPD-pNA substrate (Calbiochem, Darmstadt, Germany) in assay buffer (100mM HEPES
      pH 7.5, 10% (w/v), sucrose, 0.1% (w/v) CHAPS, and 10 mM DTT (Sigma Aldrich, Rehovot, Israel).
      The plate will be sealed, covered and incubated in a dark humidified chamber at 370C for 20
      h. After incubation, the plate will be read at 405 nm. Granzyme B units will be calculated
      using a 4th order polynominal curve with a log (concentration)-log (absorbance) plot, and
      corrected for protein concentrations by the BCA protein assay (Thermo Scientific, IL).

      The humoral response The antibody response will be measured by the HI test according to a
      standard WHO procedure as previously described [14]. The titer of an antiserum not showing
      any inhibition will be recorded as 1/10. Humoral response is defined as either a fourfold or
      greater rise in the titer of HI antibodies, or a rise from a non-protective baseline level
      (<1/40) to 1/40). Geometric mean titers of antibodies wull be calculated to assess the
      immunity of the whole group.
    
  