
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition affecting 291,000 women and men in the US
      alone. Urinary incontinence (UI) is a common problem in these patients, affecting 52% of the
      population, with episodes of incontinence occurring daily in 20-27% of affected persons. UI
      after spinal cord injury (SCI) is a major cause of distress and morbidity amongst patients
      with SCI, and is associated with decreased quality of life in general, physical, and
      emotional domains. UI has the undesirable side effects of perineal irritation and infection,
      increased odor, disrupted sleep, embarrassment, need to change clothes/bedding, and sexual
      dysfunction, as well as significant financial burden. Persons living with a SCI have ranked
      urinary problems as the most important health problem after injury. Addressing this
      significant problem and providing relief has the potential to significantly improve the lives
      of patients with SCI.

      Typical treatment options are geared toward the type of UI in each patient. For stress UI,
      the goal of treatment is to provide support to the pelvic floor and urethra. Pessaries
      (devices placed inside the vagina in women) or surgery (e.g. suburethral sling) to elevate
      the urethra and/or bladder neck to increase the resistance to leak through the urethra are
      commonly used. Urethral bulking agents or pelvic muscle floor therapy are also employed to
      strengthen the closure pressure of the urethra in patients with stress UI. No pharmacologic
      agents are currently available to treat stress UI. For urge UI, medications or electrical
      stimulation aimed at relaxation of the detrusor muscle, including anticholinergics, are used.
      For overflow or obstructive UI, treatments are aimed at shrinking or removing the
      obstruction, such as medications to shrink the prostate, prostatectomy or mass removal. For
      neurogenic UI, surgery for diversion or implant placement may be utilized.

      Sildenafil (Viagra) has been well studied and used extensively in males to treat erectile
      dysfunction. Phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitors, including sildenafil, are potent
      vasodilators that enhance tissue perfusion, relax smooth muscle of the vasculature and
      bladder, and stimulate skeletal muscle protein synthesis. It has been reported to improve
      lower urinary tract symptoms, including urge UI and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in
      men. In our team's recent study using sildenafil for treatment of UI in women, the
      investigators found improvement in quality of life and a decrease in the number of
      incontinence episodes in women taking sildenafil. Higher sildenafil plasma levels were
      associated with greater improvement in symptoms. While the types of UI in women are somewhat
      different than in men, studies have shown improvements in UI in both sexes.

      Thus, the investigators propose to conduct a two month randomized, placebo-controlled
      crossover trial of sildenafil in male and female adult SCI patients with UI to assess the
      therapeutic potential of sildenafil to reduce the symptoms of urinary leakage.

      Aims:

      Aim 1: To determine whether sildenafil will decrease episodes of leakage of UI in adult women
      and men with SCI.

      Aim 2: To determine the effects of sildenafil on the subjective measures of UI, including
      quality of life.

      Experimental Protocol:

      Investigators will study patients with spinal cord injuries (aged 18-70) with current urine
      leakage of more than 3 times/week (n=24). Subjects will undergo a double blinded randomized
      cross over treatment of sildenafil (20mg TID) and placebo. Each treatment period will last 4
      weeks with a 2 week washout between treatment periods.

      Before and after each treatment period, subjects will undergo testing which will consist of
      measurements of urine post void residual volume (PVR), adverse event assessment, and
      questionnaires of quality of life and urinary health.
    
  