
    
      All patients admitted to the hospital in inpatient or observation status and having a
      Continuous Glucose Monitor (CGMs) attached will be screened and identified by providers and
      nurses. An order will be placed by providers to continue patient's home CGM use in the
      hospital. "CGM patient agreement" describing the hospital policy for use of CGMs will be
      provided to the patient for signature. Patients will be encouraged to continue to wear their
      CGMs in the hospital unless their presence interferes with patients' medical care. CGM
      presence will be recorded by nursing in patient chart under LDA (lines, drains, airway)
      section. Patients will be approached by the research staff and will be offered enrollment in
      the study. A research consent will be reviewed with patients and will be provided for
      signature. Patients will be asked to continue to use their home CGMs in the hospital. If CGM
      sensor will reach the end of life, patients have the option to place a new sensor and to
      follow manufacturer recommendations for calibration and setting. Patients are responsible to
      provide their own sensors, transmitters and readers during the hospitalization period. If it
      is determined that the current sensor will interfere with hospital medical and surgical care
      (MRI testing, procedure at the site), patients will be asked to remove the CGM sensor and
      transmitter. Patients will have the option to replace the sensor after the procedure if they
      so desire.

      Patients will continue to monitor their glucose level via CGM. For flash sensors, patients
      will be asked to scan their sensor at least every 8 and as needed. CGMs that require
      calibration will be calibrated by the patients using hospital glucometer readings. .

      Patients alerted by their CGM about low glucose levels or fast downward or upward trending
      will have to notify their nursing staff. A POC blood glucose check will be done by nursing
      staff to confirm the alert or the trend. Treatment decisions will be made based on POC
      readings.

      During hospitalization patients will continue to have their blood glucose checked with POC
      glucometers per hospital policy.

      Treatment of diabetes and the associated complications, dosing of insulin, change from PO to
      insulin treatment and back to PO medications during hospitalization or at discharge will be
      done by the admitting team with help from the inpatient Endocrinology Consultation Service.

      Decisions about insulin dosing or other diabetes treatments will be made based on hospital
      glucometer readings, and not based on CGM readings alone.

      Patients will be asked to give the research team "provider access" to their cloud CGM
      software, or to allow the team to download their CGM data prior to discharge if their reading
      devices do not automatically synchronize with the cloud software.

      CGM data will be compared with POC glucometer readings obtained in the hospital at
      approximately the same time. Different patient variables (demographics, comorbidities, labs
      and vitals, administered medications) will be collected from electronic health record and
      will be evaluated to determine if they interfere with CGM readings. The accuracy of CGM for
      glucose measurement in the hospital will be calculated.
    
  