
    
      PURPOSE:

      The primary purpose of this study is to determine the effects of dietary nitrate
      supplementation on submaximal cycle exercise performance in patients with fibrotic ILD.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      Our primary hypothesis is that dietary nitrate supplementation will result in greater
      improvement in submaximal cycle exercise endurance time compared with placebo.

      JUSTIFICATION:

      Fibrotic interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a heterogeneous group of disorders that cause
      scarring/fibrosis or inflammation of the lungs, resulting in significant morbidity and high
      mortality. Almost all ILDs are characterized by dyspnoea and functional limitation and there
      are few effective and/or well-tolerated pharmacotherapies for many ILD subtypes.

      Exertional dyspnoea leads to reduced exercise capacity in ILD, and this functional limitation
      is further worsened by skeletal muscle weakness and dysfunction. Both dyspnoea and poor
      exercise tolerance are strongly associated with quality of life and mortality in ILD and thus
      improving dyspnoea and functional capacity are important goals in the management of ILD.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation is a structured evidence-based exercise and education intervention
      that is recommended for most patients with ILD. Pulmonary rehabilitation improves dyspnoea,
      functional capacity, and quality of life in patients with ILD; however, these benefits are
      often modest and only temporary. The exercise component of pulmonary rehabilitation is the
      predominant mediator of benefit; however, there are no studies that have investigated the
      optimal method of exercise training in patients with ILD. Thus, there is a clear need to
      identify new strategies that can provide larger and more persistent benefits from pulmonary
      rehabilitation.

      Nitric oxide (NO) is a physiological signaling molecule that plays a critical role in
      vascular control. There is accumulating evidence that dietary nitrate, consumed in the form
      of beetroot juice, can increase the bioavailability of NO and subsequently enhance exercise
      performance in healthy, elite athlete, as well as diseased populations. These improvements
      may be related, but not limited to, enhanced efficiency of locomotion, peripheral locomotor
      oxygen delivery, and/or muscle power. The specific effects of dietary nitrate supplementation
      in ILD patients has yet to be explored. However, there is great potential for the use of this
      dietary supplement to improve exercise tolerance during, and improve patient outcomes from,
      pulmonary rehabilitation.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      A p value <0.05 will be considered significant for all analyses. Data analysis will be
      performed using Microsoft Excel 2013 (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington, US) and
      Stata v12 (StataCorp, Texas, US).

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome of cycle endurance time will be based on the duration
      patients were able to exercise during the constant work rate exercise test. A t-test will be
      used to compare endurance times between the intervention and placebo conditions.

      The investigators have chosen to power this study based on the primary outcome of change in
      cycle exercise endurance time. Based on previously collected data in our laboratory in
      patients with ILD that show a standard deviation of 289.96 seconds for a 75% constant work
      rate cycle exercise test with a conservative between test correlation of 0.90, the
      investigators calculated that 15 participants would be needed to detect the minimal
      clinically important difference of 105 seconds between conditions assuming a two-sided α of
      0.05 and 80% power.
    
  