
    
      Teens with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) obtain less sleep than their
      peers, with up to 75% of youth with ADHD obtaining insufficient sleep. This is noteworthy
      since insufficient sleep is associated with a multitude of negative outcomes in typically
      developing teens, including academic underachievement, emotion dysregulation, and mental
      health problems - all outcomes that occur at higher rates among teens with ADHD. Our pilot
      work demonstrates that insufficient sleep is correlated with depression, behavior problems,
      and academic impairment in teens with ADHD specifically and insufficient sleep is clearly
      associated with greater attentional problems in typical teens. However, no experimental study
      has examined whether sleep duration is causally linked to attentional, behavioral, emotional,
      and academic impairments in teens diagnosed with ADHD. If sleep problems contribute to
      functional impairments in teens with ADHD, then they represent an overlooked treatment
      target. Experimental studies provide the strongest test of causality, and studies using
      at-home sleep restriction protocols in teens without ADHD show a causal link between
      shortened sleep duration and impairment. However, administering an at-home sleep restriction
      protocol may be especially challenging for teens with ADHD due to their difficulties with
      organizing bedtime and wake activities, as well as differences from healthy teens in
      biological circadian preference. Thus, a critical first step in examining sleep as causally
      related to impairment in teens with ADHD is documenting the feasibility of using an at-home
      sleep restriction protocol with this population. This study will (1) evaluate the feasibility
      of using an at-home sleep restriction protocol in teens with ADHD, and (2) collect
      preliminary data examining whether shortened sleep duration is causally linked to
      attentional, behavioral, emotional, and academic impairment in teens with ADHD. These goals
      will be accomplished by recruiting 54 teens with ADHD who will undergo a three-week sleep
      manipulation protocol. Specifically, a cross-over design will be used that includes a week of
      typical sleep followed by weeks of sleep restriction or sleep extension. Sleep functioning
      will be assessed during these three weeks with daily sleep diary and objective sleep
      measurement (i.e., actigraphy). After each sleep condition, teens and their parents will
      complete subjective and objective measures of attention, behavior, mood, and academics.
      Findings from this study will allow us to identify and address barriers to administering an
      at-home sleep restriction and extension protocol to teens with ADHD and pursue larger-scale
      experimental research examining sleep problems as causally linked to impairment. This
      research is clinically significant since teens with ADHD frequently experience a range of
      impairments that extend well into adulthood. If short sleep duration contributes to
      functional impairments in teens with ADHD, then sleep represents a modifiable and overlooked
      treatment target.
    
  