
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the addition of lenalidomide to
      the R-ICE chemoimmunotherapy regimen (lenalidomide-rituximab-ifosfamide-carboplatin-etoposide
      [R2ICE]) for the treatment of primary-refractory/first-relapse B-cell lymphoma. (Phase I) II.
      To determine if the addition of lenalidomide (based on dose determination from phase I) to
      the R-ICE chemoimmunotherapy regimen (R2-ICE) would lead to clinically meaningful improvement
      in the overall response rates (ORR) for patients with first-relapse/refractory diffuse large
      B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of the addition of lenalidomide to RICE on the number (percentage)
      of patients proceeding to stem cell transplant (SCT).

      II. To evaluate the effect of the addition of lenalidomide to RICE on other surrogate outcome
      measures including complete metabolic response (CMR) rate and overall survival.

      III. To describe the toxicities associated with the addition of lenalidomide to the R-ICE
      chemoimmunotherapy regimen (R2ICE).

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate ORR based on germinal center B-cell-like (GCB) versus non-GCB subtypes.

      II. To evaluate ORR based on percent standardized uptake value (SUV) reduction and percent
      anatomic size reduction on interim positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography
      (CT) scans.

      III. To evaluate ORR based on minimal residual disease (MRD) detection (positive versus [vs.]
      negative) and quantification after 2 cycles of treatment.

      IV. Future tissue and blood based studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-14, rituximab intravenously (IV) on
      day 1, ifosfamide IV over 24 hours on day 2, carboplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 2, and
      etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CMR, partial
      metabolic response (PMR), or no metabolic response (NMR) may receive 2 more cycles per
      physician discretion. After completion of 2 cycles of R2ICE treatment, patients achieving
      objective status of CMR, PMR or NMR may proceed to SCT during the event monitoring phase.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years and
      then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  