
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality and
      presents an important healthcare problem, especially for Veterans. Prevalence of COPD in the
      Veteran population ranges from 33%-43%, a higher prevalence than among the general population
      of the United States. COPD patients experience diminished exercise capacity. A significant
      portion of this limitation in exercise capacity is due to dynamic hyperinflation and dyspnea.
      Humans demonstrate a coupled relationship between walking and breathing. The investigators'
      preliminary data indicates that patients with COPD demonstrate an abnormal coupling pattern
      compared to those without COPD, using one stride for one breath, even at speeds outside of
      their self-selected walking pace. Current pulmonary rehabilitation relies on increasing
      intensity of exercise through accelerated walking. Based on coupling patterns in patients
      with COPD, increasing speed leads to an increase in respiratory rate, dynamic hyperinflation,
      and dyspnea, thus limiting exercise time. The goal of this proposed project is to
      investigate, in Veteran COPD patients, the effect of walking faster vs. walking on a slope on
      dynamic hyperinflation and dyspnea, oxygen uptake and dead space, and walking and breathing
      coupling. The investigators hypothesize that walking on a slope will alter breathing and
      walking coupling, lower respiratory rates, and reduce dynamic hyperinflation and associated
      dyspnea. The investigators predict that walking on a slope will permit an increase in oxygen
      uptake and a decrease in dead space in patients with COPD as compared to accelerated walking
      speeds. These hypotheses will be tested through three aims: 1) Identify differences in
      dynamic hyperinflation and dyspnea; 2) Compare differences in respiratory rate, oxygen
      uptake, and lung dead space; 3) Determine the complexity of walking and breathing coupling
      ratios. In this cross-sectional study, Veterans with COPD will be recruited and screened
      using a cardiopulmonary exercise test. A total of 25 eligible Veterans will be enrolled
      through stratified sampling of disease severity. The time course of work rate will be
      calculated from the cardiopulmonary exercise test. The speed and slope that corresponds to
      70%-80% of peak work rate will be used. An additional constant work rate test will be given
      using increases in speed with a level treadmill to determine the speed that elicits oxygen
      uptake comparable to the sloped walking test. Subjects will be asked to perform two
      experimental trials (walking faster vs. walking on a slope) at 70%-80% peak work rate.
      Measures of dynamic hyperinflation, dyspnea, oxygen uptake, dead space, and coupling will be
      recorded during all walking trials. Possible covariates will also be collected. The
      investigators anticipate that dynamic hyperinflation and dyspnea will be reduced in patients
      with COPD due to slower walking and slower respiratory rates during sloped walking as
      compared to faster level walking. It is expected that this will be influenced by the
      complexity in breathing and walking coupling ratios. The investigators' multidisciplinary
      team will provide combined expertise from several disciplines and is uniquely qualified to
      complete the aims proposed. Results from this feasibility and acceptability study will set
      the stage for a rigorous, well-powered, full Merit award outcome study evaluating the
      effectiveness of a slope-based training regimen as part of rehabilitation.
    
  