
    
      Green tea is a functional food whose consumption is associated with improved cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality in several large epidemiological studies. One third of the solids in
      green tea are composed of the bioactive polyphenol epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG). Studies
      in both cell- and animal-based models (from our lab and elsewhere) suggest that EGCG may
      mimic and/or augment beneficial metabolic, vascular, and anti-inflammatory actions of
      insulin. Indeed, we have recently shown that 3-week EGCG therapy of SHR rats (genetic model
      of hypertension with features of human metabolic syndrome including insulin resistance,
      hyperinsulinemia, endothelial dysfunction, and overweight) lowers blood pressure, improves
      endothelial dysfunction, increases insulin sensitivity, and raises adiponectin levels nearly
      as effectively as treatment with the conventional ACE-inhibitor enalapril. Obesity, type 2
      diabetes, and hypertension are all important interrelated public health problems that are
      characterized by reciprocal relationships between insulin resistance and endothelial
      dysfunction. Thus, therapies for these diseases that improve insulin resistance often
      simultaneously improve endothelial function and vice versa. Based on results from cellular,
      physiological, and epidemiological studies, we hypothesize that oral EGCG administration will
      simultaneously ameliorate insulin resistance and lower blood pressure in human subjects with
      obesity. To test these hypotheses, we will conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind, cross-over study to evaluate potential beneficial effects of EGCG to modulate
      insulin sensitivity, blood pressure, vascular function, and inflammatory markers in two
      groups of subjects (lean healthy controls, obesity). After a 2-week EGCG-free run-in period,
      each subject will be randomized to receive EGCG or placebo capsules (400 mg p.o. B.I.D.) for
      4 weeks. This will be followed by a 2-week EGCG-free washout period after which subjects will
      cross-over to the other treatment arm. At baseline, and after each 4-week treatment period,
      we will assess insulin sensitivity (hyperinsulinemic isoglycemic glucose clamp technique) and
      vascular function. Regarding vascular function, we will measure basal and insulin-stimulated
      brachial artery blood flow (large conduit artery assessed by Doppler ultrasound) as well as
      capillary recruitment in forearm skeletal muscle (small nutritive arterioles assessed by
      ultrasound with microbubble contrast). Blood pressure will be measured weekly in the UMB GCRC
      throughout the duration of the study. EGCG pharmacokinetics will be measured at the beginning
      of each glucose clamp study day after oral administration of a single dose of EGCG or
      placebo. Finally, various plasma markers of inflammation will be measured at baseline and at
      the end of each treatment arm to evaluate potential changes that may be related to
      improvements in metabolic and/or vascular function. This study will explore whether EGCG, a
      single compound thought to be a major bioactive component of green tea, is effective at
      improving insulin resistance and lowering blood pressure in subjects with obesity. Results
      from this study may have important implications for understanding potential health benefits
      of functional foods that contain bioactive polyphenols including green tea, dark chocolate,
      and red wine.
    
  