
    
      Accumulating evidence suggests that repeatedly breathing low oxygen levels for brief periods
      (termed intermittent hypoxia) is a safe and effective treatment strategy to promote
      meaningful functional recovery in persons with chronic spinal cord injury. Repetitive
      exposure to mild hypoxia triggers a cascade of events in the spinal cord, including new
      protein synthesis and increased sensitivity in the circuitry necessary for breathing and
      walking. Recently, the investigators demonstrated that daily (5 consecutive days of)
      intermittent hypoxia stimulated walking enhancement in persons with chronic spinal cord
      injury.

      Despite these exciting findings, important questions remain. First, does intermittent hypoxia
      improve walking recovery by increasing strength or muscle coordination or both? Understanding
      its mechanisms will allow us to best apply intermittent hypoxia in the clinic. Second,
      initial studies indicate that the beneficial effects of intermittent hypoxia are greatest
      when intermittent hypoxia is used just prior to task training and that the benefits are
      greatest for the practiced task. The investigators will explore this possibility by examining
      the effects of intermittent hypoxia on walking ability and force production when applied
      alone and when applied in combination with walking training or strength training. The
      investigators expect to observe the greatest improvements in walking ability in those
      individuals receiving intermittent hypoxia with walking training and the greatest
      improvements in strength in response to intermittent hypoxia with strength training. Third,
      studies suggest that intermittent hypoxia induces spinal plasticity by increasing the
      expression of a key plasticity-promoting protein, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).
      Mutations in the BDNF gene have been shown to impair BDNF functionality. Thus, the
      investigators will also explore the impact of BDNF polymorphisms on responsiveness to
      intermittent hypoxia therapy.
    
  