
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety, tolerability and to assess the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of
      VTX-2337 (TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337) when given in conjunction with cetuximab in order to define
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacodynamic immune response to VTX-2337 in combination with
      cetuximab.

      II. Correlative assessments of immunologic response and activity will be performed,
      including: Quantitative evaluation of baseline immune status via in-vitro assessment of
      cytokine and chemokine response to immunostimulatory agents; quantitative assessment of
      plasma cytokines, chemokines, and other inflammatory markers via protein array; quantitative
      assessment of natural killer (NK) cells via flow cytometry; quantitative assessment of
      antigen-specific responses in cytokine-producing cells to common prognostic SCCHN antigens
      via interferon (INF)gamma-enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot).

      III. To assess whether subjects with functional genetic variations in the TLR8 and FC-gamma-R
      IIIA genes have altered biological and/or clinical responses to VTX-2337, genetic
      characterization of subjects will be performed via standard genotyping assays.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity for the combination of VTX-2337 and
      cetuximab, as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1
      criteria.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337.

      Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes on days -28, -21, -14, -7
      of weeks -4 to -1. Patients then receive cetuximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and TLR8
      agonist VTX-2337 subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.
    
  