
    
      After informed consent, subjects will be randomly assigned to ILIT group or placebo group in
      double-blind manner. In both group, causal allergen or placebo will be injected into inguinal
      lymph node through guidance by ultrasonography three times with 4-week interval. In ILIT
      group, initial dose of allergen will be 1,000-fold diluted solution from maximal
      concentration of allergen extract for subcutaneous immunotherapy (30 AU/ml for Df or Dp, 10
      AU/ml for Cat hair, and 1:1/10 weight/volume for dog hair/dander, HollisterStier, New
      Orleans, USA) in volume of 0.1ml. If skin is highly reactive in skin prick test, the initial
      dose will be 10-fold dilution from maximal concentration where diameter of wheal is less than
      that of histamine. After the first dose, allergen concentration will be escalated 3-fold at
      second dose, and 10-fold at third dose if there are no local or systemic hypersensitivity
      reaction. The allergen concentration will not change at second or third dose if there is mild
      local or systemic reaction. The allergen concentration will decrease by 10 or 100-fold from
      previous concentration or further injection will be holded if there is severe local or
      systemic reaction after sufficient explanation and discussion with subjects.

      The investigators will evaluate allergic rhinitis symptom score before and 4, 12 months after
      the initial treatment. Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality of Life Questionnaire (RQLQ) and
      Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-20) will be used. Visual analogue scale (VAS) of symptoms
      including rhinorrhea, sneezing, nasal obstruction, postnasal drip, eye/nose/ear/palate
      itching, dyspnea, wheezing, chest discomfort as well as urticaria, angioedema, and itching on
      exposed skin during exposure to causal allergen in daily life will be also evaluated. Skin
      prick test, intradermal test, blood sampling for serum allergen-specific IgE, exhaled nitric
      oxide, and nasal lavage for Th1, Th2, and Treg cytokines will be also performed before and 4,
      12 months after the initial treatment.

      Adverse events will be recorded and graded according to Muller classification and Ring and
      Messner classification.
    
  