
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      * Determine the response rate in patients with smoldering or indolent multiple myeloma
      treated with anakinra.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxicity of anakinra alone or in combination with dexamethasone in these
           patients.

        -  Evaluate the response rate in patients treated with anakinra in combination with
           dexamethasone.

        -  Evaluate the proportion of patients who are progression-free at 6 months.

        -  Determine the tolerability of anakinra in combination with dexamethasone in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the time to progression to active multiple myeloma in patients treated with
           anakinra alone or in combination with dexamethasone.

        -  Assess the duration of response in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive anakinra subcutaneously (SC) once daily for 6 months
           (months 1-6). Based on response, patients continue on treatment in one of three ways.

        -  Complete response [CR], very good partial response [VGPR], partial response [PR], or
           minimal response [MR]: Patients continue to receive anakinra SC once daily for 6
           additional months (months 7-12). Patients who develop disease progression at anytime
           proceed to treatment with high dose dexamethasone.

        -  Stable disease: Patients receive low-dose oral dexamethasone once weekly for 6 months
           (months 7-12) with anakinra SC once daily. Patients who maintain stable disease or
           responded will continue low-dose oral dexamethasone and anakinra SC once daily for 6
           additional months (months 13-18). Patients who develop disease progression at any time
           proceed to treatment with high dose dexamethasone.

        -  Progressive disease: Patients receive high-dose oral dexamethasone on days 1-4, 9-12,
           and 17-20 in months 7, 9, and 11 and on days 1-4 in months 8, 10, and 12 with anakinra
           SC once daily for 6 additional months (months 7-12).

      NOTE: Patients may continue on treatment beyond 12 months at treating physician discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  