
    
      Regional methods and pharmacological treatments are among these methods. The blocks of
      serratus, pectoral and rhomboid from the regional blocks are used more safely and with
      increasing frequency, especially with the introduction of ultrasonography in the clinic. In
      2016, the rhomboid intercostal nerve block was identified and presented in the literature as
      a case report. In the rhomboid block, the analgesia created by the local anesthetic on the
      anterior thoracic wall was used. For patients who will undergo elective breast surgery, the
      routine routinely applied in our clinic is a multimodal approach, which involves conducting a
      peripheral nerve block following general anesthesia induction for postoperative analgesia.
      All patients before the block are standardized and intravenous vascular access is opened. In
      our clinic, all peripheral blocks are performed under sterile conditions accompanied by
      ultrasound and stimulator. When applying the Rhomboid nerve block, the patient is tilted to
      the side position so that the corresponding breast is at the top. After T7 up to T10 sterile
      preparation of the C7 spinous projection, the convex probe shows a rhomboid muscle at the
      level of T5 and block is applied with 0.25% bupivacaine (20 cc), 2% lidocaine (10 cc) and 10
      cc SF mixture. The PEC I field block is performed by administering 10 cc of local anesthetic
      between the pectoralis minor and the major at the 2nd costal position. PEC II field block is
      performed using linear USG probe visibly in 3rd and 4th ribs while the patient is in supine
      position. In this block, a total of 20 cc 0.25% bupivacaine (10 cc), 2% lidocaine (5 cc) and
      5 cc SF mixture were used to block the area between the pectoralis minor muscle and the
      serratus muscle. The degree of dyspnea and the degree of dyspnea were evaluated with NRS
      after 30 minutes. Dyspnea assessment is performed with NRS (Numeric Rating Scale 0 = no
      dyspnea, 10 = as badly as possible). Sensory block is evaluated with cold stimulus (0 = no
      cold sensation, 1 = cold feeling severely decreased, 2 = cold feeling slightly reduced, 3 =
      normal cold feeling). Patients undergoing breast surgery routinely undergo general anesthesia
      with propofol 2-3 mg / kg, fentanyl 1mcq / kg, lidocaine 1 mg / kg and rocuronium 0.6 mg /
      kg. The postoperative analgesic needs of the patients will be recorded in the
      patient-controlled analgesia device. This method is a routine method in our clinic and is not
      an extra special application. Postoperative pain, digital evaluation scale (NRS-numeric
      rating scale; 0 = absence of pain, 10 = unbearable pain) of all patients will be recorded.
    
  