
    
      This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining
      this study intervention (allogeneic stem cell transplantation) for this population (patients
      with CNS lymphoma), which is a type of stem cell transplantation.

      Historically, patients with central nervous system (CNS) involvement by non-Hodgkin lymphoma
      (NHL) have had high rates of disease relapse after initial therapy. Given these poor outcomes
      with conventional chemotherapy, more intense treatment with high-dose chemotherapy and
      autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has been explored, yet relapse remains an issue.
      For older patients, ASCT may not be feasible given the inability to tolerate high-doses of
      chemotherapy.

      In patients with systemic NHL who relapse after ASCT or cannot tolerate ASCT, yet are
      responsive to chemotherapy, allogeneic stem cell transplant is often considered. Allogeneic
      transplantation is thought to work by giving the recipient an entirely new blood system from
      a donor. This new blood system includes a new immune system which can hopefully attack any
      lymphoma much like it would attack a bacterial or viral infection. Currently, this is one
      established standard of care for patients with lymphoma of the body who relapse after initial
      chemotherapy treatment. The investigators are testing if this treatment can be extended to
      patients with lymphoma of the central nervous system.

      The following chemotherapy drugs included in this study which will be administered:
      Fludarabine, Thiotepa, and Methotrexate. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has
      approved these chemotherapy agents individually as a treatment option for your disease. The
      combination has not been approved by the FDA. Thiotepa and Methotrexate have been shown to
      pass through the blood-brain barrier, a highly selective barrier that restricts many
      chemicals from entering the brain and spinal cord. Fludarabine is the backbone chemotherapy
      in all reduced intensity conditioning regimens.
    
  