
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of tin-117m diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Sn-117m-DTPA) on
      sustained pain response in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC)
      metastatic to at least two bone sites with at least one clinically meaningful pain at
      baseline (>= 4 on an 11-point pain intensity scale).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of Sn-117m-DTPA per Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

      II. To measure Sn-117m-DTPA activity by gamma-camera dosimetry scans (serial full body planar
      images) obtained at 1 hour, 4 hours (or within 4-6 hours), 24 hours (or within 16-24 hours),
      48 hours (or within 36-48 hours), 72 hours (or within 60-72 hours), 1 week (+/- 2 days), and
      4 weeks (+/- 2 days) after the first Sn-117m-DTPA administration.

      III. To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of Sn-117m-DTPA at 24 weeks as measured by Prostate
      Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria.

      IV. To evaluate time to the first symptomatic skeletal event defined as i) the first use of
      external-beam radiation therapy to relieve skeletal symptoms; ii) new symptomatic pathologic
      vertebral or nonvertebral bone fractures; iii) spinal cord compression; or iv) tumor-related
      orthopedic surgical intervention.

      V. To evaluate the overall pain response rate at 24 weeks. VI. To evaluate the duration of
      pain response defined as from the time of improvement in pain response (pain index =< 3)
      until the pain recurs.

      VII. To measure changes and time to progression in serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and
      serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels.

      VIII. To measure patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and adverse events (AEs) (PRO-CTCAE)
      captured by digital instruments.

      IX. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine any tumor genomic alterations that may be associated with response or
      resistance to Sn-117m-DTPA, a radiopharmaceutical agent.

      II. To examine the changes in systemic inflammatory markers (such as interferon [IFN]-gamma,
      tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-alpha, interleukins [IL]-8, IL-10, and IL-17) by flow cytometry,
      and changes in markers of immune function by measuring the percentage and absolute number of
      CD4+ T helper cells, CD8+ T cytotoxic cells, T regulatory cells, polymorphonuclear (PMN)
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and mononuclear MDSCs (M-MDSCs) prior to treatment
      versus (vs.) end of cycle 1, end of cycle 2, and at week 24 and correlate values and/or
      changes with treatment outcomes.

      III. To evaluate the feasibility of measuring polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) expression via
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining on archival tissues.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive tin Sn 117m DTPA intravenously (IV) over 5-10 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 8 weeks for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may receive tin Sn 117m DTPA for an additional 2 cycles if pain recurs
      within 6 months after a 16-week pain observation period and no disease progression on bone
      scans, or evidence of clinical progression.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up every 4 weeks until week 28, and then
      every 3 months for up to 12 months after the first dose of tin Sn 117m DTPA.
    
  