
    
      Patients with end stage OA often adopt a sedentary lifestyle causing mobility and
      functionality decline to avoid joint pain and stiffness. This dysfunctions a series of
      antioxidant response cascades which eventually leads to muscle atrophy of the knee. Notably,
      muscle atrophy and weakness (i.e. sarcopenia) often accompanies with OA. However the
      relationship between these symptoms and OA remains undefined and no strong consensus have
      been made thus far. Our ongoing longitudinal study on muscle strength and functionality which
      investigates the prevalence of sarcopenia in end stage OA patient's pre and post operation
      (Total Knee Replacement) have reflected that 24% with severe knee OA patients also suffered
      sarcopenia. In addition, these patients also showed a much slower recovery and longer length
      of stay in hospital after undergoing surgical operation.

      The effect of clinical sarcopenia affects our locomotion system in the aging population.
      Weakness in patients and decline in muscle strength results in significant functional
      impairment are often seen in the cohort, leading to fragility, falls, fractures and
      disability.

      Many authors have tried to explain the pathophysiology of sarcopenia in an attempt to link
      the disorder to a molecular or biochemical level in numerous literature. Satellite cells (a
      myogenic stem cell), Insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) (an important mediator of muscle
      growth and regeneration affecting muscle function) and fast twitch muscle fibres are three
      major molecular composites that have been widely studied. Evidence have suggested the close
      relationship between them and muscle atrophy and weakness. However, these studies have either
      shown the results from an animal standpoint or they lack specificity and further research is
      necessary to confirm their role in patients suffering from sarcopenia.

      Attempts have also been made to discover the most effective intervention to treat or even
      eliminate the chances of sarcopenia. Among these studies resistance exercises have been
      documented the most.

      Evidence showed that progressive resistance and aerobic exercises are most beneficial for the
      prevention and treatment of sarcopenia. Resistant training that such as lifting weights,
      strength resistance bands, resistance machines has shown to improve protein synthesis in
      skeletal muscle cells leading to better muscle strength and mass, leading to muscle
      hypertrophy and promotes muscle power. Our previous knowledge transfer study on developing an
      aerobic exercise (i.e. Tai Chi Exercise) for end stage OA patients also showed similar
      positive effects in subjects, decreasing their pain and stiffness symptoms and limitations in
      physical activity. Though resistance exercise showed promising effects, are safe and strongly
      advised interventions based on documented and our previous study, the elderly populations
      often accompanies with other physical symptoms (such as back pain) and diminished fine motor
      skills that may limit their range of movement in these exercise regimes. In addition,
      resistive exercises are extremely technical and is essential to execute with proper form to
      avoid further injury; hence these exercises are unable to perform safely alone at home,
      making the intervention less autonomous.

      Vibration therapy is a noninvasive biophysical modality and has been demonstrated in a number
      of studies showing multiple positive effects in terms of postural control, balancing ability,
      circulation and most importantly muscle strength. Two of our previous studies investigated
      the long term effects on muscle performance and bone quality in using low-magnitude high
      frequency vibration. Though the results showed that the treatment is an effective method in
      fall prevention by improving on both frontiers, these two studies' main subject focuses were
      on the elderly population as a whole. A study pivoting on subjects with co-existing diagnosis
      of sarcopenia and OA is crucial to investigate the effectiveness of this therapy method.
      Limited studies have shown positive effects of vibration therapy on osteoarthritis, however,
      these studies were limited to a single gender (i.e. females) or contained subject recruitment
      bias or assessment period of less than 6 months. A randomized control trial with a longer
      assessment period is essential to investigate the true effects of vibration therapy on knee
      OA patients.
    
  