
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common forms of cancer and the second leading
      cause of cancer-related deaths in the western world, accounting for the annual death of
      215.000 europeans in 2012 and an estimated 50.310 Americans in 2014.

      Sporadic CRC develops through the accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations in the
      epithelial cell-lining. These alterations are thought to push the normal epithelial cells
      into the adenoma-carcinoma sequence. Detection of hypermethylated DNA can be made in blood or
      stool of cancer patients and it is believed, that hypermethylated cell-free DNA in blood and
      stool can be used as a cancer biomarker, exhibiting high sensitivity and specificity in CRC
      and other major cancer-types (e.g. lung, prostate, and breast cancer).

      Hypermethylated cell-free DNA - measured in plasma - could prove to be a more specific and
      sensitive biomarker for CRC than both the detection of blood in stool and CEA in blood of CRC
      patients.

      The aims of this project are to examine if hypermethylation of specific genes measured from
      cell-free DNA in plasma of CRC patients is a diagnostic biomarker for CRC. The results of
      this study will show, if a single blood sample can differentiate patients with CRC from
      patients without cancer.

      Development of a reliable sensitive and specific biomarker for CRC will immensely improve the
      diagnostics and handling of CRC patients.

      To propose the most sensitive and specific hypermethylated DNA promoter regions for CRC
      detection, a review of the literature currently available will be undertaken. The following
      search criteria (MeSH terms) will be used: "colorectal neoplasm", "DNA methylation or CpG
      islands", "tumour or stool sample or blood or serum or plasma", "real time PCR or microarray
      analysis or genome sequencing or biopsy or blood analysis". Based on this review a literature
      review will be written: "DNA Methylation in Blood and Stool as a Screening and Prognostic
      Marker for Colorectal Cancer".

      Epigenetics is the study of heritable changes in gene expression, which does not arise due to
      changes in the DNA sequence. Epigenetic alterations include micro-satellite instability,
      histone modifications and DNA methylation. DNA methylation is a normal phenomenon in
      eukaryotic cells and occurs across the whole genome. Methylation target cytosine-residues
      followed by a guanine on the DNA strand (called CpG-islands) converting these to
      methyl-cytosine. Un-methylated CpG-islands exist in a high concentration in the promoter
      regions of human genes, and DNA promoter hypermethylation leads to decreased transcriptional
      activity. This event happens in tumour suppressors leading to gene silencing which is related
      to tumour genesis. CpG-Island hypermethylation is shown to be a non-random process and the
      pattern of gene hypermethylation appears to be specific to individual cancers. This lead to
      the definition of a CpG-Island Methylator Phenotype (CIMP) in CRC, a panel of genes being
      hypermethylated in CRC tumours, and there is a growing body of literature on the correlation
      between hypermethylated genes and CRC. This investigation has primarily focused on DNA
      obtained from CRC biopsies but in recent years focus has moved to hypermethylated DNA
      obtained from blood and stool samples.

      Hypermethylated genes that have been analysed in blood of CRC patients are e.g. SDC2, THBD,
      HIC1, RASSF1A. Hypermethylated SEPT9 has been analysed in a large prospective study to
      evaluate its performance as a screening marker, but this only revealed a sensitivity of 48.2%
      with a specificity of 91.5%. However when hypermethylated promoter regions are analysed in
      concert with others as part of a biomarker panel, markedly better performance has been
      reported. A biomarker panel composed of RASSF1A, APC, MGMT, and Wif-1 reached a sensitivity
      of 86.5% and a specificity of 92.1% for CRC detection.

      From these studies, it is apparent that the profile of hypermethylated DNA in blood samples
      from CRC patients is different from the profile measured in healthy controls.

      Only two studies have been conducted, prospectively studying the relationship between DNA
      hypermethylation measured in blood of CRC patients and risk of cancer recurrence. These
      studies are limited by only analysing a single gene promoter region (p16) and a low number of
      study participants.

      The studies above show that hypermethylated DNA can be detected in blood of CRC patients,
      promoting it as biomarker for CRC. No study has however prospectively analysed the
      performance according to treatment and relapse of disease in CRC patients.

      Studies on hypermethylated DNA in stool of CRC patients have been conducted using single gene
      hypermethylation markers. The gene primarily analysed has been hypermethylated VIM which also
      has a commercially available kit for stool analysis. The focus in the stool studies has been
      DNA hypermethylation as a screening marker for CRC. One study combined the iFOBT test with
      hypermethylation of the PHACTR3 gene, extracted from the iFOBT fluid. A positive result in at
      least one of the two tests raised sensitivity to 95% (19/20) at high specificity of 94%
      (45/48) for CRC and advanced adenomas.

      Most of the methods for analysis require bisulfite conversion of the DNA for detection of
      methylated cytosines, and Pedersen et al. (2012) recently published an article addressing
      this key time-consuming step lowering the analysis-time and increasing the recovery of sparse
      amounts of DNA (< 0.1 ng/ml), rendering the test more clinically applicable.

      In summary, DNA collected from blood and stool samples of CRC patients has been analysed with
      the purpose of discovering hypermethylated genes that are CRC specific. Hypermethylation of
      these specific genes in blood samples have been associated with poor prognosis (p16, HLTF,
      TMEFF1, ALX4, VIM, and FBN2), early diagnosis (APC, TAC1, SEPT9, NEUROG1, RASSF1A, SDC2, and
      THBD) and potential recurrence markers for CRC patients (p16 and TFPI2). Especially THBD and
      SDC2 show great promise as markers of early stage CRC, and the fact that it seems possible to
      use DNA methylation in blood as a marker of disease recurrence warrants further research,
      using these genes individually or in concert with others. Hypermethylation of DNA in stool
      samples of CRC patients have not been analysed as thoroughly as in blood samples, though
      detection of hypermethylated DNA fragments in stool samples could be used when screening for
      CRC. SFRP2, TMEFF2, SPG20, TFPI2, and PHACTR3 have shown promise in the detection of CRC at
      early stages or in premalignant lesions. The fact that PHACTR3 could be detected in
      iFOBT-fluid (reaching increased sensitivity and specificity) indicates a possible new
      screening method, where DNA hypermethylation is analysed in one stool sample. There are
      however issues regarding the analytical sensitivity of hypermethylated DNA in stool-samples
      from CRC patients. The diagnostic sensitivity for right-sided tumours is lower than for
      left-sided tumours suggesting DNA degradation in the colonic lumen before stool excretion.
      This promotes blood as the media of choice for detection of hypermethylated genes as
      biomarkers in the diagnosis, prognosis and recurrence detection of CRC.

      METHOD AND STUDY PARTICIPANTS

        1. To propose the most sensitive and specific hypermethylated DNA promoter regions for CRC
           detection, a review of the literature currently available will be undertaken. The search
           criteria are listed in the previous section.

        2. Colorectal cancer patients:

           Blood samples from approximately 210 patients diagnosed with colorectal carcinoma
           collected prospectively and consecutively at the Department of Surgical
           Gastroenterology, Aalborg University Hospital during the time period 2003-2006 will be
           used. The blood samples were collected at the time of diagnosis, before and after
           treatment (surgery and radio-chemo-therapy) and at regular intervals for a time period
           of two years after treatment. These blood samples were collected during a previous
           PhD-study: "Pre- and postoperative Venous Thromboembolism in Patients with Colorectal
           Cancer - implications of Radiotherapy" (ID-number VN 2003/102). In collaboration with
           the Section of Molecular Diagnostics, Clinical Biochemistry, Aalborg University
           Hospital, the methylation profile of the cell-free DNA promoter regions in plasma will
           be analysed using methylation specific PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) based on an
           accelerated bisulfite treatment method.

        3. Inflammatory bowel disease patients In collaboration with The Department of Medical
           Gastroenterology, Aalborg University Hospital, there will be recruited approximately 100
           patients with ulcerous colitis for blood sampling (28 ml). In collaboration with the
           Section of Molecular Diagnostics, Clinical Biochemistry, Aalborg University Hospital,
           the methylation profile of the cell-free DNA promoter regions in plasma will be analysed
           using methylation specific PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) based on an accelerated
           bisulfite treatment method.

        4. Control group:

           Blood samples (8ml) from patients (n=142) who underwent work-up for lower
           gastrointestinal malignancy during the time period 2003-2006. Colonoscopy was performed,
           and no malignancy or premalignant lesions found. Blood samples were collected
           before/after colonoscopy. These blood samples were collected during a previous
           PhD-study: "Pre- and postoperative Venous Thromboembolism in Patients with Colorectal
           Cancer - implications of Radiotherapy" (ID-number VN 2003/102). The plasma samples will
           be analysed at the Section of Molecular Diagnostics, Clinical Biochemistry, Aalborg
           University Hospital, and the methylation profile of the cell-free DNA in plasma will be
           analysed, using methylation specific PCR based on the accelerated bisulfite treatment
           protocol.

        5. External validation:

           Cases:

           Blood samples from 143 patients were collected prospectively and consecutively for a
           previous study on the effect of omega 3 fatty acids an postoperative complications after
           colorectal surgery. All study participants have provided written informed consent
           (N-VN-20050035).

           Controls:

           There will be recruited approximately 100 control subjects with a positive occult faecal
           blood but with a normal colonoscopy for blood sampling (28 ml). In collaboration with
           the Section of Molecular Diagnostics, Clinical Biochemistry, Aalborg University
           Hospital, the methylation profile of the cell-free DNA promoter regions in plasma will
           be analysed using methylation specific PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) based on an
           accelerated bisulfite treatment method.

           Inclusion criteria:

           Patients referred to The Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Aalborg University
           Hospital, with a positive stool test for CRC but with no sign of cancer on the
           subsequent colonoscopy.

        6. Blood sampling:

           Blood samples will be drawn by venepuncture in accordance with the European concerted
           action on thrombosis (ECAT) procedures.

        7. Methylation specific PCR:

           In collaboration with the Section of Molecular Diagnostics, Clinical Biochemistry,
           Aalborg University Hospital the cell-free DNA promoter regions methylation profile will
           be analysed in EDTA plasma samples by methylation specific PCR based on the accelerated
           bisulfite protocol.

        8. Biobank Any residual material (blood samples) from the study will be stored for fifteen
           years and thereafter the remaining samples will be transferred to the Danish National
           Biobank.
    
  