
    
      Coronary heart disease is one the most common cause of death in Denmark and is also a chronic
      disease that 300,000 people in the country are living with. Cardiac rehabilitation is of
      great significance for this group of people because of its potential to reduce mortality and
      morbidity. However, not all patients succeed in changing their lifestyle in a positive and
      heart healthy direction. Thus, it is a great challenge to develop new methods which can help
      the patients to maintain a more healthy lifestyle in the long run. A concept for patient
      education, called learning and coping, has been developed in Norway. It is a health education
      method based on a high degree of involvement from the participants and on what is important
      for them. Planning, performance and evaluation happens in close cooperation between the
      health staff and so-called experienced patients. The course begins and ends with individual
      clarifying interviews.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of learning and coping strategies in cardiac
      rehabilitation on adherence, risk factors and lifestyle, morbidity and mortality, health
      related quality of life and return to work.

      The number of participants needed are estimated to 750 ptt.s with datacollection at baseline,
      just after rehabilitation, 3 months after rehabilitation and 3 years after rehabilitation. It
      is carried out as an open randomised controlled parallel group study in three hospitals in
      Hospital Unit West Jutland, Central Denmark Region, where the participants newly hospitalised
      with either ischemic heart disease or heart failure is randomised to either the intervention
      group with learning and coping strategies or to the standard group without the strategies.
      The rehabilitation courses in both groups last for eight weeks and consist of both training
      and education sessions. The concept of learning and coping is applied to the intervention
      group by letting 'experienced patients' participate in the education and not using
      standardised teaching slides. Also clarifying individual interviews are completed before and
      after the course. The 1:1 randomisation is computer generated and is stratified by hospital
      unit, diagnosis and gender. All analyses will be performed after the principle of 'intention
      to treat'.

      The primary outcomes are adherence to cardiac rehabilitation, morbidity and mortality, while
      secondary outcomes are risk factors (blood pressure and lipid profile), lifestyle (body mass
      index, waist circumference, smoking status, exercise capacity and body compositions measured
      via DXA-scans) and health related quality of life (SF-12, Health Education Impact
      Questionnaire and Major Depression Inventory) and return to work (derived from the Danish
      Register for Evaluation of Marginalisation, (DREAM))
    
  