
    
      This is a single site, randomized, controlled, food intervention study designed to explore
      the effects of pulse types and varieties on blood vessel function in individuals with
      Peripheral Artery Disease.

      Phase One(Acute): To identify relative potency of pulse types (beans,peas, lentils,and
      chickpeas) for vascular activity in healthy participants and participants with Peripheral
      Artery Disease. Healthy participants (10) and participants with Peripheral Artery Disease
      (10) will be asked to consume (in random order) one test food per in-person visit over 5
      visits scheduled a minimum of 6 days apart. Vascular responsiveness will be monitored
      non-invasively by peripheral arterial tonometry before consumption of the test food and 2
      hours post food consumption. Blood samples will be collected at the same time intervals for
      analyses, of vascular, inflammatory, and metabolic markers as well as flavonoids present in
      the pulses.

      Phase Two(Chronic): Chronic 8-week study using mixed beans (pinto, kidney, black, and navy)
      to determine improvements in vascular function, cardiovascular risk factors, and glycemic
      control in participants with Peripheral Artery Disease (N=75, 25/group). Participants will be
      randomly assigned to one of the following three groups: i) foods containing 0.6 cup mixed
      beans/day consumed 5 days per week (total amount is 3 cups mixed beans per week); or, ii)
      foods containing 0.3 cup mixed beans/day for 5 days per week); or, iii) pulse-free foods
      (control) consumed 5 days/week. A total of 3 in-person visits for screening, baseline and
      final will be required during the 8-week study schedule. Assessments of vascular function,
      cognitive function, food dietary intake and preferences, flavonoid levels and cardiovascular
      risk markers in blood and urine, glycemic control, and anthropometrics will be completed at
      baseline and at 8 weeks.

      Phase Three(Follow-Up: An 8-week follow-up assessment with a subset of participants
      (n=10/group, 3 groups) with Peripheral Artery Disease will be done at 2, 4, and at 8 weeks.
      Assessments of vascular function, cognitive function, food dietary intake, flavonoid levels
      and cardiovascular risk markers in blood and urine, glycemic control, and anthropometrics
      will be completed. These assessments will enable us to determine the length of time the
      benefits of the pulse consumption are retained.
    
  