
    
      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is considered the gold standard treatment for
      patients with moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

      The treatment of OSA with CPAP was first proposed by Sullivan et al and traditionally
      delivered using a nasal mask because the pressure applied through the nose would be
      transmitted as a pneumatic splint to the back of the upper airway and would push them
      anteriorly.

      However patients with OSA frequently present nasal obstruction and leakage of air from the
      mouth, and different mask interfaces have been developed, including the oronasal mask that
      may be used to deliver CPAP.

      Nasal and oronasal masks are often used interchangeably and are generally believed to be
      equally effective; the choice of interface for OSA therapy remains largely based on clinical
      judgement and patients preference .

      In our clinical practice, CPAP titration is started adapting the patient to a nasal mask but
      an oronasal can be selected if a patient reports inability to breathe through their nose,
      severe nasal obstruction, leakage of air from the mouth or from other part of the face due to
      anatomical variation.

      However, there is increasing evidence that CPAP delivered by an oronasal mask may be less
      effective, requires more pressure and are worse tolerated than nasal mask.

      Patients with OSA on oronasal mask are also less adherent to CPAP. One recent randomised
      trial and a preliminary report suggest that subjects with sleep apnea treated with CPAP
      showed a significantly lower residual AHI when subjects wore a nasal mask rather than a
      oronasal mask.

      Similarly, a recent prospective observational cohort study suggested that the use of a facial
      mask was associated with higher CPAP pressure requirements than both nasal masks and nasal
      pillows.

      Some authors have suggested that in some subjects, the CPAP was not effective when an
      oronasal mask was used. Moreover when pressures are increased to overcome the obstruction, a
      paradoxical obstruction may take place.

      These findings have been called "the Starling paradox effect", according to which the
      pressure that opens the pharynx can also lead to pharyngeal collapse when applied orally.

      In these difficult-to-titrate patients the specific mechanisms explaining upper-airway
      obstruction events remain unclear and it is not known how many patients exhibit this
      behavior.

      This observational retrospective study is designed to compare a group of patients with
      obstructive sleep apnea with persistent obstructive events using oronasal masks during CPAP,
      that were fully recovered with the shift to nasal one with the same or also lower pressure,
      versus a control group of patients who did not report obstruction with oronasal masks.

      Aim of the study was to find differences in term of clinical, anatomical and physiological
      characteristics between these two groups.
    
  