
    
      Rational : The rehabilitation service offered at the Centre intégré universitaire de santé et
      de services sociaux de l'Estrie - Centre hospitalier universitaire de Sherbrooke (CIUSSS de
      l'Estrie - CHUS) for non-hospitalized patients is performed in outpatient clinics. However,
      the demand for this service far exceeds the supply, so the take-up time is very long.
      Recognizing the threatened short-term accessibility, this outpatient clinic has put in place
      an initial assessment for any service request. The goal is to conduct a preliminary
      assessment of the condition of the user to teach an exercise and education program. In
      addition, sporadic monitoring is recommended to promote the effectiveness of the
      intervention.

      To date, the follow-up of this preliminary assessment is done by a phone call from the
      professional to the patient one month later. However, it is noted that this type of
      monitoring is not optimal for various reasons, in particular because of the absence of visual
      contact with the user to allow appropriate feedback from the professional on the exercise
      execution. In this context, the possibility of having a follow-up by a physiotherapist using
      telerehabilitation, an application of information technologies allowing a synchronous
      auditory and visual link, would be an innovative way of increasing the effectiveness of the
      intervention. This study therefore responds to the need to validate the feasibility and
      effectiveness of a telerehabilitation home monitoring program for users receiving a
      preliminary assessment while waiting for physiotherapist at the outpatient physiotherapy
      clinic. The results of this study will be relevant to clinicians and managers and will
      undeniably influence the provision of rehabilitation services.

      Objectives: The specific objectives are as followed: 1) Evaluate the implementation of
      telerehabilitation monitoring (TELE-FOLLOW-UP); 2) Evaluate the effectiveness of
      TELE-FOLLOW-UP compared to the usual phone call; 3) Evaluate user satisfaction for these two
      modes of service delivery; 4) Identify facilitators and barriers to the implementation of
      TELE-FOLLOW-UP.

      Methodology : In order to meet the objectives of the study, mixed methods will be used. A
      randomized clinical trial will be used to achieve objectives 1, 2 and 3. The investigators
      plan to recruit 142 patients. Two groups will be formed: 1) TELE-FOLLOW-UP group: users who
      will receive follow-up by telerehabilitation; 2) PHONE-FOLLOW-UP group: those who will
      receive follow-up by a phone call. In order to complete Objective 4, a qualitative
      exploratory and descriptive study will be conducted using individual interviews (clinicians
      and health care managers) and focus groups (participants).

      The successful implementation of this project will bring a unique experience in Quebec of
      implementing telerehabilitation in a health care facility. The CIUSSS de l'Estrie-CHUS could
      become a leader in sharing its experience for large-scale implementation in Quebec. The
      application in orthopedic outpatient clinics may be generalized to other clientele by
      increasing accessibility to rehabilitation services for clients where accessibility is an
      issue
    
  