
    
      The Global Alliance Against Chronic Respiratory Diseases (GARD) stated physical inactivity as
      a modifiable risk factor for all chronic respiratory diseases and advocates stakeholders for
      action, including the health care community. With respect to chronic respiratory conditions,
      evidence on Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease indicates physical inactivity as an
      independent predictor of the risk of hospitalizations due to acute exacerbations and untimely
      mortality. Exercise is Medicine® is an initiative of the American College of Sports Medicine
      which encourages all health care professionals to promptly assess physical activity habits as
      a vital sign of general physical condition, optimizing exercise counselling or referral and
      enhancing chronic disease management. Because of this, research directions on Pulmonary
      Rehabilitation target on methodology development for physical activity assessment, combining
      subjective patient reported experience and accurate objective measurement on patients' daily
      life. Hospital Pulido Valente in Lisbon, Portugal, started TELEMOLD, which developed an
      Android smartphone telemonitoring system with a mobile software application connected to an
      oximeter and accelerometer sensors. Presently the project evolved to SMARTREAB applying such
      technology to a combined assessment of pulse oximetry and physical activity as a routine
      procedure with respiratory patients. This study aims to characterize baseline physical
      activity in daily life of 100 chronic respiratory patients on Pulmonary Rehabilitation as a
      primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints include reassessments of physical activity in daily
      life at discharge from the program, 6 months and 1 year follow-up. The Pulmonary
      Rehabilitation program will be individually tailored according to patients needs and goals
      settled within the Rehabilitation team and it will take place at Hospital Pulido Valente,
      from Centro Hospitalar Universitário Lisboa Norte, in Lisbon, Portugal. Patients' assessments
      include a 4 days SmartReab telemonitoring study providing data of physical activity
      intensity, heart rate and oxygen levels during awakening periods of daytime. Patients will
      further participate in a 6 minute walk test and answer selected questionnaires: the
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) , the visual analogue scale of the
      EuroQoL (EuroQoL-VAS), the modified Medical Research Council dyspnea scale (mMRC), the COPD
      assessment test (CAT), the London Chest Activity of Daily Living scale (LCADL) and the
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The research hypothesis is that Pulmonary
      Rehabilitation will have a positive impact on physical activity in the short, medium and long
      terms in association with other secondary outcomes assessed. All patients gave informed
      consent and ethical approval was obtained by the Ethics Committee of Centro Hospitalar
      Universitário Lisboa Norte, EPE and Centro Académico de Medicina de Lisboa (number 02/17).
      Statistical analysis will be performed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS) version 25.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  