
    
      Pancreaticoduodenectomy is a standard surgical approach for resectable pancreatic tumors and
      periampullary tumors. It is considered a safe procedure resulting from the continuous
      improvement in surgical techniques over the years. Although postoperative mortality has
      obviously decreased, pancreatic fistula is still a major challenge in pancreatic surgery and
      remains the major cause of postoperative morbidity and mortality after
      pancreaticoduodenectomy(PD), ranging from 3% to 30%.

      Many risks factors have been shown to cause pancreatic fistula(PF) after the operation,
      including advanced age, prolonged operation time, intraoperative hemorrhage, BMI, soft
      pancreas, size of the main pancreatic duct and texture of the remnant pancreas. Among them,
      soft pancreatic texture without a dilated main pancreatic duct is regarded as the most
      important risk factor in predicting pancreatic fistula.

      The serious consequences of pancreatic fistula result from the pancreatic juice becoming
      activated by the bile and intestinal fluid, which will eventually corrupt the PJ anastomosis
      and the surrounding normal tissues. The corrosion of the vasculature will lead to lethal
      hemorrhage, which is the main cause of mortality after pancreaticoduodenectomy. Furthermore,
      pancreatin, together with the bacteria in the alimentary tract, will lead to intra-abdominal
      infection and abscess. To reduce the pancreatic fistula rate, several techniques have been
      described as alternatives to the conventional PJ anastomosis. Duct-to-mucosa sutures, binding
      pancreaticojejunostomy and end-to-side invaginated fashion are widely used in the current
      clinical setting. Some non-randomized studies showed that the one-layer duct-to-mucosa method
      was a relatively safe approach. However, the prospective clinical study found that in
      comparison with the conventional two-layer duct-to-mucosa did obviously decrease the
      incidence of pancreatic fistula as well as other operative complications. The postoperative
      pancreatic fistula (POPF), which determines postoperative mortality, length of hospital stay，
      is dependent of its definition, and is reported in up to 16% of patients. The purpose of this
      study is to determine whether the new anastomosis called " one-layer duct-to-mucosa "
      pancreaticojejunostomy can reduce the POPF rate and downgrade compared with the common
      accepted duct-to-mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy after pancreaticoduodenectomy. This
      single-centre, open, randomized controlled trail is conducted following International Study
      Group on Pancreatic Fistula (ISGPF) criteria for pancreatic fistula (PF). The primary
      endpoint is the POPF rate, and others include overall postoperative complication rate and
      their severity reoperation rate and hospital stay.
    
  