
    
      a. Study Overview: Once a patient with idiopathic MN and proteinuria >5g/24h is identified
      and meets other entry criteria, he/she will receive a minimum of 4 months of
      non-immunosuppressive therapy aimed at maximizing Ang II blockade (run-in phase). The target
      blood pressure (<130 mmHg systolic BP >75% of the readings; but not <100 mmHg systolic) is
      chosen based on recent recommendations by the JNC VII.(38) 1) The first step will be the
      administration of an ARB. This is chosen because ARBs are as effective as ACEIs in blocking
      the AT1 mediated adverse effects of Ang II, while being better tolerated, with minimal cough
      or angioedema, and less hyperkalemia. Because this part of the study aims to maximize Ang II
      blockade, ARB dose will continue to be increased every 2 weeks until the maximum
      tolerated/FDA approved dose is achieved or until intolerable side effects occur (e.g.
      development of postural hypotension, light headed, hyperkalemia, etc). 2) Once ARB dose has
      been maximize and there are no observable side-effects, and/or blood pressure is not at
      target, a long acting ACEi will be added. ACEi dose will be increased every 2 weeks aiming to
      achieve maximum tolerated or maximum approved dosage. For patients whose blood pressure
      control is not at target additional medication will be added in the following order: 3) a
      loop diuretic, 4) a cardioselective &#946;-blocker, 5) a non-dihydropyridine calcium channel
      blocker (CCB), and 6) clonidine. The selection of these drugs adheres to the recommendation
      of the JNC VII.(38) The choice of a non-dihydropyridine CCB was made because of concerns that
      dihydropyridine-type CCB may obscure the anti-proteinuric effects of the above therapy. In
      order to further ensure that any potential adverse effect is minimized we have limited CCB to
      be used as a fifth agent, and to be used only when the combination of ARB/ACEi, diuretic, and
      &#946;-blocker have failed to reduce BP to target level. Concomitant Treatment: 1. At the
      start of the run-in/conservative phase of the study, and as part of the standard of care for
      patients with NS and severe hyperlipidemia, patients will be started on atorvastatin 10 mg a
      day (or its equivalent) and if tolerated (no evidence of persistent elevation of liver
      transaminase >3x upper limit of normal, muscle pain, high CK, or rhabdomyolysis) the dose can
      be increased according to the recently published KDOQI-dyslipidemia guidelines.(39) The dose
      should not be increased above the maximum of 40 mg/day. The rationale for not using a higher
      statin dose is because of the risk of developing proteinuria with the use of statins at high
      doses. Patients will remain at the highest tolerated dose for the entire duration of the
      study. Serum lipids will be measured at baseline and every 3 months thereafter. 2. High
      sodium intake (e.g. >200 mm NaCl/d or 4.6 g sodium/d) can significantly impair the beneficial
      effects of Ang II blockade.(40) Therefore patients will be instructed to go on a low salt
      diet (2-3g/day). 3. Patients will receive dietary counseling at enrollment regarding a
      dietary protein target intake of 0.8 g/kg ideal body weight/day of high quality protein and
      will be encouraged to maintain the same diet throughout the duration of the study.

      Rituximab: If at the end of this period the patient still meets entry criteria he/she will be
      treated with rituximab, 375 mg/m2 i.v. on days 1, 8, 15 and 22, with subsequent follow-up of
      at least one year. Patients will be retreated at month 6th once B-cells return to circulation
      and will be independent of the clinical status of the patient. B-cell return is defined as
      CD19+B cell count > 15/microliter or >5% of baseline count. There will be a +/- 3 day window
      for each study visit, to account for weekends, holidays, and scheduling conflicts.

      Figure 3. Schematic time-line for the study. Primary endpoint.

      1. Change in proteinuria from baseline to 12 months. This approach was selected taking in
      consideration that B cell recovery following administration of rituximab usually begins at 6
      months after the last infusion, but it is not complete until 9-12 months later, (complete
      recovery is defined as normalization of CD19+ B cell counts; normal CD19+ count is 71-567
      cells/&#956;l).

      Secondary endpoints.

        1. Complete and partial remission rates at 6, 9, and 12 months (see definitions in Table 3)

        2. Pharmacokinetics/bioavailability

        3. Rate of decline in urinary protein

        4. Frequency of relapse after CR

        5. Toxicity
    
  