
    
      Community-based meningitis and meningo-encephalitis are defined by the presence of more than
      10 leukocytes per mL of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), eventually reported to the number of red
      blood cells. They can be associated with encephalitis, defined by cerebral or cerebellar
      dysfunction in the case of the transmission. The evolution includes death, what makes the
      seriousness of this clinical situation. However the diagnostic performance of meningitis and
      meningo-encephalitis in a patient without contact with a care structure is less than 25%
      resulting in empirical support in half of the patients. Indeed, the microbiological diagnosis
      of meningitis and transmission target currently only five pathogens including HIV positive
      resulted in a significant change to support the patient in three areas, decision of
      hospitalization, decision of isolation and antibiotic or antiviral treatment decision. A
      weekly epidemiological monitoring of the microbiological diagnosis of meningitis and
      meningo-encephalitis has enabled us to see a mismatch between a curve of requests for
      analyses and a flat curve of produced diagnoses. This discrepancy is interpreted as
      indicating a community outbreak of meningitis or meningo-encephalitis non-diagnosed by
      routine methods, called orphan meningitis or orphan meningo-encephalitis. On this
      observation, our research project is to improve the performance of the etiological diagnosis
      of community-based meningitis or meningo-encephalitis. To do this, we will evaluate the
      diagnostic performance of an advanced technique, using a non-invasive sample, the pharyngeal
      swab from the patient, to find micro-organisms that are not part of the commensal flora of
      the pharynx and who are responsible for undetected in routine meningitis. Indeed the main
      pathogens and meningitis (enterovirus, pneumococcus, meningococcus) transmission give a
      pharyngeal carriage before being responsible for meningitis or meningo-encephalitis. These
      bacteria are Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella spp., Tropheryma whipplei, Leptospira spp. and
      Borrelia spp.
    
  