
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the engraftment potential of umbilical cord blood (UCB) in patients with
           hematological cancers.

        -  Determine the safety of UCB transplantation in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rate of neutrophil and platelet recovery and the completeness of donor
           cell engraftment.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse in patients with malignant disease.

        -  Determine the probabilities of survival and event-free survival (EFS) at 1 and 2 years
           after UCB transplantation.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to degree of HLA disparity (0-1 vs 2-3 disparities
      between donor and recipient), donor type (related vs unrelated), and the basis of cell dose
      (< 2 vs ≥ 2 x 10^7 nucleated cells/kg recipient body weight). Patients are assigned to 1 of 4
      treatment groups according to disease*.

      NOTE: *Patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), secondary acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML), severe combined immunodeficiency, familial erythrophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis
      (FEL)/viral-associated hemophagocytic syndrome (VAHS), inborn errors of metabolism, aplastic
      anemia, Fanconi's anemia, or Diamond-Blackfan anemia who have an unrelated umbilical cord
      blood donor may proceed directly to transplantation.

        -  Preparative regimen:

             -  Group 1 (patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia, AML, myelodysplastic
                syndromes, or ALL): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV once daily on days -7 and
                -6. Patients then undergo total-body irradiation (TBI) twice daily on days -4 to
                -1. Patients undergoing unrelated allogeneic umbilical cord blood transplantation
                (UCBT) also receive methylprednisone IV and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) IV twice
                daily on days -2 and -1.

             -  Group 2 (patients with infant leukemia): Patients receive busulfan orally or IV
                four times daily on days -9 to -6 and melphalan IV once daily on days -4 to -2.
                Patients undergoing unrelated allogeneic UCBT also receive methylprednisolone IV
                and ATG IV twice daily on days -2 and -1.

             -  Group 3 (patients with inborn errors of metabolism): Patients receive busulfan
                orally or IV four times daily on days -9 to -6 and cyclophosphamide IV once daily
                on days -5 to -2. Patients undergoing unrelated allogeneic UCBT also receive
                methylprednisolone IV and ATG IV twice daily on days -2 and -1.

             -  Group 4 (patients with aplastic anemia): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV once
                daily on days -6 to -3 and ATG IV twice daily on days -5 and -3. Patients then
                undergo TBI once on day -2.

        -  Allogeneic UCBT: Patients undergo UCBT on day 0. Patients with inborn errors of
           metabolism receive methylprednisolone IV before and after UCBT on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive 1 of the following
           regimens:

             -  Related donor UCBT: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2 hours or orally
                beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 60.

             -  Unrelated donor UCBT and myeloablative preparative regimen: Patients receive
                cyclosporine orally or IV over 2 hours twice daily beginning on day -3 and
                continuing until day 180. Patients also receive methylprednisolone IV twice daily
                on days 5-19.

             -  Unrelated donor UCBT and nonmyeloablative preparative regimen: Patients receive
                cyclosporine IV over 2 hours or orally twice daily beginning on day -3 and
                continuing until day 180. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally
                beginning on day 5 and continuing until day 30 or 7 days after active GVHD is
                controlled.

      All patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood
      counts recover.

      Patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  