
    
      Main objective: Define the analytical concordance between dosages realized on blotting paper
      (DBS) and classic dosages after blood test for the five markers.

      Secondary objectives: Study the influence of the hématocrite, the hemoglobin, the total
      proteins on the dosages on DBS, and realize a biological collection of blood sample on DBS.

      Methods and Feasibility:

      The recruitment of the patients will be made with the Service of Geriatrics of the CHRU of
      Montpellier (Pr C. Jeandel, Dr G. Baptista), which have an important number of compatible
      patients with the number of planned patients for the study. In the standard blood results
      will be added a capillary taken which will be deposited on 3 DBS. The study of concordance of
      biological methods will include on one hand an analytical evaluation of the new methods in
      terms of reproducibility, repeatability, limit of detection and quantification. On the other
      hand, a comparison of the values of the dosages on venous taking (blood test) for normal and
      pathological values will be realized by the method of Bland and Altman associated with a
      regression of balanced Deming.

      Calendar of the study:

      M0-M6: optimization of the analytical method / M0-M3: Statutory for the clinical part (CPP..)
      M4-M16: inclusion of the patients / M6-M20: validation of the dosages on DBS M12-M24:
      valuation of the results (scientific articles, presentations, exploit the know-how)

      Perspectives :

      To be able to realize thanks to the DBS the follow-up of these biological parameters at the
      old people is a major step forward for the patients by avoiding classic blood test and by
      facilitating the preanalytical phase, making it more easily compatible with the telemedicine
      in particular, with the dosages practicable at home, in retirement home, at the doctor's
      office, with simple postal sending to analysis laboratories.
    
  