
    
      Obesity is a costly multi-etiology world disease of fat storage. Morbid obesity is defined as
      greater than 100 pounds overweight and/or greater than 200 % of ideal body weight. A commonly
      used measure of body mass is the Body Mass Index, BMI, which is the weight in kilograms
      divided by the body surface area in meters squared (kg/m²). A BMI greater than or equal to 40
      is defined as morbid obesity. Morbid obesity is associated with an extraordinarily high
      increased risk of mortality principally from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases.
      Morbidly obese patients routinely develop early hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and
      diabetes mellitus. Currently, we estimate that approximately 15% of the adult U.S. population
      is morbidly obese. Morbid obesity is certainly not solely a disease of the economically
      advantaged. In developed countries where calories are readily available and relatively
      inexpensive, morbid obesity is disproportionately noted in culturally and economically
      disadvantaged people. Most disturbing, morbid obesity is especially prevalent among lower
      socioeconomic women between the ages of 21-40 years, when such women are bearing and rearing
      children. Morbid obesity for this patient population is clearly associated with the
      "Metabolic Syndrome" including such documented medical conditions such as diabetes,
      hypertension, sleep apnea, hypercholesterolemia and ultimately early onset heart disease and
      chronic lung disease. In addition, chronic underemployment, poor housing, child abuse,
      limited education, stress and anxiety are all associated with maternal morbid obesity. These
      latter conditions leave many patients in a state of economic, social and emotional poverty
      with need for life-long welfare support. The impact on the next generation reared by these
      morbidly obese underserved minority patients is likely to be dire.

      Currently the major treatment programs available for morbid obesity including supervised
      dietary programs, pre-planned meals, positive reinforcement, and even pharmacological
      therapies are costly and have a very low permanent success rate. For patients with true
      morbid obesity a standard surgical procedure is currently the procedure of choice especially
      among patients who fail standard medical intervention.

      One of the best known international programs is Weight Watchers International. Recent studies
      have documented weight loss of greater to or equal to 5 kg over a 12 month period.

      Weight Watchers is an international company based in the United States that offers various
      products and services to assist weight loss and maintenance. It was founded in 1963 and
      operates in about 30 countries world-wide. The Weight Watcher's philosophy is to use a
      science-driven approach to help participants lose weight by forming helpful habits, eating
      smarter, getting more exercise and providing support. Weight Watchers uses the PointPlus
      System. This system is a calculation based on dietary protein, carbohydrates, fat and fiber.
      The weekly program focuses on assisting members in creating a caloric deficit to lose weight.
      The Weight Watchers Program is designed to result in a weight loss of ½ to 2 pounds per week.
      Members of Weight Watchers will be expected to go to hourly weekly meetings for selected
      topic discussions and to "weigh-in". Membership in the Weight Watchers Program includes not
      only weekly meetings, but also access to the Weight Watchers online, access to the Weight
      Watchers eTools and access to the Weight Watchers mobile applications.

      Weekly Meeting Process:

      For the half hour prior to start-times, the participant weighs in. Weight is recorded into a
      computer to track the participant's progress. The topic of the week is announced (i.e. The
      Sleep-Weight Loss Connection). The weekly topic is discussed amongst members and the
      moderator (who is a Weight Watchers lifetime member) focuses on the relationship of the topic
      to weight loss. All are encouraged to verbally participate but it is not a requirement. The
      moderator rewards members who have reached certain goals. Members also discuss their progress
      throughout the past week. At the end of the meeting, the moderator enforces the adoption of
      life-style changes to incorporate the topic of the week into daily life. Members are never
      pressured into buying informational products, but can do so if they decide to.

      The major procedures performed for morbid obesity include the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass,
      sleeve gastrectomy and laparoscopic band procedure. The sleeve gastrectomy is a permanent
      restrictive procedure without malabsorptive components which involves a single staple line
      and can be performed laparoscopically in less than one hour.

      While these surgical procedures are recognized as "standard" procedures for patient who have
      failed medical treatment and are "covered" by most health plans, access to these procedures
      is limited for the medically underserved, rural, poor or underrepresented minorities since
      national, state and municipal health plans either provide minimal coverage or no coverage at
      all for surgery for morbid obesity. Often, these patients wait years for elective bariatric
      procedures. Reimbursement to providers offering these procedures is minimal and thus access
      to bariatric surgery is unlikely within a timely fashion.

      The laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy involves the placement of 5 trocars. First, the V-shaped
      liver suspension technique (V-LIST) is used to gain a broad operative view of the
      gastroesophageal junction[11-12] and a silicone Penrose drain is inserted into the peritoneal
      cavity and stapled to the pars condensa of the lesser omentum and parietal peritoneum using
      2-0 Prolene (Ethicon) for liver retraction. The left lobe of liver is retracted with the
      V-shaped suspension technique. The greater curvature of stomach is freed beginning from 6 cm
      proximal to the pylorus to the angle of His with the harmonic scalpel (Ethicon). Care is
      taken to preserve the gastroepiploic vessels. A bougie (36-40 Fr) is placed in the stomach
      against the lesser curvature to guide the stapling. Gastric resection is performed with a
      stapler (Echelon 60, Ethicon) along a line parallel to the bougie beginning from 6 cm
      proximal to the pylorus and extending to the cardia. The remnant stomach is removed from the
      abdominal cavity by slightly enlarging the incision where the Versaport cannula has been
      placed. A leak check may be performed at the same time by insufflating with a gastroscope
      with the remnant gastric section submerged in irrigation fluid and by infusing sterile
      methylene blue through a nasogastric tube. The staple line may also be oversewn (3-0 Vicryl,
      Ethicon), only along the bleeding and leakage areas, or areas with the potential for such
      complications. A nasogastric decompression tube may be placed to monitor bleeding and an
      intraperitoneal drain placed under an anastomotic stoma.

      For the purposes of this study we will consider the following to meet the criteria of
      populations that are underserved, rural, poor and/or underrepresented:

      Medically Underserved Populations Populations that have inadequate access to, or reduced
      utilization of, high-quality cancer prevention, screening and early detection, treatment,
      and/or rehabilitation services. Included are rural, low-literacy, and low-income populations.
      An effort to clarify and further define "medically underserved" is currently underway at NIH.

      Rural The working definition of rural, taken from the U.S. Census Bureau, is somewhat vague.
      "Rural" is defined as territory, populations, and housing units not classified as "urban."
      The Census Bureau's definition of "urban" is places of 2,500 or more persons incorporated as
      cities, villages, boroughs, and towns.

      Poor (Low Income)

      The 1998 DHHS Poverty Guidelines (also referred to as the "Federal poverty level") define a
      poverty threshold as an annual income of approximately $10,000 for a single individual and an
      annual income of approximately $20,000 for a family of 4 (Federal Register 63, #36, February
      24, 1998, pp 9235-9238).

      Underrepresented Minority

      For NCI purposes, a person is an underrepresented minority if he or she belongs to a minority
      group that is underrepresented in biomedical and behavioral science careers, based on their
      minority group's representation in the total population. Using this definition and available
      data on minority representation in the health professions, science, and engineering, blacks,
      Hispanics, American Indian or Alaskan Native, and Pacific Islanders are classified as
      underrepresented minorities. Asians are not considered to be an underrepresented minority.

      The bariatric surgical procedures, including the sleeve gastrectomy, performed at UCSF by the
      principal investigator, Dr. Stanley J. Rogers, (Chief of Minimally Invasive Surgery and
      Surgical Director of Bariatric Surgery) for the past 5 years, has a documented zero percent
      mortality, a mean 98% laparoscopic completion rate and a mean duration of hospitalization
      under 3 days. The cost of these procedures also is relatively inexpensive while requiring
      less than 2 hours of surgery time.

      We propose to randomize patients to a surgical arm (sleeve gastrectomy) plus the Weight
      Watchers program or to the Weight Watchers program alone. We will employ extensive metrics to
      assess the impact of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy surgery plus Weight Watchers vs. Weight
      Watchers Program alone monitoring for 12 months the following:

      Weight reduction efficacy Self-worth assessment Health care cost Economic productivity Stress
      and anger Intergenerational impact
    
  