
    
      Ubiquitous glucose-6-phosphatase deficiency (G6PC3) and glucose-6-phosphate transporter
      deficiency (G6PT/SLC37A4) both cause neutropenia. Studies on a G6PC3 deficient mouse model by
      Dr Veiga-da-Cunha and Prof. Van Schaftingen and colleagues have shown that these two proteins
      collaborate to hydrolyze a metabolite that exerts toxic effects on neutrophils. This
      metabolite is 1,5-anhydroglucitol-6-phosphate. It is formed by phosphorylation of a glucose
      analogue, 1,5-anhydroglucitol, which is present in the blood of all humans, mice and other
      mammals.

      This discovery of the function of G6PC3 and G6PT opens up therapeutic prospects, in that
      lowering the concentration of 1,5-anhydroglucitol in the blood should reduce the
      concentration of 1,5-anhydroglucitol-6-phosphate in the cells and thus reduce its toxic
      effects. Veiga-da-Cunha, Van Schaftingen and colleagues have already shown that this is the
      case for a model of mice deficient in G6PC3 treated with empagliflozin .

      Following these discoveries, the aim of the investigator's experiment is to test the effect
      of the efficacy of empagliflozin on urinary excretion and elimination of blood
      1,5-anhydroglucitol in patients with glucose-6-phosphate transporter deficiency (type Ib
      glycogenosis) and patients with G6PC3 deficiency. This should allow patients to significantly
      lower the level of 1,5-anhydroglucitol-6-phosphate found in their neutrophils and thus cure
      their neutropenia.

      Empagliflozin (marketed in Belgium under the name of Jardiance®) belongs to the class of
      drugs called oral hypoglycemic agents. It works on the kidney by inhibiting the glucose
      transporter in the proximal tubules, SGLT2, which leads to glucosuria that results in the
      elimination of 1,5-anhydroglucitol in the urine. At present, Empagliflozin alone or in
      combination with other drugs is commonly used in people with type 2 diabetes to control their
      blood sugar levels.
    
  