
    
      Background The metabolic syndrome constitutes a cluster of risk factors for cardiovascular
      disease with increased morbidity and mortality. In essence the metabolic syndrome is referred
      to as a concomitant occurrence of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, impaired glucose tolerance
      with insulin resistance and abdominal obesity. The presence of abdominal obesity seems to be
      a key factor in development of the metabolic derangements that occur and is a part of all
      different definitions that are currently used as diagnostic criteria's for the metabolic
      syndrome. A number of studies have verified a serious prognosis for males (and females)
      presenting with the abdominal obesity.

      The term metabolic syndrome alludes to a common mechanism behind the development of the
      different sings of this condition but so far the etiological interrelationship is not known.
      In males with the metabolic syndrome low serum testosterone levels is a common finding and
      data from some longitudinal studies suggest that low testosterone levels precedes the
      development of abdominal obesity and seem to facilitate later development of hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia and hyperglycemia. A few smaller studies have tested the hypothesis that
      testosterone therapy may have a beneficial metabolic effect in males with the metabolic
      syndrome and implicated that low testosterone levels is a part of disease facilitating
      factors in these males.

      Current study The current study "ARTinMMS" is an interventional phase IV study in males
      (30-70 years inclusive) with early stages of the metabolic syndrome defined as abdominal
      obesity, glucose intolerance or overt type 2 diabetes defined according to the criteria's
      suggested by the International Federation for Diabetes. The study is a 24 weeks randomized
      placebo controlled parallel group multi-centre study where males with serum testosterone
      levels below 12 nmol/L will be treated with testosterone/placebo (total duration of study
      including follow-up visit 26-27 weeks). The primary endpoint of the study is assessment of
      insulin sensitivity by measurement of fasting plasma glucose and insulin levels and
      calculated according to the QUICKI formula. In addition glucose tolerance will be tested with
      a standard oral glucose tolerance test as well as assessment of blood lipids and blood
      pressure.

      A total of 176 males will be recruited and randomized for the study after a screening
      procedure to verify eligibility for the study. Males who can participate must fulfil a series
      of inclusion and exclusion criteria, which in addition to the metabolic syndrome and low
      testosterone levels require HbA1c levels below 7,5%, stable blood pressure control and
      cholesterol levels below 8 mmol/L. Medical treatment for these conditions are accepted but
      diabetes treatment is limited to metformin.

      Before entering into the study and during the study males will be followed with blood tests
      and glucose tolerance assessment and physical examination. In all the study requires five
      clinical visits, Base-line observations and randomization visit, two visits during the
      treatment phase (after 12 and 23 weeks of therapy) and a follow-up visit after cessation of
      therapy.

      A few exploratory variables will be assess such as markers for changes in cholesterol
      metabolism, adiponectin and all subjects in the study will be characterized with genotype
      analysis of CAG repeat polymorphism of the androgen receptor. A subset of patients will be
      examined with CT of the abdomen to assess eventual changes in intra abdominal fat mass and
      liver attenuation.

      Safety procedures involve assessment of the prostate (digital rectal examination and PSA
      levels) and Hb levels at baseline and throughout the study.

      Study medication Males enrolled in the study will be treated with daily application of 7,5 g
      of a 1% testosterone hydroalcoholic gel (75 mg of testosterone applied on specified skin
      sites) or a placebo gel.

      Time plan The study is planned to start in q2 2007 at 12 different centres, in Austria,
      Germany and Sweden. Each centre is anticipated to recruit 10 -30 subjects during a 2 months
      period. To facilitate recruitment newspaper advertising and web based eligibility screening
      will be used if feasible. After an 1-3 weeks screening period eligible subjects are
      randomized to active or placebo therapy. Two evaluations are made during the treatment phase
      the first after 12 and the second after 24 weeks. Efficacy and safety assessments are
      performed at these visits. Competitive enrolment is used after the first six weeks of the
      recruitment period enabling all centres to recruit an up-front agreed number of subjects.

      Data capturing and laboratory routines A centralized internet based system will be used for
      data capturing, communication with the study staff and automatic entry of laboratory data.
      All laboratory analysis will be performed at or through a core laboratory (LFK in Kiel). A
      paper CRF will be used for primary entry of patient data which are subsequently transcribed
      into an electronic CRF. All study centres will be trained during the investigators meeting in
      management of the data capturing system
    
  