
    
      The investigators examine the efficacy of an online Social Intelligence Intervention (SII) at
      improving the health and well-being of custodial grandmothers (CGMs) and their adolescent
      custodial grandchildren (ACG) through mutual enhancement of their social competencies. This
      target population is of particular importance because both CGMs and ACG experience
      significant early life adversities that lead to hypervigilance of others, mistrust, social
      isolation, interpersonal conflict, and the inability to garner warmth and support from family
      and friends. Numerous studies have shown that these relational challenges within "risky
      families" often lead to life-long interpersonal difficulties that increase the probability of
      behavioral and physical health problems. Furthermore, adolescence is a key period for the
      development of social competence, which is influenced by supportive caregiving and positive
      modeling from female parent figures. However, because the ability of CGMs to carry out this
      intergenerational transmission of social skills is challenged, examining joint social
      intelligence training for CGM-ACG dyads is valuable for reversing this negative sequela. Yet,
      to date, no other investigators have done so. To address this gap, ant an online randomized
      clinical trial will be conducted with 340 nationally-recruited CGM-ACG (ages 12-18) dyads
      assigned to either the SII or an attention control condition. Data will be obtained at pre-
      and post-test, and at 3-, 6-, and 9-month follow-ups via questionnaires completed by phone.
      Daily dairies will be collected online from 170 randomly selected dyads, and qualitative
      interviews will be conducted with 60 dyads to probe how the SII affected their daily social
      competence and social ties. We will obtain quantitative and qualitative measures of key
      social cognitive processes, quality of close interpersonal ties, psychological well-being,
      and physical health. Administrative medical, criminal, and education records for all 340
      dyads will also be obtained for cost-benefit analyses that examine changes in burden on
      public systems. These mixed-methods allow rigorous examination of four specific aims: (1) To
      investigate if the SII enhances social competencies that, in turn, produce long-term changes
      in relationship quality, well-being, and physical health; this includes determining if
      increased social competence in one dyad member leads to partner effects in the other; (2) To
      examine if cumulative risk, gender, and age moderate SII efficacy; (3) To study qualitatively
      how CGM-ACG dyads view the SII as having changed their social competencies and yielded
      positive outcomes; and (4) To assess the financial benefits of the SII to participants and
      their communities. These aims address a highly significant public health problem that will
      inform future efforts to support a wide range of high risk families, like custodial
      grandfamilies, who typically have insufficient access to formal support services. This SII is
      advantageous because it is inexpensive, delivered online, non-stigmatizing, and capable of
      reaching a target population that is geographically disperse and greatly in need of
      supportive programming.
    
  