
    
      Postoperative acute renal failure is a serious complication resulting in a prolonged stay and
      high mortality. Acute renal failure (ARF) develops in 5 to 30% of patients who undergo
      surgery, and for all causes, it is associated with mortality rates of 60-90%. Despite
      advances in supportive care and innovations in renal replacement therapies over the past
      three decades, the mortality rate for these patients remains high. In the previous analysis
      of NSARF (National Taiwan University Hospital-Surgical Intense Care Unit- acute renal failure
      database), the mortality rate of acute renal failure patients in SICU is 66.4%, dialysis
      dependent rate after ARF is 5% and renal recovery rate is 28.6%. Therefore, the issue
      concerned is to increase the survival rate and renal recovery rate after acute renal failure.

      Perioperative ischemic reperfusion injury may result in acute renal failure (ARF), from which
      patients can invariably recover. However, there remains a large number of patients whose
      kidneys fail to recover from ARF, and therefore long-term dialysis is required. The
      dys-regulation of the inflammatory response in critically ill patients has been implicated as
      an important mechanism underlying the development of multiple organ system dysfunction,
      septic shock, and death. Furthermore, an increase in oxidative stress is considered an
      important pathogenic mechanism in the development of ischemic and toxic renal tubular injury.
      We hypothesize that extensive immune dys-regulation and increased oxidative stress might be
      an important factor leading to ARF, and/or associated with their all-cause mortality in
      critically ill patients.

      In this study, we will find out (1) first year, the relationship between cytokine storm and
      free radical storm with urine output during post-surgical ARF, and the effect of renal
      replacement therapy on serum cytokines and free radical level (2) 2nd year, the difference
      outcome between low low-efficient daily dialysis (SLEDD), and low low-efficient daily
      dialysis-hemofiltration (SLEDD-f), the pharmacokinetics of the SLEDD (3) the 3rd year, we
      sill established the disease severity score of post-operative ARF patients. (NSARF score) and
      focus on long-term outcomes for survivors of postoperative ARF. From diagnosis to prognosis,
      we will incorporate important markers of disease diagnosis, treatment and long term outcome.
      Finally, we hope to improve the mortality and the life quality of postoperative ARF.
    
  