
    
      Microsurgical toe transfer has become a gold standard option for amputated digit
      reconstruction. It can be used to correct almost any thumb defect. However, for optimal
      functional and esthetic results, proper initial care, preoperative planning, proper selection
      of suitable techniques, adjunct or secondary procedures and proper, postoperative
      rehabilitation are important.

      The transfer of a toe to replace an amputated thumb represents one of the first applications
      of microsurgical techniques, yet to this day remains an epitome of reconstructive surgery,
      restoring critical function and form to the hand-injured patient. While techniques have
      greatly evolved to permit the treatment of multiple finger amputations, dystrophic nails and
      pulps, and traumatized or arthritic joint, the amputated thumb retains its status among the
      most indubitable indications for toe transfer. Microsurgical techniques have been refined to
      such a degree that almost any ablative deformity of the thumb could be corrected with some
      form of toe transfer. The question, therefore, is not if a defect could be reconstructed, but
      whether the patient is willing to undergo reconstruction. The concepts of "adequate function"
      and "optimal function" are therefore of central importance when discussing treatment options
      with a patient. Obviously, these parameters will be different for each patient depending upon
      his/her vocation, avocations, and desires. For many people, adequate function might be
      expected with an amputation that retains some length of the proximal phalanx (assuming
      sufficient soft tissue coverage is present or can be provided). However, for patients who
      require full length of their thumb, or who desire optimal rather than adequate function, toe
      transfer should be considered.

      At present, the decision to use a particular toe transfer technique is mostly based on the
      surgeon's preference and training. The current data are inadequate to make any comments with
      regards to donor site morbidity. Till such data are available, an evidence-based
      recommendation for the superiority of a specific type of toe-to-thumb transfer cannot be
      made. We hypothesis that partial toe transfer provides the best aesthetic and functional
      reconstruction and the least donor site morbidity amongst all other types of transfers.
    
  