
    
      Septic shock is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Early Goal Directed therapy,
      fluid resuscitation, use of vasopressors and/or inotropes, and appropriate empiric antibiotic
      administration remain the cornerstone of therapy in the treatment of septic shock. Despite
      aggressive interventions, the death rate from septic shock in North America remains as high
      as 50 percent.

      Septic shock is defined as severe sepsis with hypotension not reversed by adequate fluid
      resuscitation. This state of distributive shock often results in hypo-perfusion of all major
      organ systems, including the kidneys, and is a common cause of multi-organ failure. Acute
      renal failure in the setting of septic shock often leads clinicians to adjust dosing of
      empiric antibiotics according to the apparent renal function. Renally adjusted antibiotic
      dosing in septic shock may be insufficient for several reasons. First, renal failure
      secondary to hypoperfusion often reverses following fluid resuscitation and vasopressor use,
      leading to subsequent under dosing. Second, a hypoperfusion state theoretically results in a
      reduction in the amount of antibiotic delivered to the site of infection. Lastly, for drugs
      with large volumes of distribution or prolonged half lives, large initial doses are required
      to quickly to achieve therapeutic concentrations.

      To date, no studies have attempted to answer this important question by comparing standard
      doses to renally adjusted doses of empiric antibiotics in patients with both septic shock and
      renal dysfunction during the initial resuscitative period. Currently there is no uniform
      practice among clinicians with respect to antibiotic dosing, which reflects the paucity of
      evidence in this area. Some clinicians currently use full dosing of antibiotics in the
      setting of septic shock with acute renal failure while others adjust the dose based on renal
      function. Well designed, prospective, randomized controlled trials are urgently needed to
      clarify the role of antibiotic adjustment during the resuscitative period of septic shock.

      The objective of this study is to determine the feasibility of conducting a large scale
      randomized controlled trial comparing standard and renally adjusted dosage of antibiotics in
      the septic shock patients with acute renal dysfunction. We will use Tazocin as the prototype
      antibiotic in our study.
    
  