
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (>= partial response [PR]) of pembrolizumab in
      combination with standard doses of ixazomib citrate (ixazomib) and dexamethasone, in patients
      with relapsed symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the >= very good partial response (VGPR) and complete response (CR) rate of
      pembrolizumab added to standard doses of ixazomib and dexamethasone in relapsed myeloma.

      II. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with
      relapsed MM following treatment with the combination of pembrolizumab, ixazomib and
      dexamethasone.

      III. To determine the toxicities associated with pembrolizumab added to standard doses of
      ixazomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed MM.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH:

      I. PDL-1 expression on myeloma cells and non-tumor cell compartments from the bone marrow
      will be assessed at baseline.

      II. Measures of T-cell activation/exhaustion will be assessed at baseline and after cycle 1
      and cycle 3.

      III. Natural killer (NK) cell function and numbers will be evaluated at baseline and after
      cycle 1 and cycle 3.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, 29, 36, 43, 57, 64, and 71
      and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 22, 43, 64. Patients also
      receive dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, 29, 36, 43, 57, 64, and 71. Cycles with
      dexamethasone repeat every 84 days for up to 1 year and cycles with ixazomib citrate and
      pembrolizumab repeat every 84 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until
      progressive disease, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    
  