
    
      1. After the Informed Consent is signed, the research assistant supervises administration
           of the baseline questionnaire via ACASI. In ACASI, the questions are seen on the
           computer screen and heard through earphones simultaneously. This technique has been
           shown to enhance the accuracy of any reported non-normative behavior by the relative
           privacy and anonymity it affords. It is expected to take about 30 minutes.

        2. Participants are seen for one-on-one HIV counseling for approximately 20 minutes by
           counselors briefed to the study according to the protocol described in the attached
           document "Scripts Florida Study.doc" (hereinafter "the Scripts document").

        3. After the counseling session, participants will watch a 20-minute video delivering one
           of the experimental or control meta-intervention messages, which are more fully
           described in the Scripts document.

        4. The self-reporting of expectations and intentions that we need to elicit at this point
           may have a confounding effect on the retention that the study hopes to measure.
           Therefore, half of the participants will skip the next step and half will complete it,
           to allow us to assess the actual effect of this self-report measure on retention while
           studying if these measures mediate retention.

        5. The half of the participants reporting expectations will report their expectations and
           intentions for further counseling, via a 10-minute ACASI questionnaire. The
           questionnaire is designed to distinguish the dimensions of social/emotional,
           instrumental and empowering expectations.

        6. At the end of the first 70-80 minute session, the counselor schedules the follow-up
           appointments.

        7. Customary phone reminders are issued two days before each 20-minute follow-up session,
           as is routine for medical and counseling appointments.

        8. The study counselor does the following at each follow-up session:

             -  Records the participant's attendance or absence on the Counselor's Questionnaire.

             -  For attending participants, the study counselor rates their attention to the
                counseling on the Counselor's Questionnaire.

             -  The RA in charge of video presentation rates attention to the videos.

             -  At the end of the second session, the study counselor double-checks the third
                appointment with the participant, and reschedules if necessary.

        9. A detailed description of the two follow-up sessions is found in the attached document
           titled "Counselor Guidelines (2nd and 3rd sessions). The questions and statements
           therein will be delivered and answered verbally.

       10. At the end of the third session, participants who did not answer the questionnaire in
           Step 5 will answer a similar questionnaire about their reactions to the
           meta-intervention video.

       11. All participants will be fully debriefed. Non-attendees will be called and debriefed
           either by phone or in person based on their preferences.
    
  