
    
      There has been extended research to improve the techniques and develop better and more
      reliable methods for diagnosing and treating BPPV efficiently. An important part in this
      technique evolution is the development of biaxial rotational chairs that can treat the
      patients regardless of other health problems.

      Mechanical assistance chairs have been designed to diagnose, differentiate and treat more
      precisely all forms of positional vertigo. The patient is strapped to a chair and fitted with
      infrared video goggles which identify and quantify the nystagmus in different positions. Dr.
      John M. Epley developed the Epley Omniax System, an automated, power driven, multi axial
      patient positioning device that can move the patient into any position to treat the affected
      canal. This chair is electronically managed. Another mechanical assistance chair, the TRV
      chair, developed by Thomas Richard-Vitton in Marseille France, became commercially available
      in 2005. This chair has a vertical and a horizontal axis of rotation and is lockable in
      preset positions. It is manually handled and can swivel between two axes in all planes of the
      semicircular canals for up to 360 degrees or more. Velocity of rotation can be regulated
      freely.

      The TRV chair is used by 34 centers worldwide today. Bergen (Norway) was the first place in
      North-Europe to acquire this chair, and have used it since December 2009. In 2013
      Rigshospitalet Denmark started using the TRV chair as well and Oslo University Hospital
      Rikshospitalet, will have their chair in 2013. The TRV chair opens for treatment that
      previously was not possible.

      The aim of this study is to:

        -  Evaluate the presence of positional nystagmus in the normal population

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of D-BBC treatment compared to S-BBC for treatment of lateral
           canal BPPV in TRV chair

        -  Examine the serum level of vitamin D in BPPV patients

        -  Give a detailed description of the method.
    
  