
    
      50 patients with pathology diagnosed melanoma will be enrolled for the clinical study. If
      agree to take part in this study, the patient will be performed with 18F-P3BZA PET/CT scan
      and 18F-FDG PET/CT scan in the other day before and after surgery. Next, all of the resected
      tissues from the patients will be checked with pathology.

      6 of 50 patients are performed for whole-body PET scans at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, and 120 minutes
      and a CT scan at 60 minutes after tracer injection (mean dose, 5.0 ± 0.5 mCi in 2.0 ± 0.5ml)
      will be performed. During the imaging period, 1 mL blood samples will be obtained for
      time-activity curve calculations at 1, 5, 10, 30,60, 90, 120, and 180 minutes after
      injection. The estimated radiation doses will be calculated by using OLINDA/EXM software.

      The images produced by these scans will be compared to see the diagnosis value of 18F-P3BZA.

      Screening Tests:

      Women who decide to take part in this study will be asked if they think they might be
      pregnant at the start of the study. All of them must have a negative blood pregnancy test
      (Human chorionic gonadotropin, HCG).

      PET-CT Scan Procedure:

      Before the PET-CT scan is performed, patient will be asked to remove any metallic objects
      when she/he arrive at the PET-CT Center. After a property rest, he/she will be injected with
      about 5mCi 18F-P3BZA. The first scan will take at 60 minutes after injection and a delay scan
      will take at 120 minutes after injection. Each PET/CT scan will take about 20 minutes.

      After 18F-P3BZA scan, the patient will be asked to avoid stressful exercise. Starting about
      12 hours before 18F-FDG scan, he/she will be asked to limit the amount of carbohydrates until
      the scans are done.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      Patients' primary care physician will follow-up them for next 24 hours. After then, they may
      order additional imaging or surgical results after this study for follow-up purposes. The
      study doctor will review these results to compare them with the PET-CT images. The study
      doctors will also review the results of any biopsies you may have had as a result of PET-CT
      findings.

      This is an investigational study. PET-CT and CT scans are FDA approved and commercially
      available.
    
  