
    
      More than 11 million women in the United States suffer from stress urinary incontinence
      (SUI), the involuntary leakage of urine during everyday activities that put temporary stress
      on the abdomen and bladder, such as laughing, coughing, and walking. For women with SUI, this
      pressure often causes urine to leak involuntarily. SUI affects women of all ages including
      young mothers, pre-menopausal women, and seniors, and can result in significant emotional
      distress. Current solutions for SUI include disposable pads, behavioral treatment (pelvic
      floor physical therapy) and surgical intervention. Patients with SUI who failed conservative
      treatment and wish to be further treated by a surgery may require further work-up by
      urodynamic study in which abdominal leak point pressures (ALPP) defined and reflect the
      severity of SUI.

      There is continuous need to develop less invasive treatments for SUI that could minimize the
      use of pads, could be an alternative to painful, costly surgical procedure. The Trendlines
      Group lab solution is a non-surgical alternative in the treatment of SUI. The concept of the
      future treatment solution is based on simple physics: injecting a small amount of air into
      the urinary bladder, which eliminates or greatly reduces involuntary urinary leakage. The air
      bubble acts as a "shock absorber" to reduce the temporary pressure increase in the bladder
      that causes urinary leakage. The concept for the new treatment has been tested in a lab
      environment using lab jig tests and pig urinary system (bladder and urethra). The lab tests
      showed significant improvement in the bladder pressure when the treatment was implemented by
      suspending the stress pressure to a level that will not cause urine leakage.

      Following positive results of this proof of concept study we could plan further innovative
      device to treat SUI in women.
    
  