
    
      Biologics have revolutionized rheumatoid arthritis (RA) management, with a great impact on
      patient that justifies treatment with these high-cost drugs. Nevertheless, timing and proper
      therapeutic decision making remain the main challenge in clinical practice.

      Pharmacogenetics approach might open promising perspectives, increasing our understanding on
      genetic-related drug efficacy. Nevertheless, to ensure feasibility and reliability of
      translational applications of this strategy in clinical practice, large population-based
      research studies represent a crucial key step.

      Objectives

      Major aim of this project is the building-up of an integrated model of multidisciplinary
      research tools to support large-scale and high-quality disease-based studies. The main
      targets of this proposal will be:

        -  to develop a disease-based biobank, integrated with already established Emilia-Romagna
           regional RA Registry, providing a large-scale prospective collection and storing of
           multiple biological samples

        -  to perform a pharmacogenetic study analyzing a panel of gene variants potentially
           influencing the response to Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) blockers. Methods

        -  Biobank development. A step-wise plan will be considered for: designing biobank
           governance frame-work, defining Standard Operating Procedures, implementing information
           system resources. All these procedures will be applied for collecting, processing and
           storing biological samples of patients included in regional RA registry.

        -  Pharmacogenetic study. A panel of candidate gene variants will be studied in genomic DNA
           from 300 patients enrolled in the regional RA registry. The association between
           genotypes and response to biological drugs will be assessed by data-mining approach, and
           a predictive model will be defined. Expected Results This proposal will create a
           disease-based biobank, tightly integrated with the already established Emilia-Romagna
           regional RA Registry, and pave the way towards personalized therapy applications in
           Rheumatology.
    
  