
    
      Recently the investigators reported the association between childhood trauma and refractory
      depression, which related to Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF). Even though level of
      peripheral BDNF is closely related to depression treatment, the investigators still have
      little idea on role of BDNF. In this research, the investigators are going to find the
      genetic variation affecting treatment response and process, figure out specific role of BDNF
      in depressive patient correlated with Neuroimaging. Along with BDNF, many kinds of
      proinflammatory cytokine showed increased amount related to depressive patient. Leptin,
      adiponectin, and plasma tryptohphan are also seen to be related to response of depression.
      Here, the investigators are trying to see specific difference on neuroimaging shown in
      depressive patient related to peripheral marker. The investigators will evaluate the 36
      depressive patients compared to 24 normal control. For depressive patients, after excluding
      other bipolar spectrum disorder, psychotic disorder, other neurocognitive disorder, subjects
      who have organic brain lesion, tested as HAM D score above 16, will be included in this
      research. As a psychiatric evaluation, the investigators will do the MINI International
      Psychiatric Interview Plus (MINI Plus), Suicidal ideation evaluation, Hamilton Depression
      Inventory 17 (HAM D 17), Hamilton Anxiety Inventory (HAM A) to get the information of their
      clinical severity. As a neuroimaging evaluation, the investigators will do the magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion tensor imaging and amyloid Positron Emission
      Tomography(PET) to see the specific deposition. For peripheral marker for inflammation and
      other neurotrophic factor, the investigators will do the platelet BDNF level,and other
      pre-inflammatory factors. The investigators will also check for genotyping for BDNF. For
      follow up evaluation, the investigators will keep up the psychiatric evaluation with HAM D,
      HAM A and peripheral proteinomic evaluation with platelet BDNF level, and other
      pro-inflammatory cytokines.

      This research will figure out the correlation between neurotrophic factor as BDNF, and
      inflammatory factor seen in peripheral blood assay with treatment response in depression.
      Also the investigators are trying to integrate the peripheral change along with BDNF
      genotyping and specific change seen in neuroimaging. Replicating this research with high
      statistical power would be promising to find 'reliable peripheral marker for prognosis of
      depression'.
    
  