
    
      Background: Respecting patients' preferences for treatment is a key component of high quality
      end of life care. Alberta Health Services (AHS) has developed tools for public, patient and
      healthcare provider (HCP) engagement and education (such as guidebooks, videos, and HCP
      training modules) to support widespread engagement in advance care planning (ACP) and
      determining Goals of Care Designation (GCD). However, none of these knowledge translation
      (KT) tools have been validated and they have not been tailored to reflect barriers in the
      local context.

      ACP is defined as a communication process where people plan for a time when they cannot make
      medical decisions for themselves. It includes thinking about and communicating their
      preferences for future healthcare, which can include conversations with family and healthcare
      providers, choosing and documenting an alternate decision maker, and/or documenting
      preferences for healthcare for use in the event that person loses capacity for medical
      decision-making. These discussions can occur both informally and formally. Goals of Care
      Designations (GCD) are medical orders of care that (a) serve as a communication tool for HCP
      to assist in rapid decision making; and (b) guide HCP and patients regarding the general
      intent and locations of care, and interventions that are to be provided. Decisions about
      goals of care usually arise over time through conversations between patients, family members
      and the health care team.

      This randomized controlled trial (RCT) will focus on the two Conversations Matter Video
      decision-aids developed by AHS for people and their families. The first video is an 8-minute
      video that describes the 5-steps of the ACP process. The second video is a 8-minute video
      that illustrates the resuscitative, medical and comfort levels of care outlined in the
      Alberta GCD policy.

      Scope: This protocol relates to two of the research activities designed to evaluate the
      impact of ACP/GCD. The first is an RCT to evaluate the effectiveness of two videos about ACP
      and GCD. Participants will be recruited from settings where ACP should ideally be occurring,
      and where data on ACP implementation is presently most lacking. The overall aim of the RCT is
      to evaluate and refine these existing knowledge translation (KT) tools to optimize the
      quality and frequency of patient education about and engagement in ACP and determining goals
      of care.

      The second activity measures the economic impact of the Videos in these patient populations.
      A significant proportion of health care resources are consumed at end of life. ACP, which
      emphasizes discussions, combined with GCD, may have a greater impact than advance directives
      alone. To be clear, the primary goal of ACP is not about cost containment, but rather, to
      shift a culture of care toward a patient- and family-centered approach to medical
      decision-making. Prospective data collection and analysis will give insight into personal and
      intangible costs. It will allow for relatively precise measurement of health care savings,
      and thereby inform health care systems on anticipated savings and prescribe shift of funding
      necessary for appropriate resourcing in parts of the health care system that may see
      increased activity because of ACP, while also improving quality of patient-centred outcomes.

      Methods: The RCT will be an in-person intervention and survey at baseline, follow-up
      telephone survey at one month and two months, and in-person survey at three months. At
      baseline, researchers will assess function and ask about demographic information, quality of
      life, advance care planning (ACP), and goals of care (GC) preferences and goals of care
      designation orders (GCD). Participants will then be randomized between two arms:

        1. control or "usual care"; and

        2. intervention whereby participant views two videos about ACP and GCD, respectively
           (Videos).

      Surveys will be administered by research staff. The baseline intervention and survey will
      take approximately 30 to 65 minutes, depending on which arm the participant is randomized to,
      and be collected from up to 240 participants. At one, two and three months, follow up surveys
      will be administered to collect data about health care services utilized, health care costs
      incurred, and discussions about ACP and GC with their health care providers, lawyers,
      financial advisors and/or clergy in the preceding month. The one and two month surveys will
      be approximately 10-20 minutes in length. Three-month follow-up surveys will collect data
      about ACP, GC preferences and GCD and will be approximately 20-40 minutes in length.
      Researchers will also collect data from participants' electronic medical health records about
      their diagnosis and co-morbidities, health services utilization and costs at 12 months prior
      to baseline, baseline and approximately 12 months after baseline.

      Objectives:

        1. Determine the effectiveness of the Videos by comparing the change from baseline to 1, 2
           and 3 months of the number of participants who have had a conversation with a health
           care provider about ACP or GCD between two groups, namely: those who receive no
           intervention (usual care) and those who watch the Videos.

        2. Determine the cost and economic consequences of the Videos by comparing the change from
           12 months prior to baseline to and including baseline, to 1 month, 2, months, 3 months
           and 12 months following baseline in health care utilization and costs between the two
           groups described in Objective 1.
    
  