
    
      The patients will be given information on the study by the medical personnel of the
      Radiotherapy Department in connection with the planning of the RT schedule (approximately 1-2
      weeks prior to the start of RT). If they are interested in participating in the study, the
      potential study candidates will be given the Patient Information sheet including the
      Declaration of Informed Consent, with the request that they reread the information carefully
      and if they consent to the conditions return the signed declaration when they attend the next
      appointment. The patients will be given the opportunity to ask the study staff further
      questions. Among the preconditions for participation in the study is the condition that no
      metastatic spinal cord compression (tumor distance > 3 mm to myelon) of the metastasized
      vertebral body is detected in MRI recorded in the course of planning procedure. A block
      randomization procedure shall be used to ensure the even distribution of the patients into
      the two intervention groups, stratified to baseline pain level. The patients shall then be
      assigned 1:1 to one of the two treatment groups on the basis of the baseline measurements.
      The randomization procedure shall be carried out by a central office. The study personnel
      responsible for the recruitment and baseline measurements shall have no access to the
      randomization list, and the study director no influence on the recruitment of the patients.
      The recruitment phase shall be concluded with the attainment of the planned number of
      patients (60 patients in total). It shall last twelve months, and is scheduled to start in
      December 2014. Regular study participation shall end six months after enrolment into the
      study or, where applicable, with the respective patient's death. The aim of the trial was to
      evaluate the pain relief after RT of patients with spinal bone metastases. Thereby two
      different techniques were evaluated: single fraction IMRT with 1 x 24 Gy versus fractionated
      RT with 10 x 3 Gy. The primary endpoint was defined as pain relief > 2 points according to
      visual analog scale (VAS) measured at the irradiated region up to three months after the end
      of RT (t2). Secondary endpoints were quality of life (QoL), fatigue, pain, overall survival,
      bone survival, local control, pathological fracture, and neurological deficit. The baseline
      examination shall be carried out on the first day of radiotherapy prior to the start of
      therapy and is scheduled to comprise the comprehensive recording of the sociodemographic
      data, the recording of the current pain situation, the fear of suffering fractures, the
      quality of life, and the current degree of fatigue. The follow-up examinations shall take
      place after the end of radiotherapy (day of the last fraction) and twelve weeks and six
      months after radiotherapy, measuring those parameters recorded at the baseline examination.
      The further follow-up examinations shall correspond to those carried out as standard
      after-care investigations.

      The secondary endpoints such as fatigue, quality of life, and anxiety shall be recorded using
      validated questionnaires (EORTC QLQ FA13 (11), EORTC QLQ BM22 (12) and the questionnaire to
      record stress in cancer patients (FBK) according to Book et al. (13). All patients will also
      be asked to record their pain history using a pain diary (documentation of medication daily
      during treatment, once weekly after the end of treatment, VAS pain scale). Furthermore, the
      local control was assessed by means of CT images taken prior to, three and six months after
      RT. The pain response was documented on the VAS (range 0-10). Complete response (CR) was
      defined as VAS = 0 after three and six months, partial response (PR) as an improvement by at
      least two score points after three and six months, according to the international consensus
      response categories by Chow et al. (14). Overall survival (OS) was defined as time from
      initial diagnosis until death, bone survival as time from initial diagnosis of spinal bone
      metastasis until death.

      Radiotherapy Immobilization was assessed with Aquaplast head mask®, vacuum mattress and
      Wingstep®. On the basis of the planning-CT risk organs and clinical target volume (CTV) were
      contoured. CTV confirmed planning target volume (PTV). The dose of PTV occured at the
      80%-isodose, encircling the PTV. The RT procedure in group A was conducted as IMRT
      (Tomotherapy or Step-and-shoot IMRT) 24 Gy in a single-fraction occured at the 80%-isodose.
      In group B, RT was performed as irradiation of the involved vertebral body as well as the
      ones immediately above and below to a total-dose of 30 Gy with a single daily dose of 3 Gy
      using 6 MV individually-formed beams (Linac, multileaf collimator) after CT-scan based 3D
      planning. The tolerance doses of organs at risk were used according RTOG 0631 study.
    
  