
    
      This is a two part pilot study, with the initial phase (Aim 1 and Aim 2) being a
      cross-sectional epidemiological analysis of Clostridium difficile colonization and anti-toxin
      antibodies in the IBD population compared to non-IBD patients.

      The second phase (Aim 3) is a pilot nested case-control study that will follow both groups of
      patients prospectively for 12 months to see who develops either colonization or active CDI
      and correlate these to clinical demographics and serum Clostridium difficile anti-toxin
      antibodies.

      All subjects age eighteen and older who are able to give consent, have a diagnosis of
      inflammatory bowel disease (see clinical definition of IBD below) and are followed in the
      Center for Digestive Disease (CDD) are eligible for this study. Control subjects will also be
      followed in the CDD without a diagnosis of IBD. All subjects will be recruited from routine
      scheduled visits when seen as outpatients at the CDD or will be identified from the inpatient
      Gastroenterology consult service or at the Internal Medicine Department at Shapiro as part of
      Dr. Qazi's rotation(see recruitment section).

      Subjects will be recruited in a block fashion to minimize confounding variables and ensure
      groups with equal amount of diarrhea and to keep a 3:1 ratio of IBD to controls. Subject will
      be recruited on a consecutive basis in a block of 32 slots. Within that block, 8 slots will
      be for the control group (4 with diarrhea, 4 without) and 24 IBD patients (12 with diarrhea,
      12 without). Once all slots are filled then the next block will begin.

      For Aim 1 and Aim 2: Upon enrollment subjects from both groups will provide blood and stool
      samples (details of amount and timing discussed below) and a retrospective chart review will
      document pre-determined data (as listed below). Total time requirement upon enrollment would
      be about 10-15 minutes.

      For Aim 3: This is an intention-to-treat analysis; control subjects who become diagnosed with
      IBD during the study period will be kept in the control group. Patients will be followed for
      a 12 month period:

      If during that time there is no CDI then there will be no further study visits, only data
      review at the end of the study period.

      If a subject develops diarrhea in either group, treatment will be per standard of care
      (detailed below) and research team will be alerted by primary Gastroenterologist or GI
      consult team. If deemed appropriate by clinical team stool will be sent for C diff (per SOC)
      and if positive, then repeat blood samples for anti-toxin titers may be collected (for
      research purposes). At the end of the 12 month study period data will be reviewed.
    
  