
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The field work of the baseline or prevalence phase of the Gubbio Study on the Epidemiology of
      Hypertension was conducted between March 1983 and December 1985. The population sample
      included all individuals age 5 and over residing in the town of Gubbio. The survey involved a
      standardized comprehensive examination focussed on traits previously shown to be related to
      hypertensive and/or other adult cardiovascular diseases, and on other traits of current
      concern as possible risk factors. This latter category included measurement of red blood cell
      electrolyte concentrations and fluxes, particularly sodium-stimulated lithium
      countertransport. The study was planned, organized, and conducted by the Merck, Sharp and
      Dohme Center for Epidemiologic Research in cooperation with Gubbio civic and medical leaders,
      and with laboratory facilities in Gubbio, Naples, and Rome.

      Follow-up examinations were conducted in the Centro di Medicina Preventiva in Gubbio which
      was furnished and equipped by Merck, Sharp and Dohme of Rome, Italy. Additional work was
      conducted at the Center for Epidemiologic Research of Merck, Sharp and Dohme in Rome, at the
      University of Naples, and at Northwestern University in Chicago.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This prospective study re-examined the 5,500 residents of Gubbio who took part in the Gubbio
      Population Study in 1983-1985. The data collected on follow-up focused mainly on factors
      related to change in blood pressure and development of hypertension and included standard
      physical examination, height, weight, girth, blood pressure, medical history and family
      medical history, urine collection for study of electrolyte excretion, venipuncture, 12-lead
      electrocardiogram, m-mode echocardiogram, pulse, skinfold measurement, carbon monoxide
      content of exhaled breath, sociodemographic data on age, marital status, education, and
      employment, and life style data on diet, alcohol intake, smoking, and physical activity.

      Measurements made at baseline permitted assessment of whether the hypothesized positive
      relation of lithium countertransport to blood pressure was independent of such factors as
      age, sex, body mass index, alcohol intake, plasma uric acid, glucose, family history, and
      other variables generally associated with blood pressure. The relationship between 5-year
      changes in these factors, change in lithium countertransport, and in blood pressure were also
      examined. Several additional important unresolved questions on the epidemiology of blood
      pressure and hypertension were explored: the role of macronutrients and micronutrients in
      lithium countertransport and its change; red blood cell sodium and potassium concentrations
      and their relation to blood pressure; possible differences in calcium metabolism between
      hypertensives and normotensives; genetic polymorphisms related to lipid-lipoprotein
      metabolism and possible influence on blood pressure; patterns of blood pressure change in the
      elderly, the 639 and 341 persons age 65-74 and over 75, respectively, at baseline. Coronary
      heart disease incidence was also studied.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  