
    
      The goal of this study is to elucidate the possible role of primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD)
      in complex congenital heart disease associated with heterotaxy. This study arises from our
      recent finding of an unexpectedly high incidence (40 percent) of complex congenital heart
      disease together with heterotaxy in a mutant mouse model of PCD. These findings suggest
      heterotaxy can arise from mutations causing PCD. Consistent with this, a recent clinical
      research study showed some patients with PCD have undiagnosed heterotaxy. However, there has
      not been any clinical study to ascertain if patients diagnosed with heterotaxy may suffer
      from PCD, the focus of this IRB protocol. These studies are of immediate clinical importance,
      as heterotaxy patients undergoing surgical correction for complex structural heart defects
      can become ventilator dependent for unknown causes. A diagnosis of PCD in patients with
      heterotaxy would significantly alter clinical management strategies that have the potential
      to significantly improve outcome for heterotaxy patients undergoing high-risk cardiac surgery
      for complex congenital heart defects.

      For this study, we will recruit pediatric subjects undergoing surgery for complex congenital
      heart defects associated with heterotaxy at Children's National Medical Center. We will also
      recruit adult patients with heterotaxy heart disease or situs inversus from the Children's
      National Medical Center and at NIH. In addition, we will recruit patients, ages 2 years and
      older, seen at the NIH by Dr. Kenneth Olivier with known PCD or Kartagener syndrome and with
      documentation or high clinical suspicion of heterotaxy or situs inversus into our study.
      Subjects will be evaluated for PCD using standard operating procedures (SOPs). This will
      include obtaining airway epithelial tissue samples to assess ciliary motion by
      videomicroscopy and for assessing defects in ciliary ultrastructure by electron microscopy.
      In addition, nasal nitric oxide measurements will be obtained, as reduced NO levels are often
      associated with PCD. All of these procedures will utilize SOPs obtained from approved IRB
      protocols that are part of a multi-center study at the University of North Carolina (Dr.
      Michael Knowles) and at the NIH (Dr. Ken Olivier, NIAID). In addition, blood, buccal swab,
      and saliva samples will be obtained for DNA analysis of candidate genes known to cause
      heterotaxy and/or PCD. Through these studies, we hope to establish whether mutations causing
      PCD may contribute to heterotaxy and situs anomalies. Such findings may suggest changes in
      the standard of care for heterotaxy patients to include the evaluation for PCD, particularly
      prior to surgery. In addition, the DNA analysis may provide novel insights into the genetic
      causes for complex congenital heart defects associated with heterotaxy and PCD, allowing the
      future development of appropriate diagnostic tests for more accurate identification of
      patients at risk for PCD. Together, the outcome of this study can have significant impact on
      improving the clinical care for patients with congenital heart disease associated with situs
      anomalies.
    
  