
    
      This investigation was conducted in accordance with the guidelines laid down in the
      Declaration of Helsinki. All procedures were approved by the University Faculty Research
      Ethics Committee and written informed consent was obtained from all participants. This PhD
      project is inserted in the thematic line of the (CIDAF) Research Centre in Physical Activity
      and Ageing; Ageing: Is It Ever Too Late to be Active and Healthy / Fit? This project will
      also be sent to the homes of all the participants in the study to sign a term so that they
      can sign a consent for the implementation of the study at their premises.

      During the period of the intervention of the exercise and after the experimental period, an
      interview will be done through questionnaires, biosocial and overall health status. The main
      results will be the cognitive, biosocial and overall health status. There will be a session
      to administer a test battery on the overall health status, cognitive status (screening of
      cognition), and screening for mobility. Secondary measures include psychological well-being,
      cognition, anthropometric, immunological, and neurological parameters.

      Experimental design (supplementation time)

      It is an experimental design, controlled with 6 months of supplementation combined with
      exercise. Participants will receive a code number according to the order of recruitment. The
      participants sample was non-randomization, sample was convenience, will be performed using
      the assignment list and code number after recruitment for the study. Initially the elderly
      will be divided into 4 groups: Multicomponent Exercise + BCAA (ME+BCAA) group 1,
      Multicomponent Exercise (ME) group 2, BCAA group 3, Control non-exercise (CONTROL) group 4.
      Data collection was performed at 4 moments,1-Initial time (baseline), 2-After 16 weeks
      training period, 3-After 8 weeks detraining period and 4-After 16 weeks period, totaling 4
      collections throughout the project and 40 weeks.

      The supplement was supplied through the company and has about 95% purity and trade
      certification in the EU. The subjects ingested 1 sachet (0,21g/kg/session) prepared after to
      finish exercise by mixing the contents of each sachet with 200mL water and consuming as
      follows: first beverage during the morning after breakfast and before lunch.
    
  