
    
      The incidence of depression and anxiety is much higher in stroke survivors and their
      caregivers compared to age-matched peers. Previous work suggests that mindfulness delivered
      in an online format is promising for both individuals with neurological disorders and
      caregivers to improve quality of life and psychological well-being.

      The overall objective of this project is to develop and refine an online mindfulness program
      that is perceived as relevant and user-friendly for stroke survivors and their caregivers.
      This project also aims to determine the potential impact of the mindfulness program on
      psychological well-being for stroke survivors and caregivers to guide the development of a
      future intervention study.

      The process of development of the online mindfulness program will be iterative and will
      involve three phases: one development phase, one usability testing phase with end-users and
      one refinement phase.

      Phase 1) The 3-week online mindfulness program will be adapted from the program developed for
      individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis by mindfulness and stroke experts to ensure
      suitability and relevance for individuals with stroke.

      Phase 2) A testing phase will be conducted remotely for both technical and clinical
      verification with 5-10 stroke survivors and 5-10 caregivers. Self-reported questionnaires
      about psychological well-being will be administered prior to and after the participation to
      the program and at a 1-month follow-up. After the program, a usability questionnaire and a
      semi-structured interview will be conducted to assess the usability of the mindfulness
      program and gather participants' feedback. For each group, differences prior to and after the
      mindfulness program will be assessed using a repeated measure analysis of variance. The
      transcribed verbatim of the semi-structured interview will be analyzed independently using
      thematic content analysis by 2 members of the research team.

      Phase 3) Based on the results from Phase 2, modifications will be made to the online
      mindfulness program. If warranted, the testing phase will be replicated with a second cohort
      of participants.

      This project will lead to the development of an online mindfulness program suitable for
      stroke survivors and their caregivers to improve quality of life and psychological
      well-being. This project will help guide the development of a planned intervention study.
    
  