
    
      With the dissatisfaction of monoamine-based pharmacotherapy and the high comorbidity of
      physical illness in depression, the serotonin hypothesis seems to fail in approaching the
      etiology of depression. Based upon the evidence from epidemiological data, case-control
      studies of PUFAs levels in human tissues, and antidepressant effect in clinical trials,
      phospholipid PUFAs is enlightening a promising path to discover the unsolved of depression.

      The PUFAs are classified into n-3 (or omega-3) and n-6 (or omega-6) groups. Eicosapentaenoic
      acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), the major bioactive components of n-3 PUFAs, are
      not synthesized in humans and can only be obtained directly from the diet, particularly by
      consuming fish. The deficit of n-3 PUFAs has been reported to be associated with
      neurological, cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, autoimmune, and metabolic diseases. Recent
      studies revealed that the deficit of n-3 PUFAs is also associated with depression. More
      specifically, societies that consume a small amount of omega-3 PUFAs appear to have a higher
      prevalence of major depressive disorder. In addition, depressive patients had showed a lower
      level of omega-3 PUFAs; and the antidepressant effect of PUFAs had been reported in a number
      of clinical trials. Theoretically, DHA deficit is associated with dysfunctions of neuronal
      membrane stability and transmission of serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine, which might
      connect to etiology of depression. On the other hand, EPA is important in balancing the
      immune function by reducing membrane arachidonic acid (AA, an n-6 PUFA) and prostaglandin E2
      (PGE2) synthesis. Interestingly, animals fed with high AA diet or treated with PGE2 present
      sickness behaviors of anorexia, low activity, change in sleep pattern and attention, which
      are similar to somatic symptoms of depression in human.

      There are little data at this stage to reveal whether the oral administration of omega-3
      fatty acids monotherapy would lead to an effective mood stabilization in major depressive
      disorder. In addition, the active component of antidepressant effect in n-3 PUFAs is still
      unknown. In this project, the first part is a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to
      identify the effects of omega-3 PUFAs monotherapy in depression. The second part is a
      double-blind trial to identify the effects of EPA and DHA on different symptom clusters in
      patients with depression.
    
  