
    
      Liver resection for colorectal metastasis is a potential curative therapy and has become the
      standard of care in appropriately staged patients, offering five-year survival rates ranging
      from 38 up to 61% in selected cases, with approximately 30% of patients surviving ten years
      or more, compared to five-year survival rates of less than 5% for patients not amenable to
      resection. Liver surgery is also a widely accepted treatment for symptomatic benign lesions
      and those of uncertain nature or large size. Whilst the figures are a vast improvement on the
      past, there is still a need to refine the treatment of these patients, including surgical
      technique.

      Open hepatectomy is the current standard of care for the management of primary and secondary
      tumours. The open postero-superior liver segment resection requires a large incision to
      achieve adequate access and proper control during resection. This has a significant impact on
      patient's recovery and, in cases of small resections, this access may represent the major
      component of surgical trauma. Advances in surgical technique and expertise now permit these
      operations to be performed with minor incisions by using the laparoscopic approach. Although
      the feasibility of laparoscopic hepatectomy has been established, only select centres use
      this technique as their primary modality.

      Laparoscopic liver resection was first reported in 1991. Over the past decades, the method
      has gained wide acceptance for various liver resection procedures. Multiple retrospective
      case series, patient cohorts, systematic reviews and meta-analyses have compared open with
      laparoscopic liver surgery and indicate the laparoscopic approach to be safely applicable for
      the resection of both malignant and benign liver lesions. Laparoscopic liver resection has
      been associated with shorter hospital length of stay, reduced intraoperative blood loss, less
      postoperative pain and earlier recovery. Despite this, concerns remain over operative times,
      the ability to control haemorrhage laparascopically and long-term oncological outcomes.

      Initially, the left lateral segments of the liver were chosen for anatomic laparoscopic
      resection, with good results. Many liver centres worldwide currently use laparoscopy for
      resection of the anterior liver segments. Whilst case control studies would now seem
      sufficient to allay such concerns in the context of minor liver resections and left lateral
      sectionectomies, the adoption and dissemination of laparoscopy by hepatobiliary oncologic
      surgeons for major hepatectomies and resections of postero-superior segments has been
      restricted. Besides the relatively low volume of patients, major laparoscopic liver
      resections are technically demanding, have a significant learning curve, are time consuming,
      are thought to hold an increased morbidity risk and lack in evidence.

      Nevertheless, a new impulse for the laparoscopic management of major liver lesions came after
      the first reports of laparoscopic hemihepatectomies, which demonstrated that in expert hands
      major anatomical laparoscopic liver resections are feasible with good efficacy and safety.
      When comparing surgical procedures, one of the easiest to measure and often used outcomes is
      the length of hospital stay; the time it takes for a patient to be discharged from the
      hospital after an operation. On the whole, a median hospital length of stay of 6.0 to 13.1
      days and 3.5 to 10.0 days have been observed after open and laparoscopic hepatic resections
      in European centres respectively. For major surgery in expert centres, median duration of
      hospital admission varied between 6 to 12.5 days for open surgery and 4 to 8.2 days for
      laparoscopic resections. Concentrating on postero-superior liver segment resections, the
      median hospital stay is 6 days (3-44 days) for those undergoing open compared with 4 days
      (1-11 days) for those having laparoscopic resections.

      Besides the immediate benefits to the patient, such as decreased intraoperative blood loss,
      diminished postoperative pain, earlier recovery and reduced hospital length of stay,
      laparoscopic liver surgery may also have the potential to improve outcomes in the longer term
      by reducing complications, enhancing quality of life, improving cosmesis, ensuring early
      commencement and completion of adjuvant therapies. However, level-1 evidence on all outcomes
      is still to be presented.

      Within the framework of optimized perioperative care, broader indications for hepatic surgery
      and further adoption of laparoscopic liver resections, there is a clear need for a randomized
      trial. Therefore, the multicentre and international ORANGE SEGMENTS - Trial has been designed
      to provide evidence on the merits of laparoscopic versus open parenchymal preserving
      postero-superior liver segment resection within an enhanced recovery programme in terms of
      time to functional recovery, hospital length of stay, intraoperative blood loss, operation
      time, resection margin, time to adjuvant chemotherapy initiation, readmission percentage,
      (liver specific) morbidity, quality of life, body image, reasons for delay of discharge after
      functional recovery, long term incidence of incisional hernias, hospital and societal costs
      during one year and overall five-year survival.
    
  