
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Establishing liver fibrosis grade in patients with chronic viral hepatitis is very important
      for the prognostic assessment and in making the decision to initiate antiviral treatment.
      Although the liver biopsy remains the gold standard, recent studies focused on establishing
      the role of noninvasive methods in liver fibrosis grading.

      Elastography is an imaging method which estimates tissue elasticity. The first elastography
      method which appeared was Transient Elastography (TE), followed by Real Time Elastography
      (RT-E) and Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI). TE was a method especially developed for
      noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis as an alternative to liver biopsy. Unlike these,
      RT-E and ARFI have multiple applications in diffuse and tumoral pathology.

      Transient Elastography (FibroScan) represents a noninvasive method useful in detecting the
      degree of liver fibrosis. The ultrasound transducer probe is able to generate elastic shear
      waves that propagate through the liver tissue as well as to measure their speed in the
      tissue. Wave speed is directly related to tissue stiffness which is expressed in kilopascals
      [1]. Initially, this method was validated for use and considered for chronic hepatitis
      management guidelines, then for human immunodeficiency virus/hepatitis C virus (HCV)
      co-infection and cholestatic liver diseases. FibroScan failures to give reliable results in
      obese patients were reduced by developing a new XL probe which facilitated an alternative
      noninvasive method to liver biopsy for liver fibrosis assessment [2].

      Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) was proposed as an alternative to FibroScan for the
      assessment of liver tissue elasticity, using a conventional ultrasound machine. The main
      advantages of this method are the possibility of producing real-time images and its
      feasibility in patients with ascites. Preliminary studies show better results for predicting
      advanced grades of liver fibrosis than for mild to moderate fibrosis where the method is less
      sensitive [3].

      Real Time Elastography (RT-E) estimates relative tissue stiffness based on soft tissue
      distortion and data are provided as real time color images [4, 5]. This is a real time method
      that could also be used for patients with ascites. The method is not validated for liver
      fibrosis assessment as there are few studies published so far. The appearance of the
      elastography software on the convex probe with high penetration and possibility for
      elastography to visualize the liver entirely and the development of information elastography
      measurement information programs open new perspectives in noninvasive assessment of liver
      pathology by RT-E. There are two recent studies showing good results of the software for
      quantitative analysis in RT-E equipment.

      The aim of this study is to establish the role of elastographic methods (ARFI and RT-E) in
      liver fibrosis assessment in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. This multicentric
      prospective trial will be approved by the ethical committee of each centre.

      AIM To evaluate the role of real time elastography (ARFI and Hitachi elastography) in
      noninvasive diagnosis of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

        -  All patients are enrolled consecutively.

        -  Patient data are collected (name initials, age, sex, Civil Registration Number), liver
           disease etiology, anthropometric data (body mass index).

        -  The following blood parameters are included: aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine
           aminotransferase (ALT), γ -glutamyl transpeptidase, γ globulins, platelet count

        -  The following indices are calculated: AST/ALT; AST-to-platelet ratio index (APRI);
           AST/upper limit of normal 100/platelet count (104 /mm3 ) , and FibroIndex [1.738 0.064 x
           platelet count (104 /mm3 ) + 0.005 x AST (U/l) + 0.463 x γ -globulin (g/dl)]

        -  Transient elastography is performed using FibroScan (FibroScan, Echosens) with the
           patient lying in the dorsal decubitus position and with his right arm in maximum
           abduction. The tip of the transducer probe is placed in the median axillary line in the
           intercostal space corresponding to the right lobe of the liver. The pressure index on
           the screen indicates that the pressure applied with the probe is compatible with the
           measurement. Ten measurements per examination are necessary for good accuracy of the
           stiffness assessment, considering the final result expressed in kilopascals as the mean
           of the ten measurements. M and XL probes for obese patients are used.

        -  Hitachi Real Time Ultrasound Elastography is performed using the 5-1 MHz (EUP) convex
           transducer from Hitachi Preirus equipment (Hitachi Aloka Medical Tokyo, Japan). Dual
           imaging is set in such a manner as to be visible on the screen in a 2D image as well as
           in an elastographic image juxtaposed over the 2D image. The examination is underwent
           through two points: intercostally through the right lobe and epigastrically through left
           hepatic lobe. The examination is done through post-expiratory apnea without compression
           on the probe. The interest region (ROI) is set at 4cm², 1 cm under the liver capsule.
           The aria of interest is chosen so that the 2D image is as clear as possible, the large
           vessels avoided and the artifacts given by ribs and lungs. For each patient, 10 images
           are chosen with two entry points (intercostally and epigastrically). For each image the
           11 parameters given by the Strain Histogram measurement software are used: mean relative
           strain value (MEAN); standard deviation of relative strain value (SD); percentage of low
           strain area (percentage of blue color area - %AREA); complexity of low strain area
           (calculated as perimeter 2 /area - COMP); skewness (SKEW); kurtosis (KURT); contrast
           (CONT); entropy (ENT); textural complexity, inverse difference moment (IDM); angular
           second moment (ASM); Correlation (CORR) indicates the feature value of the texture
           directivity.

        -  ARFI- Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse Technology [ACUSON S2000]. Scanning is performed
           with a right intercostal approach, in the right liver lobe, segment V-VIII, 1-2 cm under
           the liver capsule, with minimal scanning pressure applied by the operator, while the
           patients is asks to stop normal breathing for a moment, in order to minimize breathing
           motion. The operator selects the depth at which the liver elasticity is evaluated by
           placing a "measuring box" (10 mm long, 5 mm wide) in the desired area. The maximum depth
           at which ARFI measurements can be performed is 8 cm. A total of 10 valid measurements
           performe in every patient and a median value in m/s is calculate.

        -  Liver biopsy samples is takes via a right intercostal space from the right liver lobe
           with direct sonographic guidance. Liver fibrosis stages is evaluate semiquantitatively
           according to the METAVIR scoring system on an F0-F4 scale

      Statistical analysis

      The diagnostic performance of ARFI and RT-E for liver fibrosis will determine in terms of
      sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, diagnostic
      accuracy and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC).
    
  