
    
      Background:

      The scientific foundation of total knee replacement (TKR) surgery is incomplete. As a
      national governor of joint replacements, the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register is obligated to
      strict regulations, demanding high levels of evidence for implants and instruments utilized
      by Norwegian surgeons. It is well known that 15-20% of patients with a TKR, are dissatisfied.
      Nevertheless, only a small proportion of these patients have revision surgery.

      In this randomized, clinical trial we will use the Journey II BCS total knee system, with a
      more native anatomical design, intended to improve the kinematics and functional outcomes by
      mimicking a native knee, with respect to geometry and its interplay with the ligaments and
      soft tissue envelope of the knee (i.e. the biomechanics; stability, joint line, off-set,
      sizing etc.). To achieve an optimal placement of the implant, the surgeon needs to assess a
      lot of information (experience) during the surgical procedure. To secure this process, and to
      make sure all aspects are taken into account, with respect to an optimal positioning and
      ligament balancing, the computer navigation technique may offer valuable input, with further
      enhancement of the accuracy and precision using precision tools like the Navio from Smith &
      Nephew. The Navio system combines robotics and computer navigation, and represents the newest
      technology within surgical robotics and haptics. This trial is important in the mandatory
      evaluation process needed, before introducing new technology into orthopaedic surgery, on a
      larger scale.

      Methods:

      The surgeons involved have been trained at a wet lab, and on saw bones, before utilizing this
      tool in a live setting. After the introduction period, the training will continue in a
      clinical setting until the surgeons have operated at least 20 Navio assisted cases each,
      followed by a pilot study of 10 patients. All patients will be randomized to either Navio or
      Conventional technique.

      Surgical method: A tourniquet is used. All implant components are cemented (Palacos R+G bone
      cement is utilized 10 minutes after retrieval from a 4 degrees Celsius refrigerator).
      Standard para-patellar approach. ACL and PCL are removed. Closing of the wound and capsule in
      mid-flexion position, Quill for the capsule, Vicryl for the subcutaneous tissue, continuous
      overlapping mattress with Ethilon suture for the skin. No drainage. Wrapping of the entire
      limb with elastic dressings for the first 48 hours. Prophylactic antibiotics and
      anticoagulants are given. Tranexamic acid to reduce bleeding. Postop pain medication:
      gabapentin, acetaminophen, naproxen, femoral triangle nerve block (repeated next day if
      needed).

      For the conventional group: The rotational alignment is set according to Whiteside's line,
      and intramedullary rods with 5, 6 or 7 degrees valgus, are selected for the distal femoral
      cut (dependent on pre-operatively measured angles on long radiographs (hip-knee-ankle). The
      entry hole of the rod is plugged with bone from the femur to reduce bleeding from the
      intramedullary canal. The tibial component (metal) is positioned with a 3 degrees posterior
      slope.

      For the Navio group: The cuts are navigated to optimize ligament balance in flexion and
      extension, and adjusted for mid-flexion instability when needed. A difference of less than 4
      mm between lateral and medial gaps is accepted when the laxity is on the lateral side,
      preferably in flexion. However, if the gap balancing technique suggests a deviation from
      mechanical alignment of more than 2 degrees of valgus or 4 degrees of varus, the suggestion
      is overruled by the mechanical alignment (maximum 2 degrees valgus, less than 4 degrees
      varus).

      Sample size calculations: To detect a clinically important difference of 0.17 in the rate of
      "high responders" and "non-responders" (OMERACT-OARSI criteria) to the Navio, with a standard
      deviation of 20, power 80% and a 0.05 significance level, a total of 194 patients must be
      included in the trial (97 patients in each group). The calculations are based on data from a
      previous study, by Petursson et al, JBJS Am 2018. When 10% eventual drop-outs are taken into
      account, the total number of patients to be included is 214 (107 patients in each group).

      A large number of patients is important, as the expected difference between the groups is
      small. A small difference may be less clinically relevant, however, may contribute to an
      overall better outcome for the patients in total. A small improvement of the tools combined
      with other small improvements may add up to be clinically important in the end. Small trials
      with no significant differences may disqualify important small improvements, thus stopping
      any further development in the field. Consequently, large clinical trials will be valuable.

      A radiostereometric analysis constitutes a separate study of the trial. A clinically relevant
      difference of 0.1 mm between the groups will be detected with a standard deviation of 0.1,
      power 80% and significance level 0.05, if 17 patients are included in each group. Including
      eventual drop-outs and an expectation of some failures due to the technically challenging
      investigation method (the RSA), a total of 30 patients will be included in each group. RSA
      radiographs will be collected within the first week after the operation, at 3 months, 1 year,
      2 years and 5 years follow-ups.

      The trial is approved by the regional ethics committee and the data inspectorate of Norway.
    
  