
    
      There are many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum
      and there is interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product.

      The pomegranate tree, Punica granatum, especially its fruit, possesses a vast ethnomedical
      history and represents a phytochemical reservoir of heuristic medicinal value. The tree/fruit
      can be divided into several anatomical compartments: (1) seed,(2) juice, (3) peel, (4) leaf,
      (5) flower, (6) bark, and (7) roots, each of which has interesting pharmacologic activity.
      Juice and peels, for example,possess potent antioxidant properties, while juice, peel and oil
      are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal
      symptoms and sequelae. The use of juice, peel and oil have also been shown to possess
      anticancer activities, including interference with tumor cell proliferation, cell cycle,
      invasion and angiogenesis. These may be associated with plant based anti-inflammatory
      effects. The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components
      suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of chronic
      inflammation.

      Pomegranate as few medical applications as gastrointestinal infections, oral wounds and
      others. There is a publication on the positive use of pomegranate, in reducing of trigeminal
      pain post Herpes Zoster infection (1). Another work described the synergistic effect of
      pomegranate extraction and antibiotics for Staphyloccocus Areus (2). Pomegranate extraction
      was used for viral delay of HIV I in AIDS patients (3).

      It's antiviral effect was examined against HSV and RSV (6). There was a positive effect on H7
      -E. COLI 0157(4). Pomegranate extraction was found to help as antibacterial effect as other
      Mexican extraction drugs, for Gastrointestinal infections (5). High concentrations of phenol
      substances was evaluated in wound healing and it was efficient (7). Methanolic substances
      from pomegranate extraction was evaluated and found efficient for all the bacteria that was
      examined (8). Recently pomegranate extraction was found active in antibacterial effect and in
      synergism with tetracyclin against staphyloccocus Areus with Methicillin resistance (MRSA).

      Pomegranate polyphenol extract (PPE) has anti-influenza properties. Using real time PCR,
      plaque assay, and TCID 50% hemagglutination assay, the investigators have shown that PPE
      suppresses replication of influenza A virus in MDCK cells. PPE inhibits agglutination of
      chicken red blood cells (cRBC) by influenza virus and is virucidal. The single-cycle growth
      conditions indicated that independent of the virucidal effect PPE also inhibits viral RNA
      replication. PPE did not alter virus ribonucleoprotein (RNP) entry into nucleus or
      translocation of virus RNP from nucleus to cytoplasm in MDCK cells. The investigators
      evaluated four major Polyphenols in PPE (ellagic acid, caffeic acid, luteolin, and
      punicalagin) and demonstrated that punicalagin is the effective, anti-influenza component of
      PPE. Punicalagin blocked replication of the virus RNA, inhibited agglutination of chicken
      RBC's by the virus and had virucidal effects. Furthermore, the combination of PPE and
      oseltamivir synergistically increased the anti-influenza effect of oseltamivir. In
      conclusion, PPE inhibited the replication of human influenza A/Hong Kong (H3N2) in vitro.
      Pomegranate extracts should be further studied for therapeutic and prophylactic potential
      especially for influenza epidemics and pandemics.

      Commonly found in many plants, ellagic acid exhibits powerful anticarcinogenic and
      antioxidant properties, propelling it to the forefront of pomegranate research. Many
      commercially available pomegranate extracts are being standardized to contain 40-percent (or
      more) ellagic acid. Lansky's research confirms the synergistic action of several pomegranate
      constituents is superior to ellagic acid in suppressing prostate cancer. To quote Lansky,
      "The recent profusion onto the nutraceuticals marketplace of products standardized to 40
      percent (or even higher) ellagic acid represents a cynical, lucre-driven attempt to replace
      the power of the pomegranate with the power of ellagic acid. The pomegranate needs no such
      tricks or enhancements. It is rather an extraordinary, albeit mysterious (and messy), fruit
      with a complete medicinal power contained within its juice, peel, and seeds.

      Topical applications of pomegranate preparations have been found to be particularly effective
      for controlling oral inflammation, as well as bacteria and fungal counts in periodontal
      disease and Candida-associated denture stomatitis. A hydroalcoholic extract of Punica
      granatum fruit (HAEP) was investigated for antibacterial effect on dental plaque
      microorganisms. Sixty healthy patients (33 females/27 males; ages 9-25) with fixed
      orthodontic appliances were randomized to three groups of 20:

      (1) control group who rinsed with 15 mL distilled water; (2) a group who rinsed with 15 mL
      chlorhexidine, a standard antiplaque mouth rinse; and (3) a group who rinsed with a 15-mL
      HAEP solution. HAEP decreased the number of colony forming units (CFU) of dental plaque
      bacteria 84 percent, comparable to chlorhexidine (79-percent inhibition) but significantly
      better than the control rinse (11-percent inhibition). Both HAEP and chlorhexidine were
      effective against Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Klebsiella, and Proteus species, as well as
      E. coli. The ellagitannin, punicalagin, is thought to be the fraction responsible for
      pomegranate's antibacterial activity.

      Bacterial Infections The only human trials examining the antibacterial properties of
      pomegranate extracts have focused on oral bacteria. However, several in vitro assays
      demonstrate its bacteriocidal activity against several highly pathogenic and sometimes
      antibiotic-resistant organisms. Brazilian researchers evaluated the synergistic effect of a
      P. granatum methanolic extract with five antibiotics on 30 clinical isolates of
      methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and methicillin-sensitive S. aureus.75
      Antibiotics tested were chloramphenicol, gentamicin, ampicillin, tetracycline, and oxacillin.
      Although synergistic activity between the pomegranate extract and all five antibiotics was
      noted in the S. aureus isolates, synergy with ampicillin was the most pronounced. Based on
      earlier research and the results of this study, the ellagitannin, punicalagin, is thought to
      be the primary constituent responsible for the observed antibacterial effects. Another
      organism that can cause significant disease in humans is enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli
      (E. coli O157:H7). An ethanolic PPE, one of the two most effective extracts against E. coli
      O157:H7, was shown to be both bacteriostatic and bacteriocidal, indicating PPE may be an
      effective adjunct treatment for E. coli O157:H7 infection.

      On the above information the investigators will try and evaluate the clinical efficacy of
      topical nasal Pomegranate fruit extract (PFE) (Punica Granatum) for patients with Chronic
      rhinitis, chronic sinusitis, nasal polyps and chronic rhinitis.
    
  