
    
      Fatigue is the most common symptom experienced by patients from cancer diagnosis to the end
      of life. CRF is different from other types of fatigue. It is severe, persistent and can not
      be alleviated by rest or sleep. CRF affects nearly 65% of cancer patients, more than
      two-thirds believe that severe CRF lasts at least 6 months, and one-third report that fatigue
      persists for several years after chemotherapy.

      The etiology of CRF has not been fully elucidated, although it may involve several
      physiological and biochemical systems, which may vary with tumor type, disease stage and
      treatment. Recently, several cytokines and other proinflammatory mediators produced in
      tryptophan degradation and cancer response are associated with fatigue; however, their direct
      role in the pathogenesis of fatigue remains controversial. Cytokines may play a role at a
      variety of levels, including mood, muscle mass, strength and metabolic status, and thus are
      associated with the pathophysiology of fatigue. Recent studies have shown that fatigue is
      positively correlated with circulating levels of inflammatory markers, especially IL-6, IL-1
      and neopterin, which are significantly correlated with CRF. CRF is also common in breast
      cancer patients, and the incidence rate of CRF is increasing as the incidence of breast
      cancer increases. In the treatment of breast cancer patients， chemotherapy can cause some
      patients' non hematological side effects such as fatigue. During the chemotherapy of breast
      cancer at high altitude area, clinical observation showed that the incidence rate of side
      effects after chemotherapy was higher in plateau area. Retrospectively analyzed the efficacy
      and safety of epirubicin combined with taxanes chemotherapy in the treatment of 48 cases of
      breast cancer in high altitude areas of Tibet. It was found that 89.5% of the patients with
      neutropenia after chemotherapy were significantly higher than those in low altitude areas,
      which also confirmed this phenomenon. The increased side effects of chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy in cancer patients at high altitude are closely related to hypoxia. The oxygen
      content and oxygen partial pressure in the atmosphere of plateau area also decrease with the
      increase of altitude, and the oxygen partial pressure in human alveoli also decreases, so the
      arterial oxygen partial pressure and saturation also decrease. A number of studies have shown
      that the special hypoxia environment at high altitude will have a lot of effects on the human
      body. In terms of cardiovascular system, it will make pulmonary hypertension and heart rate
      increase, and make the heart bear a heavy pressure load, leading to the occurrence of high
      altitude heart disease. In terms of nervous system, chronic hypoxia environment is prone to
      sleep disordered breathing at night, which seriously affects the brain nerve function and
      leads to heart failure sleep structure disorder. On the other hand, in order to adapt to the
      outside world, the human body in the plateau environment, within a certain limit, through the
      regulation of the nervous system and body fluid mechanism, carries out a series of
      adjustments and stress reactions, It makes a series of physiological changes in body fluid,
      hemorheology, blood biochemistry, blood gas and organ function, and some pathological
      changes, resulting in changes in physiological indexes, drug plasma protein binding rate,
      drug metabolic enzyme activity and expression, and inflammatory factors in blood. We
      speculate that the above factors lead to the increase of side effects after chemotherapy at
      high altitude, especially the influence of inflammatory cytokines in the blood, leading to
      the occurrence of CRF.
    
  