
    
      One of the earliest observations in the HIV epidemic was the demonstration of HIV infection
      at mucosal surfaces of cells in the genital tract. These data suggest that priming of immune
      defenses of viral infected cells may be an important component in the strategy of developing
      an effective HIV vaccine. Direct immunization of relevant mucosal surfaces with a vectored
      vaccine may stimulate mucosal immunity. The ALVAC-HIV vCP205 immunogen is constructed from a
      live recombinant canarypox vector that has a good safety profile in volunteers and should
      allow mucosal induction of immunity.

      This randomized, double-blind trial evaluates the safety of and immune response to
      vaccination with ALVAC-HIV vCP205 given at 0, 1, 3, and 6 months. Patients are randomly
      assigned to 1 of 7 drug administration routes as follows:

      Group A: Intramuscular Group B: Oral Group C: Intranasal Group D: Intrarectal Group E:
      Intravaginal Group F: Intranasal/intramuscular Group G: Intrarectal/intramuscular Twelve
      patients are randomized to each group, 8 of whom receive experimental therapy with ALVAC-HIV
      vCP205 and 4 of whom receive control therapy with ALVAC-RG vCP2058 (rabies vaccine). Women
      are preferentially enrolled, with a goal of 60% women (minimum of 4 women per treatment arm);
      only women are randomized to Group E. Blinding is maintained with respect to drug assignment
      rather than route of administration, after randomization. NOTE: The protocol will be amended
      to add 2 boost vaccinations with subunit products at approximately Months 9 and 12 when a
      suitable boost product is identified. [AS PER AMENDMENT 8/3/98: The protocol has been
      modified to include 2 booster vaccinations to be administered at 9 and 12 months. Patients in
      Group A receive booster vaccination with ALVAC-HIV VCP205 or ALVAC-RG intranasally. Patients
      in Groups B through G are boosted with AIDSVAX B/B vaccine (a bivalent vaccine consisting of
      MN rgp120/HIV-1 antigen and GNE8 rgp120/HIV-1 antigen in alum adjuvant) or with Imovax
      diploid cell rabies vaccine; vaccinations for these patients are given intramuscularly.] [AS
      PER AMENDMENT 11/19/98: The second booster vaccination for group A will be administered at
      study Month 15.]
    
  