
    
      Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) is prescribed for patients with stable severe hypoxemic
      respiratory failure according to specific criteria set out in different guidelines from
      international respiratory societies. The aim of LTOT is to maintain the resting partial
      pressure of oxygen (PO2) >60 mmHg or oxygen saturation (SpO2) >90%.

      A number of studies have demonstrated that whilst at home, patients on LTOT experience
      episodes of intermittent hypoxia (SpO2 <90%) and spend significant amounts of time with SpO2
      <90%. These episodes of desaturation occur most frequently during activities of daily living
      and may be harmful as they could lead to pulmonary hypertension, arrhythmias and ischaemic
      heart disease. Simply increasing the LTOT flow rate by 1 or 2 litres in one option but this
      exposed the patients to hyperoxaemia and the risk of hypercapnia. An another method
      optimising LTOT is to utilise an auto-titrating oxygen system. These system allow close
      control of SpO2 by automatically adjusting the flow of oxygen to match a target SpO2. At the
      Royal Brompton Hospital and Imperial College London, the investigators have developed our own
      auto-titrating oxygen system - called intelligent oxygen therapy (iO2t).

      This system has been tested in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and
      LTOT during a 6 minute walk test with promising results (ERS 2015).

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether the intelligent oxygen therapy system can
      reduce intermittent hypoxia in patients on LTOT during simulated activities of daily living.
      Patients will be asked to a series of activities of daily living over a period of 1 hour
      including: washing, dressing, putting away shopping and cleaning. The patients will do these
      activities twice: once on their usual LTOT and once on the auto-titrating oxygen system in a
      cross-over design.
    
  