
    
      Part 1 Methodology:

      This is a multicenter, 1:1 randomized Phase IIb study of intradermal autologous Vigil
      immunotherapy (1.0 x 10e7 cells/injection; minimum of 4 to a maximum of 12 administrations)
      versus gemcitabine / docetaxel in patients with metastatic Ewing's sarcoma Family of Tumors
      (ESFT) refractory or intolerant to at least 2 prior lines of chemotherapy. Patients
      undergoing a standard surgical procedure (e.g., tumor biopsy or palliative resection) may
      have tumor tissue harvested for manufacture of investigational product. Patients meeting
      eligibility criteria including manufacture of a minimum of 4 immunotherapy doses will be
      randomized to receive either (1) intradermal Vigil every 28 days for 4-12 administrations, or
      (2) gemcitabine 675 mg/m2 IV at 10 mg/m2/min D1 and D8 and docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV D8 every 21
      days. The primary trial objective is to determine the overall survival of patients treated
      with Vigil versus gemcitabine/docetaxel. Randomization may occur as early as vaccine is
      released (typically 3 - 4 weeks following tumor procurement) but no later than 8 weeks
      following tumor procurement. Randomization of patients will be stratified by Karnofsky
      Performance Status (KPS) ≥ 80% vs < 80%.

      Patients will be managed in an outpatient setting. Hematologic function, liver enzymes, renal
      function and electrolytes will be monitored monthly. Blood for immune function analyses
      including IFNγ-ELISPOT analysis of cytotoxic T cell response to autologous tumor antigens
      will be collected at tissue procurement, baseline, and prior to product administration at
      Cycles 2, 4, end of treatment, and every 6 months thereafter.

      Part 2 Methodology:

      Based on the limited accrual to Part 1 of this study, Gradalis is opening Part 2 of this
      clinical protocol to assess the safety of Vigil immunotherapy in combination with irinotecan
      and temozolomide. Part 2 will be conducted at the same centers as Part 1, studying
      intradermal autologous Vigil cancer vaccine (1.0 x 10e7 cells/injection; minimum of 4 to a
      maximum of 12 administrations) in patients with metastatic Ewing's sarcoma Family of Tumors
      (ESFT) refractory or intolerant to at least 1 prior line of chemotherapy. Patients undergoing
      a standard surgical procedure (e.g., tumor biopsy or palliative resection) may have tumor
      tissue harvested for manufacture of investigational product. Patients meeting eligibility
      criteria including manufacture of a minimum of 4 immunotherapy doses of Vigil will be
      registered to receive: (i) oral temozolomide 100 mg/m2 daily (Days 1 - 5, total dose 500
      mg/m2/cycle), (ii) irinotecan 50 mg/m2 daily (Days 1 - 5, total dose 250mg/m2/cycle), orally
      or irinotecan 20mg/m2 daily (Days 1 - 5, total dose 100mg/m2/cycle ), intravenously (iii)
      peg-filgrastim 100μg/kg (Day 6) subcutaneously (optional and may be administered at home),
      and (iv) Vigil 1.0 x 107 cells/injection, intradermally on Day 15 and every 3 weeks
      thereafter. One cycle = 21 days. Registration onto Part 2 may occur as early as one week but
      no later than 8 weeks following tumor procurement. Vigil is typically released approximately
      3 weeks after the completion of the two-day manufacturing process.

      Patients will be managed in an outpatient setting. Hematologic function, liver enzymes, renal
      function and electrolytes will be monitored. Blood for immune function analyses including
      IFNγ-ELISPOT analysis of cytotoxic T cell response to autologous tumor antigens will be
      collected at tissue procurement, post-procurement screening and prior to Day 15 Vigil
      administration at Cycles 2, 4, end of treatment, and every 6 months thereafter. Blood for
      ctDNA analysis will be collected prior to chemotherapy administration at baseline, Cycle 2 -
      Week 1 Day 1, Cycle 4 - Week 1 Day 1, and EOT.
    
  