
    
      The LASTE hypothesis is that patient harbouring a large ischemic core stroke at presentation,
      may still benefit from mechanical thrombectomy, given the very poor natural history of
      patient managed by a standalone medical therapy.

      The threshold of ASPECTS 5 to set a benefit for treatment was inspired by initial large
      medical trials using IV t-PA25-27 (Samurai-CT ALBERTA Score IV cohort). In the paradigm of
      acute and complete reperfusion, radiographic infarct stroke volume may be partially
      reversible and thus the resulting final infarct may be smaller compared to the one in
      non-re-perfused patients who will consequently have poorer clinical outcomes. By now, large
      core patients defined as ASPECTS 0-5 were excluded from most randomized clinical trials
      resulting in a lack of unequivocal evidence of benefit in this patient population.

      Analyses of several prospective cohorts suggest signals of benefit in favor of thrombectomy
      in patients with large baseline core. In the prospective cohort ETIS, LAPERGUE et al reported
      a rate of good outcome of 34% in the subgroup of patient with ASPECT 4-5. In the prospective
      cohort analysis RECOST, a mean mRS score of 34% in a group of patient presenting ASPECT 0-5
      treated with mechanical thrombectomy, versus 9% of good outcome in the medical group,
      suggesting a benefit to treat LVO harbouring a large core. The strongest argument in favor of
      benefit of EVT even in patients with large core is provided by the six completed randomized
      endovascular stroke trials. These trials did prove that Combined Approach Mechanical + IV
      t-PA, is superior to standalone IV lytics, mRs score ≤ 2 ranging from 33% and up to 72%, but
      Large Core Infarction were largely excluded. Nonetheless a pooled analysis of these trials
      revealed that a minority of patients with large baseline core were still randomized. In MR
      CLEAN study, despite no exclusion criteria defined in the initial protocol, the median ASPECT
      score of the cohort was 9 out of 10. In SWIFT-PRIME study, the mean ASPECT score of the
      cohort was 7, and in REVASCAT study it was 6.8.

      The LASTE protocol "Large Stroke Therapy Evaluation" aims to study the efficacy and safety of
      mechanical thrombectomy in the acute phase of cerebral infarction less than 7 hours for
      patients with a large volume of necrosis defined by a score ASPECT from 0 to 5. The patients
      will be followed 6 months after the stroke.
    
  