
    
      Background and rationale. 'Just-in-case' antibiotic prescribing practices is one of the
      causes of inadequate management of 'acute febrile illnesses' and AMR in Low- and
      Middle-income Countries (LMICs). At the same time, some people who would require antibiotic
      treatment do not get it. An improvement in case management and prescription practice might
      lead to a decrease in morbidity and mortality. Success will mean making significant steps
      toward achieving the dual goal of improving UHC and tackling AMR.

      The PICO question addressed is:

        1. Population; patients (children/ adolescent and adult) presenting to outpatient clinics /
           peripheral health centres in LMICs with acute febrile illness / Respiratory Tract
           Infection

        2. Intervention; combining available diagnostic tests, diagnostic aids/algorithms, clinic
           process flow and, training and communication

        3. Control; Compared to current practice

        4. Outcome; can we improve management of acute febrile illnesses and better target the use
           of antibiotics / reduce unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions as appropriate and feasible
           Primary objective(s) To evaluate the impact of a package of interventions (point of care
           [PoC] tests, clinical algorithm, clinic process flow, training and communication tools)
           on clinical outcomes and antibiotic prescriptions, with standard-of-care practices, in
           children and adolescents presenting with acute febrile illnesses (defined as fever with
           no focus or Respiratory Tract Infection lasting for no more than 7 days), at outpatient
           clinics Secondary objective(s)

      1. To improve the management of acute febrile illness 2. To promote rational and targeted use
      of antibiotics for acute febrile illness 3. To determine the aetiology of fever in patients
      presenting to outpatient facilities using available PoC diagnostic tests 4. To study the
      safety and feasibility of a package of interventions compared to current practice of care 5.
      To assess the effectiveness of training and communication tools to adherence to the
      prescribed treatment Primary endpoints (outcomes) 1. Proportion of outpatient cases of acute
      febrile illness with favourable outcome (defined as being alive and asymptomatic).

      2. antibiotic prescriptions rates for acute febrile illness in the clinic Secondary endpoints
      (outcomes) 1. Duration of time spent in the clinic 2. Proportion of patients treated for
      specific bacterial infection 3. Proportion of patients with disease specific diagnosis
      identified by PoC tests 4. Frequency of serious adverse event (SAE) within 7 days of
      recruitment 5. Frequency of unscheduled (unplanned) visit within 7 days of recruitment 6.
      Training and communication package uptake 7. Proportion of patients prescribed antibiotic at
      clinic who reported adherence to prescription on day 7 8. Proportion of patients who were not
      prescribed antibiotics at clinic who received antibiotics elsewhere between day 0 and day 7
      9. Behaviour Change Intervention Recommendations Trial design A multi-centre, open label, two
      arm, randomized-controlled trial Trial sites/setting This study will be conducted in
      outpatient departments and primary care clinics in Burkina Faso, Ghana, India, Myanmar, Nepal
      and Uganda.

      Trial population . The study population will consist of children, adolescents and adults
      presenting to the health care facility, or provider, with acute fever or history of fever

      Sample Size Approx. 10,000
    
  