
    
      Funding: This study is supported by a grant from the Ministry of Health: PRIN 2017CY3J3W.
      This funding source had no role in the design of this study and will not have any role during
      its execution, analyses, interpretation of the data, reporting of the study or decision to
      submit results

      Background: Remote ischemic conditioning is an experimental therapy consisting in a transient
      ischemia applied in a certain body site, with the aim of increasing ischemic tolerance in
      distant organs through the activation of endogenous protective mechanisms. Ischemic
      per-conditioning is a sub-lethal ischemia applied while a harmful ischemia is ongoing,
      whereas ischemic post-conditioning is a sub-lethal ischemia applied subsequent to the
      occurrence of a harmful ischemia. Both of them have been proven to be neuroprotective to
      ischemic brain tissue in many exploratory single-centre pre-clinical studies. Although the
      neuroprotective mechanisms remain elusive, evidence supports the role of both humoral and
      neuronal factors, such as the release of adenosine, bradykinin and nitric oxide in the blood,
      the activation of neuronal p-AKT and of several miRNAs; a recent pre-clinical study,
      conducted on experimental rat model of acute ischemic stroke, also showed significantly
      increased mRNA levels of HIF-1α 24 hours after the application of remote ischemic
      conditioning, suggesting a possible neuroprotective role of HIF-1α.

      Remote ischemic conditioning represents a potential translational strategy; however, despite
      many pre-clinical exploratory studies highlighted its neuroprotective effect, only a few
      clinical trials have been conducted so far.

      RESCUE BRAIN is an ongoing multicenter clinical trial on remote ischemic post-conditioning
      applied within 6 hours of stroke onset through intermittent lower limb ischemia. The efficacy
      of remote ischemic post-conditioning has been assessed by measuring brain infarct growth from
      baseline to 24h through MRI DWI sequences and comparing brain infarct growth of a cohort of
      patients treated with remote ischemic post-conditioning plus standard medical therapy to that
      of a cohort treated with standard medical therapy alone. A potential limit of this trial is
      represented by the inclusion of stroke patients that received either or both thrombolysis and
      mechanical thrombectomy. In fact, as these treatments are highly effective if applied
      promptly, they may conceal the effect of remote ischemic post-conditioning when administered
      in addition to it, making it difficult to selectively investigate its efficacy.

      In a previous single-center clinical trial, remote ischemic per-conditioning, induced by
      intermittent upper arm ischemia, had been applied to patients with suspected acute ischemic
      stroke during transportation to hospital, as an adjunct to thrombolysis and prior to its
      administration. The efficacy of remote ischemic per-conditioning has been assessed by
      measuring penumbral salvage, final infarct size at 1 month, infarct growth at 1 month and
      evaluating clinical outcome after 3 months. Although the overall results were neutral,
      patients treated with remote ischemic per-conditioning showed lower NIHSS scores and higher
      frequency of TIA than controls, together with an overall reduction in risk of brain tissue
      infarction, suggesting a fast-acting neuroprotective effect; moreover, remote ischemic
      conditioning resulted to be safe and highly tolerable. The latter observation has also been
      confirmed in RECAST, a single-center study on tolerability and feasibility of remote ischemic
      post-conditioning applied to mildly symptomatic patients within 24h of stroke onset. The
      RECAST trial also demonstrated increased plasmatic levels of HSP27 at 4 days in the
      intervention group, suggesting its possible role in neuroprotection and indicating HSP27 as a
      potential biomarker of neuroprotection11.

      Based on these observations, the Italian Stroke Organization (ISO) Basic Science Network,
      which is a nationwide network that promotes translational research on acute ischemic stroke,
      launched a multicenter translational research program on remote ischemic conditioning. This
      program provided for a pre-clinical study on animal model of experimental ischemic stroke and
      a pilot clinical trial involving patients with acute ischemic stroke within 9 hours of stroke
      onset that are not eligible for recanalization therapies.

      Current guidelines for ischemic stroke recommend thrombolysis within 4.5 hours and
      thrombectomy within 6 hours of stroke onset for all eligible patients, but also allow
      administration of recanalization therapies beyond the abovementioned time window in selected
      patients, according to the results of DAWN, DEFUSE and WAKE-UP trial.

      The DAWN trial (Clinical Mismatch in the Triage of Wake Up and Late Presenting Strokes
      Undergoing Neurointervention With Trevo) used clinical-radiological mismatch to select
      patients with large anterior circulation vessel occlusion for mechanical thrombectomy 6 hours
      to 24 hours from last time known normal. The DEFUSE 3 trial (Diffusion and Perfusion Imaging
      Evaluation for Understanding Stroke Evolution) used perfusion-core mismatch and maximum core
      size as radiological criteria to select patients with large anterior circulation occlusion
      between 6 hours and 16 hours from last time known well for mechanical thrombectomy. Both
      trials demonstrated an overall benefit in functional outcome at 90 days in the subgroup of
      patients in the endovascular arm that were treated with mechanical thrombectomy >6 hours from
      onset.

      The WAKE-UP trial (MRI-Guided Thrombolysis for Stroke with Unknown Time of Onset) enrolled
      patients with stroke on awakening or with unclear time of onset, and that presented with MRI
      mismatch between abnormal signal on DWI and no abnormalities on FLAIR. The patient either
      noticed stroke symptoms on awakening or could not report the timing of symptom onset due to
      neurological deficits (e.g. aphasia, anathria, confusion); the time interval between the
      patient was last known to be well and symptom recognition was >4.5 hours (without upper
      limit) in order to exclude patients otherwise eligible to thrombolysis. This trial provided
      evidence of benefit from thrombolysis within 4.5 hours of stroke symptom recognition.

      Finally, the EXTEND trial (Thrombolysis Guided by Perfusion Imaging up to 9 Hours after Onset
      of Stroke) enrolled patients with stroke onset between 4,5 hours and 9 hours and those with
      stroke on awakening within 9 hours of the midpoint of sleep, who had salvageable brain tissue
      on perfusion imaging. This trial demonstrated that thrombolysis, performed between 4.5 and
      9.0 hours after stroke onset or at the time the patient awoke with stroke symptoms (if within
      9 hours of midpoint of sleep), resulted in a higher percentage of patients with no or minor
      neurologic deficits than those who were given placebo.

      These evidences lead to rethinking the paradigm "time is brain", adding greater consciousness
      that time on the ischemic process is relative: although the longer treatment is delayed, the
      worse the functional outcome, penumbral transformation into irreversible brain injury within
      a given time interval varies in relation to multiple factors. In this context, the aim of
      this study is to explore remote ischemic conditioning as a neuroprotective therapy in acute
      ischemic stroke within an extended time window of 9 hours of stroke onset.

      Primary objective: to assess whether RIC plus standard medical therapy, applied within 9
      hours of ischemic stroke onset, is superior to standard medical therapy alone in obtaining a
      large clinical benefit (NIHSS score reduction ≥8 points compared to baseline NIHSS score or
      achievement of a NIHSS score of 0-1 at 72 hours) in patients with acute ischemic stroke
      ineligible for recanalization therapies.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Evaluate intervention feasibility, i.e. estimate the proportion of patients randomized
           to the active arm of the trial who successfully complete the RIC treatment

        -  Estimate the added impact of the RIC therapy on the following outcomes: degree of
           impairment at 24 hours and 48 hours after randomization; neuroprotection based on blood
           and plasma biomarkers; degree of disability or dependence in the daily activities at
           three months assessed by the modified Rankin Scale

      Trial design: Phase II, prospective, block randomized, multicenter, open-label, clinical
      trial comparing with a 1:1 allocation ratio RIC plus standard medical therapy to standard
      medical therapy alone, in patients with acute ischemic stroke within 9 hours of stroke onset
      that are not candidates for thrombolysis and/or thrombectomy. The primary null hypothesis of
      this trial is that there is no difference in clinical benefit between RIC plus standard
      medical therapy and standard medical therapy alone.

      Study setting: The experimental intervention will be carried out in three Italian
      Comprehensive Stroke Centers belonging to ISO-associated academic hospitals, represented by
      ASST Monza-Ospedale San Gerardo di Monza (Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca), Azienda
      Ospedaliera Sant'Andrea (Università degli Studi la Sapienza di Roma), Ospedale di Avezzano
      (Università degli Studi dell'Aquila).

      Methods:

      Experimental Intervention

        1. Intervention arm: RIC treatment arm plus standard medical therapy Remote ischemic
           conditioning will be applied immediately after randomization in the Emergency
           Department, through a standard blood pressure cuff placed around the non-paretic arm.
           The protocol includes 4 cycles of intermittent manually induced upper limb ischemia,
           alternating 5 minutes of inflation (20mmHg above systolic blood pressure) and 5 minutes
           of deflation.

           Patients randomized to remote ischemic post conditioning will also receive standard
           medical therapy (see below).

        2. Control arm: Standard medical therapy alone Standard medical therapy will be
           administered immediately after randomization in the Emergency Department. Standard
           medical therapy comprises single antiplatelet therapy, either aspirin given in a total
           dose ranging between 100 to 300 mg per day on days 1-5 and followed by aspirin 100mg/day
           on days 1-5 followed by aspirin 100mg/day, or Clopidogrel 75mg/day (at the discretion of
           the patient's attending physician), unless an indication for early anticoagulation (e.g.
           atrial fibrillation, mechanical heart valve, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism,
           antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, hypercoagulable state) or dual antiplatelet therapy
           (e.g. early carotid stenting) is present.

      All patients will receive standard deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prevention therapy together
      with appropriate treatment for blood pressure control, glycemic control and cholesterol
      reduction.

      Data collection

      For each eligible patient the following data will be recorded by a designated investigator:

        -  Demographics (age, gender, ethnicity)

        -  Cerebrovascular risk factors (hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, atrial
           fibrillation, previous stroke or TIA, ischemic heart disease, peripheral vascular
           disease)

        -  Past medical/surgical history

        -  Medications prior to randomization (antiplatelets, anticoagulant, antihypertensive,
           statins)

        -  National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) prior to randomization, at 24h, 48h
           and 72h

        -  Feasibility (proportion of patients able to terminate RIC)

        -  Wong-Baker faces pain rating scale immediately after RIC and 72h after randomization

        -  CT-head at randomization and within 72h of randomization

        -  Etiology according to TOAST classification at the time of discharge

        -  Disability at 3 months through modified Rankin Scale

        -  Adverse events at 3 months

      Plasma Biomarkers in acute ischemic stroke patients: Drawing of 7 mL of peripheral venous
      blood will be performed at 24h and 72h after RIC.

        -  HIF-1α mRNA levels at 24 hours. Total RNA will be extracted from whole blood and
           transcribed into cDNA. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
           (HIF1a F, TCATCCAAG- GAGCCTTAACC; HIF-1a R, AAGCGACATAGTAGGGGCAC) will be performed
           (Takara Bio, CA, USA). GAPDH will be chosen as the housekeeping gene.

        -  HSP27 plasma levels at 72 hours. Plasma will be obtained by centrifugation and stored at
           - 20°C. HSP27 (human) will be quantified using a colorimetric enzyme immunoassay (ELISA)
           kit (Enzo Life Sciences, Roma, Italy).

      Study duration

      The investigation will be conducted for an estimated duration of 3 years:

        -  Phase 1. Administrative and ethical procedures: 10 months

        -  Phase 2. Duration of patient enrolment: 18 months.

        -  Phase 3. Follow-up period: 3 months from the date of randomization.

        -  Phase 4. Database lock, statistical analysis and production of a scientific report:
           32-36 month.

        -  Planned start of enrolment: upon approval by the Ethics committee and reception of the
           signed contract.

      Study design This is a phase II, prospective, block randomized, multicenter, open-label,
      clinical trial comparing with a 1:1 allocation ratio RIC plus standard medical therapy to
      standard medical therapy alone, in patients with acute ischemic stroke within 9 hours of
      stroke onset that are not candidates for thrombolysis and/or thrombectomy. The primary null
      hypothesis of this trial is that there is no difference in clinical benefit between RIC plus
      standard medical therapy and standard medical therapy alone.

      Sample size An estimated total sample size of 62 patients (with 31 patients in each of the
      arms of treatment and control) should yield 80% power to detect a clinically significant
      difference of 35% (70% in treatment vs. 35% in control arm) in the proportion of patients
      with large clinical response from remote ischemic conditioning (>= 8 point reduction in NIHSS
      or reaching 0-1 at 72 hours), at two-sided statistical significance threshold of p = 0.05.

      Randomization A randomization list stratified by center will be produced using a
      pseudo-random number generator. The result of the randomization will be delivered after
      personal data input in a web form.

      Statistical methods Descriptive analyses will be carried out using classification (number and
      percentages) in categorical variables and using moments and medians/quartiles in numerical
      variables. Primary analysis will be the comparison of large clinical benefit at 72h between
      the two arms by means of a logistic regression, with center (random variable) as the only
      covariate. Feasibility will be measured estimating the proportion of subjects who terminate
      RIC, together with an exact 95% confidence limit. Description of adverse events will be
      reported for all randomized subjects. Population examined will be ITT. Cut-off for
      statistical significance will be set at 0.05, two-tailed.
    
  