
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a growing public health problem affecting up to 95% of older
      populations. This sleep disorder influences glucose metabolism, leptin and grelin levels,
      promotes sympathetic overactivity, and is associated to increased cardiovascular events. All
      awake-sleep processes are determined by clock-genes and by external factors such as sunlight,
      physical activity, feeding, sleep, and chronotype. Chronotype is the propensity for the
      individual to wake and sleep at a particular time during a 24-hour period, and is categorized
      as morning, intermediate or evening chronotype. Individuals with morning chronotype are more
      alert in the morning and choose an earlier bedtime. Individuals with evening chronotype have
      more inclination for evening activities and choose a later bedtime. And those classified as
      intermediate chronotype show low or no preference for either morning or evening hours for
      activities. Individuals with evening chronotype tend to have higher nocturnal food intake,
      body mass index (BMI), levels of stress hormones, and more sleep apnea episodes. In humans,
      changes in sleep pattern for a few days are sufficient to affect food intake pattern. Two
      days of partial sleep deprivation increases hunger and appetite for calorie-dense foods with
      high carbohydrate content. Food composition, quantity, timing, and rhythmicity of meals
      impact on microbiota and metabolism, increasing basal level of inflammation and age related
      diseases. The aging process comes with an increase in the molecules involved in
      hypercoagulable states, such as plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), a protein induced
      by inflammatory mediators, which creates a prothrombotic state, resulting in a pathological
      deposit of fibrin followed by tissue damage. The increase in PAI-1 expression is related to
      the development of tissue pathologies such as thrombosis, fibrosis and cardiovascular
      disease. Adults with moderate-to-severe OSA have higher levels of PAI-1, and respond to two
      weeks of Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) with a 50% reduction in this
      antifibrinolytic enzyme. The impact of CPAP use on chronotype, food intake pattern, and
      cardiovascular risk markers have never been studied in elder individuals with OSA.
    
  