
    
      Plasma liquid biopsy is rapidly emerging non-invasive diagnostic tool that could be used as a
      surrogate for tumor biopsy or disease activity. Circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is short
      fragment double stranded DNA that is present in blood. Ultrasensitive mutation specific
      techniques based on polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) analysis are required to detect mutations
      and alterations in circulating tumor cells. Early studies based on a small number of patients
      indicate that ctDNA analyses could be used for molecular testing, cancer detection, surrogate
      for tumor burden or activity, and treatment monitoring in solid tumors.

      In the current study the role of ctDNA from plasma in surgically treated early stage NSCLC
      patients will be investigated. The investigators aim to collect a prospective cohort of a
      hundred patients with preoperative and follow-up samples as well as diagnostic tissue
      specimen. The investigators hypothesize that longitudinal ctDNA-samples could be used as
      prognostic marker for recurrence and survival. Finding postsurgical positive ctDNA could aid
      us to identify patients who would benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy before clinical
      recurrence.

      Study design and ethical considerations

      This is a prospective, non-interventional, single arm study that will be conducted in
      collaboration with Helsinki Biobank. It is estimated that cohort of 100 patients will provide
      with ample sample size, as 30-40% will develop a recurrence during the 5 year follow up. A
      preliminary agreement with Helsinki Biobank about the sample collection and storage has been
      made. There will be no additional study appointments as all the control visits and study
      samples are scheduled according to normal clinical protocol. The patients will be recruited
      from 1.5.2019 to 31.12.2020. The recruited patients will provide both a written informed
      consent for this study and a Helsinki Biobank consent that covers plasma and surgical
      samples. Participants can withdraw the consent at any time of the study. The Biobank samples
      will be taken simultaneously with clinical samples, minimizing the additional harm to
      participants. A Helsinki University Hospital (HUS) institution review board permission (HUS
      60/2019) and ethical statement has been granted (455/2019). The study will be conducted in
      accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Patients

      The patients are recruited prior to surgery from preoperative multidisciplinary team (MDT)
      meeting. The inclusion criteria into this study is histologically confirmed NSCLC eligible
      for surgical treatment and naïve for systemic oncological treatments with either
      formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue or fresh frozen tissue sample available.

      The clinical patient data will be collected from electronic medical records (EMR) at each
      point of time (e.g. preoperative, operative, follow-up). Each patient is evaluated in MDT
      meetings before and after the surgery, where the both the clinical and the pathological stage
      is determined. In addition, radiological consolidation/tumor ratio will be calculated from
      preoperative computerized tomography (CT) scans. This data will be transferred to a secure,
      certified electronic database (Granitics Unify Med) with access only by group researchers.

      Blood and tissue sample collection

      The blood and tissue samples will be taken simultaneously with clinical samples. The
      investigators aim to collect surgically removed tissue samples as well as preoperative and
      follow-up cfDNA samples from all patients. In addition to surgical samples, tissue samples
      will be collected from metastatic lesions including autopsy samples in deceased patients. If
      not already taken, the standard Biobank blood sample will be taken simultaneously to
      preoperative samples.

      Plasma samples will be taken at the time of the patient's clinical blood samples. A
      preoperative sample will be taken 1-2 day before the surgery. The first post-operative
      follow-up sample will be taken at the surgical visit 4-6 weeks after the operation. The
      second and third follow-up samples will be taken at 6 and 12 months during clinical follow-up
      visit. At each time point, cfDNA samples will be collected into duplicate specialized
      collection tubes containing fixatives to stabilize DNA from fragmentation (2 x 10ml Streck
      cfDNA BCT). Blood sample will be centrifuged to extract plasma. Plasma and tissue samples
      will be stored at -80 celsius in Helsinki Biobank.

      Study outcomes Preoperative ctDNA mutations will be matched to clinically important endpoints
      such as disease-free survival, tumor size, histology, TNM-stage, and overall survival. The
      clinical cancer recurrence will be obtained from radiological or tumor tissue samples.
      Disease free survival will be assessed from surgery to disease recurrence in MDT meetings or
      death. Overall survival is assessed from surgery to death as a result of any cause.

      Genetic analysis

      Quantitative and mutation specific ctDNA analysis will be made via tumor/somatic exome genome
      panel that includes 23.000 gene panel with 50 million bases. Germline DNA isolation will be
      done from buffy coat taken from patients' blood sample (B-Bio-0). Firstly, to achieve true
      somatic mutations the germline variation is deleted from the ctDNA. Secondly, ctDNA will be
      compared to tumor tissue DNA mutations to exclude false positive findings. Thirdly, similar
      or new mutations collected from follow-up samples will be used to detect postsurgical
      residual disease or cancer recurrence.

      The sequencing will be done in collaboration with Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland
      (FIMM), with their proprietary gene paneling.
    
  