
    
      Background Regular cognitive training can boost or maintain both cognitive and brain
      functions prey to decline with age. Such cognitive training is most often administered on a
      computer and in a lab setting. Yet, training methods based on everyday life experiences, like
      musical practice or dancing, could be more effective following their complex and variable
      nature that may induce transfer effects to different cognitive domains more easily, and
      maintain motivation. Some evidence exists that also "body-mind exercises", Tai Chi or
      psychomotor practice may positively impact cognitive functioning in elderly. The
      investigators will examine the influence of active music practice and psychomotor training in
      MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment) patients on cognitive performance and brain plasticity
      compared to an active control condition.

      Methods The research team will conduct a randomized intervention study in altogether 63
      non-amnesic MCI patients without neurobiological markers of Alzheimer's disease (60-70
      years), within 3 intervention groups: 1) Music practice; 2) Psychomotor training and 3)
      Social animation (active control group). The 3 training regimens will take place twice a week
      for 45 minutes over 6 months in small groups, provided by professionals in each field.
      Additionally, participants should exercise at home for ~30 minutes daily. Participants will
      be tested at 3 time points (baseline, 3, and 6 months) on cognitive and perceptual-motor
      aptitudes, subjective well-being and daily living activities as well as via wide-ranging
      cutting-edge functional and structural neuroimaging.

      Discussion The investigators intend to show that music practice and psychomotor exercise in
      small groups are well-targeted interventions to stabilize, reinforce or even improve
      cognitive, sensory-motor and brain functioning in the neglected population of non-amnesic MCI
      patients without Alzheimer biomarkers, and provoke benefits for daily life functioning,
      well-being and autonomy of these patients. The researchers expect differential benefits of
      both experimental interventions and hypothesize demonstrating that the slope of decline in
      this fragile population can be reversed via such non-medical interventions.
    
  