
    
      Ticagrelor is an oral, reversibly-binding, direct-acting P2Y12 receptor antagonist used
      clinically for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS). Guideline recommendations on the use of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT)
      have been formulated that ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily plus aspirin in preference to
      clopidogrel 75mg daily plus aspirin for patients who have an ACS with or without ST-segment
      elevation. These recommendations are primarily based on large, randomized, Phase III clinical
      trials. However, few East Asian patients (or those of East Asian descent) have been included
      in these trials to assess the use of these drugs. In addition, a growing body of data
      supported that East Asian might have different adverse event profiles (thrombophilia and
      bleeding) and "therapeutic window" compared with white subjects. Furthermore, "East Asian
      paradox" phenomenon has been described that East Asian patients have a higher prevalence of
      platelet reactivity during DAPT, but an ischaemic event rate following PCI or ACS is similar
      or even lower than white patients. Therefore, the antiplatelet treatment strategy that is
      most appropriate for East Asian patients is increasingly urgent. In Korea and Japan, it has
      been reported that low doses of ticagrelor had a more potent inhibition of platelet
      aggregation (IPA) than clopidogrel (75 mg once daily) in healthy subjects and patients with
      stable coronary artery disease, respectively. But it is still not clear whether a low dose of
      ticagrelor is superior to clopidogrel in a large population of Chinese ACS patients. A recent
      study on pharmacokinetics and tolerability of ticagrelor has found that maximum plasma
      concentration (Cmax) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) of ticagrelor
      (90 mg twice daily) and its active metabolite (AR-C124910XX) tended to be approximately 40%
      higher in healthy Chinese volunteers compared with Caucasian subjects. This data also
      suggested that a low dose of ticagrelor might be more appropriate for Chinese ACS patients.
      In view of a large diurnal variation with a single daily dose, a lower dose twice daily may
      be a better choice for Chinese patients. Therefore, we performed the current study to observe
      the different effects of low-dose ticagrelor (45 mg twice daily), conventional-dose
      ticagrelor (90 mg twice daily) and clopidogrel (75mg once daily) on high platelet reactivity
      (HPR) and IPA, and investigated the safety and efficacy of low-dose ticagrelor further in
      Chinese patients with non-ST-elevation ACS (NSTE-ACS).
    
  