
    
      The treatment of deep caries lesions is associated with significant risks for the pulp,
      including pulpal exposure and post-operative pulpal complications, which might eventually
      compromise the retention of the tooth [1]. Moreover, treating deep lesions might be
      associated with pain and subjective burden both during and after treatment and might generate
      long-term costs due to re-treatments being required [2, 3].

      For deciduous teeth, various treatments for deep lesions have been described: Complete
      excavation aims at removing all infected and affected carious dentin, with the inherent risk
      of pulpal exposure. In contrast, stepwise, i. e. two-step excavation leaves carious dentin
      after the initial excavation step, then seals residual caries under a temporary restoration,
      and re-enters the cavity in a second step to eventually attempt complete excavation. This
      approach is thought to facilitate arrest and remineralization of the lesion and to induce
      development of tertiary dentin, thereby reducing the risk of pulpal exposure and
      post-operative complications after the second excavation step [4, 5]. Since several studies
      found sealed residual lesions to be clinically and microbiologically arrested, the need to
      re-enter was increasingly questioned within the last decade [6]. Selective, i. e. one-step
      incomplete or partial excavation seals carious dentin under a definitive restoration,
      omitting any re-entry [7]. Sealing the lesion is thought to deprive residual bacteria from
      dietary carbohydrates and was found to exert significant antibacterial effects, thus
      arresting the lesion [8, 9].

      However, doubts remain regarding the effects of sealed carious dentin on the long-term
      quality of the restoration [10]. Moreover, it remains unknown if patients prefer one of both
      treatments, which might be especially relevant when treating children. Several studies
      comparing complete with selective or stepwise excavation of deciduous teeth have been
      published, but only one three-arm study compared selective with stepwise excavation of
      primary teeth (Tab. 1). In addition, none of these studies assessed patient- or
      dentists-centered outcomes, i. e. preferences, or analyzed clinically assessed long-term
      costs emanating from both excavations.

      Objectives and Hypotheses The study aims at comparing the success, i. e. the probability of
      not requiring any re-interventions, and the survival, i. e. the probability of not requiring
      tooth removal, of selectively versus stepwise excavated vital, non-symptomatic deciduous
      molars with deep lesions. In addition, we assess the restoration integrity of selectively
      versus stepwise excavated deciduous molars, evaluate the preference of patients, parents and
      dentists for one of both strategies, and comparatively assess the costs associated with each
      strategy.

      Our primary hypothesis is that success rates differ significantly between selectively and
      stepwise excavated teeth. Secondary hypotheses are that restoration integrity is assumed to
      significantly differ between selectively and stepwise excavated teeth. Moreover, we
      hypothesize that patients', parents' and dentists' preference is significantly different for
      selective versus stepwise excavated teeth. Eventually, both initial and long-term costs of
      excavation methods are supposed to significantly differ.

      The planned study is a secondary care-based prospective, multi-center two-arm,
      parallel-group, randomized controlled trial at three pediatric university dental clinics in
      Germany. We plan to enroll 300 patients with one or more deeply carious, sensitive and
      non-symptomatic deciduous molar. One molar per patient will be randomly allocated to receive
      one of two treatments (selective or stepwise excavation). Total follow-up time will be three
      years after completion of the initial treatment. Success, survival and restoration integrity
      will be assessed after one, two and three years. Patients', parents' and dentists' preference
      will be assessed after each treatment using visual-analogue scale or Likert-rating scales.
      Costs will be assessed for initial and follow-up treatments and will be based on a
      micro-costing approach.
    
  