
    
      This is a Phase 1, multi-center, open label study to assess the efficacy and safety of two
      doses of the adeno-associated viral vector serotype 2 (AAVCAGsCD59) expressing sCD59
      administered via intravitreal injection seven days after a single intravitreal injection of
      anti-VEGF. All patients considered for enrollment in this study must have treatment naive wet
      AMD, adequate pupillary dilation to permit a thorough ocular exam, and best corrected
      distance visual acuity in the study eye of 20/25 to 20/400 using the Snellen eye chart.

      Written informed consent will be obtained from each study patient prior to his/her
      participation in any study related procedures. Screening will determine patient eligibility
      for the study according to written inclusion and exclusion criteria, which include both
      general medical and AMD-specific criteria. Patients will be enrolled into the study upon
      verification that they fulfill all eligibility criteria and after completion of all screening
      assessments.

      This study consists of a screening and injection of anti-VEGF (Day 0), injection of
      AAVCAGsCD59 (Day 7), and a monthly follow-up period (Month 1 through Month 12) where enrolled
      patients are treated as needed with intravitreal anti-VEGF based on an increase in central
      subfoveal thickness of >50 micrometers on OCT from Day 0, new subretinal hemorrhage, a
      decrease in > or equal to 10 ETDRS letters from the previous exam, or as needed based on the
      treating clinician. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the number of anti-VEGF
      injections that are required after a single intravitreal injection of AAVCAGsCD59 at a dose
      of 3.56x10e11vg for subjects 1-22 and 1.071x10e12vg for subjects 23-25 is administered on Day
      7. Anti-VEGF will be injected at Day 0 to treat the CNV per standard of care and enable the
      AAVCAGsCD59 adequate time (up to two weeks) to enter the ganglion cells in the retina and
      start producing the transgene product, sCD59. Up to twenty-five (25) patients will be
      enrolled at to 2 clinical sites in this study. A long-term follow-up safety exam will occur
      at Month 24.
    
  