
    
      Many children present with poorly controlled asthma despite high intensity treatment
      including high doses of inhaled steroids. A number of these children will get better once the
      basics of asthma management are addressed (such as adherence, allergen avoidance, smoking
      cessation). The remainder will need further escalation of treatment (with attendant side
      effects) and more invasive, investigations. Adults with severe asthma have been found to have
      differences in the fluctuation patterns of peak flow compared to mild asthmatics. This study
      will enable us to evaluate whether the same is true in children, enabling us to improve the
      way we identify children with difficult asthma (DA) and severe therapy resistant asthma
      (STRA) and whether the difficult asthma: DA group are in fact more similar to the
      mild/moderate group.

      Asthma exacerbations are a serious and concerning problem in children with asthma. This study
      will enable us to assess whether mathematical modelling of fluctuation patterns can enable us
      to predict n asthma attack and therefore intervene before it becomes severe or even life
      threatening. This study will also enable us to investigate the relationship between symptoms,
      peak flow patterns, exacerbations and adherence to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) as measured
      by electronic recording devices (Smart-inhalers).

      This is an observational cohort study. If the child and their family are happy to participate
      in the study the first study visit can take place immediately. If they would like time to
      consider the study it can be deferred until their next routine attendance at the hospital.

      Study visit 1:

      Information will be collected relating to past medical history, asthma history and current
      medications (this information may also be obtained from the case notes).

      The following standardised questionnaires will be used: Asthma Control Test, children >12
      years (ACT) or Childhood Asthma Control Test, children 6-11years (cACT) (usually completed as
      part of a routine clinical visit)余 Mini Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire
      (PAQLQ)余 Medicines Adherence Rating Scale (MARS)余 Beliefs about Medicines Questionnaire
      (BMQ).

      Study procedures:

      Lung function (included as part of a routine clinic visit), bronchodilator reversibility
      (lung function repeated after administration of salbutamol), exhaled nitric oxide.

      The child and their family will be issued with a paper diary, electronic peak flow meter
      (PIKO) and electronic monitoring device for their inhaler (Smart-inhaler) and shown how to
      use these.

      Between visits:

      Children will be asked to measure their peak flow twice daily (morning and evening) and
      record their symptoms in a diary. Their parents will also be asked to complete the diary.
      They will be contacted by the study investigator to check whether there are any technical
      problems and as a reminder to make the peak flow measurements and complete the diary.

      Visit 2, approximately 12 weeks later (from 8 to 16 weeks)

      The second study visit will be scheduled at the time of a planned hospital appointment. This
      will largely be a repeat of visit 1:

      Information will be collected relating to asthma control and exacerbations since visit 1. The
      following standardised questionnaires will be used: Asthma Control Test, children >12 years
      (ACT) or Childhood Asthma Control Test, children 6-11years (cACT) (usually completed as part
      of a routine clinical visit)余 Mini Paediatric Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (PAQLQ)

      Study procedures:

      Lung function (included as part of a routine clinic visit), bronchodilator reversibility
      (lung function repeated after administration of salbutamol), exhaled nitric oxide.
    
  