
    
      Rationale: Human milk is considered as the ideal food for full-term infants. The composition
      and function of human milk is unique and has provided the basis for the development of modern
      artificial milk formulas that mimic its complex biological positive effects on infants and
      can provide an appropriate substitute for non-breastfed infants. An important component in
      human milk are the lipids, as they deliver 50% of the total energy to infants. Nowadays,
      mostly vegetable fat blends are used in infant formula, but the use of bovine milk fat is
      increasing. In terms of fat structure, bovine milk fat and vegetable fats differ. Bovine milk
      fat has a higher percentage of palmitic acid attached to the sn-2 position of the glycerol
      backbone compared to vegetable fat blend. Also bovine milk fat contains milk fat globular
      membranes, as opposed to vegetable fat. Knowledge on how these differences influence
      underlying mechanistic, immune and metabolic responses is lacking.

      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to determine the effect of three different
      fat blends on underlying mechanistic and immune responses in the circulation. The secondary
      objectives of this study are: 1) to examine the effects of the three different fat blends on
      postprandial triglyceride concentration and other cardio-metabolic markers in the
      circulation, 2) to investigate the effect of the three different fat blends on postprandial
      feelings of hunger and satiety, and 3) to investigate how comparable cytokine measurements
      are in blood samples obtained via a catheter cannula compared to cytokine measurements in
      dried blood spots obtained via a finger prick.

      Study design: The POEMI Study is a double-blind randomized cross-over acute intervention
      study in which each research subject will visit the university on three separate occasions
      with a wash-out period of at least one week. At each visit the research subject will undergo
      one of the three dietary lipid challenge tests (a shake) in a randomized order. On each study
      day research subjects will be asked to clock in 30 minutes prior to the first data collection
      points and a catheter cannula will be inserted in a antecubital vein. After the 30 minute
      rest, blood will be drawn from the catheter cannula and via a finger prick (baseline
      measurements, t0). After the baseline measurements, the research subjects will have to
      consume the shake within a time frame of 10 minutes. Blood is again drawn from the catheter
      cannula at t= 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 hours after consumption, with an additional finger
      prick at t=6. A questionnaire on hunger and satiety feelings will be taken after every blood
      draw.

      Study population: The base population will consist of 40 healthy men and women with a BMI
      ranging from 22 to 27 kg/m2, aged 40 to 70 years old, selected from the surroundings of
      Wageningen through the mailing list for potential study research subjects of the division of
      Human Nutrition and health of Wageningen University. If needed, additional recruitment of
      research subjects will take place by flyers and posters, or advertisements in local
      newspapers.

      Intervention: The dietary lipid challenge tests will be provided in the form of a liquid
      shake (0.6 L). Each shake will contain 95 gram of fat. The three types of fat that will be
      tested include: a) 100% vegetable fat blend, b) 100% Anhydrous milk fat (AMF), c) 100% cream
      (AMF + milk fat globular membranes).
    
  