
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the overall response rate, 1-year event-free survival, and overall survival of
           adult patients with newly diagnosed Burkitt or atypical Burkitt lymphoma or leukemia
           treated with dose-intensified induction therapy comprising cyclophosphamide,
           vincristine, prednisone, and rituximab followed by consolidation therapy comprising
           rituximab and high-dose cyclophosphamide.

        -  Determine the grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxic effects and overall tolerability
           of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the 3-year event-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the general patterns of CNS and systemic relapse in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Dose-intensified CVP induction therapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and
           vincristine IV on day 1. Patients also receive oral prednisone on days 1-5 and rituximab
           IV on days 1 and 8, and high-dose methotrexate IV with leucovorin calcium IV rescue on
           day 8. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily beginning on
           day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats approximately every
           14 days for 2 courses.

        -  CNS therapy: Patients receive cytarabine intrathecally (IT) with or without
           hydrocortisone IT on days 1, 4, and 11 of each induction therapy course. Patients with
           evidence of CNS involvement by lymphoma continue to receive cytarabine IT twice weekly
           during any induction therapy treatment delay. Patients who demonstrate CSF clearance
           receive cytarabine IT once weekly for 4 doses and then once every other week for 4 doses
           during consolidation therapy. Patients with disease progression during induction therapy
           or persistent CNS involvement by lymphoma are removed from the study. All other patients
           proceed to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV on day -4 and high-dose
           cyclophosphamide IV on days -3, -2, -1, and 0. Patients receive G-CSF SC once daily
           beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover OR pegfilgrastim SC once on
           day 6. Patients then receive rituximab IV once weekly for 4 weeks in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  