
    
      C-LEARN's overall aim is to determine how best to improve resilience, particularly mental
      health-related quality of life for individual adult clients of diverse health and
      community-social service programs, through alternative strategies to build capacity of
      programs to provide services for depression, social risk factors and disaster-related
      concerns, as well as through alternative forms of individual client information technology
      support for addressing the same range of issues.

      Specific aims are:

      To engage communities in South Louisiana in a community learning initiative on how to best
      build capacity to enhance resilience to depression, adverse social determinants of health,
      and disaster exposure. This aim includes a qualitative assessment of local community
      resilience priorities and assets to inform study implementation.

      To compare the effectiveness for improving mental health quality of life (MHRQL) (primary)
      and coping with stressors and other resilience outcomes (secondary), of two program-level
      interventions to build capacity for resilience programs: 1) Technical Assistance (TA) to
      individual programs vs 2) Community Engagement and Planning (CEP) to support multi-sector
      coalitions.

      To compare the effectiveness for improving MHRQL and other resilience outcomes of two mobile
      apps: CR and CR+eCBT: 1) CR - An app providing only information on community resources, or 2)
      CR+eCBT - An app providing information on community resources and education on a cognitive
      behavioral therapy (eCBT) based approach to enhance individual resilience (i.e., coping with
      mood and stressors).

      To describe strategies CEP coalitions used to address depression, social determinants and
      disaster resilience, to inform interpretation and dissemination of findings.

      Design

      The design has an overall CPPR approach to implement a 2 by 2, randomized comparative
      effectiveness trial. Randomization occurs at the program level to either CEP or TA, where a
      program is a discrete services program with its own staff and clients; there may be multiple
      programs within a given administrative agency, including different geographic sites such as
      clinics. Further, programs may offer services in different content areas, such as physical
      health, mental health, social services, disaster services, faith-based, etc., referred to as
      different "sectors." In addition, individual participants will be randomized to one of two
      mobile apps for coping with stressors and disasters.

      The project and design phase has been led by a Leadership Council, including academic,
      community, and health system participants who have guided all aspects of the study, and
      operate under CPPR principles.1 Initial leaders are academic and community partners from the
      Community and Patient Partnered Research Network (CPPRN) across South Louisiana and Los
      Angeles with additional stakeholder advisors from New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Coastal South
      Louisiana planned for as engagement of communities proceeds.2 The Council reviews work group
      recommendations and facilitates larger community input and approval through a stakeholder
      advisory committee and larger community conferences, one of which occurred prior to
      publishing this phase (pre-program recruitment) of the protocol.

      Interventions

      The main comparators are CEP and TA. Healthcare and community-based programs that are
      assigned to CEP and TA will both receive training and support for implementation of an
      expanded model of evidence-based depression collaborative care that also addresses social
      determinants and disaster readiness. The depression toolkits to be used are from studies on
      adults, including, racial/ethnic minority and low-income groups, with community health worker
      manuals from prior work in New Orleans, adapted for community-based programs in the Community
      Partners In Care (CPIC) study.3-7 Toolkits use a team-based, stepped-care approach supporting
      assessment, referral and treatment, outcomes monitoring and care adjustment with specialty
      supervision and case managers for coordination and client education. While based on
      components of collaborative care for depression (clinical assessment and medication
      management for physicians; clinical assessment and CBT for licensed counselors; case
      management support for screening, education and patient activation, problem solving, care
      coordination and outreach; team management support), the interventions will also include
      resources to address main social determinants (e.g., poverty/financial planning, housing
      resources) and disaster preparedness/response, such as online resources developed after
      LACCDR.8 Initial adaptations have been made with stakeholder input, but work groups will
      continue to refine some materials prior to client recruitment. The differences between CEP
      and TA are described in the following sections.

      CEP for Coalitions CEP creates multi-sector networks to collaborate in evidence-based and
      community-prioritized toolkits or intervention materials.9,10 CEP supports a series of
      biweekly to monthly meetings to develop network and individual program capacity, prepare
      stakeholders as co-leads, and create a written training plan following CPPR principles.1,11
      CEP councils consider local context, i.e., cultural assets and stakeholder input. Disaster
      preparedness and public health sectors will be encouraged to offer education/resources on
      social determinants and disasters within CEP training plans. CEP will be supported by a
      Learning Collaborative, meeting 2-3 times, using activities such as project examples,
      tabletop exercises and self-assessment to identify gaps and formulate goals for improvement.
      8,11

      TA for Individual Programs TA uses experts to train program staff via webinars and site
      visits, using the same toolkits as CEP, in a "train the trainer" approach with outside
      referral for intensive support such as for full supervision in CBT. TA provides a series of
      webinars and as needed primary care site visits, focused on team support for assessment,
      treatment support as appropriate with medication and/or psychotherapy, case management and
      educational resources and access to intervention toolkits. TA experts may include a
      psychiatrist, CBT expert therapist, case manager, support staff and community leader to
      engage service programs. The team will include experts on components such as financial
      planning and disaster preparedness.

      Individual-Level Mobile Apps

      C-LEARN will compare two mobile apps created as part of this study (referred to as CR and
      CR+eCBT) that permit interactive text messaging, mobile web, or interactive voice response
      (IVR) interactions, using an information technology platform (Chorus) specifically designed
      for participatory development.2 Each mobile app will be adapted through workgroups with
      stakeholders in order to tailor content to each community. The CR app will primarily provide
      informational resources and referral information relevant to the local community. The study
      team and investigators will identify resources for depression, social determinants and
      disaster preparedness and response within each community during planning with local
      stakeholders. The CR+eCBT app consists of the functionality of the CR app along with an
      interactive component to support CBT-informed coping with mood and stressors at the
      individual level. This component was developed previously by our group using participatory
      methods with community partners and includes interactive support to enhance social support
      networks, support cognitive restructuring (framed through partnered input as "Catch it, Check
      it, Change it"), and encourage pleasant activities 12. Participants will receive text message
      notifications (with frequency set by participants, up to several times per day) and can
      either reply back to messages to explore content or click a link in the message to access the
      interactive mobile app.

      Measures and outcomes (primary/secondary) are identified elsewhere in the clinicaltrials.gov
      submission. Randomization, sampling, and proposed statistical analysis details are available
      in the protocol, also included with this submission.

      Human Subjects Protection All procedures will have prior review and approval from the LSU
      Health Sciences Center-New Orleans (LSUHSC-NO) Institutional Review Board (IRB), and
      partnering research institutions will enter into reliance agreements with LSUHSC-NO. The
      study currently has IRB approval to conduct qualitative interviews, and to consent and enroll
      participating agencies, administrators, and providers.
    
  