
    
      Background: Vegetarian diets have been associated with a reduced risk of preventable
      cardiometabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. It is unclear
      whether the replacement of animal protein with vegetable protein has cardiometabolic
      advantages.

      Objectives: To improve evidence-based guidance for dietary guidelines and health claims
      development, we propose to conduct a series of systematic reviews and meta-analyses of the
      effects of plant-based protein in replacement for animal protein on cardiometabolic risk
      factors including: (1) blood lipids, (2) glycemic control, (3) blood pressure, (4) body
      weight, (5) uric acid, (6) markers of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), and (7)
      kidney function and injury.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials will be
      searched using appropriate search terms.

      Study selection: Long term (≥ 3 weeks), randomized, controlled trials that investigate the
      effect of exchange of plant proteins for animal proteins on the outcomes previously mentioned
      in humans will be included. Studies that have an acute feeding design, are not randomized, or
      lack a suitable control will not be included. Both isocaloric and non-isocaloric studies will
      be included.

      Data extraction: Independent investigators (≥2) will extract information about study design,
      sample size, subject characteristics, pulse form, dose, follow-up, and the composition of the
      background diets. Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes. Standard computations
      and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data. Risk of bias and study quality
      will be assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool and the Heyland Methodological Quality
      Score (MQS), respectively.

      Outcomes: The proposed syntheses will each assess a set of outcomes related to a different
      area of cardiometabolic risk: (1) blood lipids (established therapeutic targets for the
      prevention of cardiovascular disease - LDL-C, apo-B, non-HDL-C), (2) glycemic control
      (glycated blood proteins, fasting glucose and insulin, and Homeostasis model assessment of
      insulin resistance [HOMA-IR]), (3) body weight, (4) uric acid, (5) blood pressure (systolic
      BP and diastolic BP), (6) markers of NAFLD (imaging and spectroscopy endpoints of liver fat
      and biomarkers of hepatocellular injury [transaminases]), and (7) kidney injury and function
      (creatinine, urea, creatine clearance, estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR],
      albumin-to-creatine ratio [ACR], albuminuria, proteinuria).

      Data synthesis: Separate pooled analyses will be conducted for each area of cardiometabolic
      control using the Generic Inverse Variance method. Random-effects models will be used even in
      the absence of statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as they yield more
      conservative summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity. Exceptions
      will be made for the use of fixed-effects models where there is <5 included trials
      irrespective of heterogeneity or small trials are being pooled with larger more precise
      trials in the absence of statistically significant heterogeneity. Paired analyses will be
      applied to all crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be tested by Cochran's Q statistic and
      quantified by the I2 statistic. Sources of heterogeneity will be explored by sensitivity and
      subgroup analyses. A priori subgroup analyses will include study design, dose, vegetable
      protein type, animal protein comparator, follow-up, baseline values, and study quality.
      Significant unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup
      analyses (e.g. age, sex, level of feeding control [metabolic, supplemented, dietary advice],
      washout in crossover trials, energy balance of the background diet, composition of the
      background diet [total % energy from fat, carbohydrate, protein], change in cholesterol
      intake, change in glycemic index, etc.). Meta-regression analyses will assess the
      significance of subgroups analyses. Publication bias will be investigated by the inspection
      of funnel plots and application of Egger's and Begg's tests.

      Knowledge translation plan: Results will be disseminated through traditional means such as
      interactive presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and
      publication in high impact factor journals. Innovative means such as webcasts with e-mail
      feedback mechanisms will also be used. Knowledge Users will act as knowledge brokers
      networking among opinion leaders and different adopter groups to increase awareness at each
      stage. Four Knowledge Users will also participate directly as members of nutrition guidelines
      committees. Target adopters will include the clinical practice, public health, industry,
      research communities, and patient groups. Feedback will be incorporated and used to guide
      analyses and improve key messages at each stage.

      Significance: The proposed project will demonstrate that the improvement in longterm health
      measures. This demonstration will aid in knowledge translation related to the effects of
      plant proteins on cardiometabolic risk, kidney disease management, and metabolic syndrome,
      strengthening the evidence-base for dietary recommendations and health claims and improving
      health outcomes through informing healthcare providers and patients, stimulating industry
      innovation, and guiding future research.
    
  