
    
      Preterm labor is the first cause of hospitalization during the pregnancy and complicates of a
      premature delivery in about 30 % of the cases during single pregnancy. It is about a clinical
      situation arising between 22 and 36 amenorrhea weeks (SA) + 6 days, which are observed the
      cervical modifications and the uterine contractions confirmed by an ultrasound measure with
      cervical length ≤25mm.The main complication of the threat premature delivery (MAP) is the
      premature birth, which is an essential factor of perinatal morbidity and is the second cause
      of death before the age of 5 years. The measure of cervical length with ultrasound and the
      detection of the fetal fibronectin were estimated to identify the patients with risk of
      spontaneous premature delivery, however their capacity to discriminate these patients is
      insufficient (predictive value is positive of 20 %). It thus seems necessary to find a
      diagnostic alternative more relevant.The prenatal corticosteroid therapy is recommended for
      all the patients at risk of premature delivery in 7 days between 24 and 34 SA. Indeed the
      maximal profit of corticoids arises when the delivery occurs between 12 hours and 7 days
      following their administration, with a significant reduction in neonatal period the hyaline
      membrane diseases (50 %), intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing enterocolitis and deaths
      (40 %). Thus corticosteroids establishes the most important treatment in the
      prematurity.However, the beneficial effect of the corticosteroid therapy decreases if the
      birth arises beyond 7 days after the administration. So the efficiency of a complete cure of
      corticoids in the prevention of the neonatal respiratory morbidity is in connection with
      deadline between the administration and the delivery. The challenge consists in administering
      the cure of corticoids in 7 days preceding the birth to benefit from the maximal neonatal
      profit. Besides, the repetition of the cures of corticoids could be responsible for noxious
      effects on the future of the future adult by distorting the growth of the child and its
      cognitive future, by increasing the risk of obesity or insulin resistance, as well as the
      cardiovascular risk in the adulthood.The capacity to discriminate between the patients who
      are going to give birth prematurely in 7 days so answers a double objective: allow the
      implementation of an effective and beneficial preventive treatment for the newborn child and
      avoid treatments and inconvenient hospitalizations, generators of unwanted effects and
      useless spending.A recent study estimates the interest of an interesting molecule, the
      placental alpha microglobulin 1 (PAMG-1), in this diagnostic approach. She concludes that the
      detection of PAMG-1 by a vaginal taking is the best test to predict spontaneous delivery in 7
      days compared with the measure of the cervical length by transvaginal ultrasound and the test
      of fetal fibronectin. If the performance of the test is validated by the study, the coverage
      of the patients would be optimized with less frequent and less long hospitalizations, as well
      as a decrease of treatments pointlessly prescribed at the patients not giving birth finally
      prematurely (tocolytics, corticoids). For those giving birth prematurely, corticoids could be
      administered for an optimal deadline to obtain the maximal profit for the newborn child.
    
  