
    
      Subject enrolment may proceed with information available on tumor HRAS status previously
      generated during the pre-screening phase, but all subjects must consent to provide tumor
      slides (or tumor tissue block) from a prior diagnostic biopsy for a retrospective testing of
      RAS gene status, including T81C polymorphism, and other potential biomarkers at a central
      facility.

      Tipifarnib will be administered at a starting dose of 600 mg, po, bid daily on days 1-7 and
      15-21 of 28-day treatment cycles. In the absence of unmanageable toxicities, subjects may
      continue to receive tipifarnib treatment for up to 24 months in the absence of disease
      progression and unmanageable toxicity. Treatment may continue beyond 24 months if there is
      documented evidence of continued clinical benefit.

      Tumor assessments will be performed at screening and approximately every 8 weeks for the
      first 6 months (cycles 2, 4, 6) and then every 12 weeks (cycles 9, 12, 15, etc.) until
      disease progression, starting at the end of Cycle 2. Additional tumor assessments may be
      conducted if deemed necessary by the Investigator or for a confirmation of an objective
      response. Subjects who discontinue tipifarnib treatment for reasons other than disease
      progression must continue tumor assessments until disease progression, withdrawal of
      subject's consent to study procedures or initiation of another anticancer therapy.

      Determination of objective tumor response will be performed by the Investigator according to
      the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v 1.1. Electronic copies of tumor
      images may be de-identified of subject's personal information at the clinical sites and
      collected by the Sponsor to undergo an external independent radiological review if the
      sponsor deems it necessary for the final assessment of treatment efficacy. Subjects with a
      solitary site of disease who have experienced a response may be considered for surgical
      resection. Subjects with a best response of a partial response and residual disease after
      salvage surgery will be eligible to continue on study therapy. Information on the duration of
      response to the last prior therapy will be collected.

      Upon disease progression, subjects will be followed approximately every 12 weeks for survival
      until either death or 24 months after accrual in the subject's study cohort has been
      completed, whichever occurs first. Information on subsequent anticancer therapy will be
      collected.

      All subjects will be followed-up for safety during treatment and for approximately 30
      additional days after treatment discontinuation (or until immediately before the
      administration of another anticancer treatment). Additional safety follow up may be conducted
      if unresolved toxicity is present at the End of Treatment visit.
    
  