
    
      Resveratrol (RSV) is a naturally occurring polyphenol found in many plants including grapes,
      peanuts and berries. Resveratrol has attracted a lot of research attention based on
      preclinical data showing anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative properties through several
      mechanisms.RSV is available as over the counter supplement in the United States. Various
      formulations and dosage forms have been used in previous studies involving cardiovascular
      health, metabolism and chemoprevention. ResVida®, is an oral preparation consisting of pure
      trans-resveratrol with a purity of > 99% manufactured by DSM nutritional products will be
      used in this study. Healthy African American women will receive 1 capsule daily of 150 mg.

      Objectives: To test the effects of resveratrol on IGF-II level in healthy AA women.

      Eligibility: Healthy adult African American female (18 years of age or older) Design: The
      study involves an initial visit and 3 additional visits at 2 week interval. At the initial
      visit, women will participate in a short-talk session to present the study, facts about
      breast cancer, RSV and protocol requirements. Participants will be evaluated for meeting
      basic eligibility criteria by a Breast Oncologist. All interested participants will sign an
      informed consent form and will be provided with a questionnaire to complete. The Oncologist
      will obtain medical history, use of medication, supplements etc. from consented participants.
      Consented participants will then meet with the study coordinator who will assign each
      participant with a study identification (ID) number along with other basic assessment as
      noted below. The study coordinator will also dispense a 2 week supply of RSV along with a
      medication calendar to each participant at their initial visit and at visits 2-4. In
      addition, the participants will have their blood sample collected by a trained phlebotomist
      during visit 1 and at visits 2-4. Collected blood vials will be handed to research laboratory
      to determine IGF2 levels as well as other research biomarkers.
    
  