
    
      Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is an inherited inability to synthesize cortisol in the
      adrenal gland. More than 90% of cases are cause by deficiency of steroid 21-hydroxylase
      (CYP21, also termed CYP21A2, P450c21), which is a cytochrome P450 enzyme located in the
      endoplasmic reticulum. It catalyzes conversion of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) to
      11-deoxycortisol, a precursor for cortisol, and progesterone to deoxycorticosterone, a
      precursor for aldosterone. Aldosterone deficiency may lead to salt wasting with consequent
      failure to thrive, hypovolemia, shock and if untreated, death in the first few weeks of life.
      Because patients cannot synthesize cortisol efficiently, the adrenal cortex is stimulated by
      corticotropin (ACTH) and overproduces cortisol precursors. Some of these precursors are
      diverted to sex hormone biosynthesis, which may cause signs of androgen excess including
      ambiguous genitalia in newborn females, rapid postnatal growth in both sexes, and accelerated
      skeletal maturation and decreased adult height. Patients require supraphysiologic replacement
      doses of glucocorticoids to suppress the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-driven adrenal
      androgen synthesis. Excessive glucocorticoids are associated with excessive weight gain and
      slowing of linear growth. It would be desirable in pre-pubertal children to decrease the
      exposure to excess glucocorticoids while avoiding the adverse effects of inappropriate
      exposure to androgens. Abiraterone acetate is a prodrug of abiraterone, an irreversible
      inhibitor of 17α hydroxylase/C17, 20-lyase (cytochrome P450c17 [CYP17]), a key enzyme
      required for testosterone synthesis. This agent indeed suppresses adrenal androgen secretion
      in adult women. This Phase 2 will determine if, over 24 months, this treatment retards bone
      age advancement and thus improves adult height prognosis. The present study is the first
      clinical trial to explore the utility of abiraterone acetate as a means for decreasing daily
      requirements for glucocorticoids in pre-pubertal children with 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
    
  