
    
      Our study tested the effectiveness of a combined cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and care
      manager intervention offered either by telephone or face-to-face with depressed Latinos
      identified in primary care. The study was conducted at two sites (San Juan, PR and Boston,
      MA), each of which had multiple clinics. Eligible patients were randomized after baseline to
      one of three conditions; 1) ECLA-T (telephone) intervention, 2) ECLA-F (face to face)
      intervention, and 3) usual care. Usual care was considered care as usual in the participating
      clinic for a patient screening or depression. The ECLA-T intervention was based on a
      telephone-plus-care-management intervention that has been shown to be effective in decreasing
      depressive symptoms and increasing client satisfaction and self-perceived global improvement,
      as compared to usual care in depressed patients in primary care settings.

      All participants received a baseline interview assessment prior to randomization. After
      treatment completion (2 to 3 months from baseline), patients completed an end-of-treatment
      (EOT) assessment, including repeated assessment of baseline measurements. A 4-month follow-up
      from baseline was scheduled, which replicated the EOT assessment.

      For those patients in the intervention conditions, during each session the clinician used CBT
      and motivational enhancement strategies to engage the patient in treatment and enhance
      retention. The CBT intervention was composed of a shortened version of the original CBT
      intervention, comprised of modules that focus on identifying and correcting negative
      distortions or cognitions, promote behavioral activation through engaging the patient in
      pleasant activities, and develop supportive relationships. All sessions were tailored within
      the structured format considering the patient's needs and always employed a collaborative
      approach with the patient.

      The first four sessions occurred weekly. Every other week the clinician evaluated the patient
      with the PHQ-9 to determine the level of depressive symptoms. After four sessions, if there
      was improvement two to four more bi-weekly sessions were scheduled. If there was no or
      minimal improvement, sessions continued weekly up to a total of 8 sessions for a maximum of 3
      months treatment. Cases that showed no improvement or deterioration received more intensive
      monitoring from the supervising clinicians at both sites.
    
  