
    
      Visit 1: Screening & Acclimation Visit

      The informed consent process for the study will be completed and a signed informed consent
      form will be obtained at Spaulding Hospital Cambridge. Subjects will be screened to ensure
      they meet preliminary eligibility criteria. All subjects will undergo a clinical interview to
      determine the presence of any medical disorders. The following study assessments will be
      completed:

        -  12-lead EKG

        -  Resting blood pressure and heart rate

        -  Height and Weight

      Visit 2: VMS Determination and At-Home Assessments Subjects will be interviewed about their
      mental health history, and will complete questionnaires about their VMS, related
      quality-of-life symptoms (sleep, mood) and quality-of-life. Blood will be drawn to confirm
      eligibility and to assess for diabetes and chronic kidney disease (see exclusion criteria).
      Subjects will be given a 7-day VMS Diary and a 7-day Sleep Diary at the end of this visit, to
      be completed at home during the following week. Participants will also be given an
      actigraphic watch to take home to wear for 7 days in order to capture sleep/wake patterns and
      activity levels for exploratory analyses. During the 7 days of at-home VMS and sleep
      monitoring, subjects will also wear a portable VMS monitor for 24 hours to measure objective
      VMS frequency.

      Visit 3: Final Eligibility Determination & Lab VMS Monitoring Subjects will return the
      objective VMS monitor and the VMS and sleep diaries, and the results of their blood tests
      taken during the Visit 2 will be reviewed to ensure eligibility. Eligible subjects will
      participate in a 6-hour laboratory objective VMS monitoring session by wearing an objective
      VMS monitor while simultaneously subjectively monitoring VMS experienced with a written diary
      and an event marker. Objective VMS measures obtained during this visit will be the primary
      baseline measure of VMS for investigation. Those who have at least 2 objective VMS measured
      during the 6-hour monitoring period will be deemed eligible and referred for baseline studies
      and to start medication. Participants will be given additional VMS and sleep diaries to
      complete on a daily basis throughout the rest of the study period.

      Visit 4: Laboratory Testing Visit & Medication Distribution All studies will be performed
      between ~8-10 am and will occur at the same time for the second laboratory testing visit. All
      subjects will be instructed to abstain from vigorous exercise for 2 days prior to each study
      to avoid autonomic and neuroendocrine effects of exercise. In addition, subjects will refrain
      from caffeine and alcohol for the previous 24 hrs, and be studied after a 12 hr fast.

      A. Study Visit: Parameters to be Measured

        1. Electrocardiogram.

        2. Arterial Pressure.

        3. Respiration.

        4. Sympathetic Microneurography.

        5. Beat-by-Beat Leg Blood Flow. B. Drugs to Study Human Physiology

      1) Intravenous bolus injection of 100 ug nitroprusside bolus (a vasodilator which drops
      pressure) 2) Intravenous bolus injection 150 ug phenylephrine bolus (a vasoconstrictor which
      raises pressure).

      These two drugs are used to drop and raise pressure through a range of arterial pressures
      within a very short time, approximately 2 minutes.

      These medications raise and lower blood pressure by the same amount typically experienced
      during the day when performing activities such as climbing stairs or moving from sitting to
      standing.

      C. Data to be collected/Timing of collection The study visit will take about 4 hours.
      Throughout the protocol, subjects will lie supine and will be instrumented for measurement of
      the ECG, beat-by-beat arterial pressure, brachial arterial pressure, respiratory excursions,
      and popliteal blood flow velocity. After instrumentation and calibration, instrumentation for
      measurement of peroneal nerve muscle sympathetic activity will commence, with the internal
      search lasting a maximum of 60 minutes.

      After either successful or unsuccessful procurement of the nerve recording, the testing
      protocol will start:

      Testing Protocol

        1. Baseline recordings/measurement (~10 minutes): Subjects will rest quietly for 10
           minutes.

        2. Modified Oxford Baroreflex tests (5 minutes/trial, 2 trials, ~30 minutes total): An
           intravenous bolus injection of 100 ug nitroprusside bolus, followed in 1 minute by a 150
           ug phenylephrine bolus. After the first trial, a second modified Oxford baroreflex test
           will be performed. At least 10-15 minutes will be allowed between the baroreflex trials
           to insure that heart rate, blood pressure and nerve activity return to resting levels.
           Subjects will be continually assessed for adverse events and symptoms related to
           hypotension.

        3. Sustained isometric handgrip exercise (~10 minutes): Subjects will be asked to perform
           an isometric handgrip exercise at 30% of maximum effort sustained to fatigue.

        4. Valsalva's maneuver (~5 minutes): Subjects will be asked to blow into a tube via a
           mouthpiece and generate a pressure of ~40 mmHg sustained for 12 seconds. Data will be
           collected for one minute prior to the maneuver, one minute after, with two minutes of
           recovery between trials. This will be repeated to obtain three successful trials.

        5. Paced breathing (~15 minutes total): Subjects will be asked to maintain a constant
           breathing frequency of 15 breaths/min (0.25 Hz) following an audio signal (i.e., "in,
           two, out, two") for 5 minutes after a short period of acclimation.

      Distribution of Study Medication: After all baseline measures are complete, study medication
      (gabapentin) will be distributed to all study participants and participants will be
      instructed as to how to take and titrate the medication dose.

      Visit 5a: Medication Dosage & Adverse Event Monitoring (Telephone) Study staff will check in
      with study participants over the telephone after they have been on gabapentin for
      approximately one week to monitor any side effects or adverse events of the medication. If
      subjects are experiencing intolerable side effects, they will be taken off of the medication
      while completing the remaining study procedures. In order to track potential after effects of
      microneurography, subjects who had the electrode placed beneath the surface of their skin
      will be given the Microneurography Questionnaire (MSNA). Over the last 18 years of performing
      the technique, roughly 5% of participants have after effects, and of these the most often
      reported effect (>90%) is slight bruising at the site of insertion.

      Visit 5b: Medication Dosage & Adverse Event Monitoring (Telephone) Study staff will check in
      with study participants over the telephone after they have been on gabapentin for
      approximately three weeks to monitor any side effects or adverse events of the medication. If
      subjects are experiencing intolerable side effects, they will be taken off of the medication
      while completing the remaining study procedures.

      Visit 6: Objective VMS Monitoring All subjects will repeat the 6-hour laboratory objective
      VMS monitoring session on gabapentin for post-treatment measures of VMS, as described above
      for Visit 3. Participants will also complete the same set of pre-treatment questionnaires
      about their VMS, related quality-of-life symptoms (sleep, mood) and quality-of-life. All
      subjects will be given the ambulatory VMS monitor to wear for 24 hours at home, to capture
      the frequency of VMS in the ambulatory setting as well as the actigraphic watch to wear for a
      one-week period. Participants will be reminded to continue to complete their VMS and sleep
      diaries.

      Visit 7: Laboratory Testing Visit & Medication Collection Procedures performed during Visit 4
      will be repeated at Visit 7, to collect data on cardiovascular measures after participants
      have been on gabapentin for at least 4 weeks at the full dose. All VMS and sleep diaries, as
      well as unused study medication, actigraphic watch, and the objective VMS monitor, will be
      returned and collected at this visit.
    
  