
    
      Being able to accurately monitor patient bodily fluid levels during and after surgery is very
      important, as there are a number of complications that can arise if a patient's fluid levels
      become unbalanced, such as swelling within or pressure on various bodily organ systems. There
      are several different ways that physicians can monitor a patient's fluid balance during and
      after surgery, such as measuring the amount of urine output or the use of central venous
      catheters which measure the pressure in the veins entering the heart. Most of these
      techniques are invasive since they require tubes to be inserted into the body. A potential
      alternative would be to use a noninvasive technique such as electrical bioimpedance (BIA).

      Bioimpedance assessments work by using small electrical currents that can accurately predict
      both the water surrounding the outside of cells in the body, as well as the total amount of
      water in the entire body. Electrical bioimpedance assessments have been used to estimate
      patient swelling following surgery (edema), to measure the volume of blood the heart is
      pumping out, as well as to calculate body fat percentages.

      The goal of this study is to relate this technology to fluid shifts within the body that
      occur as a result of surgery, in particular, major intra-abdominal surgeries. By using
      bioimpedance during and after surgery, the investigators will compare the data collected with
      that calculated by using traditional measures of body fluid status, such as urine output and
      intraoperative blood loss. During the study, the bioimpedance monitors will not replace the
      standard bodily fluid monitors and will not interfere with their readings. Additionally, the
      electrical current produced by the bioimpedance monitors is too small for patients to feel
      and will not interfere with medical devices such as pacemakers.
    
  