
    
      There is profound heterogeneity of subjects in clinical studies of addictions, with patients
      being diagnosed by the primary substance of use. As a result, utilizing current DSM
      addictions classification leads to problems with signal detection and hamper the progress of
      the development of new drugs and treatments for substance use disorders (SUDs). Getting
      beyond the DSM-5 based definitions is necessary to "fingerprint" addiction phenotypes and
      endophenotypes, using machine-learning analyses of big data. A detailed in-depth assessment
      of addiction phenotypes (deep phenotyping) may also include neuroimaging.

      In an effort to develop a "fingerprint" for addiction phenotypes, NIDA established a
      Workgroup to develop a phenotyping battery of tests and self-rated psychometric scales,
      supplemented by resting state fMRI to be administered to participants in any extramural
      clinical trial where addictions are assessed. The final phenotyping battery content was
      determined via consensus from both the selected experts- consultants group and the NIDA
      workgroup, and as such, the battery requires feasibility and validation study to finalize its
      content. The NIDA Phenotyping Assessment Battery (PhAB) covers six neurofunctional addiction
      domains: Metacognition, Interoception, Cognition/Executive Function, Reward/Incentive
      Salience, Emotion/Negative Emotionality, and Sleep/Circadian Rhythm. The PhAB is meant to be
      administered during a Phenotyping visit - an extension of a screening visit in any clinical
      trial addictions protocol. In addition to the PhAB, the group also developed an ancillary set
      of measures to be administered in conjunction with the PhAB in any addictions clinical trial
      during the Phenotyping visit. The Platform Instruments include structured interviews,
      diagnostic measures (e.g., MINI), self report scales of symptom severity (e.g., ASRS-ADHD,
      VAS-Pain), trauma history (CTQ), computer-administered measures of intelligence (e.g.,
      Shipley), and substance use measures (FTND, Timeline Follow-back), etc. Clinical trial
      investigators would administer these scales and behavioral tasks in addition to protocol
      nonspecific assessments (e.g., demographics) and medical evaluations (e.g, medical history
      and physical exams, genotyping, and labs) which could be done at Screening.
    
  