
    
      Background: Patients undergoing colorectal surgery are vulnerable during their transition
      from hospital to home and face high rates of unplanned hospital visits including readmission
      to hospital and ER visits. Not only does this lead to significant distress for patients but
      also translates into significant health care costs. At a patient engagement meeting with
      patients from across Canada led by our group, one of the main themes that emerged was the
      patients' sense of abandonment upon discharge from hospital following surgery. Based on this
      feedback, our investigative team developed and pilot tested an integrated discharge
      monitoring system using a mobile application (app) to support patients following discharge
      from hospital after colorectal surgery. The results of this pilot work provided compelling
      data to suggest that this integrated discharge monitoring system was feasible, highly rated
      by patients and may lead to a considerable decrease in 30-day unplanned hospital visits.

      Research Aims: Therefore, the aim of this study is to conduct a 3 year, randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) to evaluate the effectiveness of an integrated discharge monitoring system to
      support colorectal surgery patients at home following discharge.

      Methods: A RCT will be implemented at 3 high volume colorectal surgery centres across Canada.
      The intervention is an integrated discharge monitoring system using an app that has been
      developed and pilot tested in partnership with SeamlessMD. The inclusion criteria for the
      study are: any patient being discharged home following elective colorectal surgery, 18 years
      or older and able to speak and understand English or French. The primary outcome for the
      study is 30-day unplanned hospital visits and the secondary outcomes include patient quality
      of recovery and self-efficacy with one's own health care. A sample size of 670 patients is
      planned and will provide an 80% power to detect a 30% reduction in 30-day unplanned hospital
      visits, assuming a baseline 30-day unplanned hospital visit rate of 27%, 0.05 Type 1 error
      rate and an 80% power.

      Expected Outcomes: It is expected that the results of this trial will show that the
      integrated discharge monitoring system leads to a significant improvement in patient
      satisfaction in terms of quality of recovery and self-efficacy as well as a significant
      reduction in 30-day unplanned hospital visits and health care costs.
    
  