
    
      The investigators propose a mini-invasive alternative technique to perform biopsies in the
      terminal part of the colon with rectosigmoidoscopy alone. Confocal laser endomicroscopy,
      either using an endoscope-based or a probe based technology , aims to decrease the number of
      standard biopsies and their associated risks, by providing real-time in situ microscopy. In a
      previous pilot study performed in 15 patients at the University hospital of Nantes, the
      investigators suggested that combining probe-based confocal laser endomicroscopy (pCLE) and
      wireless capsule endoscopy (WCE) could detect early mucosal abnormalities suggestive of GVHD
      and thus be part of a mini-invasive algorithm for early detection of GI-GVHD. However, in
      this study, the investigators showed that pCLE was a sensitive method for the early diagnosis
      of GVH with a sensibility of 85% and a specificity of 71.5%. These interesting results are
      however to put in question due to several reasons. First of all the pCLE criteria used to
      define a GVHD in this study were established with data stemming of literature in other
      validated indications such as the MIAMI score for the diagnosis of malignant biliary
      structures and therefore can turn out not to be as relevant as expected. Secondly the
      interpretations of the images obtained with pCLE were only interpreted by a single
      endoscopist who by the way wasn't blinded from the macroscopic appearance of eventual lesions
      during rectosigmoidoscopy resulting in a bias. Thirdly the number of patient as in a pilot
      study was probably not sufficient to evaluate the real sensibility and sensitivity of those
      new indication and technique for the early diagnosis of GVH. All together these observations
      lead us to the necessity of developing the promising results obtained previously and allow
      their realization by the creation of an innovating pCLE score : the E-mage score. The
      different criteria of the score will be established after the one defined in the pilot study
      reviewed by an expert committee combining anatomo-pathologists and endoscopists to be as
      objective as possible with quantitative and semi-quantitative assessments focusing
      particularly on crypt architecture, morphologic and dynamic criteria and fluorescein leakage
      with a cut off standing as no GVHD, likely GVHD or certain GVHD.
    
  