
    
      A resistance training programme can lead to a variety of health benefits including increases
      in muscle size and strength. Other potential health benefits of resistance training include
      reduction of body fat, increased metabolic rate, improve insulin sensitivity, blood glucose
      tolerance and blood lipid profiles. Meta-analyses indicate that while performing resistance
      exercise two or more times per week of resistance exercise per muscle group appears to be
      optimal to maximise strength gains, a single set of resistance exercise per muscle group per
      week, if performed to failure is sufficient to induce substantial strength changes.

      The current physical activity guidelines recommend undertaking muscle strengthening
      activities involving major muscle groups two days a week or more, as well as undertaking at
      least 150 minutes per week of moderate intensity physical activity (or 75 minutes per week of
      vigorous intensity physical activity). However, only small portion of the population achieves
      the muscle strengthening aspect of the guidelines. As lack of time is often cited as a reason
      not to engage in physical activity, this study is seeking to investigate a low
      time-commitment approach to resistance exercise which could increase muscular strength. To
      address this, the present study will to split a typical single session of resistance exercise
      involving several exercises across different muscle groups into separate 1-minute
      micro-sessions where a different muscle group is exercised on each day of the week. The aim
      is to determine the effects of a one-minute-per-day home-based resistance exercise training
      on muscular strength.

      The study is a randomized control trial in which the control group will continue their
      lifestyle behaviour and will be asked not to increase their physical activity levels and the
      exercise group will perform a 12-week home-based resistance exercise programme, involving
      doing one minute of resistance exercise per day on six days of the week, with a different
      exercise performed on each day. All participants will be measured at baseline, 4 weeks, 8
      weeks and 12 weeks.
    
  