
    
      Nail onychomycosis, or fungus infection, is typically caused by a fungus called
      dermatophytes, but may also be caused by yeasts and molds. These microscopic organisms invade
      the skin through tiny invisible cuts or through a small separation between the nail and the
      nail bed. Under conditions of warmth and moisture, the fungi grow and spread. The infection
      begins as a white or yellow spot under the tip of the nail, and as it spreads deeper into the
      nail, causes unsightly and potentially painful nail discoloration, thickening and the
      development of crumbling edges. Onychomycosis occurs more commonly in toenails than in
      fingernails because toenails are often confined in a dark, warm, moist environment inside
      shoes where fungi can thrive. Toenail fungus affects approximately 23 million people in the
      US - about 10% of all adults.

      Potential complications of onychomycosis include pain in the nails, permanent damage to the
      nails, development of other serious infections that can spread beyond the feet for
      individuals with a suppressed immune system due to medication, diabetes or other conditions,
      such as leukemia and AIDS.

      Nail fungus can be difficult to treat, and repeated infections are common. Currently
      available treatments for onychomycosis include oral antifungal medications, antifungal
      lacquer, and topical medications, surgical nail removal and photodynamic therapy. There is no
      perfect cure for toenail fungus. Even the most effective oral medications are successful only
      about half of the time, and topical medications are successful less than 10% of the time.
      Recently, research has found laser therapy to show promise as a novel alternative treatment
      for toenail onychomycosis. Unlike medication-driven treatments for toenail fungus which can
      have many side effects including serious ones such as liver toxicity, laser therapy presents
      minimal to no risk of side effects. Laser therapy is applied to toenail onychomycosis by
      shining a laser light through the toenail into the tissue below. The laser light vaporizes
      the fungus while leaving the skin and surrounding healthy tissue unharmed.

      Low level laser therapy operates under the principle of photochemistry with a photoacceptor
      molecule absorbing the emitted photons and inducing a biological cascade. Like our eukaryotic
      cell, fungi contain the highly complex organelle the mitochondria, which is responsible for
      the manufacturing of the energy molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Within the inner
      mitochondrial membrane is cytochrome c oxidase, an identified photoacceptor molecule. It is
      believed that laser therapy could perhaps provide a means to photo-destroy the fungi
      responsible for onychomycosis (OM) by inducing the release of highly reactive superoxides.
      Moreover, laser therapy has been shown to promote superoxide dismutase (SOD), a process
      responsible for the destruction of foreign invaders. Extracellular release of low levels of
      mediators associated with SOD can increase the expression of chemokines, cytokines, and
      endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecules, amplifying the cascade that elicits the
      inflammatory response. The physiologic function of hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion, and
      hydroxyl free radical is to destroy phagocytosed microbes. By enhancing the natural processes
      of the immune system and impacting the structural integrity of the fungi strain, it is
      believed that laser therapy may provide a means for clinicians to effectively treat OM
      without the onset of any adverse events.
    
  