
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effect of bevacizumab and docetaxel on reduction of microvessel density
           and induction of apoptosis of endothelial and tumor cells in patients with locally
           advanced breast cancer.

        -  Determine the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Compare the effect of docetaxel and bevacizumab, in terms of objective response,
           stabilization of disease, and progression-free survival, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly on weeks 1-6 and
           bevacizumab IV over 60 minutes once every 2 weeks on weeks 1-8.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel as in arm I. Treatment in both arms repeats every 8
           weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After the second course, patients with stable or responsive disease undergo modified radical
      mastectomy or breast-conserving surgery. Three to six weeks after surgery, patients undergo
      radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7 weeks.

      Approximately 4 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy, patients receive doxorubicin IV
      over 5 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with estrogen and/or progesterone receptor-positive disease also receive oral
      tamoxifen daily for 5 years beginning after the completion of chemotherapy. Post-menopausal
      patients may receive oral anastrozole once daily for 5 years instead of tamoxifen.

      Patients are followed at 3, 6, and 12 months, every 6 months for 4 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60 patients (30 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  