
    
      Coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD) due to changes in the function and structure of
      coronary microcirculation in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) is
      poorly understood. Ischemia with no obstructive CAD (INOCA) and myocardial infarction with no
      obstructive CAD (MINOCA) are increasingly observed in women and men.

      Once established, the investigators will be well positioned to aggressively target identified
      mechanistic targets in a specific well-characterized at-risk population, with the primary
      goal of preventing progression to HFpEF.

      To address this novel hypothesis, the investigators propose the following Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: Test the hypothesis that CMD-related ischemia contributes to myocellular damage and
      impaired ventricular relaxation. CMD will be measured directly, using our established
      intracoronary pharmacological vasoactive protocol, in subjects with signs/symptoms of
      ischemia but no obstructive CAD. In our labs (>420 patients), ~60% of those tested have
      evidence for CMD. All subjects will perform provocative stress testing with isometric
      handgrip - chosen for its unique ability to increase myocardial afterload and myocardial
      oxygen demand - while myocardial ischemia will be assessed directly through invasive
      simultaneous arterial and coronary sinus/great cardiac vein oxygen tension and lactate
      measurements, and continuous ECG's recordings. Left ventricular function will be directly
      assessed using Millar-catheter LV pressure-volume loops (perfected in our lab over the past
      24 months). Stress-induced myocellular damage will be directly measured by coronary
      sinus/great cardiac vein hs-cTnI.

      Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that CMD-related ischemic myocellular damage contributes to LV
      diastolic dysfunction progression. Subjects from Aim 1 will also undergo comprehensive
      cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMRI) at enrollment and 1-2 years later. The
      investigators will evaluate CMRI LV perfusion, myocardial scar, diffuse fibrosis, LV
      remodeling, and diastolic function. The investigatorswill leverage the strengths and
      resources of our world-renowned proteomics core to establish evidence of chronic myocellular
      damage using prospectively repeated ambulatory hs-cTnI determinations.
    
  