
    
      A growing number of children (1 in 88) with autistic spectrum disorders ASD need intensive
      intervention (25 hours/week, 1:1 or 1:2 teacher to pupil ratio), which most states do not
      provide because a) there is a national shortage of trained personnel, b) such interventions
      are very expensive and c) an evidence-based, cost-effective model has not yet been developed
      for national dissemination. The unmet national need is enormous.

      The P.L.A.Y. (Play and Language for Autistic Youngsters) Project Home Consultation model
      (PLAY), under the direction of developmental and behavioral pediatrician Richard Solomon MD,
      is an innovative train-the-trainer solution that could potentially address this national
      need.

      Since publication of the pilot study in 2007*, PLAY was awarded a $1.8 million 3 year NIH
      SBIR (Small Business Innovations Research) grant in 2009 to implement a randomized,
      multi-site, blinded, controlled effectiveness study. This study compares control children
      receiving Community Standard Services (CSS)-12-14 hours of special education pre-school-to
      intervention children receiving CSS plus the PLAY Project-a once a month (3 hour),
      home-based, parent training program using trained masters level home consultants (HCs). PLAY
      operationalizes Greenspan's DIR theoretical framework into a practical approach to help
      parents be more sensitive, responsive, and effective in interacting with their children with
      ASD.

      With Easter Seals National as our clinical partner and and Michigan State University (Hiram
      Fitzgerald PhD) as our evaluation partner, the PLAY Project NIH Grant successfully recruited
      112, 3-5 year old children with autism spectrum disorders, at 5 Easter Seals sites. Each year
      a cohort of 30 families received monthly 3-hour PLAY Project home visits for 12 months. Thus
      a total of 60 intervention families and 60 control families were recruited.

      Final results from both cohorts (n = 112) confirm that PLAY intervention children improved
      when compared to the control group with clinically and statistically significant less severe
      autism as measured by the ADOS, better language scores as measured by the MacArthur Child
      Development Inventories and improved ability to interact as scored by blinded raters using
      Mahoney's Child Behavior (Video) Rating Scale. PLAY parents, after a year of intervention,
      were markedly more sensitive, responsive, and effective during interactions with their
      children as scored by blinded raters using Mahoney's Child Behavior (Video) Rating Scale.
      When compared to control parents, PLAY Parents showed significantly less depression over the
      year of intervention. Despite asking parents to provide 2 hours per day of intervention at
      home parent stress was not increased. Home consultants show fidelity to the model.

      The PLAY Project shows promise as a replicable developmental model of autism intervention
      using an efficient train-the-trainer model at relatively low cost to parents and society that
      can be broadly and quickly disseminated to serve a growing, unmet national need.

      * Solomon R, Necheles J, Ferch C, Bruckman D, (2007) Pilot study of a parent training program
      for young children with autism: The PLAY Project Home Consultation program. Autism Vol 11(3)
      205-224.
    
  