
    
      This is a prospective, double blinded, randomized, active controlled, multicenter study.
      Subjects are randomly assigned to receive either STYLAGE® M Lidocaine or the active
      comparator (ratio 1:1).

      Ninety two subjects between 18 and 65 years old who expressed the wish for augmentation or
      restoration of the volume of the lips and/or lips' outline redefinition, confirmed by
      investigators at inclusion, who have given his/her informed consent and who met all the
      eligibility criteria (especially according to the instructions for use of the devices), will
      be include.

      After a screening visit for selection, each subject will be followed for 12 months after 1st
      injection at Visit 1 (on Day 0). Five follow-up visits are scheduled 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
      after initial injection (Visits 2 to 6). At 1 month (Visit 2), an optional touch-up injection
      may be done (if needed).

      The primary objective is to demonstrate non-inferiority of STYLAGE® M Lidocaine versus the
      active comparator in improving the aesthetic appearance of the lips. The comparison of
      effectiveness between the devices will be done according to proportion of subjects having an
      improvement on the 5-point Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale (GAIS) evaluated by the blinded
      subject on the lips (after mirror self-examination), 3 months after treatment initiation
      (V1). Improvement according to GAIS corresponds to one of these three categories: "Very much
      improved", "Much improved" or "Improved".

      Secondary objectives include subjects' self-evaluation of their lips according to GAIS, at 1,
      6, 9 and 12 months after treatment initiation. Global aesthetic improvement of the lips
      according to blinded independent evaluator, subjects' satisfaction, subjects' self-evaluation
      of pain during injection will also be measured and collected at each visit during the whole
      study period. Study products tolerance will be assessed by collection of injection site
      reactions after each injection session, and adverse events throughout the study.
    
  