
    
      This randomized controlled trial will examine the effect of a minimal contact
      technology-based system in comparison to standard care on body weight in adults 1 year
      post-bariatric surgery. This 6 month intervention will be conducted at the University of
      Pittsburgh, Physical Activity and Weight Management Research Center. Eligible participants
      who obtain physician's consent will undergo baseline assessments. Assessments will be
      described in further detail below.

      Eligible participants who complete all baseline assessment procedures will be randomized to
      one of two intervention groups: The minimal contact technology-based intervention using the
      Jawbone UP3 System combined with a monthly intervention telephone call (TECH), or Standard
      Care.

      Standard Care serves as the no treatment control in this project. Participants in this group
      will receive the typical care from their surgeon following bariatric surgery. No additional
      interventions will be given to participants randomized to this group.

      TECH Intervention: TECH is the experimental group in this project. A minimal-contact
      technology-based intervention for weight management will be given to this group in addition
      to the standard or typical care received from their surgeon following bariatric surgery. The
      following information outlines the protocol for this intervention group.

      Dietary Component: Dietary recommendations will be based on the subjects' baseline body
      weight, with calorie and fat intake goals ranging from 1200-2100 kcal/day and 20-30% of daily
      calories respectively. The calorie goals are based on intake recommendations that have been
      shown to result in successful short-term weight loss with fat intake goals consistent with
      the USDA Dietary Guidelines. To facilitate adoption and maintenance of these dietary intake
      goals, participants will be provided with meal plans and sample recipes. In addition,
      participants will be taught how to read food labels and will be provided with The Calorie
      King Calorie, Fat, and Carbohydrate Counter to facilitate self-monitoring of calorie and fat
      intake. Intervention lessons will be sent to the participants via email and will also include
      information related to behavior strategies for achieving the desired calorie and fat intake
      goals.

      Physical Activity Component: The physical activity component will include an unsupervised
      home-based exercise program. Participants will be asked to perform aerobic physical activity
      recommended at a moderate intensity defined as 3-6 metabolic equivalents (METS). This
      intensity is similar to brisk walking, however can be achieved through aerobic-based
      activities of the participants' choice. Equipment will not be provided to the participants.
      To facilitate adoption of this intensity of physical activity, participants will be provided
      both a target heart rate (60-70% of age-predicted maximal heart rate) and rating of perceived
      exertion (11-13 on the 15-category Borg Scale). Baseline physical activity participation will
      be evaluated and intervention recommendations will be prescribed to progress to 250 minutes
      per week by 13th week of the intervention, which is consistent with the recommendations of
      the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM). Participants will be encouraged to complete
      the prescribed doses of physical activity each week, with daily goals achieved by performing
      the activity in one continuous bout or accumulated across several shorts bouts that are each
      at least 10 minutes in duration. Intervention lessons will be sent to the participants via
      email and will also include information related to behavior strategies for achieving the
      desired activity goals for this study.

      Participants in this group will be provided with the Jawbone UP3 System. The Jawbone UP3
      System includes a wearable device to monitor physical activity and energy expenditure that
      will transmit real-time feedback on calories expended and physical activity directly to a
      smart phone containing the web-interface/application. In addition, the smart phone supports
      self-monitoring of dietary behaviors and body weight to provide real-time feedback of goal
      achievement. A digital smart scale will also be provided to TECH participants. The smart
      scale (Withings®, Inc.) transmits objective measures of body weight directly to a smart phone
      application which also interfaces with the Jawbone UP3 System. All technology tools (UP3
      system in combination with the smart scale) will allow for self-monitoring of energy
      expenditure, energy balance, physical activity, dietary intake, and body weight to occur in
      real-time and within an integrated system. Participants will attend one introductory session
      in which a tutorial of the components of the Jawbone UP3 System and smart scale will be
      provided. Individuals will be given confidential login codes which will provide access to the
      websites and smart phone applications. Login procedures as well as uploading data and
      Bluetooth® syncing of the technology components will be demonstrated. Detailed written
      instructions will also be given illustrating these procedures. Additionally, a follow-up call
      within 1 week of the initial meeting will occur to make sure that all technology components
      are working properly.

      TECH will also initially receive a one-hour lesson on basic guidelines of the weight
      management intervention. At this time, caloric goals and weekly physical activity
      recommendations will be explained. To support weight loss behaviors, participants will be
      encouraged to use the Jawbone UP3 System and smart scale to self-monitor dietary intake,
      physical activity, and body weight.

      Participants in TECH will also receive a scheduled intervention telephone call from a study
      coach on the following schedule:

      -Month 1: One call per week for the first 4 weeks of the study. This will support the
      participants with making changes to their lifestyle behaviors as a part of the intervention.
      Additionally, this call will be used to ensure that the technology is functioning properly
      and that it is being used as intended by the study.

      Months 2-6: One call per month. This call will be used to provide continued intervention
      support in addition.

      These telephone calls will take approximately 10-15 minutes and will be completed by a member
      of the intervention staff that is experienced using the Jawbone UP3 System and smart scale
      and is trained in delivering behavioral telephone interventions. Strategies to overcome
      weight-loss barriers will be primarily discussed, and a standardized script will serve as a
      guide to address technical difficulties using the UP3 System and smart scale, frequency of
      technology usage, participant goals, barriers to diet and physical activity, and monitoring
      of body weight. Interventionists will have access to the information uploaded to the
      web-interfaces from the UP3 System and smart scale, and this will allow the interventionist
      to review this information prior to facilitating interactions with participants during the
      telephone calls. The length of each telephone intervention will be recorded.
    
  