
    
      Prostaglandins have been recognized as effective abortifacients for several decades.
      Misoprostol, a synthetic analogue of prostaglandin E1, has several advantages over other
      prostaglandins that include low cost, easy storage at room temperature, and favorable side
      effect profile. In recent years, misoprostol has attracted attention as an effective and
      cost-efficient agent for the medical interruption of the second-trimester pregnancy.
      Nowadays, misoprostol has been accepted widely as a safe and effective agent for labor
      induction during the second trimester. Various doses, routes, and protocols for medical
      termination of pregnancy during the second trimester have been investigated. The optimal
      dosage and route of administration, however, have yet to be defined. Previous studies have
      demonstrated greater efficacy with vaginal misoprostol versus oral administration in
      effecting mid-trimester termination. However, oral administration of any medication is
      preferred by patients and health care providers alike. The higher efficacy after vaginal
      administration may be explained by the pharmacokinetics of the drug. Zeiman et al showed that
      the systemic bioavailability of vaginally administered misoprostol is 3 times higher than
      that after oral administration. Plasma concentrations of its metabolite, misoprostol acid,
      peak one to two hours after vaginal application as compared with the peak seen 30 minutes
      following oral administration, and although peak levels are lower with the vaginal route,
      they are sustained longer and overall exposure to the drug is increased, perhaps because of
      the presystemic gastrointestinal or hepatic metabolism that occurs with the oral route. An
      additional explanation for the higher efficacy could be that there is a direct effect on the
      cervix that initiates the physiologic events that lead to increased uterine contractility.
      The sublingual route of administration has not been reported in the literature prior to 2001.
      Since then and partly because of issues relating to patient preference, investigators started
      studying the sublingual route of administration of misoprostol. In theory, the sublingual
      route could mimic vaginal administration pharmacokinetically, although there have been no
      such reported studies on this route of administration.

      Although many studies have been published on the use of sublingual misoprostol for medical
      abortion in the first trimester, none were done to compare sublingual and vaginal routes in
      the case of second trimester termination for intrauterine fetal death. The 400-µg dose was
      chosen because it is the dose most commonly used orally and vaginally in various studies
      reported in the literature.

      To the best of our knowledge, no study comparing sublingual to vaginal misoprostol for
      termination of pregnancy for intrauterine fetal death in the second trimester has been
      previously published in the literature. Therefore, this study, when completed will provide
      evidence on the relative effect and safety profile of different routes of administration of
      misoprostol for indicated second trimester termination.

      The aim of our study is to compare the efficacy of a 400-µg sublingual dose of misoprostol
      Cytotec® (Searle Pharmaceuticals, Bucks, United Kingdom) administered at 4-hour intervals
      with an equivalent dose regimen administered vaginally in women admitted for second trimester
      termination for intrauterine fetal death. In addition, we want to assess patient
      acceptability of the 2 modes of administration.

      The study hypothesis is that the sublingual route of administration of misoprostol is as
      effective as the vaginal route for induction of labor for mid trimester termination and is
      more acceptable to patients as compared to vaginal misoprostol.

      Randomization procedure:

      The randomization to vaginal or sublingual misoprostol will be based on a computer-generated
      table with the allocation concealed in sealed, sequentially numbered, brown envelopes, which
      had been prepared by the principal investigator that will not be involved in the clinical
      care of the patients. Because of the nature of the misoprostol administration, the patients
      and staff will not blinded to the randomization allocation.

      Routine studies and procedures:

        -  A pelvic exam will be done to make sure that the patient is eligible for inclusion in
           the study (Bishop's score <8).

        -  Maternal pulse, blood pressure, and temperature will be recorded every 4 hours ( at the
           time of the insertion of the Misoprostol).

        -  After delivery of the fetus, all patients will receive 20 units of oxytocin in 1000 mL
           of intravenous crystalloid at an infusion rate of 125 mL per hour.

        -  Postpartum curettage will be performed at the discretion of the physician if the
           placenta had not delivered spontaneously 2 hours after the delivery of the fetus.

        -  Patients will receive intravenous narcotics or epidural anesthesia as needed for pain
           control.

        -  Antiemetics, antipyretics, and anxiolytics will be administered as indicated.
           Interventions: The women will give a full informed consent, after which they will be
           randomized to receive 400 µg of vaginal or sublingual misoprostol Cytotec® (Searle
           Pharmaceuticals, Bucks, United Kingdom) after admission to the induction ward. This dose
           and route of administration will be repeated every 4 hours, if required as long as the
           patient is undelivered up to 48 hours following initiation of induction.

      The induction will be categorized as having failed if the woman was undelivered after 48
      hours and then she would receive extraamniotic PGF2 instillation or high-concentration
      intravenous oxytocin, depending on their cervical status and amniotic membrane integrity.
      Another option would be a further attempt at cervical ripening with vaginal Prostin tablets
      (Upjohn Pharmaceuticals) after an interval of at least four hours following the last dose of
      misoprostol.

      - The women will complete a brief questionnaire using a visual analogue scale to ascertain
      their perceptions of the process in terms of pain, control, and overall opinion of the
      procedure every 12 hours. The women will perform the pain scale assessments with a visual
      analogue ruler scaled from 0 to 10, with 0 representing no perception of pain and 10
      representing the most intense pain ever experienced.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed using the SPSS statistical
      package. Categoric data like maternal characteristics will be compared using Chi square when
      sample sizes support the approximation. Otherwise, categorical data will be analyzed with
      two-tailed Fisher exact test if the expected cell frequencies were small. Continuous
      variables will be compared by Student t test if assumptions of normality and homogeneity of
      variances appeared to be reasonable. Unpaired variables and differences in distributions will
      be compared using the Mann-Whitney test. A p-value <0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  