
    
      Enterocutaneous fistulae are abnormal connections between bowel and skin through which bowel
      contents pass. Their management present a considerable medical and surgical challenge. Since
      the 1970s the mainstray of treatment has been supportive with initiation of a "nil by mouth"
      regimen and intravenous (parenteral) nutrition with the aim of stabilising the patient and
      inducing gastrointestinal tract rest. There seems to have been an unquestioned benefit
      attributed to total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in the 1970s and 1980s which has carried
      through to the current day. This rigid approach to the management of enterocutaneous fistulae
      is almost universal and yet an extensive literature search suggests both mixed results from
      clinical trials and mixed opinions from experts in the field.

      A large study published in the late 1970s (Souters et al. 1979) demonstrated that there was a
      44% mortality in patients with an enterocutaneous fistula from 1946 to 1959 which fell to 15%
      between 1960 and 1970 with the introduction of improved parasurgical care; after 1970 no
      further decrease in mortality rate was observed despite the introduction of parenteral
      nutrition. It could therefore be argued that parenteral nutrition offers no real additional
      benefit to these patients. Surprisingly there is no information in the literature comparing
      enteral nutrition with parenteral nutrition in patients with an enterocutaneous fistula.

      Enter nutrition is more physiological, is associated with fewer complications and is cheaper
      when compared to parenteral nutrition. If parenteral nutrition were shown to offer no benefit
      with regards to fistula closure in patients with enterocutaneous fistula then enteral feeding
      would be the nutritional modality of choice. This would constitute a major shift in the
      current management of such patients.

      Recent research has shown that the supply of nutrients to the lining of the gastrointestinal
      tract can have a significant effect on the growth of the cells lining the gut and on the
      motility as a whole. Many of these effects are mediated by intestinal growth factors such and
      glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2) and gut hormones such as cholecystokinin (CCK) and peptide YY
      (YYY. Although no studies have been performed looking at the levels of growth factors and gut
      hormones in patients with enterocutaneous fistulae, it seems theoretically likely that the
      route of nutrition in these patients will have an effect on the levels of these intestinal
      growth factors and gut hormones. This in turn may have effect on fistula healing and fistula
      output. Modulation of the levels of these growth factors and gut hormones may provide new
      therapeutic options in the future management of enterocutaneous fistulae.
    
  