
    
      The study will include patients who have their prenatal care at the Paley clinic in AEMC,
      where the residents provide the prenatal care with supervision of OBGYN attending physicians,
      or at other affiliated clinics that are staffed by care givers from our OBGYN department.

      Patients at our obstetric clinics are scheduled for weekly visits starting at 36 weeks. At 36
      to 37 weeks of gestation, or earlier, each patient will be offered to participate in the
      study. Those who refuse will continue to have the standard care and will not be considered as
      part of the study. Those who wish to participate in the study will be consented and will then
      be randomly assigned to the control group or to the AMOR-IPAT group with a ratio of 2:1.

      Risk factors will be identified for each patient participating in the study at the
      gestational age of 36 to 37 weeks (using the digichart system, the medical records and
      questioners) and the upper limit of the optimal time of delivery will be calculated for each
      patient, according to the method used by the UPenn group, with the time always being at least
      38 weeks and no more then 41 weeks.

      Patients from the AMOR-IPAT group will be scheduled for induction of labor on the morning of
      the day of the calculated upper limit (plus or minus 2 days).

      To try and eliminate biases, a uniform method of induction will be applied to all the
      patients participating in the study, no matter the group or the reason for the induction. The
      induction will be performed with misoprostol 25mcg intravaginally every four hours (to a
      maximum of three doses) for a Bishop score of 4 or less and as long as there is no
      tachysystole which will be defined as six or more uterine contractions in ten minutes in
      consecutive ten minute intervals. The misoprostol will be followed by a foley bulb inflated
      with 80 cc of fluid if the cervix is still not favorable after three doses or when
      tachysystole develops. Once the cervix is favorable induction will be continued with high
      dose oxytocin (starting dose of six milliunits with increments of four milliunits every
      thirty minutes), which is associated with less cesarean deliveries for dystocia than the low
      dose.

      Anesthesia will be applied according to the patient's wish, without limiting epidural
      anesthesia to a certain degree of dilatation.

      After delivery information will be collected from the charts and the two groups will be
      compared regarding the incidence of cesarean deliveries, but also regarding intrapartum
      variables and major outcomes.

      The Student t test and the Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare continuous
      demographic characteristics, past medical and surgical historic features and obstetric risk
      factors that will be present in the two study groups. Universal chi squared tests will be
      used to compare levels of various dichotomous variables.

      Statistical significance is defined as a probability value of less than 0.05. Using a power
      analysis and by assuming a cesarean delivery rate of 20% in the control group and a change of
      13% (as shown in the original study) we will need 191 patients in the control group and 96 in
      the study group.

      All data will be collected by staff of the OBGYN department and maintained on departmental
      secured password limited database. Obstetrical prenatal data is maintained on HIPPA compliant
      password protected electronic medical records.
    
  