
    
      Acupuncture is an ancient Chinese practice that involves the use of specialized needles to
      stimulate parts of the body. The number of Americans who use acupuncture services continues
      to grow each year. Two elements required to deliver high-quality acupuncture treatment are
      identification of the appropriate acupuncture points and proper manipulation of the
      acupuncture needle. Despite a growing awareness of the importance of proper needle
      techniques, no tool capable of objectively measuring needle manipulation in a clinical
      setting has ever been developed. Such a tool would have applications in acupuncture research,
      teaching, and clinical practice.

      This study will develop and test a simple hand-held sensor capable of making such objective
      needle torque measurements.

      There are two parts to this study. In Part 1, researchers will develop the hand-held sensor
      (called the AcuSensor) that will be mounted to the handle of an acupuncture needle and will
      measure torque during manual needle manipulation.

      In Part 2, the sensor will be tested for accuracy and reliability in three different groups.
      Group 1 will consist of patients with unilateral musculoskeletal back pain. Group 1
      participants will undergo one session of acupuncture treatment while torque measurement and
      needle manipulation techniques are examined. In Group 2, practitioners and students at two
      leading acupuncture schools will use the AcuSensor during their teaching clinics. Teachers
      and students will complete a questionnaire to evaluate the sensor's usefulness. Experienced
      acupuncturists comprise Group 3; they will receive AcuSensor training and evaluate the
      performance of the AcuSensor in clinical practice. Information about the range and
      variability of torque measurements produced by different practitioners and techniques will be
      obtained from use of the sensor. Group 3 acupuncturists will also guess needle torque before
      and after training with the sensor turned off in order to determine the way AcuSensor
      training affects acupuncturists' sensory perception of needle grasp.
    
  