
    
      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) accounts for 80-90% of skin cancers and is the most common skin
      cancer of the periocular region. Surgical excision is considered the gold-standard in
      therapy. Previous literature has shown comparable recurrence rates of BCC between surgical
      excision with frozen section control and surgical excision and permanent section control. To
      data, there are no prospective studies comparing frozen section control with permanent
      section control. We hypothesize that short term tumor clearance rates between frozen section
      and permanent section control will be similar and that long-term tumor recurrence rates will
      be similar between the two techniques. If we find that these two treatment options are
      equivalent with respect to margin control and recurrence rates, then considerable time and
      money savings can be accrued through using permanent section control amongst patients with
      periocular BCC.

      The study design is a single-blind randomized controlled trial. Patients who have already
      agreed to surgical excision of nodular type periocular BCC will be eligible. All patients
      will undergo a detailed informed consent process. All patients will undergo a punch biopsy to
      confirm the histopathological diagnosis of BCC. The study design will be a single-blinded,
      randomized clinical trial. Statistically, the study will be designed as an equivalency study.
      Prior to randomization the BCC will be excised with 3mm clinical margins in a standard
      fashion. Subjects will then be randomized to one of two groups: 1. Frozen section control; 2.
      Permanent section control. For those patients randomized to permanent section control the
      clinical sample will be sent for pathologic analysis and surgical reconstruction will be
      performed immediately using standard oculoplastic techniques. Patients randomized to frozen
      section will have additional margins re-excised if necessary depending on the pathologic
      results. Oculoplastic reconstruction will be performed after all margins are clear. Patients
      will undergo examinations at the following times to assess for clinical recurrence: 1. 2
      weeks and as necessary thereafter to assess surgical result and wound healing, 2. 6 months,
      3. 1 year, 4. yearly up to 5 years.
    
  