
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease and stroke are leading causes of mortality for men and women in the
      United States. Current understanding of the pathogenesis of and the risk factors for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) is derived largely from prospective studies of clinically overt
      disease. Unfortunately, clinical risk factors for CVD defined by these methods fail to
      predict a large proportion of CVD events, and some subjects at high clinical risk fail to
      develop overt disease. Subclinical disease precedes clinical by years/decades but is
      difficult to quantify. For example, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and aortic
      atherosclerosis are strong predictors of CVD events, but are difficult to accurately
      non-invasively quantify, especially among the elderly and overweight subjects (both growing
      populations in the U.S.). MRI permits accurate assessment of cardiac anatomy/function and
      subclinical aortic atherosclerosis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The underlying hypothesis of this study is that subclinical cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a
      precursor to overt CVD, and that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of subclinical
      aortic and cardiac anatomic disease are superior for the characterization of risk as compared
      with current measures of risk factors as well as more conventional imaging (e.g., carotid
      ultrasound, echo). Longitudinal/time-averaged indexes of all established risk factors for CVD
      have been collected in the Framingham Heart Study (FHS). These time-averaged indexes are
      stronger predictors of clinical CVD than single measures. In a Pilot study of 312 FHS
      Offspring subjects, MRI measures of LV mass were successfully acquired in a larger proportion
      of subjects than echo, and MR evidence of LVH and subclinical aortic disease correlated more
      strongly (than echo and carotid ultrasound measures) with these time-averaged indexes.
      Application of MRI methods in the FHS offers an opportunity to identify subclinical
      atherosclerosis and LVH in this well-characterized cohort and to relate these data with
      conventional imaging measures already acquired in this cohort. Importantly, the
      near-concurrent acquisition of brain MRI/neuropsychologic examination in the same FHS cohort
      offer the unique contemporaneous opportunity to examine subclinical cerebrovascular disease
      with MRI indexes of subclinical atherosclerosis. The study will expand the Pilot study to
      perform heart and thoracic/abdominal aorta MRI studies in 2400 FHS participants to allow for
      identification of individual CVD risk factors for subclinical atherosclerosis. These
      population-based data will extend knowledge of the distribution and severity of
      atherosclerosis in adult men and women and their relations to existing echo, carotid
      ultrasound and brain MRI measures. This study provides the rare opportunity to examine
      associations of quantitative MRI measures of aortic atherosclerosis and LVH with both
      cross-sectional and time-averaged measures of individual atherosclerotic risk factors (e.g.,
      blood pressure, cigarette smoking, and cholesterol) and with novel inflammatory markers
      (e.g., C-reactive protein, MCP-1). Further, because the FHS consists of hundreds of sibships
      for which a DNA repository has been established, the heritability of MRI indexes of
      atherosclerosis and LVH will be determined, laying the groundwork for future genetic studies.
    
  