
    
      This is a prospective, open-label, mono-centric, phase I-Ib trial of Tivantinib in
      combination with Pemetrexed and Carboplatin as first-line therapy in patients with advanced
      or metastatic cancer suitable for a Carboplatin and Pemetrexed regimen as part of their
      specific therapy.This trial will be conducted to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD),
      safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics and preliminary anti-tumor activity of escalating doses
      of Tivantinib in combination with standard fixed doses of Carboplatin and Pemetrexed.

      The dose-escalation stage will be followed by an expansion stage at the MTD to better define
      toxicity and clinical activity. MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which < 33% of 6
      patients experience a DLT.

      Eligible patients will be enrolled and treated according to the following 3 + 3 design
      starting from cohort 0:

        -  1 level: Tivantinib 120 mg p.o. BID + Carboplatin AUC 5 i.v. day 1 every 3 weeks +
           Pemetrexed 500 mg/mq i.v. day 1 every 3 weeks 0 level: Tivantinib 240 mg p.o. BID +
           Carboplatin AUC 5 i.v. day 1 every 3 weeks + Pemetrexed 500 mg/mq i.v. day 1 every 3
           weeks

             -  1 level: Tivantinib 360 mg p.o. BID + Carboplatin AUC 5 i.v. day 1 every 3 weeks +
                Pemetrexed 500 mg/mq i.v. day 1 every 3 weeks

      If the frequency of DLTs encountered at dose-level +1 will not fulfil the MTD definition,
      then Tivantinib 360 mg bid in combination with Carboplatin AUC 5 and Pemetrexed 500 mg/mq
      will be accepted as the recommended dose for phase IItrials.

      Treatment will be continued on the basis of tumor assessment. Patients with stable disease,
      complete or partial response will continue treatment until progressive disease, unacceptable
      toxicity, patient or physician decision. For chemotherapy agents, however, a maximum of 6
      cycles will be administered. Tivantinib will be continued until progressive disease,
      unacceptable toxicity, patient or physician decision.

      Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria
      (NCI-CTC) version 3.

      Following the dose-escalation phase of the study, additional patients (in order to reach a
      total of 13 patients with MPM and 18 patients with NSCLC treated at MTD/recommended dose for
      phase Ib trials) will be accrued to the expansion stage of this trial, to assess the
      preliminary anti-tumor activity of Tivantinib in combination with Carboplatin (AUC 5) and
      Pemetrexed (500 mg/mq) primarily.
    
  