
    
      Research Aims & Objectives:

      Aim 1: Assess the impact of SKILLZ over two years on:

      (i) (a) HIV testing and (b) SRH-related prevention services uptake among adolescent girls
      aged 16-19 in up to 9 intervention schools in Lusaka, Zambia (with enhanced HIVST, PrEP, and
      contraceptive method offerings) compared to up to 9 control schools using a
      quasi-experimental difference-in-difference approach; and (ii) linkage to care and treatment,
      and viral load suppression and retention at 6, 12, and 24 months through a cohort model using
      pre-existing SmartCare data on HIV+ individuals in care to match to adolescent girls aged 16
      and over from the same district (Lusaka) who are identified to be HIV+ at any time during
      SKILLZ Girl or SKILLZ Club participation and enrolled in SKILLZ-Plus.

      This will be achieved by i) using a quasi-experimental difference-in-difference approach that
      compares girls aged 16 and over in 9 SKILLZ control schools compared to 9 schools where
      enhanced SKILLZ will be delivered with the enhanced HIVST and a variety of contraceptive
      method offerings; and ii) through a cohort model using pre-existing SmartCare data on HIV+
      individuals in care to match to adolescent girls aged 16 and over from the same district
      (Lusaka) who are identified to be HIV+ at any time during SKILLZ-Girl or SKILLZ-Club
      participation.

      Aim 2: Examine how the intervention works including lessons learned for future implementation
      by:

      (i) conducting a process evaluation to identify mediators, predictors, and barriers to uptake
      of the SKILLZ-Girl, Club, and Plus curricula both quantitatively through mediation and
      moderation analyses and qualitatively through a sequential explanatory approach using focus
      groups discussions, interviews and observation with coaches and girls; and by (ii) monitoring
      fidelity Aim 3: Estimate the short- and long-term cost-effectiveness and return on investment
      of the SKILLZ Girl, Club, and Plus curricula for improving health outcomes for adolescent
      girls.

      Study Design This is a mixed-methods evaluation of the SKILLZ intervention in Lusaka, Zambia
      using the following approaches: (1)A quasi-experimental cohort of school-aged 16-year old and
      over females to be followed for a two-year period will be evaluated with a
      difference-in-difference (DID) approach to estimate HIV testing uptake and
      sexual/reproductive health services use. (2) A process evaluation to better understand the
      casual pathways and effect mediators and moderators using mixed methods approaches, including
      supplemental qualitative data collection; (3) Fidelity monitoring of the intervention
      implementation, including receptivity to and understanding of, the intervention amongst
      participants, the perceived appropriateness and relevancy of the intervention for adolescent
      girls in school, and the extent to which the intervention was delivered per protocol in
      different communities and schools; and (4) Economic evaluation to estimate the short- and
      long-term cost-effectiveness and return on investment of SKILLZ for improving health outcomes
      for adolescent girls.

      Selection of participants, sampling methods and sample size The study will take place across
      all the highly densely populated areas of Lusaka where CIDRZ supports government MoH clinics
      with ARV services, electronic data management, and youth-friendly trained clinical personnel,
      and where GRS has been implementing their basic curriculum and events. All schools selected
      will be secular government schools.

      The study will recruit all girls in Grade 10 who are at least 16 years old at the start of
      the intervention period (i.e., the commencement of SKLLZ-Girl). Of the 30,000 youth in Lusaka
      that have benefitted from GRS services to date, GRS has seen HIV testing uptake of 62% as
      compared to a baseline of 13% (internal program data). The study sample size is powered for
      the primary endpoints in Aim 1ii to account for attrition anticipated along the cascade (see
      below). For HIV testing, all eligible girls (estimated to be an average of 100 girls per
      school in up to 18 schools) is large enough to detect a significant difference in testing
      uptake if defining statistical significance at p-value=0.05, power=0.2, ICC=0.1, and an
      expected testing uptake of 60% (control) and 80% (intervention).

      Study sites The study will be conducted in up to 18 (2 pilot + 16 for full implementation)
      schools from the Urban District of Lusaka to receive the SKILLZ-Girl curriculum. Of the total
      (up to 18), half will be randomly allocated to host the standard SKILLZ-Girl curriculum, and
      the remaining half (e.g., up to eight) will be randomized to the enhanced SKILLZ-Club. Those
      schools randomized to standard SKILLZ Girl curriculum will only have access to SOC clubs.
      Those schools selected for enhanced SKILLS Girl curriculum will offer SKILLZ Club.

      For the small minority of girls found to be HIV-infected across all study schools, linkage to
      care and on treatment, VLS, and retention in care will be evaluated for a period of two
      years. These girls will be encouraged to continue in to the HIV positive-specific SKILLZ-Plus
      facility-based curriculum. The impact of SKILLZ-Plus on linkage to care and treatment,
      retention and viral load at 6, 12, and 24 months after diagnosis (or since participant is
      identified by GRS as HIV+) will be quantitatively measured using SmartCare data and compared
      to an existing matched cohort.

      Data collection plan and tools

        1. SmartCare electronic data:

           All antiretroviral therapy services offered to participants who are in the study are
           captured in SmartCare, which permits measuring of utilization and clinical outcomes
           (i.e., Linkage to Care, VLS) at soccer events, mobile clinics, and public clinics in
           Lusaka. Consent will be requested from all participants as part of the consent process
           to access their SmartCare records.

        2. Youth-Friendly services electronic data:

           Depending on the location of the school, the girl's residential address and/or personal
           preferences, participants will be referred to either the PEPFAR Funded DREAMS houses or
           the M.A.C. funded youth-friendly spaces based in local MOH clinics in order to access
           ongoing SRH services after the events (this will include accessing PrEP, STI testing and
           contraceptive methods). Consent will be requested from all participants as part of the
           consent process to allow researchers to access either DREAMS or M.A.C data should they
           chose to access either of these services.

        3. Survey at baseline:

           A baseline survey will be administered to all to collect information on school
           characteristics, sexual behavior, age, HIV knowledge, maternal education, baseline HIV
           status, and sexual/reproductive health uptake and retention. These variables will be
           used as covariates and moderators for service uptake and retention. The target sample of
           3,200 girls will respond to a self-administered survey using REDCap software upon
           informed consent. The survey will be available in English, Nyanja and Bemba

        4. Survey post-SKILLZ-Girl event, 3-, 12-, and 24 months:

           All girls (regardless of HIV status) will complete a REDCap survey to collect
           information on sexual behavior, HIV knowledge, maternal education, sexual/reproductive
           health uptake and retention. Post-SKILLZ-Girl survey data will be used to assess the
           effect of SKILLS Girl and SKILLZ-Club on the outcomes of interest. In schools selected
           to offer SKILLZ-Club, surveys will be conducted during club attendance approximately 3
           months after the SKILLZ-Girl community soccer event; coaches will help them navigate the
           survey. If a participant has opted to not attend the clubs or has since left or changed
           schools, the coaches and study staff will attempt to trace participants in the community
           in order to complete the follow-up survey.

        5. Qualitative methods:

           Through a phenomenological and narrative study approach, the study aims to understand
           factors involved in decision-making for uptake by learning from girls about how
           psychological, social and structural factors affected their health decisions also
           including personal beliefs, perceptions and motives. Additionally, the study will
           document individual stories (narrative approach) regarding how HIV infected girls
           experience the mediating factors (such as stigma, disclosure, social support and trust
           in the health facility) and how they affect their adherence to care

        6. Extraction of GRS programmatic data:

      Quantitative measurements coming from programmatic GRS data (e.g., frequency and attendance
      at SKILLZ-Plus meetings, frequency of home visits) will be collated from reports,
      supplemented with interviews of implementing staff (e.g., program managers and coordinators,
      coaches) to track key process indicators.

      Data management and storage

      Quantitative:

      Individual-level data will be collected on clinical, laboratory, and demographic
      characteristics, including retention in care and VLS at 6, 12 and 24 months. Using case
      reporting forms (CRFs), the team will collect study-specific data, including information
      obtained directly from participants, routine programmatic data from GRS and abstract routine
      clinical data from paper-based medical records, the SmartCare Electronic Management Records
      (EMR), CIDRZ Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) and DREAMS electronic management
      system. Routinely collected individual-level clinical data are first written onto forms in
      the paper medical record and then entered into the SmartCare EMR. SmartCare serves as a
      repository of clinical data for HIV-infected individuals and includes such data fields as:
      ART initiation date, ART regimen, visit dates, and laboratory data.

      GRS will collect programmatic data through a combination of paper and electronic data entry
      via tablets, with all data stored securely in RedCap. Where paper files are used for
      programmatic management, data will be manually entered by study staff directly into the
      RedCap database. De-identified data will made available to GRS co-investigators to enable
      review of key fidelity and quality indicators in order to monitor implementation in real
      time.

      All paper study files will be stored in secured, locked cabinets located in locked rooms
      available to study staff only. A secure server will be used to store encrypted study data,
      including the study database. All personal identifiers will be removed prior to generating
      the analytical dataset.

      Qualitative:

      All data will be obtained using digital audio recorders. Recorded data will be transferred on
      to a lockable computer kept by the co-principal investigator leading the qualitative
      research. Transcripts will go through a QA/QC process where researchers will cross check
      randomly selected transcribed verbatim with the recordings.

      Data analysis plan The primary outcome is the probability of testing for HIV at any time
      during the period when SKILLZ is delivered through to 24 months after the final soccer event.
      The primary analysis for Aim 1 will follow a difference-in-difference (DID) effect between
      study arms. The outcome of interest will be regressed on an indicator of study arm assignment
      interacted with a dichotomous variable POST which indicates the outcome after the
      intervention is implemented; this differentiates baseline and end-line for each study arm,
      controls for any time dependent variables that might confound the effect, as well as any
      time-invariant observed or unobserved confounders that might differ between study arm
      schools. Clustering by school will be accounted for by a generalized estimating equation
      approach. Intention-to-treat (ITT) will be evaluated by including all girls in the evaluation
      cohort assigned to each arm rather than all girls who actually participated in SKILLZ.
    
  