
    
      1. BACKGROUND

           Obstructive sleep apnea is very common in stroke patients, with reported prevalence
           rates between 30% and 70%. Recent studies suggest that it represents both a risk factor
           and a consequence of stroke and affects stroke recovery, outcome, and recurrence. A
           case-control study found that stroke patients with OSA had worse neurological status,
           lower functional independence scores, and a longer period of hospitalization than stroke
           patients without OSA. Furthermore, leaving OSA untreated after stroke affects
           rehabilitation efforts and short- and long-term stroke recovery and outcomes. Current
           literature supports the implementation of treatment protocols for OSA post-stroke in
           stroke units. This warrants the need to improve treatment of OSA in stroke patients as a
           means of secondary prevention and improvement of stroke outcomes.

           1.1 Treating OSA in stroke patients

           Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the current gold standard therapy for OSA
           in the general population. Early CPAP therapy was found to have a positive effect on
           long-term survival in ischaemic stroke patients with moderate-severe OSA. However, CPAP
           is generally poorly tolerated by stroke patients and has a low compliance. Another
           alternative therapy, nasal expiratory positive airway pressure (EPAP), was also found to
           be an ineffective alternative to CPAP in acute stroke patients with OSA.

           Since sleeping in the supine position increases the chance of sleep apnea due to the
           tendency of the tongue to fall back and block the pharyngeal airway, having stroke
           patients sleep in a lateral position may improve OSA severity. As sleeping in the supine
           position is very common in acute stroke patients, positional therapy that reduces supine
           sleep may be beneficial in treating OSA in stroke patients.

           Positional therapy was found to be as effective as CPAP therapy in patients of the
           general population with positional OSA and in those patients who are intolerant to CPAP
           therapy. A pilot RCT found that positional therapy reduced the amount of supine
           positioning by 36% and AHI was reduced by 19.5% in stroke patients.

           Despite the modest improvements observed from position therapy in stroke patients, there
           is still a need for a vigorous randomized controlled trial to study the effectiveness of
           positional therapy to reduce the severity of OSA in stroke patients.

        2. RATIONALE

           It is of great importance to routinely diagnose and treat OSA after stroke because OSA
           is highly prevalent and influences rehabilitation and recovery efforts after stroke.
           Since CPAP, the current gold standard therapy for OSA, is poorly tolerated by stroke
           patients and is not conveniently accessible in the hospital, positional therapy for OSA
           may be a feasible alternative. Positional therapy belts have the advantages of being
           convenient for patients and may also be economically attractive, however they are not
           routinely used in Ontario hospital or clinics. Therefore, this warrants the
           investigation of the effectiveness and feasibility of positional therapy in stroke
           patients.

        3. SIGNIFICANCE

           Our project could substantially change the way healthcare is delivered for stroke
           patients if it finds that treating OSA with positional therapy improves clinical
           outcomes after stroke. Since CPAP, the current gold-standard for treating OSA, is poorly
           tolerated in stroke patients, positional therapy has the potential to provide therapy
           that is convenient and easy to use for stroke patients. Positional therapy devices can
           also be easily used in patient hospital beds or homes to treat their OSA. This novel
           approach would have the potential to improve patient outcomes while reducing healthcare
           spending and could be easily applied to settings outside of Sunnybrook HSC. Although our
           study will only examine stroke patients, future work could examine the role of
           positional therapy in other patient populations. Overall, our study will have an
           important impact on healthcare delivery and optimizing patient outcomes.

        4. RESEARCH OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of our randomized controlled trial is to determine whether positional
      therapy can effectively treat OSA in patients who have sustained a stroke. This will be
      evaluated by measuring OSA severity, as assessed by the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) and oxygen
      desaturation. AHI and oxygen saturation are both measured using the Resmed ApneaLink device.

      The secondary objectives include determining the effectiveness of positional therapy in
      reducing the time spent in the supine position during sleep. This will be measured using a
      portable body position sensor, available on the Resmed ApneaLink device. We will also assess
      if positional therapy improves actigraphy-derived measures (e.g. sleep efficiency and wake
      after sleep onset) by using Phillips Respironics actigraphy. Furthermore, we seek to explore
      whether positional therapy improves neurological outcomes (National Institutes of Health
      Stroke Scale, Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Modified Rankin), psychomotor outcomes
      (psychomotor vigilance test), psychosocial outcomes (depression, quality of life),
      performance of daily activities, daytime sleepiness, and length of stay in hospital.
    
  