
    
      Heart failure is recognized as one of the most common indications for hospitalization amongst
      adults aged >65 years in United States with estimated Medicare cost to be 17billion or more.
      Chronic heart failure is one of the most life threatening cardiovascular disorder thought to
      affect nearly six million US population with annual death rate being 600,000. Cardiorenal
      syndrome although not completely understood in its full context - is a term coined for
      disorder of the heart and kidneys whereby acute or chronic dysfunction of one precipitates
      acute or chronic dysfunction of the other. Concomitant kidney failure amongst patients with
      acute decompensated heart failure is commonly observed . Direct and indirect effects of heart
      failure other than hemodynamic insult have been identified as primers for acute kidney injury
      and dysfunction. Patients with preexisting underlying renal disease are more likely to
      develop worsening renal failure in the setting of ADHF with venous congestion being the most
      important hemodynamic factor driving it. Worsening renal function defined as increase in
      serum creatinine of >0.3mg/dl from baseline occurs in 20-30% of patients with ADHF and is
      associated with greater length of hospital stay, hospital readmission and death. The
      treatment of ADHF which includes the step up intravenous diuretic therapy in addition to
      optimizing baseline medicines is limited frequently by diuretic resistance and worsening
      creatinine level precluding use of Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi),
      Angiotensin Receptor Blocking Agents (ARBs), and Spironolactone. Ultrafiltration/Aquapheresis
      still remains an option for treating non-responders to medical therapy. Inotropes have been
      known to produce a beneficial hemodynamic effect on heart and lead to better titration to
      oral regimen. Short term continous intravenous infusion of inotropic agents in patients with
      documented severe systolic dysfunction who present with significantly depressed cardiac
      output to maintain end organ perfusion has been shown to be beneficial as per the ACC/AHA
      guidelines 2013 for management of heart failure. The use of intravenous inotropes remains
      still a controversial topic in terms of its short lived and long term efficacy on renal
      recovery in acute decompensated heart failure. In view of the large proportion of patients
      admitted with acute decompensated heart failure and no real world studies comparing different
      inotropes to improve kidney function, the investigators aim to compare the efficacy of
      dobutamine and milrinone in improving kidney function and also their effect on length of
      stay, symptomatic improvement and medication optimisation

        1. The primary objective of the study is to objectively measure the response of dobutamine
           vs milrinone for renal recovery in patients with cardiorenal syndrome (>0.3mg/dl
           increase in creatinine from baseline) admitted for acute decompensated heart failure.
           These objective measures include change in serum creatinine, change in weight.

        2. The secondary objectives are to measure the length of hospitalization, readmission rates
           and unscheduled visits to the clinic or ER during 60 day follow up period. The
           investigators will also measure changes in symptoms which will be assessed using global
           and dyspnea visual analog scale every 24 hours until the patient is discharged .

        3. The secondary objectives also include to measure diuretic dose, medicine optimization
           including initiation of beta blocker / ace inhibitors before discharge, at 30 days and
           60 days interval

        4. The investigators will subdivide the patients into ischemic versus non ischemic at the
           end of trial to see the response in both these categories of patients
    
  