
    
      This randomized, double-blind, parallel group, two-centre pilot study will test the
      hypothesis that subjects who are otherwise healthy but fulfill the criteria for a diagnosis
      of pre-hypertension and pre-diabetes will have regression or reduced progression of
      hypertension-associated changes in their resistance arteries if their blood pressure is
      controlled for 6 months with losartan, whereas similar subjects whose blood pressure is
      equally well controlled using hydrochlorothiazide will have significantly less improvement of
      the changes in their resistance arteries.

      The study will be conducted by Dr. Ernesto Schiffrin at the Cardiovascular Prevention Center,
      Sir Mortimer B. Davis Jewish General Hospital, McGill University, in Montreal, in association
      with a co-investigator at a second site, Dr. Rhian M. Touyz at the Ottawa General Hospital's
      Hypertension Clinic at the Riverside Campus and Kidney Research Center (University of
      Ottawa/Ottawa Health Research Institute). Over the past 15 years, Dr. Schiffrin has developed
      the gluteal subcutaneous biopsy methodology to be applied in the study. The technique has
      been practiced for many years (15 years) by Dr. Schiffrin, who more recently has collaborated
      with Dr. Touyz who used the technique together with Dr. Schiffrin before moving to Ottawa in
      2005. In addition, stiffness of aorta (carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity) and
      endothelium-dependent hyperemic responses will be evaluated. Dr. Schiffrin and Dr. Touyz will
      be responsible for patient recruitment, data collection and analysis, and maintenance of
      study charts and patient records. Merck-Frosst Canada Ltd (MFCL) will be responsible for the
      study budget and the supply of medication.

      The study subjects (men or women, 25 to 70 years of age) will be divided into two groups.
      Individuals with pre-hypertension (blood pressure = 120-139/85-90 mmHg) will be
      double-blindly allocated to either losartan or hydrochlorothiazide therapy respectively in
      groups 1 and 2. Study subjects will be assessed for their compatibility with inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, and subjects meeting the criteria will undergo baseline biopsies of
      gluteal subcutaneous resistance vessels. In addition, stiffness of aorta (carotid-femoral
      pulse wave velocity) and finger endothelium-dependent hyperemic responses will be evaluated.
      Subjects in each treatment group will receive antihypertensive therapy for 6 months, to
      control their blood pressure to 100-120/70-80 mmHg, and then have repeat gluteal biopsies,
      aortic stiffness and endothelial function measurements. The media/lumen ratio of resistance
      arteries 150-300 um in lumen diameter in the biopsied tissues will be determined. Previous
      work (1-3) has shown this parameter to be a useful marker of hypertensive vascular disease
      which may be modified by treatment with antihypertensive agents, particularly blockers of the
      renin-angiotensin system.

      Subjects will give informed consent, and be medically assessed to determine whether they
      satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible subjects will have a sitting systolic
      blood pressure (SiSBP) 120-139 mmHg, and be otherwise in good health. Eligible subjects will
      have a gluteal biopsy, and then be randomized to treatment group 1 or group 2 for 6 months.

      For study purposes, SiSBP will be defined as the average of three consecutive valid readings,
      taken at one-minute intervals after five minutes of repose.

      Thirty subjects who satisfy the study criteria will be randomized to receive once daily
      therapy with either losartan 50 mg or hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg. Subjects will take study
      medication once daily between 06:30 and 11:00, and be followed up in morning clinic visits,
      scheduled between 06:30 and 11:00. Subjects will be instructed not to take their medication
      on the morning of clinic visits until after the clinic evaluations have been completed.
      During the 6 months of treatment, subjects will have their "trough" blood pressure, heart
      rate (HR) and body weight measured at every clinic visit. At visits where laboratory safety
      tests will be done, subjects will be asked to come fasting.

      All subjects will be force-titrated to losartan 100mg daily or hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg
      daily. However, if they develop dizziness and/or SiBPs below 100/70 mmHg, the dose may be
      down-titrated back to 50 mg losartan or 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide.

      If any subjects develops SiBPs > 139/90 mmHg, open label amlodipine will be give to maintain
      SiBP < 139/90 mmHg, attempting however to reach the goal of SiSBP < 120 mmHg. Amlodipine will
      be started at a dose of 2.5mg daily and up-titrated every 4 weeks to 5 mg daily and then to
      10 mg daily. As long as SiBP < 139/90 mmHg, subjects will not be discontinued from the study.
      Subjects whose hypertension is not adequately controlled (SiBP > 139/90 mmHg) with addition
      of amlodipine up-titrated to 10 mg daily, however, will be discontinued from the study.

      Laboratory safety tests will be done at Weeks 4, 12, 24 of double-blind therapy (Visits 6, 8
      and 9). An ECG will be repeated at the end of the study (Week 24).

      The study will start at the end of 2006, last approximately 1 year. Recruitment should be
      completed within 6-9 months. Duration of other periods has been specified briefly above
      within the protocol.
    
  