
    
      The incidence of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) increases with age. Older AML patients,
      generally defined by age 60 years and above, have worse treatment outcomes than younger
      patients. While selected older patients can benefit from standard therapies, as a group they
      experience increased treatment-related toxicity, decreased remission rates, decreased
      disease-free survival and decreased overall survival. Outcome disparity is in part explained
      by age related biologic features. Older patients are more likely to present with unfavorable
      cytogenetic abnormalities, multidrug resistance phenotypes, and secondary AML. However, even
      older adults with favorable tumor biology have a worse prognosis compared to younger
      patients. Patient-specific factors including impaired physical function and comorbidity
      independently predict increased treatment toxicity and decreased survival. Improving patient
      assessment strategies is critical to identify those patients who are most likely to benefit
      from induction and post-remission therapies.

      Treatment decision-making for older adults is hampered by the difficulty of accurately
      predicting vulnerability to toxicity. Increasing age alone is a risk factor for poor response
      to therapy. Older adults of the same chronologic age represent a heterogeneous population.
      Multiple patient-specific factors may impact an older adult's ability to tolerate tumor
      burden and treatments. Comorbid disease, functional status and cognitive status are examples
      of factors that reflect an individual patient's reserve capacity; none of these can be
      adequately assessed with chronologic age alone.

      Translating geriatric assessment strategies into the evaluation of older patients with acute
      leukemia should help refine the treatment approach to this population. One strategy commonly
      used in geriatric medicine is the comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA). CGA refers to a
      multidisciplinary evaluation of geriatric domains, including comorbid disease, physical
      function, cognitive function, psychological state, nutritional status, and medication
      management. In older cancer patients CGA can identify problems that may interfere with cancer
      treatment and is recommended by the NCCN Guidelines for "Senior Adult Oncology". The optimal
      measures to use and how to change management based on results are less clear.

      Medication management may be of particular importance for older adults with AML due to the
      potentially high prevalence of polypharmacy in this population. Studies of older adults with
      cancer report average numbers of medications ranging from 4-9. These numbers may be higher
      for patients being actively treated for acute leukemia. Polypharmacy is associated with
      increased adverse drug reactions and increased risk of drug-drug interactions. Careful
      medication review with discontinuation of potentially unnecessary or inappropriate
      medications may minimize negative consequences of polypharmacy.

      To date, however, prevalence and prognostic significance of polypharmacy has not been
      evaluated in adults undergoing treatment for AML. Investigating the significance of
      polypharmacy in this population may help improve patient assessment and provide an
      opportunity to design simple interventions to minimize unnecessary morbidity associated with
      treatment.
    
  