
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall survival with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab used in the
      adjuvant setting in patients with resected stage IB (>= 4 cm) - IIIA non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate disease-free survival and toxicity with chemotherapy with or without
      bevacizumab used in the adjuvant setting in patients with resected stage IB (>= 4 cm) - IIIA
      NSCLC.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform analyses of tissue and blood to establish factors that predict clinical outcome
      in patients receiving chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, for resected early stage
      NSCLC.

      II. To determine whether smoking status is linked to outcome for patients with resected stage
      IB (>= 4 cm) - IIIA NSCLC treated with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab in the
      adjuvant setting.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (adjuvant chemotherapy without bevacizumab): Patients receive 1 of 4 chemotherapy
      regimens.

      REGIMEN 1: Patients receive vinorelbine ditartrate intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on days
      1 and 8 and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 immediately following vinorelbine
      ditartrate administration.

      REGIMEN 2: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and cisplatin over 1 hour on
      day 1 immediately following docetaxel administration.

      REGIMEN 3: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
      cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 immediately following gemcitabine administration.

      REGIMEN 4 (non-squamous histology only): Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10
      minutes and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 immediately following pemetrexed disodium
      administration.

      In all regimens, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (adjuvant chemotherapy with bevacizumab): Patients receive chemotherapy as in Arm I.
      Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with bevacizumab
      repeats every 21 days for up to 1 year.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.
    
  