
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which comprises Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis
      (UC), is a chronic-remittent disease of the gastrointestinal tract with leading symptoms such
      as diarrhea, abdominal pain and rectal bleeding. Absence of mucosal inflammation (so called
      mucosal healing) is a promising treatment target.as it leads to reduction of colectomy rates,
      hospitalization and need for surgery. However, overtreatment with severe combined
      immunosuppressive therapy always bears the risk of severe side-effects such as opportunistic
      infections. To assess the course of disease, clinical evaluation, noninvasive diagnostic or
      imaging and invasive endoscopic techniques are currently used. As frequent endoscopical
      monitoring is not always possible, more specific and noninvasive biomarker are needed to
      monitor disease activity. The commonly used noninvasive biomarkers C-reactive protein and
      fecal Calprotectin, which are useful to detect disease activity, are limited due to the
      lacking specificity for IBD and the weak correlation with the extend of disease. Overall the
      currently available tools to noninvasively follow the course of disease activity do not
      possess appropriate specificity, sensitivity and cost effectiveness for in- and outpatient
      clinical monitoring.

      Recently, we could demonstrate the potential of miR(microRNA)-320a to monitor disease
      activity in experimental colitis mouse models.

      The aim of this study is to assess the ability of miR-320a and other specific microRNAs to
      follow the disease course in patients with inflammatory bowel disease as compared to healthy
      controls, non IBD-colitis and IBS.

      The study is planned as a prospective single center study.

      Number of patients: 7 groups of 50 patients

        -  1: adult CD patients in remission

        -  2: adult CD patient with endoscopical proven disease activity

        -  3: adult UC patients in remission

        -  4: adult UC patient with endoscopical proven disease activity

        -  5: adults with infectious colitis (ie. Ischemic, infectious or toxic colitis)

        -  6. Adults with IBS

        -  7: healthy adults

      All eligible individuals are informed about the nature of the study. All individuals provide
      written informed consent before entering the trial.

      Budget:

      All procedures in the present study are performed in ordinary patients, with ordinary staff.
      Therefore, no extra costs occur for personal.
    
  