
    
      Approximately 12%, or 500,000 infants, are born preterm each year in the United States alone.
      Although survival rates of preterm infants have increased with advances in medical care, the
      risk of developmental delay and disability has remained constant. Very preterm infants (<32
      weeks gestation) necessitate care in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for an average
      of three months after birth, which is a significant period of time coinciding with a critical
      window of brain development. While medical factors, such as brain injury, can heighten the
      risk of adverse neurodevelopmental outcome, the NICU environment may also have deleterious
      effects on early brain structure and function.

      The Influence of Early Environment: Maternal deprivation and isolation from positive sensory
      experiences are prominent features of orphan studies. Consequences of language and human
      deprivation include emotional disturbances, delayed cognitive and language skills, and
      abnormalities evident on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Although the preterm infant
      differs from a child who has been institutionalized or deprived of caregiving attention after
      full term birth, there are similarities, such as the altered temporal lobe structures, and
      the pattern of developmental impairments. There is growing evidence supporting the importance
      of parents in the NICU. Low frequency visits between parents and their hospitalized preterm
      infants have been associated with suboptimal outcomes, like child abuse and abandonment and
      adverse emotional functioning. NICU's in Sweden have been successful with engaging parents in
      care from admission to discharge and have reported shorter hospitalizations. There is also a
      growing body of evidence supporting positive sensory exposures for preterm infants, including
      maternal voice recordings, massage, skin-to-skin holding, and vestibular and kinesthetic
      interventions. In addition, my team has made important research findings pointing to the
      potential need for developmentally-appropriate sensory exposures in the NICU.

      Outcomes Associated with Preterm Birth: While advances in medical technologies have improved
      the rates of survival among preterm infants, the risk of long-term morbidities remains high,
      with 50-70% of very preterm infants exhibiting developmental problems. In addition to motor
      problems, language and communication problems are common in former preterm infants when
      studied at school age, and recent evidence suggests that language deficits persist through
      childhood. Language difficulties have also been shown to affect a broad range of factors
      important for social prowess and academic achievement. In addition, preterm infants have a
      heightened risk of attachment disorders and other social-emotional problems.

      Outcomes Associated with Parenting a Preterm Infant: Many negative psychological sequelae are
      associated with parenting a preterm infant, including depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic
      stress. Such negative parental mental health outcomes proceed to influence the parent-child
      relationship, leading to a parent's inability to recognize infant cues as well as increased
      negativity and intrusiveness. Negative maternal-child interactions continue into the first
      several months of life if stress remains high. Forming such a foundation may then lead to
      negative child outcomes associated with social-emotional development, including attachment
      insecurity, and mental health issues.

      Sensory Stimuli and Current Practice in the NICU: High-risk infants who receive care in the
      NICU are exposed to significant stressors that include painful procedures, disruption of
      normal sensory experiences, and stress related to parent-infant separation. In addition to
      the loss of parental nurturing, there is growing concern that stress during a period of
      extensive brain development may result in permanent and deleterious developmental outcomes.

      Developmental care, which includes sensory minimization, has been the predominant model of
      care in the NICU since the 1980s, because the bright and noisy environment, which exceeds
      sensory standards set by the American Academy of Pediatrics, is understood to adversely
      affect growth and development of the preterm infant. In support of developmental care
      principles, NICU staff makes efforts to reduce modifiable stimuli to the high-risk infant in
      the NICU. However, developmental care has mixed results. There is emerging research on the
      positive effects of sensory stimulation for preterm infants in the NICU.

      Positive sensory exposures in the NICU are critical, as they can have life-long implications
      on learning, memory, emotions, and developmental progression. In an environment where stimuli
      are primarily negative, it is especially important to define and implement positive sensory
      exposures. Further, it is well understood that multi-dimensional sensory exposures are
      present in utero in the final months and weeks of pregnancy, but the preterm infant misses
      potentially important, timed exposures that may be absent or altered in the NICU environment.
      Positive forms of sensory exposure during periods of infant readiness may be important to
      facilitate appropriate neural pathways and enable positive experiences.

      Specific Aim #1: Define the type and timing of optimal sensory exposure for very preterm
      infants hospitalized in the NICU and evaluate the implementation of an intentional sensory
      exposure plan.

      Results from a rigorous systematic review, benchmarking, and expert opinion are being used to
      develop a clinical practice guideline for sensory-based interventions for hospitalized, very
      preterm infants using the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation II instrument.
      The manualized intervention (from the integrative review and development of the
      implementation plan) will include evidenced-based interventions that can be conducted by
      parents with their preterm infants across postmenstrual age while hospitalized. The
      sensory-based intervention will include the provision of specific amounts of auditory,
      tactile, vestibular, kinesthetic, and visual exposure to be conducted daily through
      hospitalization. The intervention plan is intended to be implemented by parents (when
      available), and by surrogates when the parents are unable to be present in the hospital.
      Surveys and focus groups of a multidisciplinary team of health care professionals and parents
      of preterm infants in the NICU are being conducted to assess acceptability, appropriateness
      and feasibility of the sensory-based intervention plan.

      The investigators will enroll 30 very preterm infants within the first week of life. Thirty
      infants will enable implementation of the intervention with adequate participants to make
      modifications and establish feasibility, while enabling those enrolled last to benefit from
      the finalized intervention after all modifications are made. The study site has a commitment
      to continuous change that will improve care as well as a track record of successful
      implementation science projects. Members of the research team (occupational therapists,
      physical therapists and psychologists) will instruct caregivers about the manualized
      sensory-based intervention plan. Additional support from the research team will be provided
      for caregivers daily or weekly, as needed. When available, parents will be encouraged to
      carry out the sensory-based interventions with their infant. A member of the research team or
      another surrogate (Child Life, volunteers, alternate family members, graduate students, or
      interns) will conduct the defined sensory interventions and model the protocol for the
      parents when the parents are unable to fully engage in care. My research team will initiate,
      educate and act as models as well as will assess the implementation outcomes in this phase.

      Logging sheets will be placed at the infant's bedside to document the execution of
      sensory-based interventions, who conducted the intervention (parent, member of research team
      or other caregiver), infant responses and consequences of the intervention. Physiological
      (such as heart rate and oxygen saturation fluctuations), state (levels of arousal) and
      behavioral (such as crying, changes in motoric tone) responses will be recorded by caregivers
      during interventions on the bedside logs. Negative sequelae of the intervention will result
      in stopping the intervention and modifying the criteria for sensory-based interventions
      accordingly. A licensed therapist will provide guidance as to when infants can and cannot
      tolerate sensory exposures. From clinical documentation and bedside logging, implementation
      cost, penetration, and sustainability will be assessed. Nurses and parents will also be
      questioned to define caregiver perceptions and time commitment. At least 2 focus groups with
      health care professionals and parents of preterm infants will be conducted to assess
      perceptions and to incorporate feedback into the intervention plan. Adaptations to the model
      for an enhanced sensory environment will be made until it is deemed appropriate by the
      investigative team. This will occur when the model for an enhanced sensory environment can be
      documented through a minimum of 75% of hospitalization on at least 3 consecutive
      participants.

      Specific Aim #2: Assess the effect of a sensory-based intervention in the NICU on outcomes of
      preterm infants and their families.

      After obtaining informed consent, an additional 70 preterm infants will be randomized to 2
      levels of sensory exposure: the sensory-based intervention or traditional care group. The
      parents of infants in the sensory-based intervention group will be educated and supported to
      conduct sensory interventions with their infants using the systematized protocol. The
      traditional care group will have therapists and nurses provide and educate parents about
      sensory exposures as standard of care. For both care groups, infant neurobehavior and
      feeding, sensory processing, mother-infant interaction, and parent mental health will be
      assessed at term age prior to hospital discharge. Child development, sensory processing, and
      parent mental health will be measured again at age one year corrected using standardized
      measures. Differences between groups will be explored.

      A secondary pilot group will also be sought for Aim #2 in order to explore the physiological
      effects of the intervention on preterm infants and their families.

      After obtaining informed consent, an additional 15 preterm infants and their families will be
      enrolled. Parents will be educated and supported to conduct tactile and auditory sensory
      interventions with their infants. Options for these different sensory exposures will include:
      gentle human touch and/or skin-to-skin/kangaroo care (for tactile interventions), and
      reading, speaking, singing, and/or playing music (for auditory interventions). Parents will
      have the opportunity to choose which exposure they would prefer to complete for each (tactile
      and auditory) over a 2 day period. Parents will wear a wristband that enables capture and
      measurement of their physiological signals before, during, and after completing the
      interventions with their infant. Infants' physiological signals and responses before, during,
      and after completing the interventions will be observed and recorded using monitors that are
      already in place as part of standard of care. The time directly before, during, and directly
      after completing the interventions will be video-recorded to enable capture of what
      interventions were completed, for how long, and the parent's and infant's behaviors and
      physiological responses.
    
  