
    
      This is an open-label, non-randomized, four-cohort study, in which intravenous pembrolizumab
      will be combined with 4 different schedules of administration of CC-486 (oral azacitidine),
      for the treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory (EOC). This is also a futility trial for
      the strategy to combine pembrolizumab and CC-486 in EOC. Eligible subjects will be treated in
      one of four cohorts of combined oral CC-486 and intravenous pembrolizumab (200 mg intravenous
      (IV) every 3 weeks in all cohorts) to evaluate the safety of each combination schedule and to
      have preliminary data on their efficacy. The primary objective is to establish the optimal
      dosing schedule for comparison with pembrolizumab alone.

      Subjects will be assigned to a treatment cohort in the order they are enrolled in the study.
      In all subjects, tumor tissue will be obtained via image-guided core biopsy at study entry
      and 6 weeks after commencing treatment with CC-486. A cohort will remain open to accrual
      until five subjects treated on that cohort have completed two CC-486 cycles and have had the
      first post-baseline tumor burden assessment and both tumor biopsies performed and adequate
      paired tissue obtained. At least 5 evaluable subjects per cohort will be accrued over an
      estimated period of approximately 24 months.

      Subjects will be treated in the assigned cohort until progressive disease based on
      Immune-Related Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (irRECIST), unacceptable
      toxicity, consent withdrawal or the Investigator concludes that it is in the subject´s best
      interest to discontinue. Once 5 subjects in each cohort are considered evaluable for
      response, toxicity and treatment responses will be analyzed for each of the four cohorts and
      an optimal schedule will be selected.

      This study includes mandatory tumor core biopsies for biomarkers research and mandatory whole
      blood sampling for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation analyses.
    
  