
    
      The excessive mortality of dialysis patients, particularly from cardiovascular events, is
      undoubtedly related for a large part to hypertension and cardiac damage(1). Most studies
      reveal that hypertension persists despite antihypertensive drugs. Some authors (Parfrey) have
      used the term ''natural history'' of heart disease in dialysis, suggesting that deterioration
      is inevitably linked to that procedure (2).

      In sharp contrast, other studies (Charra, Özkahya)(3,4) have shown that a strict volume
      control strategy decreases blood pressure (BP) without drugs, and prolongs survival. This
      suggests that volume control is insufficient in most dialysis centers, despite the fact that
      treating physicians may consider that ''Dry Weight'' (DW) of their patients has been reached.
      In fact, there is no easily applicable method to determine extra cellular volume and
      consequently estimate DW. Thus DW has to be clinically defined by ''trial and error'' and
      several indirect methods.

      Recently, devices to measure DW by Bioimpedance spectroscopy (BİS) have become available.
      This non-invasive, cheap easily repeatable method has the potential to improve dialysis
      outcome in the majority of patients all over the world, The aim of the present project is to
      assess the feasibility of volume control by using a BİS device and compare the results with
      the conventional ways of treatment.

      Conventional ways to estimate DW (5)Intradialytic hypotension continues to be a leading
      problem, especially in the elderly and cardiovascularly compromised patient. This
      predominance can be explained by the fact that structural and functional abnormalities of the
      heart and blood vessels increase the sensitivity of the patient to changes in fluid status.
      It does not only cause discomfort, but also increases mortality. In a recent study, a low
      post-dialytic blood pressure was associated with a significantly increased risk for mortality
      . Therefore prevention of intradialytic hypotension, remains an important challenge to the
      dialysis physician.

      The occurrence of hypotension during ultrafiltration (UF) necessitates termination of the UF
      procedure and is commonly considered as a sign that DW has been reached. However, although
      intradialytic hypotension is commonly considered to be a sign of hypovolemia, this is not
      always correct, because too rapid removal of large amounts of fluid within a few hours causes
      a temporary state of disequilibrium. It has been shown that achievement of DW by volume
      control in fact decreases the number of hypotensive episodes (5) Therefore, there is a need
      for objective methods to estimate the body fluid volumesThis prospective, randomized,
      controlled study aims to evaluate the usefulness of the new BCM device as a method to improve
      volume control dialysis patients and compare the results with those obtained by conventional
      volume control modalities. To our knowledge such an investigation has not been done
      elsewhere.

      The investigators believe that the proposed study will produce powerful evidence to convince
      the nephrological society of the need for strict volume control strategy by using new device
      BCM in hemodialysis patients. The expected data may change routine practice causing
      achievement of normal blood pressure level without using anti-hypertensive medication.
    
  