
    
      Primary Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of EV71 vaccine after mass vaccination in a
      large population (Chinese healthy children aged 6-71 months) for preventing against
      EV71-associated hand, foot and mouth disease.

      Secondary Objective: To evaluate the safety of EV71 vaccine after mass vaccination in a large
      population (Chinese healthy children aged 6-71 months).

      Participants: The children aged 6-71 months in the study area registered in August 2016 in
      the Childhood Immunization Information Management System (CIIMS) in Hubei Province are
      designated as study population. Of these children, 39189 will be recruited in the vaccine
      group for receiving 2 doses of EV71 inactivated vaccine at an interval of 1 month. The
      remaining children will be used as the control group.

      Sampling size: The total sample size is primarily calculated based on the previous HFMD
      monitoring data of the study sites from 2010 to 2015 by stratifying the data into 6 age
      groups as follows: 6-11 months, 12-23 months, 24-35 months, 36-47 months, 48-59 months and
      60-71 months, respectively. Prior to the identification of minimum annual HFMD incidences
      caused by EV71 infection are 0.08%-6.05% (data not shown). Assuming a vaccine effectiveness
      of 90% , power of 0.80 with a 0.05 significance level (two-tailed), and drop-out rate of 20%
      , the sample size would be 39189 in the vaccine group.

      Standard Operating Procedures:

        1. Recruitment among the study population.

        2. Recruit the study participants, and the children's guardians sign the informed consent.

        3. The participants receive the 1st dose EV71 vaccine.

        4. Observation for 30 minutes after vaccination in the vaccination clinic.

        5. Follow up the enrolled participants by using contact card for recording any occurred AEs
           of for a period of 30 days p.i. through home visits (in villages) or telephone visits
           (in urban communities) within 30 days p.i. the first injection.

        6. The participants receive the 2nd dose EV71 vaccine.

        7. Observation for 30 minutes after vaccination in the vaccination clinic.

        8. Follow up the enrolled participants by using contact card for recording any occurred AEs
           of for a period of 30 days p.i. through home visits (in villages) or telephone visits
           (in urban communities) within 30 days p.i. the second injection.

        9. Twenty-eight days p.i.of the 2nd vaccination dose, conduct HFMD case surveillance on all
           participants in the vaccine and control groups for a follow-up period of up to 14 months
           through the database of Notifiable Infectious Diseases Network in Hubei, and detect EV71
           in associated feces or anal swab specimens that are collected at hospitals or Community
           Healthcare Service Centers by real-time PCR (RT-PCR).

      Statistical Analysis Plan:

      Primary statistical analysis will be to calculate the vaccine effectiveness against
      EV71-associated HFMD, and to compare incidence density of EV71-associated HFMD between
      vaccine group and control group.

      Secondary analyses will be to calculate the vaccine effectiveness against EV71-associated
      severe HFMD and EV71-associated hospitalized HFMD, and to describe adverse events in the
      vaccine recipients.

      Quality Assurance Plan:

        1. Training Investigators: Administrative and technical personnel at all levels in study
           areas are required to participate in training on the study objectives, enrollment
           procedures, follow-up requirement, data collection, quality control measures, sample
           handling and transport, and all other operations involved.

        2. Supervision and Monitoring: Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical
           Science (IMBCAMS) and the Hubei province Center for Control and Prevention (Hubei CDC )
           will supervise and monitor vaccination clinic during the implementation period according
           to the progress of study; and the Xiangyang City Center for Control and Prevention will
           supervise and monitor each vaccination clinic on selected appointment days. The focus of
           supervision and monitoring will be to observe whether the vaccination clinics strictly
           follow protocols and procedures and any problems found can be quickly resolved with
           timely feedback. Any serious and consistent problems will be reported to the higher
           level, so that corrections can be made timely.
    
  