
    
      Objective:

      To conduct a pilot, observational, retrospective and prospective, natural history study of
      infants affected with spinal muscular atrophy type 1 (SMA 1). The goal is to assess the
      feasibility of the study design in order to plan a larger study aimed at understanding the
      changing natural history and obtain current data on survival of patients affected with SMA 1.
      This information is important for designing clinical trials.

      Study Population:

      Up to 50 children born on or after January 1, 2007 with a clinical diagnosis of SMA 1 and
      genetic testing consistent with a homozygous mutation of the SMN 1 gene on chromosome 5q13
      will be enrolled in the study.

      Design:

      This is a longitudinal pilot study to demonstrate study design feasibility and test outcome
      measures to assess the natural history of infants affected with SMA 1. Pertinent clinical and
      demographic data will be collected. The data collection will be retrospective for deceased
      infants and children who are alive but over age of 2 years at the time of enrollment. A
      combination of retrospective and prospective data will be collected for infants who are alive
      and less than 2 years of age at the time of enrollment. The data will be collected remotely
      from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by medical chart reviews and/or telephone
      questionnaire obtained from the parent of the infant with SMA 1. Infants alive at enrollment
      will be followed prospectively until age 2 years or death, whichever occurs first.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome of this pilot study is to demonstrate the feasibility of the study design
      and outcome measures in patients with SMA 1.

      Secondary outcomes include evaluation for time of events, i.e., time of ventilator support
      for >=16 hours a day continuously for more than 2 weeks and time of death.

      Additional demographic and clinical data pertinent to respiratory and nutritional aspects
      will be collected to assess possible factors influencing the outcome measures.
    
  