
    
      Introduction: The single most important factor for survival from sudden cardiac arrest (SCA)
      is to minimize the time from cardiac arrest to cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and to
      provide an electric chock through the heart with an automated external defibrillator (AED).
      Early start with CPR-AED increases the chance of survival two to four times. It is therefore
      important that as many people as possible have knowledge to quickly identify SCA and to start
      CPR-AED.

      In this research, education efforts are directed for the adult public at workplaces in
      Sweden. The Investigator have designed an intervention in accordance to guidelines from
      European Resuscitation Council (ERC) and the Swedish national education for Basic Life
      Support (BLS).

      This is a cluster randomized trial primarily comparing in the first study, instructor-led
      training as the control group and self-learning training as the experimental group. In the
      second study the Investigator plan to compare a preparatory web-education on CVD before the
      BLS training versus no web-education before the BLS. The Investigator have conducted quality
      tests on practical skills on BLS, administered questionnaires to the participants about
      theoretical knowledge, self-assessed confidence and willingness to act in a real-life SCA
      situation. It is crucial to be able to identify factors that affect knowledge and retention
      after BLS training and the willingness to intervene in an acute situation.

      Background: With modern IT technology, several different options and learning strategies are
      available. At the same time pedagogical thoughts have emerged on learning. Education can be
      instructor-led or self-directed and with preparatory courses for theoretical knowledge. The
      quality of BLS skills and theoretical knowledge can be measured through validated
      instruments. Against this background, the research goal is to identify how the study can
      improve retention and which training methods for BLS that should be recommended for the
      public in the future.

      Objectives: The overall objective is to increase survival from OHCA. The aim is to identify
      factors that affect retention and contributes to intended practical skills, theoretical
      knowledge and willingness to act after BLS training and whether these goals are affected by
      the type of training intervention.

      Hypothesis: The main hypothesis is that retention of practical skills after BLS training is
      affected by the type of educational intervention. The hypothesis in the first study is that
      an instructor present at the time of training have a positive impact on retention six months
      after the intervention compared to self-directed training. In the second study the hypothesis
      is that a preparatory web-education on CVD before the BLS has a positive impact on retention
      six months after intervention compared to no web-education.

      Questions: The Primary question is which intervention is most effective for the total score
      and contributes to intended practical skills and adherence to protocol, the BLS algorithm,
      six months after the intervention. Secondary questions deal with if other variables such as
      practical skills, theoretical knowledge, self-assessed confidence and willingness to
      intervene in a SCA situation are affected when comparing each intervention both direct after
      and six months after training.

      Method: Voluntary, participants from a BLS project at workplaces in Sweden have been
      included. The participants have been randomized from a randomization list and organized for
      the study, from an independent coordinator. After training and at six months, a quantitative
      approach and data collection measured the quality of practical skills in a simulated SCA
      scenario, on a Laerdal Resusci Anne manikin, connected to the PCSkillReporting system. The
      assessor was blinded for the type of training intervention. At data collection, the variables
      were structured according to a modified international quality test, Cardiff Test of basic
      life support and automated external defibrillation (Cardiff Test) that scored adherence to
      the treatment algorithm and practical skills. The modified Cardiff Test included 19 variables
      with a total score of 70 points. A questionnaire scored theoretical knowledge, self-assessed
      confidence and willingness to act in a real-life situation. At the practical quality tests,
      the total score was the primary endpoint with other individual variables as the secondary
      endpoint.

      Study population: Strategic sampling was used to include participants from different
      workplaces in a number of counties in Sweden.

      Planned Studies: 1) Self-learning training versus Instructor-led training. 2) A preparatory
      web-education on CVD before the BLS training versus no web-education before the BLS training.
      3) A register study on bystander activity 4) Instructor-led training versus subgroups of
      training from the BLS intervention project.

      Statistics: All statistical analyses will be analysed in SASforwindows and calculated on a
      cluster level with an alpha level of five percent.

      Ethical considerations: Ethical principles for research are carefully considered in the
      research process. Ethical vetting from Ethical Review of Research, involving Humans is
      approved (Regional Ethical Review Board in Gothenburg, diaries number 134-14) and Guidelines
      from the Swedish Research Council, Good Research Practice is actively used. Information has
      been given both individually to all participants and to the working places. All participant
      had to read and sign a personal consent form before participating. The result will be
      published according to the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  