
    
      Previous research suggests that increasing the use of electric kettles for boiling (i.e.,
      treating) drinking water in low-income areas of rural China could help expand access to safer
      drinking water, reduce household air pollution, and improve environmental and health outcomes
      in rural Chinese households currently boiling drinking water with solid-fuels (or not
      treating their water, or drinking contaminated bottled water).

      The study will use a parallel arm cohort cluster-randomized controlled trial design with a
      1:1 ratio. The study will randomize 30 clusters (i.e., villages) to treatment or control
      using stratified randomization by geography (two levels: mountains and plains) and by cluster
      proportions of reported electric kettle use at baseline. Randomization sequence generation
      will be conducted by A. Cohen using a random number generator (with a reproducible seed) in
      Stata v.13.1 (StataCorp, College Station, Texas, USA).

      The study will collect data from 30 randomly selected households in 15 villages, for a total
      of 900 households. This sample size was powered to measure a 15% (or larger) change in
      electric kettle adoption, because the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention
      (China CDC) will be unlikely to rollout a national program if adoption rates are less than
      15%.

      After baseline data collection and randomized allocation, in the intervention group
      village-level promotion events will take place in November-December of 2017, and will be
      organized by the provincial and county China CDC, in collaboration with the National Center
      for Rural Water Supply Technical Guidance (NCRWSTG). At these promotion events, households in
      the intervention group will be provided free, food-grade quality, electric kettles, as well
      as promotional materials (a calendar and poster) and information about the benefits of
      electric kettle use and improved hygiene and sanitation practices.

      Because of known issues with decreasing adoption of drinking water treatment after behavior
      change promotion interventions such as this, and considering expected seasonal variation in
      boiling practices and frequencies, study data will be collected over a period of 12 months
      (with additional qualitative follow-up via focus groups: 2019-03, 2019-08).
    
  