
    
      For those patients undergoing cardiac catheterization, an 8French sheath will be introduced
      via a femoral artery approach. This size sheath allows us to visualize the distal aorta while
      performing the intra vascular ultrasound ( IVUS). For these patients, if a femoral venous
      sheath is also positioned for clinical purposes, then this access will also be utilized to
      introduce the MRI coil. This imaging approach will allow us to compare the feasibility of
      intravascular MRI imaging from: a) the artery; b) the vein; c) a combination of both.

      For those patients not scheduled to undergo a clinically indicated cardiac catheterization,
      only a 6French sheath will be introduced via a femoral artery approach. In these patients, no
      femoral venous sheath will be introduced and the arterial access will not be upsized to a
      8French sheath.

      Two tablespoons of blood will be drawn from each patient to assess inflammatory markers such
      as C-Reactive Protein (CRP) as well as to confirm a negative pregnancy test for female
      patients of childbearing age.

      Using 20cc of non-ionic contrast, an angiogram of the distal aorta and the ilio-femoral
      region will be performed and recorded on disc (5mins). Thereafter, an approved guidewire and
      intravascular ultrasound catheter will be positioned in the same arteries via the same access
      route, and ultrasound images of the arterial segment will be recorded (10mins.). The
      guidewire and the ultrasound coil will then be removed. Finally, an intravascular MRI wire
      will be advanced through the same arterial access and/or the previously indicated venous
      access under X-ray control and positioned in the desired atherosclerotic segment in the
      region of the distal aorta or at the ilio-femoral area. The MRI wire(s) will be secured in
      place by Tegaderm and the femoral sheath(s) will be sutured in stable position. The patient
      will then be transported to the MRI scanner, positioned in the scanner and images recorded
      over a period not exceeding 60 minutes. During the transport and throughout the MRI scanning,
      the patient will be monitored via an MRI-compatible cardiac monitor. During the time that the
      intravascular MRI coil is within the femoral sheath, it will be continuously perfused with
      heparinized saline and the patient will receive weight- adjusted (12 U/kg) intravenous
      heparin for systemic anticoagulation to prevent thrombosis. To obtain the MRI images, the
      patients will receive gadolinium contrast as per routine radiology protocols (0.1-0.2
      mmol/kg). After recording the MRI images, the MRI coil(s) and the femoral sheath(s) will be
      removed from the artery and/or the vein as per usual care.
    
  