
    
      The aim of the study is to select homogeneous small groups of surgical patients with the same
      subtype of BAV and same aortic behaviour and identify markers/predictors of
      favorable-unfavorable aortic wall evolution to evaluate if there is a BAV phenotype more
      likely to be considered at high risk for aortic degeneration. The study will focus on
      multiple aspects of BAV disease. What follows will be considered and combined:

      Aortic valve, aorta root and ascending aorta morphology The use of two- (2DE) and
      three-dimensional (3DE) trans-thoracic (TTE) and/or transoesophageal (TOE) echocardiography
      can identify all kind of BAV morphology (leaflet position and coronary ostia displacement).
      It also gives quali- quantitative information about root and ascending aorta morphology and
      size.

      BAV genetics Recently, missense mutations in the NOTCH1 gene have been shown to be associated
      with calcific aortic valve disease plus BAV. However mutations in the NOTCH1 gene only
      partially explain the presence of BAV in the absence of other syndromic diseases (i.e. Marfan
      Syndrome, Loeys Dietz Syndrome type I and II and Ehlers Danlos type IV Syndrome).

      BAV Histology In all enrolled patients, during operation, tissue samples will be collected
      from valve cusps (in case of valve involvement), aortic wall (aortic root, concavity or
      convexity of ascending aorta) or from both of them. Samples will be analyzed in order to
      classify medial and intimal disruption and changes.

      Study Design and Setting of the Study The first step will consist in enrolling patients with
      echocardiographic diagnosis of BAV and indication for surgery. From the echo data, aortic
      valve, as well as aortic root and ascending aorta morphology will be assessed in order to
      classify patients in each phenotypic pattern. The echo images from participating centres will
      be sent to an echo core lab for quali- quantitative analysis (see below) and all data will be
      recorded in a specific database.

      The second step will consider first-degree relatives of each enrolled patient. The
      investigators will ask every first degree relative to perform a screening TTE in order to
      find out, according to familiar aetiology of BAV, the presence of BAV and/or associated
      disease (aortic root or ascending aorta enlargement or coronary ostia displacement).

      The third step will consist in collecting blood samples from each patient and from any of
      first-degree relatives with BAV diagnosis. BAV-specific genetic tests will be performed and
      all data will be recorder in a specific database.

      The fourth intraoperative step will consist in :

        1. performing a 3D TOE in order to study the geometry and the dynamic behaviour of the
           aortic valve and root and

        2. in collecting surgical tissue samples: during operation there will be described
           precisely the anatomy of the valve and the aorta in detail; then, from the usual site of
           surgery, there will be collected valve and aortic wall samples in order to perform
           histological, immunohistochemical and genetics tests.

      Blood and surgical samples will be stored in a bio-bank for future analysis related to this
      protocol.
    
  