
    
      Covid-19 (Corona Virus Disease 2019, COVID-19), referred to as "COVID-19", refers to the
      pneumonia caused by novel Coronavirus 2019 (2019-NCOV/SARS-COV-2) infection. The clinical
      manifestations of the new patients were fever, fatigue and dry cough, while the symptoms of
      upper respiratory tract such as nasal congestion and runny nose were rare. Hypoxia occurs.
      About half of the patients developed dyspnea after one week, and in severe cases, the rapid
      progression was acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, metabolic acidosis that
      was difficult to correct, and coagulation dysfunction. After the outbreak of COVID-19 in
      China, the National Health Commission issued the Diagnosis and Treatment Plan for COVID-19.
      By analyzing the epidemic situation and research progress, it organized experts to timely
      revise the diagnosis and treatment plan based on the analysis, study and summary of the
      previous medical treatment work.The discharge criteria for COVID-19 patients notified by the
      National Health Commission are remission of clinical symptoms, normal body temperature,
      normal CT, and negative nucleic acid tests for both tests. So far, the COVID-19 epidemic in
      China has been well under control. According to the latest statistics, 84,311 cases have been
      confirmed in total, and 1,433 cases have been confirmed so far.But studies (the latest from
      Dena Goffman's team, published in the NEJM) suggest that as many as 88 percent of coVID-19
      patients are asymptomatic. Do cured patients leave the hospital with a percentage of
      asymptomatic patients?In addition, covid-19 cured patients in some regions turned positive
      again after discharge, indicating that long-term follow-up monitoring is of great
      significance for cured and discharged patients in addition to routine isolation
      observation!Moreover the literature at home and abroad other viral infections (such as
      hepatitis b, HIV, etc.) to cure patients found that the virus may lurk for a long time, the
      virus quantity contained in a very low level, the conventional detection method is difficult
      to detect, at the appropriate incentives can lead to attack, so for the new crown cure
      patients need close monitoring of systemic inflammation related lesions, and the situation of
      the latent virus.However, we still face many problems and challenges. For example, according
      to the latest data published by Dena Goffman's team in NEJM, the proportion of asymptomatic
      patients is as high as 88%, so the screening of asymptomatic patients is crucial.In many
      places, COVID-19 patients cured turn positive again after discharge. Therefore, it is of
      great significance to explore the mechanism of COVID-19 turning negative after discharge and
      evaluate the effect of novel Coronavirus and COVID-19 on patients' later recovery. Explore
      and develop more efficient and sensitive clinical detection methods to evaluate the treatment
      effect of covid-19 patients.

      Positron emission computed tomography imaging technique is a nuclear medicine clinical
      diagnosis of advanced imaging techniques, can be shown on the in vivo biological molecules
      (such as 18 F- FDG, tracer nuclide labeled glucose molecules) metabolism, receptors and
      neurotransmitter activity of new functional imaging techniques, has been widely used in many
      kinds of disease diagnosis and differential diagnosis, a judgment, curative effect
      evaluation, viscera function research and development of new drugs, etc. Compared with
      traditional anatomical structure imaging, functional imaging PET has the following
      advantages: (1) High sensitivity. According to the test, PET molecular probe can pick up
      molecular events at the level of PM-NM in vivo. (2) High specificity, for the PET selected
      molecular probe, can only imaging the target molecules, for the same family of receptors,
      because the binding degree difference can be specifically distinguished; (3) Whole-body
      imaging, that is, one time PET imaging can obtain images of all regions of the whole body,
      and through the analysis can obtain the dynamic information of the metabolic changes of human
      tissues over time, which is of great significance for the research, prevention and evaluation
      of diseases.In particular, PET/CT scan provides a more reliable means of systemic monitoring
      for viruses that are lurking in all hidden parts of the body. (4) Security is good, although
      there are some radioactive nuclide PET need, but the amount of nuclide rarely used with short
      half-life, through two aspects of physical decay and biological metabolism function, in a
      very short time, client retention, a PET general inspection of radiation dose is far less
      than the conventional CT examination of a part, and safe and reliable.
    
  