
    
      Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) can lead to serious and devastating complications, including
      microvascular (retinopathy, neuropathy and nephropathy) and cardiovascular disease. Both
      diabetic microvascular and cardiovascular complications can be reduced with intensive insulin
      therapy and strict blood glucose control which target hemoglobin A1C to less than 7%.
      However, tighter glycemic control correlates with a higher incidence of hypoglycemia and
      severe hypoglycemia. Recurring exposure to hypoglycemia leads to an attenuated
      sympathoadrenal response to hypoglycemia (which is termed hypoglycemia-associated autonomic
      failure), and thus a loss or decrease in neurogenic hypoglycemic symptoms (i.e. impaired
      awareness of hypoglycemia). Impaired awareness of hypoglycemia is associated with a six-fold
      increased risk of severe hypoglycemia and physician or patient-directed higher glycemic
      goals. Impaired awareness of hypoglycemia is therefore a major barrier in diabetes
      management, by precluding optimal glycemic control and realization of its full benefits.

      Several therapeutic strategies have been proposed to improve hypoglycemia awareness in T1DM
      patients. A temporal increase in glycemic goal only sustains hypoglycemia awareness recovery
      for a short-term. Islet transplantation is invasive, extremely expensive and requires
      life-long use of immunosuppressants. A widely available and affordable treatment with
      sustained efficacy for improving hypoglycemia awareness is therefore in urgent need.
      Pharmaceutical agents targeting potential mechanisms that contribute to the development of
      impaired hypoglycemia awareness have been proposed, including beta-blockers, opioid receptor
      antagonists and selective serotonin uptake inhibitors (SSRIs). However, none of these agents
      has been approved for the treatment of impaired hypoglycemia awareness.

      The current pilot study will examine the clinical use of beta-blockers, specifically
      propranolol, for the treatment of impaired hypoglycemia awareness. In a physiological
      condition, hypoglycemia leads to counterregulatory hormone responses, including
      catecholamines. Catecholamine elevation mediates the development of neurogenic symptoms,
      including palpitation, anxiety and diaphoresis, and patient's recognition of a hypoglycemic
      episode. Previous study suggests that recurring hypoglycemic events, potentially through
      repeated ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) noradrenergic system activation, dampen the
      counterregulatory hormone response to hypoglycemia. In addition, carvedilol (a non-specific
      beta-blocker) prevented hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure development in rats made
      recurrently hypoglycemic. Consistent with these findings, propranolol, which crosses blood
      brain barrier and blocks beta-2 adrenergic receptors, has been shown to prevent
      hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure in healthy human subjects. Thus, an intervention
      which can block the propagating mechanism(s) (i.e. repeated activation of beta2-adrenergic
      receptors) will likely lead to sympathoadrenal function improvement, and thus increase
      hypoglycemic symptoms and hypoglycemia awareness.

      Beta-blocker is one of the most extensively used medication classes in the United States, and
      has been commonly utilized in diabetes patients for cardiac diseases. Although beta-blocker
      may theoretically attenuate hypoglycemic symptoms or lead to worsening of hypoglycemia,
      multiple studies have proven that beta-blockers increase hypoglycemic symptoms and can be
      safely used in insulin-dependent diabetes patients. In particular, a retrospective study
      included more than 13,000 patients and examined the relationship between antihypertensive use
      and hypoglycemia, and this study supported that beta-blocker use was not associated with an
      increase in severe hypoglycemia. As well, in a recent post-hoc analysis of a large type 2
      diabetes intensive insulin therapy study (ACCORD), the group receiving beta-blocker and
      intensive insulin therapy had fewer cardiovascular events and comparable all-cause and
      cardiovascular death events compared to the group receiving beta-blocker and conventional
      therapy; this is thus evident for the safety of beta-blocker usage in patients undergoing
      intensive insulin therapy. With the safety data and previous basic/clinical observations, it
      is therefore proposed that propranolol is a strong testing candidate for potential
      hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure treatment.
    
  