
    
      Background: Essential tremor (ET) is the most common movement disorder but has relatively few
      effective and tolerated therapies. Tremor in ET is believed to be generated by a central
      oscillator, the inferior olivary nucleus. Membrane potentials in neurons of this nucleus
      oscillate at tremor frequency. Evidence indicates that the ability of this nucleus to produce
      tremor is medicated by glutamate acting on the NMDA receptor. As NMDA receptor antagonists
      suppress tremor, it is suggested that memantine, a low affinity NMDA antagonist, will be
      effective for essential tremor.

      Objective: To assess the efficacy, safety and stability of response to memantine in a pilot
      single-site feasibility rising-dose trial in the treatment of essential tremor.

      Method: Subjects with bilateral upper extremity essential tremor, on no essential tremor
      therapy, or on a stable-dose therapy, will have laboratory tests and EKG tests at a screening
      visit. Eligible subjects will have baseline tremor assessments with standardized rating
      scales. The tremor will be videotaped. In the first titration step, all subjects will take
      memantine at the dose of 5 mg/day for 2 weeks, then 5 mg twice a day for another 2 weeks, and
      tremor again assessed. In the second titration step the dose will similarly be raised to 20
      mg/day, taken as 10 mg twice a day, and tremor assessed 4 weeks after the last tremor
      assessment. In the third titration step, the dose will be raised to 30 mg/day, taken as 15 mg
      twice a day, and tremor assessed at the conclusion of the third titration step. In the fourth
      titration step, the dose will be raised to 40 mg/day, taken as 20 mg twice a day, and tremor
      assessed at the conclusion of the fourth titration step. The dose will be adjusted downwards
      if titration is not tolerated. Subjects who achieve a clinically meaningful tremor reduction
      will enter a 12-week extension study assessing the stability of the tremor response.

      Data analysis: Subjects will be recruited according to a two-part Gehan design. A "responder"
      is defined as a 30% reduction in the tremor score. To assess whether memantine has a
      potential responder rate of 30 percent, 9 subjects will be recruited in the first phase. If
      at least one subject is a responder, another 16 subjects will be recruited to estimate the
      actual responder rate with a standard error of 10%.

      Conclusions: If memantine is effective in suppressing tremor, it would be welcomed by
      patients and the movement disorders community as a well-tolerated new treatment for essential
      tremor.
    
  