
    
      The important role positive parenting plays in promoting a child's developmental trajectory
      has led to the design and implementation of many postpartum education initiatives. With 99%
      of babies in the U.S. born in hospitals, there is a uniqueness of being in the hospital for
      an extended period of time with the opportunity to educate parents on the importance of
      promoting early development. Pediatricians are uniquely well-positioned to address both
      medical and developmental concerns parents may have during critical periods in a child's
      development, yet very few interventions are led by pediatricians. The Mount Sinai Parenting
      Center designed the Newborn Parent Education and Discharge Class (hereafter referred to as
      Newborn Class) to address this issue. The class is 1-hour long and taught be pediatric
      attending and residents to all families who deliver well babies at Mount Sinai. The class
      aims to educate parents about medical issues, responsive parenting, and sleep. It is
      currently taught every Tuesdays and Thursdays. Because of the limited availability of the
      class, not all mothers have the opportunity to attend. This research study will survey first
      time mothers of newborns to explore the effectiveness of attending the class. The study team
      hypothesizes that attending the class would result in increased knowledge on newborn care,
      increased confidence levels and decreased levels of anxiety.

      First time mothers who delivered a full-term singleton vaginally with no major complications
      were included in the study. Only mothers who attended the class (intervention) or expressed
      desire to attend class but were discharged before a class was offered (control) were included
      in analysis. Mothers were recruited between May 2018 and August 2019 at the Klingenstein
      Pavilion of Mount Sinai. Maternal self-perceived anxiety and confidence were measured using
      standardized scales, and knowledge on newborn care was assessed using an internally-developed
      scale.
    
  