
    
      Afghanistan is a poor country that remains largely dependent on foreign aid. Life expectancy
      remains in the order of 60 years, with 30% of mortality due to communicable diseases.

      Malaria is a large health burden, and antimalarial drug resistance poses a considerable
      threat to malaria control. Resistance to chloroquine was evident in Afghanistan by the
      late-1990s, with failure rates more than 60% for the country as a whole and as high as 90%
      for Jalalabad (Nangarhar province). The combination of artesunate with amodiaquine also
      proved to have low efficacy. In 2004 failure rates for SP for the treatment of P. falciparum
      were 10-15% consistent with comparable clinical data in Afghan refugees residing in Pakistan.
      Given this efficacy, the Ministry of Public Health, in consultation with WHO and other
      international partners, has implemented AS+SP as first-line treatment of slide confirmed P.
      falciparum malaria in Afghanistan. Quinine (7 days po) is second line treatment. CQ+SP has
      been the recommended treatment for patients with a presumptive diagnosis of malaria since
      2003. Both artesunate and sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine are safe and well tolerated drugs and
      there is no evidence of an interaction between them.

      Artesunate (AS) has been reported to be associated with mild gastrointestinal disturbances,
      dizziness and tinnitus although none of these associations are convincing. The only
      potentially serious adverse effect that has been reported with the artemisinin class of drugs
      in clinical trials is type I hypersensitivity reactions (about 1:3,000 patients). Transient
      reticulocytopenia, neutropenia, and elevated liver enzyme values have been reported but none
      have been clinically significant. The weight of evidence suggests these drugs have no
      significant adverse cardiovascular effects. A variety of clinical, neurophysiological, and
      pathologic studies in humans have not shown evidence of neurological toxicity. Because these
      drugs have not been evaluated extensively in early pregnancy in humans, they should be
      avoided in patients in the first trimester of pregnancy with uncomplicated malaria until more
      information is available (WHO guidelines 2006).

      Sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) is a fixed combination of a long-acting sulfonamide and the
      antifolate pyrimethamine. These are synergistic against sensitive parasites. Minor adverse
      effects are unusual and serious sulfonamide toxicity is very unusual with a single-dose
      treatment of malaria. The anti-folate properties of pyrimethamine rarely produce toxicity.

      The combination of AS + SP has been evaluated extensively in adults and children with
      uncomplicated malaria and is sufficiently efficacious in areas where 28-day cure rates with
      sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine alone exceed 80%. This ACT is currently being used in parts of
      South America, the Middle East, and South Asia where SP susceptibility remains high. Studies
      conducted between 2004-2006 to evaluate the efficacy of artesunate plus
      sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP) against P. falciparum showed high efficacy in terms of
      adequate clinical and parasitological response (Afghanistan National Malaria Strategic Plan).

      The genetic determinants of in vitro resistance to the two drug components of SP individually
      are shown to be point mutations at seven sites in the dihydrofolate reductase gene (dhfr)
      causing resistance to pyrimethamine and five sites in the dihydropteroate synthase (dhps)
      gene causing resistance to sulphadoxine. Different combinations of mutations within each gene
      confer differing degrees of insensitivity. Due to administrative instability, until recently
      few molecular data relating to P. falciparum SP resistance markers have been available from
      within the borders of Afghanistan. However the investigators have obtained recent (submitted)
      data showing that in addition to two resistance polymorphisms in DHFR (C59R and S108N) that
      are well known to be at high frequency in the region, a small number of parasites in the
      Kunar province have three mutations (A437G, K540E and A581G) in DHPS.

      This study is a prospective, open label, single arm clinical trial to test the PCR confirmed
      efficacy and tolerability of AS+SP for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in
      Afghanistan. Follow-up will be for 42 days, in order to sensitively detect recrudescence.
      Recrudescence will be distinguished from re-infection by molecular techniques based on well
      characterized microsatellite markers msp1, msp2 and glurp will be used. Baseline and any
      recurrent parasites will be tested for DHFR and DHPS polymorphisms by RFLP as well as
      sequencing if indicated. The proposed study will provide accurate data and accurate evidences
      on efficacy of the current malaria treatment regimen in Afghanistan.
    
  