
    
      Will be selected 60 patients of both genders aged between 18 -55 years, with make the
      diagnosis of SLE by the criteria of the Americam College of Rheumatology revised in 1997 and
      that are not physically active.

      After screening, patients will read and sign the informed consent form. The study will be
      submitted to the ethics committee of the Federal University of São Paulo / Escola Paulista de
      Medicina.

      Randomization will be done by a secretary using a computer program specifically for this
      purpose, where the groups will be divided into intervention and control. The random
      allocation will be maintained using opaque sealed envelopes, which will open at the time of
      intervention.

      Control group will not perform any type of training. Since the experimental group will be
      divided into two groups, cardio training (CT) and endurance exercise training (ET).

      Evaluation will be conducted at the beginning and end of 12 weeks by two raters blind (who
      will not know to which groups, individuals were allocated) that will use the following tools:

        -  Outcomes

        -  Assessment of pain

        -  Assessment of pain before and after training, the visual analog scale of pain, ranging
           from 0 (zero) no pain and 10 cm (ten) 14 unbearable pain

      Evaluation of the depression:

      Evaluation of the depression at the beginning and end of the proposed training, inventory
      Beck Depression Inventory. (BDI). This inventory of multiple choice will be used to measure
      the severity of depression. These include symptoms of depression, irritability, cognitive
      impairment, guilt, feelings of being punished, physical symptoms such as fatigue, weight
      loss, lack of interest in sex.

      Assessment of quality of life:

      Generic Assessment of quality of life by the SF 36 (Short From 36), beginning and end of the
      proposed treatment. Validated in Portuguese in 1999 (Ciconelli et al, 1999). It consists of
      eight domains (physical functioning, limitation in physical appearance, bodily pain, general
      health, vitality, social, emotional, and mental health ranging from 0 (zero) to 100 (one
      hundred), and the higher the note is better quality of life.

      Activity disease:

      Activity Level by Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Inventory (SLEDAI) at the
      beginning and end of the proposed treatment.

      Aerobic Capacity:

      Cooper test of walking and / or running in 12 minutes. Only for the experimental group of
      aerobic training, aiming to prescribe the training range cardiovascular.O test aims to
      measure the aerobic capacity of subjects. The test results will be classified as "VERY GOOD",
      "GOOD", "MIDDLE", "BAD", "very poor", which will be based on distance traveled, age and sex
      of the individual being evaluated.

      Muscle strength:

      Evaluation of muscle strength through a load cell placed in a leg extension to 60 degrees of
      extension.

      Activity Muscle:

      Assessment of quadriceps muscle activation using electromyography

      The experimental group of cardiovascular training will hold a training still between 55% to
      65% of maximum heart rate ..

      The experimental group of resistance training will carry out the training with 8 years of
      training session with 12 reps with that load will vary according to the 1 RM test.

      The composition of the training session is 10 minutes of heating and stretching, 40 minutes
      of cardiovascular training and 10 minutes of cooling.
    
  