
    
      Music therapy activity course design (Protocol):

      The researchers in this study are the leaders of the activities and the nurses who had
      completed training in music therapy courses and obtained a senior music activity leadership
      certificate and qualification, such as books and internship certificates. The course design
      uses the percussion music theory and Dalcroze and Orpff music pedagogy to plan activities, as
      follows:

      Each class in the music therapy activity course design has a fixed process. The 90-minute
      course includes 10-15 minutes of warm-up activities, 50-60 minutes of main activities, 10-15
      minutes of recovery activities, and 10 minutes of rest for the elders in the middle. The
      content of the weekly main activities uses different music, musical instruments, props, or
      rhythms to lead the rhythm music activities.

      Research Subjects:

      1. The case acceptance conditions of this study are as follows:

      The case should be at least 65 years old. The case should meet one or more of Fried Frailty's
      5 screening conditions or have a depression index ≥ 15 points.

      The case should be capable of language expression and freedom of movement. 2. The exclusion
      conditions are as follows:

      (1). Those who do not meet the frailty condition and depression tendency (2). Those who
      cannot participate in the study in the scheduled time. (3). Those with difficulty in language
      expression and mobility. Research Structure The independent variables include demographic
      data, and one or more of the five indicators of disease state and physical status decline.
      The intervention measures are various activities of music therapy, and the dependent
      variables are the performance indicators including: frailty indicators (BMI, grip strength,
      2.44 meters of time get-up-and-go, 30 seconds of sit-to-stand, 2 minutes of knee bending and
      leg raising), physical activity, conscious health status and depression. Explore the
      effectiveness of music therapy in improving the physical fitness, activity and depression of
      the elderly in the community.

      Definition of terms and use of tools

      Demographic variables refer to:

      The basic data of the research subjects including 8 items such as age, gender, education
      level, marital status, living situation, economic source, economic status, and food
      preparation methods.

      The disease state refers to:

      Study the physical health status of the research subjects, including types of chronic
      diseases, types of drugs taken daily, conscious health status and emotional status.

      Music therapy:

      It refers to the music activities led by the medical staff who had completed training in
      music therapy courses during the entire research program, with the curriculum designed to
      suit the health needs of the elder group. The researchers in this study are the leaders of
      the activities and also the nurses who had completed training in music therapy courses and
      obtained a senior music activity leadership certificate and qualifications such as books and
      internship certificates. The course design uses percussion music theory and Dalcroze and
      Orpff music pedagogy to plan activities.

      Physical fitness:

      The physical fitness in this study mainly includes cardiopulmonary endurance, muscle power,
      and body mass index. Muscle power test measures the grip strength of the dominant hand and
      lower limb muscle power. This study uses Smedlay Dynamometer 100Kg YOII model grip strength
      meter, its retest reliability is based on the highest retest reliability using the average of
      2 rounds of the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) (ICC = 0.88). This study is based on
      the Fried Frailty Standard, and the grip strength of the dominant hand is calculated by the
      BMI of the elderly. Lower extremity muscle power is the ability to assess the individual's
      movement capacity and is tested with the "30-second sit-to-stand" test in Senior Fitness Test
      (SFT) published by Rikil and Jones in 1999 to mainly access the lower extremity muscle power
      and daily life movement capacity of the elderly. The physical fitness of the elderly in this
      study is determined by the Health Promotion Administration fitness test. The normal value of
      "30-second sit-and-stand" should be greater than 12 times for men and 10 times for women;
      cardiopulmonary endurance is measured by "2.44 meters of time get-up-and-go" and "2-minute
      knee bending and leg raising". The norm of men and women's "2.44 meters of time
      get-up-and-go" in Taiwan is ≦ 8 seconds or walking speed <0.8 meters/second "2-minute knee
      bending and leg raising" is an indicator of the endurance of systemic exercise. The normal
      value is more than 90 times for men and more than 80 times for women.

      Activity:

      In this study, the activity test scale-International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire-Self-filled short version of Taiwan Chinese version, International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-SF) translated and developed by Professor Liu Yingmei in
      cooperation with Ministry of Health and Welfare was adopted. In the self-filled Chinese
      version, the English and Chinese language conformity, and the content validity index of
      similarity of meaning are .994, and .992; the intrinsic level correlation coefficient of the
      Chinese and English versions is .704, which has good reliability and validity as well as
      cultural sensitivity.

      Depression:

      This study uses the Taiwan Geriatric Depression Scale (TGDS-30). The scale has a total of 30
      questions. The question is answered based on the condition of the last week. It can be
      self-filled or structured. The answer is dichotomous (yes/no), with a total score of 0-30
      points. A total score of more than 15 points means one is suspected of suffering from
      depression. A higher score indicates a higher degree of depression. Therefore, the standard
      for accepting cases in this study is TGDS-30 depression index ≥ 15 points. In terms of
      reliability of this scale, the Cronbachα value of the overall scale is 0.94, the retest
      reliability is 0.82, and the halving reliability is 0.95; in terms of validity, the validity
      and reliability have 93.3% sensitivity and 92.3% specificity, so it is a test scale with good
      reliability and validity.

      Frailty:

      It refers to the Health Promotion Administration Assessment Standards for Physical Fitness of
      the Elderly and the criteria for five indicators of frailty proposed by Fried in 2001 for the
      indicators of frailty. Failure to meet any of the indicators means no frailty, meeting one or
      two indicators are pre-frailty, and meeting three or more indicators are frailty.

      This study accepts the case who meets one or more indicators.

      Conscious health status:

      The researcher draws a 10 cm straight line on the white paper, with 1 marked on the left end
      and 10 on the right end, explains the meaning of 1 and 10 to the elders, and asks the elders
      to point out the conscious health status on the line. Then the researcher measures the score
      with a ruler, and the data is calculated to the first decimal point. From 1-10, 1 means poor
      conscious health, 10 means very good conscious health, and ≦ 5 cm or less means that the
      conscious health status is not good.
    
  