
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of the participatory music program in terms of improving
      quality of life.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the effect of the participatory music program on community reintegration.
      Veteran members of the Crossroads Orchestra program may develop a sense of participating in
      something that "is bigger than oneself." They may develop a new sense of self, or identify
      with a new role. They may develop a sense of commitment to their stand-partner. These
      positive new perspectives may facilitate their transition from the Domiciliary to the
      community. Semi-structured interviews with participants will be conducted to understand
      participants' experiences to both improve the program and to assess its effects. The Military
      to Civilian Questionnaire (M2C-Q) measure will be used to assess community reintegration.

      Secondary Aim: To evaluate the effect of the participatory music program on healthcare
      utilization. This pilot project is not powered to identify statistically significant
      differences in healthcare utilization but rather is designed to provide preliminary data to
      understand the potential role of a music education and orchestra participation experience for
      improving outcomes among Veteran participants.

      INTERVENTION DESCRIPTION:

      The intervention is a participatory music program where adults engage in music-making as
      members of a strings orchestra. As part of the Crossroads Orchestra, participants will
      receive an instrument (violin, viola, or cello). The intervention sessions will take place
      twice a week at the Domiciliary and once per week at either the Domiciliary or other
      Indianapolis community location. Each session will include: thirty minutes of group music
      instruction by an experienced music educator with skills in adult music education followed by
      thirty minutes of weekly adult ensemble experience. The choice of music pieces will be made
      by the interventionist in consultation with participants (to ensure that the choices
      represent selections that are most engaging for the majority of participants). The
      participants will be given a binder with sheet music and practice logs. The music educator
      will create Youtube videos demonstrating violin, viola, and cello techniques and providing
      helpful tips. Participants will be encouraged to practice and to attend all of the group
      sessions.
    
  