
    
      Cross sectional observational study assesses the feasibility of OMS and dental assistants
      using the jaw support device during mandibular 3rd molar extractions with moderate/deep
      sedation.

      Patients presenting for surgical removal of 3rd molars will be invited to participate in the
      study at the time of their oral surgery consult. The OMS will determine if the patient meets
      eligibility criteria, explain the study and invite them to participate. At the time of 3rd
      molar removal, the OMS and their dental assistants will follow their standard procedures for
      obtaining consent from patients for 3rd molar removal with moderate/deep sedation. In
      addition, they will confirm the patient's interest to participate in the study, ask if they
      have any questions and obtain consent. A dental assistant will place the jaw support device
      and recheck the jaw support tightening mechanism once the positioning is comfortable for the
      patient. The dental assistant will recheck the jaw support tightening mechanism before the
      procedure begins.

      The OMS will use their standard protocol for removal of the teeth. The only change will be
      that a dental assistant who typically stands behind the dental chair and supports the
      mandible with their hands and moves the jaw as indicated by the OMS will instead place and
      secure the device to support the jaw. A dental assistant standing behind the chair will be
      present at all times to readjust the device position as needed or remove the device as
      indicated. The default in the case of device malfunction is for the device to fall away from
      the patient and the dental assistant will be immediately available to take over supporting
      the patient's jaw with their hands, which is one of their standard responsibilities when the
      device is not used.

      Both the OMS and any dental assistant(s) assisting in the procedure(s), when the device is
      utilized, will each complete a survey about their experience with the jaw support device once
      they have completed surgical removal with moderate/deep sedation of mandibular 3rd molars in
      4 patients.

      An additional meeting(s) will occur, after the OMS have completed all treatment procedures
      utilizing the device and surveys are completed, to provide feedback on how the device
      performed. This information will inform Phase II of this study, a randomized controlled
      clinical trial.
    
  