
    
      The capacity to scale-up interferon-free DAA therapy would be enhanced by simplified
      treatment monitoring strategies. The "next generation" DAA regimen of glecaprevir
      (300mg)/pibrentasvir (120mg), a protease inhibitor and NS5A inhibitor, provides key features
      for HCV treatment simplification, including on-treatment monitoring: 1) pangenotypic activity
      with extremely high efficacy (SVR>95%); 2) no relationship between time to undetectable HCV
      RNA and SVR; 3) minimal drug-related toxicity; 4) ease of dosing (three pills once daily);
      and short duration (8 weeks in non-cirrhosis and 12 weeks in cirrhosis for treatment naïve
      patients). In phase II and III clinical trials in participants without cirrhosis, 8 weeks of
      glecaprevir (300mg)/pibrentasvir (120mg) has provided intention-to-treat SVR rates of 99.1%,
      98%, 97%, and 93.1% in genotype 1, 2, 3, and 4-6 populations, respectively.

      Current standard on-treatment monitoring in clinical trials involves clinic-based visits
      every 4 weeks. In the DAA era where treatments are highly tolerable, effective and short
      duration, this intensive monitoring strategy may no longer be required. A simplified
      on-treatment monitoring strategy is hypothesised to be non-inferior to the standard clinical
      trial on treatment monitoring strategy. If successful, a simplified on-treatment monitoring
      strategy is likely to be highly attractive to patients, clinicians and health care payers. It
      has the potential to improve the rapid scale up of treatment providing population level
      benefits in the reduction of global hepatitis C disease burden.

      This study will be conducted as a Phase IIIb, randomised, controlled, multicentre,
      international trial.

      There will be a maximum screening period of 6 weeks prior to Baseline. Eligible patients will
      be randomised into one of two on-treatment monitoring strategies; standard clinical trial
      monitoring (4-weekly on-treatment visits) vs simplified monitoring (no on-treatment visits).
      Randomisation will be 1:2 (standard vs simplified) and all participants will receive
      treatment with glecaprevir (300mg)/pibrentasvir (120mg) for 8 weeks.

      All participants will attend the clinic for screening and baseline visit. Randomisation will
      occur at the baseline visit.

      The two on-treatment monitoring strategies will differ as follows:

        -  Standard monitoring arm participants will have on-treatment clinic visits at weeks 4 and
           8 (EoT).

        -  Simplified monitoring arm participants will have no on-treatment clinic visits.

      Study nurse phone contact will also be made to participants in BOTH arms 1-2 days prior Week
      4 and EoT (Week 8) visits to provide standardized reporting of adverse events, concomitant
      medication and adherence. One post treatment clinic visit will be conducted at SVR12 (week
      20) for all participants.
    
  