
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be assessed by the nTMS system before
      surgery and then at the same time as your routine follow-up visits, about 1, 3, 6, and 12
      months after surgery.

      At each visit, the following will occur:

        -  For motor mapping, pads to monitor your movements will be placed on your face, arms and
           legs. A coil that is used to deliver stimulation will be placed on your head. During
           stimulation, you will be asked to move certain muscles and will be monitored for motor
           responses over the course of 20 to 30 minutes. You may feel a mild tingling sensation in
           your arms and/or legs during stimulation.

        -  For speech mapping, you will be shown 95 black-and-white drawings of common objects and
           asked to name them. During stimulation, you will be asked to name the objects again and
           will be monitored for changes in speech or delays. You may feel a mild tingling
           sensation and contraction of the muscles in the face during stimulation. This should
           take about 1½-2 hours to complete.

      You will sign a separate consent form that describes the surgery you will have and its risks
      in more detail. Information collected during surgery will be compared to nTMS information
      collected before and after surgery.

      Your nTMS data, health information from your routine physical exams, and data about your
      motor and speech function collected during surgery will be analyzed by researchers. Basic
      information (such as your age, sex, and race) will also be collected from your medical
      record.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after your last (12-month) study visit.

      This is an investigational study. The nTMS system is FDA approved to map the brain's function
      relating to movement and speech. Using the nTMS system before and after surgery to check
      movement and speech function in patients with brain tumors in these areas is investigational.

      Up to 20 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  