
    
      PICO P: single pontic site with deficient ridge. I: Soft tissue augmentation with partially
      de-epithelized connective tissue graft.

      C: Soft tissue augmentation with Mucograft. O: Soft tissue biotype, Soft tissue volume, pain
      score and patient satisfaction.

      Preoperative measures:

        -  All subjects will pass through phase I therapy (Supragingival scalling, subgingival
           debridement and oral hygiene instructions) before any surgical procedures.

        -  After 4 weeks, all subjects will be examined to determine patient compliance with oral
           hygiene procedures (tooth brushing twice daily and chlorhexidine HCL 1.25% mouthwash
           twice daily).

        -  Eligible patients will be randomized before being enrolled in the study. (T-1 +4 weeks)

        -  Study casts for case study will be fabricated and clinical photographs will be taken.

        -  Assessment of edentulous defect site and neighboring teeth will be performed by scanning
           the study casts.

      Surgical phase (T0):

      The same operator (N M) will perform all procedures under local anesthesia (4% articaine with
      1/200 000 adrenaline Solution), using a local infiltration technique.

      The recipient site will be prepared using 15c-blad creating a full-thickness coronal
      dissection and a partial thickness apical dissection creating a vestibular pouch.

      The grafting procedure then performed and graft will be fixed by suturing at the periphery of
      the flap using 5/0 suture material and the rest will be inserted in the vestibular pouch.

      The patient will have printed post-surgical instruction and precautions.

        -  Intervention for control group :

             1. The recipient site will be prepared with a full-thickness coronal dissection and a
                partial thickness apical dissection to creat a vestibular pouch.

             2. The acellular matrix (Mucograft®) will be sutured using 5/0 suture material around
                the defect margin and secured in the vestibular pouch.

        -  Intervention for test group :

             1. The recipient site will be prepared with a full-thickness coronal dissection and a
                partial thickness apical dissection vestibular pouch.

             2. The graft which is composed of two parts:The coronal part, which is epithelialized

                  -  The apical part, which is formed of connective tissue only.

             3. On the defect area, the crestal surface is de-epithelialized with a beveled
                incision and the apical surface is prepared with a partial-thickness dissection
                with two vertical- releasing incisions extended apically, without involving the
                adjacent papillae, in order to create a pouch area.

             4. The onlay section (epithelialized area) of the graft will be sutured on the crestal
                surface of the defect, while the inlay section (connective tissue) will be inserted
                and secured in the vestibular pouch area.

        -  Post-operative care:

      As with any regenerative site, caution must be exercised in post-operative care and during
      oral hygiene practices at or near the surgical site. After 12 hours 875 mg of Amoxicillin and
      125 mg of Clavulanic acid tablet (1 g Amoxicillin Clavulanate) twice daily for 7 days,
      anti-inflammatory tablet (Amphiltirne ) if the patient need ,maximum three times/day and
      chlorhexidine HCL 1.25% mouth wash mouthwash twice daily are prescribed. Sutures will be
      removed after 14 days. (12)

      * Follow-up (T1, T2,T3):

      (T1):2 weeks post-operatively sutures removal . (T2) 3 months post-operatively appointments
      will be assigned for the prosthetic preparation and temporization for 2 weeks (T3): 6 months
      post-operatively appointments will be assigned for the prosthetic delivery and fill in the
      Questionnaire.

        -  Criteria for discontinuing intervention:

             -  Infection and sloughing of the graft.

             -  if the patient wouldn't commit to the follow-ups.

        -  Strategies to improve adherence to intervention protocol:

      Patient preparation in terms of improving oral hygiene and first phase therapy procedures
      will be performed for patient to doctor trust. Complete information concerning the protocol
      will be provided and simplified to the patient with reasoning of all the steps included as
      the importance of the follow up visits and home medication.

      Relevant concomitant care and interventions that are permitted or prohibited during the
      trial:

      Postoperatively the patients will be using analgesics, oral antibiotic therapy, and
      chlorhexidine HCL 1.25% mouthwash mouthwash for at two week.
    
  