
    
      HYPOTHESIS Staging with dedicated MRI will lead to a reduction of staging laparoscopies and
      explorative laparotomies in colorectal patients with PM to evaluate whether they may benefit
      from CRS-HIPEC

      OBJECTIVES The goal is to perform a multicenter randomized study to compare a less invasive
      diagnostic workup ARM A (with MRI and surgical inspection reserved for borderline operable
      cases on MRI) to the standard diagnostic workup (ARM B, without MRI, with surgical staging to
      determine resectability based on a MDT decision) of patients with (suspected) peritoneal
      metastases. Surgical staging laparoscopies may largely be replaced by MRI (only reserved as a
      problem solver for borderline operable cases in ARM A). If it will be proven that MRI is an
      accurate, robust and cost-effective staging tool than this will result in a more patient
      friendly diagnostic workup with less futile surgical procedures.

      STUDY DESIGN 4-year multicenter randomized controlled trial

      STUDY POPULATION N=272 patients suspected of synchronous or metachronous peritoneal
      metastases of colorectal origin who are considered for CRS-HIPEC after CT imaging.

      EXPERIMENTAL (ARM A) CRS-HIPEC candidates are selected based on MRI and only in borderline
      cases a surgical inspection will be performed

      CONTROL (ARM B) Standard work-up including computed tomography and surgical inspection as
      appropriate (based on a MDT decision).

      MAIN STUDY PARAMETERS/ENDPOINTS

      Primary outcome:

      Number of preventable unnecessary laparoscopies and explorative laparotomies.

      NATURE AND EXTENT OF THE BURDEN AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH PARTICIPATION, BENEFIT AND GROUP
      RELATEDNESS:

      MRI is a standard diagnostic procedure without the use of radiation. The MR sequences,
      MR-contrast agents and Buscopan (to minimize peristaltic bowel movements) are all commonly
      used in daily clinical practice. In addition, patients will be asked to drink 1L of pineapple
      juice 1-2 hours before the MRI (to minimize signal in the bowel lumen and optimize image
      quality), which is standard procedure in many clinics for MRCP and MR enterography. By acting
      upon the MRI findings in the experimental arm A, could result into new risks as oppose to
      standard clinical practice. However by introducing the borderline group ('yellow light'
      group) to receive diagnostic laparoscopy will minimize the possibility of over-staging a
      patient that would have received a successful CRS/HIPEC in de control arm. In our internal
      pilot data of 87 patients considered for CRS/HIPEC, no patients with a PCI of above 24 ended
      up receiving successful CRS/HIPEC and only 4 of the 15 patients that could have been assigned
      to the borderline group (were the trail to have run at that time) received successful
      CRS/HIPEC.
    
  