
    
      This is a prospective study. Experienced interventional radiologists in the two McGill
      University Health Centre study centers (Royal Victoria Hospital and Montreal General
      Hospital) will perform all procedures:

        -  80 consecutive subjects meeting the eligibility criteria, scheduled for
           chemoembolization of the liver for primary or secondary liver malignancies OR
           radiofrequency ablation of the liver for primary or secondary liver malignancies.

        -  Consent will be obtained from all patients by an interventional radiologist.

        -  All procedures will be performed by a qualified interventional radiology medical doctor
           (IRMD).

        -  Patients who accept to participate and fit the criteria will be randomized to either
           receive hepatic plexus block or a placebo control procedure, consisting of injection of
           normal saline.

        -  Hepatic hilum plexus nerve block will consist of the ultrasound-guided injection of
           ropivacaine at the hepatic hilum anterior to the portal vein as close to the bifurcation
           as possible. In the sham control group, the same location will be targeted, but only
           normal saline will be injected.

        -  A member of the radiology technologists will load the syringe with either ropivacaine or
           normal saline and the IRMD will thus be blinded to the patient's allocated group.

        -  All patients will be offered IV analgesia using midazolam and fentanyl during the
           procedure at set regular intervals as per our standard regimen.

        -  Similar IV analgesics as well as oral analgesics will be provided as per set orders
           during the recovery period in the post-procedural recovery room (PACU)

        -  The patient will be discharged home with standard prescriptions for home analgesics
           which include routine medication and medication to be used for breakthrough pain. While
           at home they will be entering pain surveys three times per day for three days.

        -  Data will be gathered, stored, and analyzed. The analysis will be stratified into
           patients who have received chemoembolization and patients who have received
           radiofrequency ablation.

        -  Follow-up of the patient will occur as per routine 4-6 weeks post
           chemoembolization/radiofrequency ablation to assess the clinical success of the
           therapeutic procedure (ablation and TACE) and patient satisfaction with pain control.

      Subject data collection on the day of the procedure will include demographics, relevant
      medical history, vital signs before and during the procedure, use of IV analgesics, use of
      oral analgesics, use of nerve block or sham procedure and visual analogue pain scales at set
      intervals during hospital stay. Subject data collection while at home will include visual
      analogue pain scale and self-recording of medication intake.
    
  