
    
      Background Mitochondrial diseases are an important group of inherited neurometabolic
      disorders that invariably exhibit multi-organ involvement, are relentlessly progressive, and
      result in significant morbidity and mortality. They may manifest as discrete clinical
      syndromes such as mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke like episodes
      (MELAS), chronic and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO), and maternally inherited
      deafness and diabetes (MIDD), or more commonly with a wide overlapping spectrum of clinical
      features, including hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and gastrointestinal (GI) dysmotility.
      Symptoms arising from gastrointestinal (GI) dysmotility in patients with mitochondrial
      disease are increasingly recognized and often include dysphagia, abdominal pain, abdominal
      distention, bacterial overgrowth, constipation, and in severe cases, intestinal pseudo
      obstruction mimicking an acute surgical abdomen. The high incidence of this was recently
      confirmed when we surveyed 86 mitochondrial patients about GI symptoms. Sixty five percent of
      patients experienced GI dysmotility symptoms, including constipation, early satiety,
      abdominal pain and abdominal distension (under preparation for publication). Although the
      proposed pathological mechanisms underlying the development of GI dysmotility remain diverse,
      potential mechanisms include mitochondrial dysfunction of smooth muscle within the GI tract
      and visceral myopathy. Moreover, bacteria within the GI tract, termed 'gut microbiota' has
      also been identified as a key contributor towards GI dysmotility.

      Rationale To date, there are few effective treatments for patients with mitochondrial disease
      and those available are predominantly supportive in nature with no proven treatment efficacy,
      and poor understanding of the links between the gut microbiota, mitochondrial disease, GI
      dysmotility and patient health and quality of life. Treatments include various antibiotics
      and laxatives which are generic and not disease specific. Long term effects of drugs are
      unknown and the impact these have on the GI tract and gut microbiota in mitochondrial
      disorders are currently unknown. It is essential to optimise supportive therapeutic
      strategies and design novel modalities to improve clinical management. Although advances in
      technology now provide more biological information than ever before, the complexity and
      volume of data generated exceeds the ability to analyse, interpret and translate this
      information back into the clinical management, highlighting the need to increase clinical
      analytical capabilities. The use of bioinformatics and computational biology to combine
      metagenomics data relating to the gut microbiota and metadata (patient characteristics;
      phenotype/genotype) is one approach to identify and predict what factors, such as drugs,
      phenotype and genotype, induce gut microbiota dysbiosis.

      Elucidating the complexity and workings of the gut microbiota in mitochondrial disease
      provides a unique approach and deeper understanding of the biology in general, which is
      currently lacking in primary mitochondrial disorders. This research will contribute to the
      gut microbiome field and provide a novel insight into the complex microbe:microbe and
      microbiota-host interactions. The new insights generated here will provide the foundation for
      interventional studies aimed at manipulating the gut microbiome and relieving disease burden
      in patients with mitochondrial disease and potentially diseases associated with mitochondrial
      dysfunction, such as obesity, diabetes and neuro-degenerative disorders such as dementia and
      Parkinson's disease.

      Objectives

      The working hypotheses is that patients with mitochondrial disease experience GI dysmotility,
      and that the gut microbiota accentuates clinical disease severity. This study aims to provide
      novel information relating to:

        1. How does clinical disease severity impact upon the gut microbiota in mitochondrial
           patients compared to healthy controls.

        2. How diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for mitochondrial disease can be improved.
    
  