
    
      Interferon beta-1a (IFNB-1a), a FDA approved therapy for relapsing-remitting (RR) MS has
      several mechanisms of action. It lowers proinflammatory cytokine production and inhibits
      antigen presentation by class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule. It also
      reduces metalloproteinase activity, which all lead to decreased migration of T-lymphocytes
      into the central nervous system (CNS), and subsequent inhibition of inflammatory lesion
      formation. We propose that combination therapy during early stages of the disease with second
      immunomodulatory agent that targets different steps in the pathogenesis of the disease may
      add to the effectiveness of IFNB-1a. IFNB-1a administered intramuscularly at 30 mg per week
      is particularly suitable for combination therapy due to its proven efficacy in Clinically
      Isolated Syndrome (CIS),favorable safety profile and low frequency of neutralizing antibodies
      (NABs) against IFNB-1a in comparison to other forms of IFNB-1a. Recent studies have reported
      a significant anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of statins, cholesterol-lowering
      agents. Statins disrupt cellular membrane lipid rafts, which inhibit the clustering of T-cell
      receptor (TCR), co-stimulatory, and adhesion molecules, required for optimal T-cell
      activation. Along with inhibiting T-cell activation, statins decrease IFNB inducible MHC
      class II expression, suppressing an effective antigen presentation. They block migration of
      activated mononuclear cells from peripheral circulation into the CNS by blocking LFA-1
      adhesion molecule and by reducing metalloproteinase type 9 secretion. While their
      anti-inflammatory effects at tolerable oral doses may not justify their use as monotherapy
      for RR MS, their pleiotropic mechanisms of action showed synergistic effects with IFNB-1a in
      studies in vitro. We propose that simvastatin may enhance the immunomodulatory effects of
      INFB-1a in patients with CIS suggestive of MS and that this combination may even more
      effectively prevent further disease activity if administered early in the course of the
      disease.
    
  