
    
      Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is one of the most common endocrine disorders in women. Its
      marked phenotypic variability, puzzling list of associated conditions, and hence potential
      risk to a woman's health over her lifecycle clearly remain a clinical investigational,
      genetic, and therapeutic challenge. To a great extent, this variability can be attributed to
      the marked genetic and environmental heterogeneity of the populations studied. We plan to
      address many of these long-term clinical research obstacles by delineating the genetic basis
      of PCOS in a unique investigational venue, the Icelandic population. Studying the Icelandic
      population has the following advantages: a) the population's relative genetic and
      environmental homogeneity; b) the remarkably rich genealogic database; and c) the centralized
      healthcare information. In this unusual venue, clustering of large numbers of PCOS families
      with known relationships is possible. Their relative homogeneity and genealogic
      characteristics can reduce genetic variance and hence be used to map the genetic basis for
      PCOS more efficiently than in more heterogeneous populations. As the genes responsible for
      PCOS emerge, this protocol will also determine phenotype/genotype correlations in Iceland,
      contrasting them with US women, and assess their long-term medical consequences.

      Each female subject will be asked to arrive fasting in the morning. Women with PCOS will be
      asked to arrive at least 10 days from their last menstrual period, while women with regular
      menstrual cycles will be seen within the first 14 days after their menstrual period starts.
      All subjects will be asked to fill out an extensive questionnaire. Subjects will then undergo
      further history, physical exam and laboratory exams. Blood will be drawn at baseline for DNA
      (the material in the cell that holds the genes), fasting blood glucose and insulin, HbA1C,
      total and fractionated cholesterol, triglycerides, testosterone, androstenedione, DHEAS, SHBG
      and 17-OH Progesterone. Additional blood will be drawn at 10 and 20 minutes for measurement
      of LH and FSH, which are pulsatile. An oral glucose tolerance test will be optional. A
      standardized transvaginal ultrasound will be performed to look at the ovaries in all female
      subjects. This can be done over the abdomen with a full bladder if the patient prefers.

      Male family members will also undergo a history, physical and laboratory exams in an
      identical manner to that of their female family members with the addition that specific
      notice of their hair distribution will be made. PCOS subjects who are on oral contraceptives
      or other hormonal medication may have cholesterol, insulin, glucose, triglycerides and HbA1C
      labs drawn, whereas subjects on insulin sensitizing agents will not have any blood drawn for
      these tests. These subjects will undergo an ultrasound and DNA sampling.

      All hormone blood samples from Icelandic and Boston subjects will be examined in Boston. All
      DNA testing will be performed in the Genotyping Core of deCODE, a company in Iceland.
      Therefore, all DNA samples from Iceland and Boston will be analyzed in Iceland. The Boston
      blood samples will be coded and sent to the DeCODE genotyping facility. The investigators in
      Boston will retain the link between the code and the subject information in a locked area in
      the office. The names of subjects will not be disclosed to deCODE.
    
  