
    
      Idiopathic burning mouth syndrome (BMS) is a chronic orofacial pain condition in which the
      pain is felt as intense, located on the tongue and the oral mucosa with no known cause. The
      pain may last for years and present treatments are of little effect. BMS is primarily a
      feminine disease, affecting women during or following menopause, suggesting an etiopathogenic
      role of the sexual hormones potentiating a local salivary factor. An anxiodepressive
      component is often associated with the disease. Recently, a molecule named opiorphin has been
      identified in human saliva. In animals, this molecule has shown potent analgesic properties
      comparable to those of morphine. The hypothesis of the investigators is that this molecule is
      in lower quantity in the saliva of persons suffering BMS and that this decrease causes oral
      burning sensations.

      The main objective of the study is to test the hypothesis of a decrease of opiorphin levels
      in the saliva of patients suffering from primary BMS compared to a group of control subjects.
      The main judgment criteria is the level of salivary opiorphin in ng/mL.

      The proposed study is a multicentric, simple blinded case controlled study. The investigators
      will collect the data from 21 primary BMS patients and 21 control subjects matched in sex,
      age, and hormonal status (menopause). The alpha risk is 0.5% and the power of the study is
      90%.

      Criteria for inclusion : BMS patients will be suffering for more than 4 months from burning
      pain in the tongue or oral mucosa with no organic trouble detectable by anamnesis, clinical
      evaluation and biological testing.

      The design of the study includes three sessions for all subject of both groups; the maximum
      duration of participation for a subject is 8 weeks and the total duration of the study is 24
      months There are two investigation centers.
    
  