
    
      Methodist Health System wishes to offer transplant services to our CDI populations which meet
      all criteria for recurrent intractable disease. The objective is to reduce the cost both
      financially and physically to patients and the facility, of living with chronic or recurrent
      CDI disease. This study is to provide treatment and demonstrate documented outcomes and
      success rates in a manner that protects both the patients and the facility. Of note this
      treatment is currently being provided by many facilities in Texas, under the FDA
      Investigational New Drug (IND) enforcement discretion.

      The study will provide data to show the effectiveness of Fecal Microbiota Transplant in
      patients with recurrent Clostridium difficile infection. This study will only examine FMT as
      it is the only available therapy beyond antibiotic treatment. When patients are considered
      for FMT they have already failed traditional therapeutic medications.

      Patients will be required to meet a specified criteria set forth for chronic or severe CDI
      infection. Chronic infection is defined as the third or greater episode of C Difficile
      infection, proven by a positive stool assay with previous documented treatments. Patients
      must be first treated with first line drug therapies which include vancomycin, metronidazole
      or fidaxomicin without cure. They must have been treated with at least one course of drugs
      over a six to eight week period of a vancomycin taper or vancomycin treatment followed by
      rifaximin for two weeks. Severe CDI infection is defined as refractory moderate to severe CDI
      diarrhea, with failing vancomycin drug therapy.

      Patients with contraindicated co-morbidities will be excluded. Comorbidities include severe
      bowel disease which would preclude colonoscopy, severe underlying immune suppression or
      decompensated liver cirrhosis.

      Patients will be under the care of a physician who is an identified investigator
      (sub-investigator) of this study for preparation, procedure and follow up care. Patients will
      be counseled by this physician regarding the risks and side effects of the procedure and
      transplant. Staff will only reinforce details from written materials given to patients.
      Questions outside of the written materials will be directed to the investigators for follow
      up.

      Risks include, but are not limited to the following.

        -  Transplant making no improvement in the course of their CDI.

        -  Common side effects including transient gas, bloating and rectal irritation

        -  Surgical risks which can include blood clots, excessive bleeding, allergic reactions and
           death. More common surgical risks are infection, drug reactions, bleeding, and
           perforation.

        -  Transmission of antibiotic-resistant bacteria: These are resistant to one or more
           antibiotics. These bacteria could be transmitted through FMT and cause a serious
           infection. The FMT that you will receive is provided by a company called OpenBiome,
           where donors who provide stool for the FMT treatments undergo screening for certain
           antibiotic-resistant bacteria and clinical risk factors that would make their exposure
           to antibiotic resistant bacteria more likely. Individuals who test positive for these
           bacteria or have these risk factors are excluded from donating.

      Patients will sign three informed consents. The first consent is to acknowledge the basis of
      the treatment is part of a research study (exhibit 1). The second consent) specifies that FMT
      is experimental in nature, and reviews the potential risks and benefits of the transplant.
      The third is the Methodist Health System "Disclosure and Consent" that is used for
      colonoscopy procedures.
    
  