
    
      Data collection Participants were recruited in the waiting room, before their check up visit
      or the blood test; a researcher explained them the aim of the study and asked them a written
      informed consent to participate. The accepting patients were asked to fill out the Illness
      Perception Questionnaire Revised (IPQ-R). Demographic, clinical and adherence data were also
      collected.

      Measures:

        1. Demographic and clinical data: demographic information included age, gender, marital
           status, education, employment status, nationality. Clinical information, extracted from
           participants' medical records, included: years diagnosed with HIV, patient history of
           antiretroviral therapy (ART), years of therapy, presence of fix dose combination of
           antiretroviral drugs, current therapeutic regimen's type, total number of pills per day,
           presence of other drugs' therapies, HIV acquisition risk.

        2. Illness representations: measured with the Italian validate version of the IPQ-R24. The
           questionnaire is divided in three sections: 1) disease identity; 2) opinions and 3)
           causes. While items on disease identity have dichotomous responses (yes/no), items
           regarding opinions and causes are constituted by a 5 points Likert scale (from
           "1=completely disagree" to "5=completely agree").

           Identity section explores patients' beliefs about the disease's nature. Fourteen
           symptoms are listed and patients have to indicate if they have experienced them since
           being diagnosed with the disease and, if so, if they believe that their symptoms are
           linked to the disease or not. Opinions section is composed by 38 items exploring how, at
           the moment, patients perceive their illness condition. Items are grouped into seven
           factors: 1) Timeline (perception of chronic vs acute duration); 2) Cyclical symptoms
           (perception of a cyclic vs stable disease); 3) Consequences (perception that the disease
           has or not serious physical, psychological and social consequences on patients' life);
           4) Personal control (perceptions that actions can or cannot be taken to effectively
           manage the disease); 5) Treatment control (high or low trust in the treatment and its
           efficacy); 6) Coherence (high or low understanding of the disease); 7) Emotional
           responses (prevalence of negative emotions vs positive).

           Causes section lists 18 possible illness causes and patients have to rate their level of
           agreement with each item as a cause of their disease.

        3. Adherence indexes : measured by HIV-RNA copies/ml and presence at the check up
           visits(scheduled every 3 months). Patients were considered "adherent" in case of:
           undetectable viral load or HIV-RNA <40 copies/ml and regular presence at the check up
           visits (≤ 3 months). Adherence indexes were collected only for patients under treatment
           (naïve patients and patients in therapy from <1 month were excluded).

      Data analysis Descriptive statistics were used for demographic and clinical characteristics,
      IPQ-R data and adherence outcomes. Data were analyzed using SPSS® version 21.0 for Windows.

      Independent t-tests, one-way ANOVA with LSD post hoc multiple comparisons tests and Pearson
      correlational analysis were used for the analysis of demographic/clinical variables and IPQ-R
      Identity and Opinion continuous variables. Mann-Whitney U-test and Kruskal-Wallis Chi-Squared
      test were used on IPQ-R Cause ordinal variables.

      One-way ANOVA with LSD post hoc multiple comparisons tests were also used to compare means
      between the adherence indexes and IPQ-R Identity and Opinion continuous variables.
      Kruskal-Wallis Chi-Squared tests were used on IPQ-R Cause ordinal variables. Values of p
      ≤0.05 were considered statistically significant.
    
  