
    
      Critically ill patients frequently suffer from acute hyperglycemia, (a blood glucose level of
      more than 6.1 mmol/L (110 mg/dL)) and is observed in around 90 percent of ICU patients.
      Additionally, insulin resistance is expected in more than 80 percent of the critically ill
      which contributes to the problem. The hypothalamic-pituitary axis, sympathetic adrenergic
      system, and circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor alpha
      (TNF-α) and interleukins modulate hyperglycemia during stress. The seriousness of illness as
      expressed by the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation score (APACHE II), injury
      severity, surgery type and the Glasgow Coma Scale correlate with catecholamine and cortisol
      levels. Catecholamines are released mainly from the adrenal medulla. Multiple effects are
      assumed to be due to the surge of stress hormones (cardiovascular, immune and metabolic)
      targeting restoration of homeostasis during stress. Excessive glycogenolysis,
      gluconeogenesis, and insulin resistance characterize the neuroendocrine stress response.
      Increased hepatic output of glucose is predominantly the reason of stress hyperglycemia.
      Mediated through the liver adrenaline and noradrenaline excite gluconeogenesis and
      glycogenolysis; the latter has additional effects of enhancing glycerol provisions through
      lipolysis in the liver.

      Additionally, the emergence of insulin resistance could be due to the release of adipokines
      from adipose tissue during critical illness. Downgrading of insulin signal transduction is
      associated with increased TNF-α due to phosphorylation of different molecules straight over
      the path of insulin-signaling. Glucose redistribution from peripheral tissues towards immune
      cells during infection could be mediated by variable regulation of glucose transporter-1 and
      glucose transporter-4.

      Contributing factors for acute hyperglycemia during critical illness includes the concomitant
      secretion of additional stress hormones and the use of medications (steroids, lithium,
      vasopressors, inotropes and β-blockers). Intravenous glucose solutions, overfeeding,
      parenteral nutrition, and antibiotic and dialysis solutions, also precipitate hyperglycemia.
      Insulin deficiency or hypovolemia may also lead to hyperglycemia. Peripheral insulin
      resistance could be promoted with bed rest even without an obvious disease. Bed rest causes
      reduced skeletal muscle glucose uptake. Hyperglycemia in critically ill diabetics is an
      integration of pancreatic β-cell secretory disorders and insulin resistance.

      Consequences of hyperglycemia in the Critically ill patients: in different ICU populations
      Short-term drawbacks of hyperglycemia include effects on fluid balance through glycosuria and
      subsequently dehydration. Hyperglycemia associated with white blood cell abnormalities which
      could impair the complement pathway. Mitochondrial protein could be damaged with
      hyperglycemia, amplification of inflammatory pathways, altered innate immune system, and
      downgrading of endothelial functions. The peripheral blood flow could be compromised due to
      the reduction in endothelial nitric oxide and vascular reactivity with hyperglycemia. Acute
      hyperglycemia boosts proteolysis and is accompanied by a high risk of cardiac complications,
      electro-myocardial alteration, hemodynamic compromise, acute kidney injury, and death.
      Therefore poor clinical outcome and complications are associated with hyperglycemia. The
      persistence of hyperglycemia for a longer time distinctly associated with pediatric
      population outcome as expressed by morbidity and mortality.

      In Individual ICU populations, the risk of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia increased in
      patients with sepsis. The Surviving Sepsis Campaign Guidelines recommend keeping the blood
      sugar below 10mmol/L. In neuro-critical care improved neurological outcome was observed with
      glucose control in patients, with a less strict glycemic target (7.7-10mmol/L). The impact of
      hyperglycemia was quantified in a meta-analysis for patients who had acute myocardial
      infarction. Postoperatively, intensive glucose control was associated with reduced acute
      heart failure, myocardial infarction, and death in vascular surgeries. Reduced death,
      infections and post-operative atrial fibrillation were observed after cardiac surgery with
      moderate blood sugar control. Interestingly, in a recent systemic review and meta-analysis
      stress hyperglycemia was associated with increased risk of subsequent diabetes in the
      critically ill. No previous studies went through future development of diabetes or impaired
      glucose tolerance after cardiac surgeries.

        1. Objectives Primary objective : incident of developing diabetes and pre diabetes in
           patient with post operative stress hyperglycemia

        2. Study Methodology

             -  The study will be a prospective cohort study

             -  Investigators will select patient without diabetes who will undergo cardiac
                surgery, patient will be divided into two groups group 1) Patients with
                uncontrolled blood sugar in the ICU; and group 2) patient with adequate control of
                blood sugar in ICU settings

             -  The sample size will be calculated based on previous studies in critically ill
                patients

             -  Subject inclusion and exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria: 1. Adult males and
                females above the age of 18 years subjected to cardiac surgery, 2. Acceptance to
                perform the study protocol and participate throughout the whole trial period
                (consent approval prior to participation), 3. Understanding the risks and benefits
                of the study and having signed a written informed consent. Exclusion criteria:
                Diabetics. Patients who refuse to participate or who /can not sign informed
                consent.

      Time in range (TIR), will be used to define the groups within the study, it is a measure of
      time where the blood glucose stays within the set target range. Our group point that it is it
      an easy measure that could be encountered without specific demands; therefore, it could be
      simply utilized in any ICU. Investigators will calculate the whole time of intravenous
      insulin infusion (A) and the time being within the set goal range (B) during intravenous
      insulin infusion and expressed TIR as TIR = (B/A) × 100. Our previous study showed that
      patients with more than 80% time in range, whether or not they had existing diabetes, had
      better outcomes than those with less than 80% time in range, as expressed by wound infection
      complication, duration of mechanical ventilation, and ICU length of stay. In addition, they
      were not candidates for recurrent hypoglycemic attacks. (27) Outcome measures Factors
      assessed at admission to the ICU will include age, gender, ethnicity, diabetes history,
      glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C), hypertension history, and surgery type. Investigators will
      record anesthesia time, cardiopulmonary bypass time (CPP), aortic cross clamp (ACC) time,
      utilization of inotropes and vasopressors, blood transfusion, Euro SCORE, medications
      including (statin therapy, steroids, vasopressors, and inotropes) length of mechanical
      ventilation, length of stay in the ICU and the hospital length of stay. Complications and
      outcomes, including acute kidney injury (AKI), post-operative atrial fibrillation (POAF),
      nosocomial infection, stroke, wound infection, and death, will reported for each patient.
      Data will be retrieved from an established database Dendrite Clinical Systems® (London, UK).
      Outcomes will be compared in subgroups of diabetics and non-diabetics, and factors associated
      with poor glycemic control will be analyzed.

      Outcomes and follow up An outpatient visit will be planned approximately three months after
      ICU discharge. At the time of this visit, Investigators will obtain age, BMI, waist
      circumference, diet, exercise, history of hypertension and family and personal history of
      elevated blood glucose to calculate the Finnish diabetes risk score (FINDRISC) questionnaire.
      (28) Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be performed according to the guidelines of the
      World Health Organization (WHO) with 75-g glucose load. Diabetes will be diagnosed according
      to the American Diabetes Association guidelines that stat fasting plasma glucose ≥126
      mg/dl(7mmol/L) and/or 2-h plasma glucose during the OGTT ≥200 mg/dl (11.1mmol/L) and/or HbA1c
      ≥6.5 % (48 mmol/L); impaired glucose tolerance is noted when 2-h plasma glucose during the
      OGTT is between 140-200 mg/dl (7.7-11.1mmol/L). Impaired fasting glucose defined as fasting
      plasma glucose between 100-126 mg/dl (55.7mmol/L).

      The primary outcome will be the percentage of development of diabetes in non-diabetics after
      cardiac surgery The secondary outcome will be to identify whether those patients who are
      non-diabetics associated with increased morbidity in terms of ICU stay, post-operative atrial
      fibrillation (POAF), hospital acquired infections, and late wound infections

      Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize and determine the sample characteristics and
      distribution of various considered parameters related to demographic, presenting signs and
      symptoms, clinical features, post-operative outcome measures etc. The normally distributed
      data and results will be reported with mean and standard deviation (SD) with corresponding
      95% confidence interval (CI); the remaining results will be reported with median and
      inter-quartile range (IQR). Categorical data will be summarized using frequencies and
      percentages.

      The focus of the data analysis in this study will be to determine the incident of developing
      diabetes and pre diabetes in patient with post-operative stress hyperglycemia. Associations
      between two or more qualitative variables will be assessed using Chi-square (χ2) or Fisher
      Exact tests as appropriate. Quantitative outcome measures between two independent groups will
      be analyzed using unpaired t or Mann Whitney U test depending on the normality of the data
      distribution. Concentration-time profiles for blood glucose, serum insulin and other related
      quantitative outcome measures will be analyzed as their respective areas under the curve
      (AUC) from baseline to specific post-baseline time points, with analysis across groups
      (normal, prediabetes, diabetes) performed by linear regression, with results presented as the
      marginal group means (95% CI) and associated p value. The impact of different potential
      covariates and factors will be assessed using multivariate linear regression model.
      Longitudinal changes in data across time points will be analyzed using a mixed model ANOVA.
      The relationship between incident of developing diabetes and pre diabetes in patient with
      post-operative stress hyperglycemia and main intrinsic and extrinsic risk factors (predictor
      or risk factors) will be estimated by deriving odds ratios (ORs) from logistic regression
      model and results will be presented and reported in odds ratio (OR) and associated 95% CI. A
      two-sided P value <0.05 will be considered to be statistically significant. All statistical
      analyses will be done using statistical packages SPSS 23.0 (SPSS Inc. Chicago, IL) and Epi
      Info 2000 (Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of
      America
    
  