
    
      II. Hypothesis:

        1. The use of NBI colonoscopy will reduce the miss rate for colon polyps compared to
           standard white light imaging.

        2. HDWl and HDNBI are more accurate than standard colonoscopy for the classification of
           adenomatous polyps in comparison to other non-premalignant polyps.

      III. Specific Aims:

        1. Compare the miss rate of standard white light imaging compared to NBI for detection of
           colon polyps with NBI

        2. Estimate the accuracy of standard white light, HDWL and HDNBI imaging modes for the
           classification of adenomatous (premalignant) versus non-adenomatous (hyperplastic,
           inflammatory, normal) polyps.

        3. Examine the inter-observer agreement for classification of adenomatous versus
           non-adenomatous polyps based on standard, NBI and HDWL imaging.

      IV. Research Design and Methods:

      4.1 Study Design: A prospective phase II cross-over trial. Patients will undergo both
      procedures (standard, NBI) back to back under conscious sedation. The order of the procedure
      will be randomized.

      4.2 Setting: The study will take place at Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Division of
      Gastroenterology, an expert center in the diagnosis and treatment of colon polyps.

      4.3 Study Subjects All patients scheduled for colonoscopy at Mayo Clinic Jacksonville will be
      screened for eligibility using inclusion and exclusion criteria. The patients that are deemed
      eligible will be offered participation in the study. Informed consent will be obtained and
      the participant will be registered in our database. Prior to consent the participant will be
      made aware of the investigative nature of the study, alternatives, risks, and benefits.

      4.4 Eligibility Criteria

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Age 18 years or older.

        2. Informed written consent.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. History of inflammatory bowel disease.

        2. Patients with severe cardiopulmonary disease precluding colonoscopy.

        3. Presence of conditions not allowing for polypectomy or biopsy (e.g. coagulation
           disorder).

        4. Known familial polyposis syndrome (FAP, HNPCC, Juvenile polyposis, etc)

        5. Sub-optimal preparation for the procedure, which will be determined by patient history
           or based on the initial colonoscopy.

        6. Pregnancy

      4.5 Procedure and Data Collections

      A. Pre-procedure:

      All patients will be prepared for colonoscopy with the standard preparation and will be
      scheduled to have the procedure at Mayo Clinic Jacksonville. The principal investigator (PI)
      will screen eligible patients based on medical history, physical exam and laboratory data on
      day of procedure.

      Patients typically arrive at the registration area at least 60 minutes before start of
      scheduled procedure. A GI endoscopy nurse will prepare patients in the standard manner and
      intravenous access will be placed. Eligible patients will be offered informed consent by the
      study PI or designee. Patients who agree to participate in the study will sign informed
      consent and will be registered in the database. A log with only non-identifiable (e.g.
      patients # 1) will also be maintained of eligible patients who decline to participate. The GI
      endoscopy nurse will monitor patient's vitals before, during and after procedure as per
      standard protocol.

      B. Procedure:

      The exams will be performed back to back with a standard colonoscope and an ETMI colonoscope
      provided by Olympus. The order of the first and second procedure will be randomized according
      to a list prepared by the statistician using randomly permuted blocks to ensure equal numbers
      of patients are randomized to the two groups. All patients will be sedated with meperidine or
      fentanyl and midazolam to achieve conscious sedation. Each procedure will be preformed by a
      different endoscopist. The endoscopist will be either the P.I. supervised by a GI staff
      physician or solely by one of the five GI staff physicians. During the initial colonoscopy
      all visualized polyps will be noted, photographed, and removed. When the ETMI colonoscope is
      used, all polyps will be photographed using these modes (HDWL, HDNBI). The NBI portion of the
      exam will be performed using the MB-046 cap to further enhance stabilization of the focal
      length of the colonoscope.

      The second procedure will be done with the same level of careful inspection as the first
      although we not specifically regiment the time of withdrawal beyond what the endoscopist
      feels is necessary for a careful examination. During the second colonoscopy all visualized
      polyps will be noted, photographed and removed. During the first procedure, the time will be
      evaluated with a stopwatch. The stopwatch will start when the endoscopist begins pull-back at
      the cecum and end when the scope is removed from the anal verge. The clock will be stopped
      during washing of the bowel, polypectomy, biopsy or any other therapeutic maneuver. At the
      end of the first procedure, the endoscopist will be informed of the withdrawal and inspection
      time and every effort will be made to match this to the second procedure. Time will be
      recorded similarly for the second procedure. Polyps will be classified as pedunculated,
      raised-sessile (rounded) or flat. Flat polyps will be further classified according to the
      Paris endoscopic classification 14.

      C. Post-procedure:

      After the procedure all patients will be brought to the recovery and monitored as per
      standard protocol. Participants will be given discharge instructions as per protocol and also
      be provided with information to contact the P.I. if any problems should occur. Any post
      procedure complication will be reviewed on weekly intervals.
    
  