
    
      The preschool years represent a critical time period, with major developmental milestones in
      cognitive, linguistic, motoric, and emotional areas. Families tend to manage this sensitive
      phase in different ways, which results in an uneven distribution of educational opportunities
      at school entry. However, prior evidence shows that these disparities can be reduced by means
      of evidence-based programs in early childhood care and education (ECCE). The main focus is on
      the prevention of learning and behavioral disorders; for small children, this occurs by means
      of strengthening parenting skills.

      ZEPPELIN (Zurich Equity Prevention Project with Parents Participation and Integration) is a
      longitudinal, randomized controlled intervention study. The main objective is to examine the
      of the early intervention program "Parents As Teachers" (PAT) in psychosocially disadvantaged
      families. This includes four aims:

        1. Identification of children at risk at an early age, using an interdisciplinary network;

        2. Investigation of the acceptability of the program in parents;

        3. Evaluation of the intervention process and efficacy during and immediately after program
           implementation;

        4. Evaluation of the efficacy in terms of child academic performance.

      Families were recruited in the suburbs of Zurich, Switzerland, shortly before or after giving
      birth. Baseline measurements were conducted at 3 months postnatal (t0), before participants
      were assigned to either the intervention group (IG, receiving the early intervention program
      PAT) or control group (CG) condition, using a stratified block randomization. Follow-up data
      was collected at three measurement time points around the first, second and third birthday of
      the children (t1, t2, t3).

      Further follow-up measurements will be conducted in 2017 (t4; in the 1st year of
      kindergarten), 2018 (t5; in the 2nd year of kindergarten), 2019 (t6; after school
      transition), and in 2021 (t7; in the 3rd year of primary school). This will allow us to
      investigate medium-term and long-term effects of early developmental conditions.

      ZEPPELIN 0-3 is the first ECCE program in Switzerland that specifically targets and recruits
      at risk families from birth on. Families then participate in an experimental field study
      including a longitudinal control group comparison. As such, ZEPPELIN fills an important gap
      in the current literature.
    
  