
    
      Background: After removal of lower third molars complications can occur, including pain,
      swelling, infection and sensory disturbances. As pain intensity has been shown to be worst
      during the first 4-8 hours post surgery, it might be relevant to use a local anaesthetic with
      long duration, e.g. bupivacaine, instead of the traditionally used lidocaine. Several studies
      have focussed on the effect of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (such as glucocorticoids,
      e.g. methylprednisolone) to reduce postoperative swelling. However, no studies comparing the
      effect of bupivacaine combined with methylprednisolone and lidocaine combined with
      methylprednisolone have been conducted.

      Aim: To compare postoperative complications after removal of lower third molars using 1)
      lidocaine, 2) lidocaine combined with methylprednisolone, 3) bupivacaine and 4) bupivacaine
      combined with methylprednisolone.

      Methods: The study compares type end extension of postoperative complications after removal
      of lower third molars using four different combinations of local anaesthetics and
      anti-inflammatory treatment. The study is conducted as a double blinded, split mouth
      crossover trial, where each patient has both lower third molars removed at two different
      occasions.

      Patients are randomised to receive one type of local anaesthetic the first time and the other
      type the second time. Furthermore patients are randomised to receive either
      methylprednisolone or placebo the first time and the opposite treatment the second time.

      An objective assessment of postoperative swelling and inflammation is made by means of
      thermographic imaging of the operated side compared to the opposite side after the operation
      and at 2 and 7 days post surgery.

      Each patient fills out a questionnaire, where the patients' perception of pain, swelling and
      other complications is registered. Furthermore, complications are recorded objectively by a
      dentist at the 2- and 7-day post-surgery visits
    
  