
    
      Frailty signifies a decline in physical, cognitive and/or psychosocial reserve that reduces
      an older adult's ability to respond to or recover from stressors (e.g., acute illness) and
      contributes to early morbidity and mortality. Nearly half of all older adults are prefrail,
      and prefrailty status increases the risk of becoming frail. Frailty is more prevalent among
      African Americans and occurs earlier in life when compared to European Americans. Older
      African Americans in the US, face significant challenges in adhering to frailty reduction
      treatment such as increasing physical activity (PA) and adopt a healthy diet. Those
      challenges include poverty, accelerated aging, higher levels of activities of daily living
      disability, and less access to safe opportunities for PA or healthy food. The situation is
      even worse for urban-dwelling older African Americans, who often reside in neighborhoods
      replete with physical and social stressors (e.g., derelict infrastructure or crime) that
      intersect with the vulnerabilities of aging, to further complicate their efforts to engage in
      frailty protective behaviors. Despite this, frailty interventions overwhelmingly exclude
      African Americans, thereby limiting generalizability to this high-risk group.

      Therefore, the rationale of this study is to test the feasibility of a novel habit formation
      (HF) intervention to facilitate frailty protective behaviors in prefrail African Americans
      ages 55 and older in a randomized control trial study. The HF intervention targets two main
      health behaviors: decrease sedentary time (ST) and improve dietary quality. The intervention
      consists of 12 treatment sessions over 12 weeks. In each session, an occupational therapist
      will deliver educational content, and use HF techniques and behavioral skills to facilitate
      frailty protective behaviors. Forty-eight prefrail African American adults will be randomized
      to the treatment or control group. The baseline evaluation will be conducted before
      randomization and the follow-up evaluation after the last treatment session. For the
      treatment group participants, we will further evaluation occupational activity
      performance/satisfaction and habit formation strength within treatment sessions.

      The main goal of this study is to determine the feasibility of HF intervention among prefrail
      African American adults. The main hypothesis is: the SHAPE study will demonstrate good
      feasibility with (1) high recruitment rate (recruit 48 participants over 6 months), (2)
      treatment group participants will show preliminary efficacy in primary outcomes such as
      reducing sedentary time (measured by the ActivPal device) and increasing dietary quality
      score (measured by Healthy Eating Index [HEI]) at intervention completion compared to
      controls. The secondary hypothesis is: treatment group participants will demonstrate
      preliminary efficacy in secondary outcomes such as increased quality of life (measured by the
      Cardiovascular Health Study frailty criteria), reduced depressive symptoms (Geriatric
      Depression Short form), prefrailty reduction (The Fried's Frailty Criteria Index), increased
      lower extremity strength and balance (Short Physical Performance Battery), increased physical
      activity level (The Community Healthy Activities Model Program for Seniors), reduced waist
      circumference and weight at intervention completion compare to controls.
    
  