
    
      Heart transplantation is a viable treatment option for select patients with end-stage heart
      failure, with 1-year survival rates for heart transplantation approximating 85%. Of those who
      survive the first year, >90% are alive at 5 years. In the early post-transplant period,
      rejection of the donor heart due to activation of the recipients immune system, is the most
      worrisome complication and most common cause of morbidity and mortality. With time, the risk
      of rejection declines and cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) represents the most common
      cause of heart failure and death in heart transplant recipients. CAV is a form of coronary
      artery disease in the transplanted heart. It develops due to a variety of immune and
      non-immune mediated mechanisms. It differs significantly from coronary artery disease in
      normal hearts, in that it affects arteries of all sizes (not just the main arteries visible
      by coronary angiography) and it involves thickening of the inner layer of the arteries,
      rather than the surface lining of the arteries as in traditional coronary artery disease.
      Early CAV is clinically silent. Patients are most often diagnosed by routine coronary
      angiographic surveillance (standard of care), or by declining heart function by surveillance
      imaging (standard of care), with no evidence of any organ rejection.

      Coronary angiography and assessment of heart function remain the cornerstone for diagnosis of
      CAV. The main limitation of angiography is its inability to identify mild or early disease,
      as an apparently normal angiogram can underestimate the presence of CAV. Intra-vascular
      ultrasound (IVUS) at coronary angiography has been evaluted as an adjunctive mordality for
      assessing and diagnosing early CAV. Certain IVUS parameters have been correlated with high
      risk for development of CAV and overall worse prognosis long term.

      Detection of CAV has important therapeutic and prognostic implications. Once detected by
      angiography, the likelihood of progression to severe CAV within 5 years is 19%. The overall
      likelihood of death or re-transplantation as a result of CAV is approximately 50% for severe
      CAV. Changes are made to medical therapy targeted at slowing or halting CAV progression and
      patients are evaluated for re-transplantation sooner rather than later, depending on the rate
      of progression.

      Currently, CAV is diagnosed by cardiac catheterization performed at routine intervals post
      transplant, with or without the use of IVUS. This is an invasive test with complications
      including bleeding, vascular damage, renal failure, stroke, heart attack or death. It has low
      sensitivity for identifying early CAV. Recent advances in cardiac magnetic resonance imaging
      (CMR) and cardiac CT imaging (CCT) present a unique opportunity to investigate these
      non-invasive modalities in CAV. To date, there are no studies in this field.

      We propose to evaluate whether functional CCT and/or CMR perfusion abnormalities, calcium
      scoring by CCT, and late gadolinium enhancement by CMR, is feasible in heart transplant
      patients and whether these modalities can detect abnormalities that correlate to cardiac
      catheterization results and detect early CAV before it becomes angiographically apparent.
      This pilot study will be the first of its kind in the heart transplant population. We aim to
      demonstrate feasibility and safety of CCT/CMR in heart transplant patients and correlate
      specific CMR/CCT abnormalities to established angiographic apparent CAV. This will allow
      further prospective evaluation of this exciting non-invasive modality in CAV detection with
      larger research studies by our group.

      The clinical implications are significant in that we may reduce the number of invasive
      procedures performed and identify CAV earlier, leading to the institution of earlier
      therapies, such as proliferation signal inhibitors, that may alter the natural history of
      this disease in effort to prolong the life of the transplanted heart.

      Specific Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

        1. The number of patients with adverse events from CCT and CMR

        2. Determine recruitment rates for future studies, logistics of testing, and the ability to
           perform the tests

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Describe the CCT and CMR imaging findings in CAV

             1. Identify and describe structural and functional CMR abnormalities in established
                angiographically apparent CAV using novel imaging protocols, including stress-rest
                perfusion imaging.

             2. Identify and describe structural and functional cardiac CT abnormalities in
                established angiographically apparent CAV using novel imaging protocols, including
                stress-rest perfusion imaging.

        2. Correlation between intimal thickening by IVUS imaging at cardiac catheterization and
           CCT/CMR perfusion abnormalities at one year post heart transplant.

        3. Correlation between CCT/CMR perfusion abnormalities at one year post heart transplant
           with the development of angiographically apparent CAV, graft dysfunction, cardiac
           adverse events, and overall survival long term, and compare CCT to CMR in this regard
           (Cohort 1 & 2 below)

      Study Design: Patients will be recruited into 1 of 3 cohorts from the heart transplant
      program at the QE II Health Science Center, Halifax Infirmary site, using a protocol approved
      by the institutional research ethics board. Eligible patients are those scheduled for routine
      invasive coronary angiography, > 18 years of age, > 12 months post-transplant and be able to
      undergo both CCT and CMR. Exclusion criteria include a creatinine clearance (CrCl) calculated
      < 45ml/min, contraindications or inability to administer intravenous beta-blockers or calcium
      channel blockers and standard contraindications to CMR, contrast media, and adenosine.
      Patients will be identified by Dr. Brian Clarke who is involved the care of all heart
      transplant patients at the QE II Health Science Centre

      Data will be analyzed as follows:

        1. Feasibility will be determined based on successful rate of recruitment and completion of
           CCT/CMR scans in cohort 3.

        2. Patients eligible for cohort 3 require the diagnosis of CAV 1 at any time point
           post-transplant. The attending transplant cardiologist involved makes this assessment.
           More advanced CAV is excluded. These patients will be analyzed without a comparator
           group. For CCT, calcium scoring, intimal thickening, and perfusion abnormalities will be
           described and analyzed for their correlation to angiographic findings. CMR imaging will
           describe late gadolinium enhancement, structural changes, and perfusion abnormalities
           and be analyzed for their correlation to angiographic findings. In a separate analysis,
           these patients will also be compared with those in cohort 2 to determine the
           non-invasive imaging differences between CAV1 and CAV0 patients.

        3. Cohort 1 will be analyzed separately; comparing those with MIT <0.5mm to those with MIT
           > 0.5mm for differences in CCT/CMR imaging and perfusion abnormalities. CCT will be
           compared with CMR in both MIT subgroups. We anticipate to identify perfusion
           abnormalities in the MIT > 0.5mm group and no perfusion abnormalities in the MIT <
           0.5mm. Patients in cohort 1 will be followed long term for the development of
           angiographically apparent CAV, adverse cardiac events, graft dysfunction, and death.

      Results will be reported mainly in a descriptive manner, so that data will be summarized in
      percentage, mean or median, where applicable.
    
  