
    
      Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) is a common and often debilitating problem among women. It occurs
      below the umbilicus and is severe enough to cause functional impairment or require treatment.
      One of the challenges of treating women with CPP is that a single cause is often lacking. CPP
      presents as a syndrome of symptoms involving gynecologic, gastrointestinal, urologic, and
      musculoskeletal symptoms as well as psychosocial conditions such as depression that
      negatively impact quality of life.

      The study will consist of one screening visit that may be divided into two visits if needed
      to accommodate subject's schedules. The screening visit(s) should take place within four
      weeks prior to starting the intervention schedule. The following will be completed at the
      screening visit(s): pelvic/levator exam, body mass index (BMI), last menstrual period,
      medication use, electroencephalogram (EEG), questionnaires (CAGE-AID Questionnaire, Beck
      Depression Inventory, Interstitial Cystitis Symptom/Problem Index, Generalized Anxiety
      Disorder 7 item scale, McGill Pain Questionnaire, Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Visual Analog
      Scale for pain). The subject will complete 16 intervention visits over 12 weeks.

      The study intervention visits will be conducted on the Beaumont Hospital- Royal Oak campus by
      licensed nurses and/or physicians. The initial 10 sessions will occur Monday through Friday,
      within a 21-day period (allowing for missed days due to unexpected emergencies and/or
      inclement weather). Excluding weekends, there should be no more than 2 days between the
      intervention sessions. Each intervention is 20 minutes in duration. After completing the
      initial 10 sessions, subjects will complete an additional 6 weekly maintenance sessions
      according to treatment group.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess the change in EEG alpha brain waves in women with CPP after guided imagery
           sessions with tDCS actual or sham treatments.

        2. To assess the change in pain, urinary symptoms, and quality of life in women after
           guided imagery sessions with tDCS actual or sham sessions.

      Endpoints:

      Primary objective/endpoint: Change in alpha wave frequency on EEG after 10 sessions of tDCS
      and guided imagery, versus 10 sessions of sham tDCS and guided imagery compared to baseline.

      Secondary objective/endpoint:

      Change in pain levels (0-10) on a Visual Analog Scale (VAS) after 10 intervention sessions
      and at end of study compared to baseline.

      Hypothesis:

      The combination of tDCS and Guided Imagery (GI) will enhance patient outcomes, as evidenced
      by differences in alpha brain wave changes, pain and quality of life (QOL) measures between
      tDCS actual and sham treatment groups.
    
  