
    
      Although hand hygiene remains an important intervention in reducing the incidence of
      nosocomial infection, poor compliance may limit its impact especially in critical care units
      when clinical demands on staff are high. Although focused programmes to improve compliance
      have been shown to produce good results this may not be sustained in the longer-term. Hand
      hygiene only reduces and does not completely eliminate hand contamination and therefore
      transmission of hand microbes to the near-patient environment including paperwork will
      inevitably occur. It is recommended that healthcare professionals undertake hand hygiene
      after interacting with the patient environment even if contact with the patient has not taken
      place. In practice this may not occur as the potential for the environment to act as a
      reservoir may not be realised by healthcare workers.

      Doctors reviewing physiological trends on critical care observation charts often move between
      bed-spaces without touching patients or undertaking hand hygiene. Since doctors exhibit the
      lowest level of compliance with hand hygiene programmes, it is likely to be difficult to
      persuade them to undertake additional manoeuvres before and after handing paperwork as has
      been recommended. Effective cleaning and disinfection of the near-patient environment should
      occur concurrently to hand hygiene programmes in order to reduce transmission. Critical care
      observation charts in Darlington Memorial Hospital are paper-based, located in near-patient
      hand-touch zones and are therefore prone to contamination. It is proposed that treated
      paperwork may exhibit reduced levels of contamination; decreasing the potential for cross
      infection resulting from an area of the near-patient hand-touch environment that has received
      little attention in the past.

      Recently published research (2009) has reported that up to 90% of critical care observation
      charts may be contaminated with potential or actual pathogens. It is on critical care where
      nosocomial infections potentially have the most devastating effect. Cellomed is a triclosan
      based laminate that has been available since 2008 through Celloglas, a UK company
      specialising in decorative and other print finishes. Celloglas claim the laminate possesses
      anti-microbial activity citing three reports from Ciba laboratories (Switzerland), Scientific
      Services (UK) and Manchester University (UK). All tests have shown activity against MRSA and
      E.Coli with the most recent test reporting additional activity against Enterococcus,
      Stenotrophomonas and Klebsiella when compared to control. To date there have been no studies
      of Cellomed carried out in the clinical environment. Cellomed can be applied to any hospital
      paperwork through a lamination process. It is proposed that 'treated' paperwork will exhibit
      reduced levels of contamination when used in the clinical environment compared with standard
      patient documentation.

      This will be a prospective, randomised study comparing percentage increases in bacterial
      total viable count on critical care observation charts coated with one of two different
      materials; standard matt or Cellomed antibacterial laminate.

      Two-hundred of our standard white critical care observation charts will be provided to
      Celloglas (Leeds, UK). 100 of these will be laminated with standard matt (group 1) and 100
      with anti-microbial Cellomed (group 2). The two types of charts will be separately packaged
      by Celloglas, labelled and delivered to lead investigator at Darlington Memorial Hospital.
      The packages will be opened on a sterile work surface and the lead investigator will number
      the charts in a random order determined by an Excel spreadsheet. Randomisation will be
      restricted to ensure 100 charts remain in each group. The lead investigator will record which
      chart type is assigned to each number for analysis purposes. The charts will be used by the
      critical care nursing staff in the assigned order to ensure the random sequence is
      maintained.

      The observation charts to be studied will be stored on the critical care unit and all
      existing non-laminated white charts removed. The observation charts will thereafter be used
      in the normal way as defined by nursing practice; blue charts for patient admissions and
      white charts for each 24 hour period thereafter commencing at 8 am. On placement and after 24
      hours of use, a standardised section of the patient observation area will be swabbed by one
      of the data collection researchers. The standardised area is defined as the section of the
      chart that is most comprehensively completed during the patient episode and is therefore most
      likely to become contaminated through use. Both data collection researchers will be fully
      aware of the standardised area prior to commencement of the study.

      White charts are used to standardise the length of time each chart is in place between pre-
      and post- clinical use swabs (white charts present at 8 am have been in use for exactly 24
      hours). Blue charts are used between patient admission and 8 am which is a variable length of
      time and therefore not suitable for analysis.

      All swabs will be taken by one of two data collection researchers using a standard technique
      agreed before data collection commences. One dry sterile cotton swab will thoroughly sample
      the specified area of white charts at 8 am. These charts will have been in use for 24 hours
      and therefore the swab casing will be marked with the chart identifying number, bed space
      number and the word 'post'. A new white patient observation chart will then be placed in the
      bed space by nursing staff and the same area swabbed using an identical method. The swab
      casing will be marked with the chart identifying number, the bed space number and the word
      'pre'. Over a 24 hour period, each chart will therefore have two swabs taken; one pre- and
      one post- clinical use. The only exception to this will be on the first and the last day of
      the study when only pre- and post- swabs will be taken respectively.

      Swabs will be immediately delivered to the laboratory and inoculated onto 'plates' to permit
      bacterial and fungal growth. Following 24 hours of incubation at 37 degrees Celsius in air,
      plates will be analysed for total viable count and specific bacteria identified using
      standard techniques within our accredited microbiology laboratory. Additional analysis for
      resistance of isolated Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococci will take place using British
      Society of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy (BSAC) standard techniques. All data relating to total
      viable counts and specific bacteria will be retained by the Data Collection Researchers until
      the study period has been concluded. No interim data will be generated.

      The objectives are to compare the two groups total viable counts following 24 hours of
      clinical use and to compare the number of separately identified organisms. Unpublished
      laboratory tests show that total viable counts increases with manual handling of either
      laminate and it is therefore assumed that TVCs will increase from baseline for both types of
      observation chart following 24 hours of clinical use. Due to the claimed continuous
      expression of antimicrobial activity, there is the potential for baseline counts to be lower
      in the Cellomed group on receipt from the lamination factory. In addition, it cannot be
      assumed that the baseline contamination will be identical for charts between or within the
      two groups. It is therefore proposed to define the primary outcome measure as the percentage
      increase in total viable count from pre- 24 hour levels as measured before clinical use. The
      null hypothesis for the primary outcome measure is that there will be no difference in the
      percentage increase from baseline for total viable counts between the two groups following 24
      hours of clinical use on the critical care unit. The alternative hypothesis is that Cellomed
      laminate results in a lower percentage increase in bacteria compared to standard matt
      laminate. The secondary outcome measure is to compare the number of different types of
      specific organisms identified during the laboratory analysis. The null hypothesis for the
      secondary outcome is that there will be no difference in the number of different types of
      specific organisms between the two groups following 24 hours of clinical use on the critical
      care unit. The alternative hypothesis is that Cellomed laminate results in fewer different
      types of specific organisms compared to standard matt laminate.
    
  