
    
      According to the International Union Against Cancer a minimum of 12 lymph nodes (LN) should
      be obtained in the surgical specimen for colorectal cancer staging. Recent studies have
      reported that the use of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (QRN) may result in failure to obtain
      the minimum number of LN in the piece in 30-52% of patients. Objective: To analyze the
      survival of patients with a reduction in the number of resected LN in patients submitted to
      neoadjuvant and total excision of the mesorectum with rectal cancer. Patients and methods:
      From January 2013 to January 2015, patients with rectal cancer were submitted to QRN (5-FU
      and 5040 Gys) followed by total excision of mesorectum with ligation of the inferior
      mesenteric vessels in their roots. Patients with T3, T4 and / or N + staging that were up to
      10 cm from the anal border were included. Patients whose treatment with neoadjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy was incomplete or who had significant delays in re- staging and / or
      performing the surgery were excluded. All were staged by rectal examination, colonoscopy,
      chest and abdominal CT, and pelvic MRI, and also re-staged 8 weeks after neoadjuvant
      termination, operated and submitted to total excision of the mesorectum. The patients were
      divided into 4 groups: a) Incomplete pathological response with less than 12 LN. b)
      Incomplete pathological response with 12 or more LN. c) Complete pathological response with
      less than 12 LN. d) Complete pathological response with 12 or more LN. The possible variables
      related to the number of LN obtained and related to general and disease free survival were
      studied.

      Expected results:

      To analyze the survival rate between patients Complete Pathologic Response with less than 12
      LN and 12 or more LN. To determine the difference in survival between patients with less than
      12 LN in complete versus incomplete response. Demonstrate that patients with complete
      pathologic response and less than 12 LN have a disease-free survival equal to or better than
      patients with 12 LN or more.
    
  