
    
      Lower extremity venous disease is thought to affect 50 percent of woman and 40 percent of men
      at some point in their lifetime. Many of these patients seek venous treatment and undergo
      surgical procedures in the outpatient setting. Patient undergoing surgical intervention for
      treatment of venous reflux disease often experience discomfort, edema and discoloration in
      the areas of treatment. These symptoms may affect them for weeks to months after the
      procedure.

      Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of greater saphenous, small saphenous or accessory saphenous
      vein follow by sclerotherapy of remaining tributary veins 1-2 weeks later is a common
      minimally invasive treatment. Both the RFA and the ultrasound guided sclerotherapy cause an
      inflammatory response which can make the post-operative period more difficult for patients
      then the procedure itself.

      Vasculara has been shown to reduce inflammation, improve vascular tone and decrease tissue
      acidosis. It has also been shown to be effective in the treatment of post phlebitic syndrome
      and may reduce thrombotic complication. Recent animal data has demonstrated decreased
      postsclerotherapy inflammation in rabbits. In anecdotal reports providers have had good
      result with prescribing this medication to patients to be take a week or two prior to the
      procedure and in the post-op period, however, evidence for this practice is lacking.
      Vasculara is a generally safe product with very limited side effects and thus could be
      applied to a large patient population if clear benefit were documented.

      Vasculera is a prescription medical food product composed of the flavonoid, diosmin and a
      proprietary systemic blood alkalinizing agent, Alka4-complex. Diosmin has been used
      successfully in Europe for more than 35 years in the treatment of chronic venous
      insufficiency and its complications. There is a large body of published literature regarding
      the molecular activity, clinical efficacy and safety of diosmin as well as its effects on the
      microvasculature where it has been shown to reduce inflammation, improve structural
      integrity, improve capillary flow and reduce capillary leakage of serum proteins and red
      blood cells. It decreases bradykinin-induced microvascular leakage and may act favorably to
      inhibit leukocyte activation, trapping, and migration. Clinically, edema is reduced, ulcer
      healing is accelerated, and leukocyte trapping diminished.

      A similar study with similar design to this study from a Russian group demonstrated the
      "feasibility of using the drug Detralex, a brand of diosmin marketed in Europe, as an agent
      for nonspecific pharmacological protection in endovascular treatment of varicose disease." In
      2007 the DEFANS trial, also from Russia concluded, micronized diosmin in pre- and
      postoperative period after phlebectomy helps to attenuate pain syndrome, to decrease
      postoperative hematomas and accelerate their resorption, to increase exercise tolerance in
      early postoperative period. Studies performed within the United States with modern surgical
      procedures are lacking.
    
  