
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of sorafenib tosylate when combined with
           epirubicin hydrochloride, ifosfamide, and hypofractionated radiotherapy prior to surgery
           in patients with high-risk stage II or III soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or body
           wall.

      Secondary

        -  To examine, preliminarily, the activity of this regimen, in terms of time to local
           recurrence, distant disease-free survival, progression-free survival, overall survival,
           and histologic necrosis rate of ≥ 95%, in these patients.

        -  To investigate levels of tumorigenic and angiogenic markers, including phosphorylated
           extracellular signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK), vascular endothelial growth factor
           (VEGF), serum vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (sVEGFR-2), and basic
           fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), in plasma and tumor tissue samples at baseline and
           during and after treatment.

        -  To evaluate expression of tumor proliferation and angiogenic factors, including p-ERK,
           vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2) and Platelet-derived growth
           factor receptor (PDGFR), in tumor tissue samples as measured by Immunohistochemistry
           (IHC).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of sorafenib tosylate.

      Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate* once or twice daily beginning 2 weeks before the
      initiation of chemotherapy and continuing until the completion of chemotherapy. Patients also
      receive epirubicin hydrochloride** IV and ifosfamide IV over 90 minutes on days 1-3 and
      pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 4 or filgrastim (G-CSF) (SC) daily beginning on day
      4 and continuing for up to 10 days or until blood counts recover. Chemotherapy repeats
      approximately every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. During course 2, patients also undergo 8 fractions of external beam
      radiotherapy once daily between days 1-10 for a total dose of 28 Gy. Between courses 3 and 4,
      patients undergo surgical resection. Beginning approximately 2 weeks after surgical
      resection, patients with positive surgical margins undergo 6 fractions of boost external beam
      radiotherapy once daily for a total dose of 12 Gy.

      NOTE: *Sorafenib is discontinued 1 week before surgery and resumed 1 week after surgery.

      NOTE: **Epirubicin is omitted during course 2.

      Plasma and tumor tissue samples are collected periodically for correlative laboratory
      studies. Plasma and tumor tissue samples are analyzed by ELISA for measurement of tumorigenic
      and angiogenic markers, including p-ERK, VEGF, sVEGFR-2, and bFGF. Tumor tissue samples are
      also analyzed by IHC for p-ERK, VEGFR2, phospho-VEGFR2, PDGFR, and phospho-PDGFR.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  