
    
      Objectives:

      EQUIP-2 is a clinic-level controlled trial. From the four participating Veterans Integrated
      Services Networks (VISNs), eight specialty mental health programs were enrolled and assigned
      to care as usual or to receive an intervention supporting evidence-based quality improvement
      and use of a chronic illness care model. Participants are VISN 3 (James J. Peters VA;
      Northport VA); VISN 16 (Houston VA; Shreveport VA); VISN 17 (Waco VA; Temple VA); and VISN 22
      (Long Beach VA; Greater Los Angeles VA). The objectives of this VA Quality Enhancement
      Research Initiative (QUERI) Service Directed Project are 1) assist in identifying and making
      available recovery-oriented services to veterans with schizophrenia; 2) implement information
      systems that efficiently and accurately identify patient status and who would be appropriate
      for these services; 3) implement a care model to support recovery-oriented care delivery; 4)
      evaluate, in a controlled trial, the effect of implementation on treatment delivery and
      patient outcomes; and 5) identify facilitators and barriers to wellness program participation
      in an effort to strengthen the weight management services available to patients with
      schizophrenia. The project studies intervention feasibility, acceptability, and impact on
      outcomes; performs qualitative analyses examining processes and variation in care model
      implementation and impact. Research includes a controlled trial of the impact of
      implementation, relative to usual care, on treatment quality. Participants include clinic
      staff and patients with schizophrenia. Data sources include interviews with participants,
      focus groups with a sub-set of patients, implementation documentation, the project
      informatics system, and VistA.

      Methods:

      The care model targets two clinical domains selected by the VISNs from the following:
      Supported Employment (SE), caregiver support, wellness programs, or clozapine. All 4 VISNs
      chose the same two targets: SE and wellness. The care model includes: 1) at each visit,
      routine collection of patient outcomes data and provision of decision support using a
      self-assessment kiosk; 2) provision of "psychiatric vital signs" to patients and clinicians
      at the time of the clinical encounter via report that prints from the kiosk; 3) education and
      activation of both clinicians and patients around the clinical targets; 4) regular reports
      identifying patients appropriate for services associated with these targets; and 5)
      facilitation of problem-solving and evidence-based quality improvement addressing any
      barriers to utilization of these services.

      To inform future wellness implementation, in-depth, semi-structured interviews are conducted
      with patients who participated in wellness groups ("participants"), and with patients who
      were referred (because they were overweight or obese) but did not participate
      ("non-participants"). Participants consist of all enrolled patients who attended the wellness
      program with special attention to those patients who completed at least half of the wellness
      program. Non-participants consist of patients who were referred to the wellness program but
      did not attend. Clinicians were interviewed specifically regarding wellness implementation.
    
  