
    
      A bleeding peptic ulcer remains a serious medical problem with significant morbidity and
      mortality. Endoscopic therapy significantly reduces further bleeding, surgery, and mortality
      in patients with bleeding peptic ulcers (1) and is now recommended as the first hemostatic
      modality for these patients (1, 2).

      In the past few years, adjuvant use of a high-dose proton pump inhibitor (PPI) after
      endoscopic therapy has been endorsed in some studies, two consensus statements and two
      meta-analysis (3-8). To sustain a high intragastric pH, a high dose of omeprazole has been
      used in previous studies concerning high-risk peptic ulcer bleeding. In our study, the
      investigators used 40 mg omeprazole intravenous bolus followed by 160 mg/day continuously
      infusion for three days. The mean intragastric pH rose to 6.0 one hour after the initial
      bolus of omeprazole in the omeprazole group; it persisted around this value for the rest of
      the 24 hours.7 The rebleeding rates were much lower in the PPI as compared with H2RA group
      (Day 3: 0/50 vs 8/50, p<0.01; Day 14: 2/50 vs 12/50, p<0.01) (4).

      How about the route of PPI usage? Oral or IV is the preferred route? Laine et al used oral
      lansoprazole in patients with peptic ulcer bleeding.9 They were randomly assigned to
      intravenous lansoprazole (90-mg bolus followed by 9-mg/h infusion) or oral lansoprazole
      (120-mg bolus followed by 30 mg every 3 hours). A pH was recorded for 24 hours. Mean pH rose
      above 6 after 2-3 hours of intravenous PPI and 3-4 hours of oral PPI. They concluded that
      frequent oral PPI may be able to replace the currently recommended intravenous bolus plus
      infusion PPI therapy in patients with bleeding ulcers. In one recent article, Javid et al
      also proved that there was no significant difference among various PPIs (omeprazole,
      pantoprazole, and rabeprazole) given through different routes (IV and oral routes) on raising
      intragastric pH above 6 for 72 h after successful endoscopic hemostasis in bleeding peptic
      ulcer.10 In our recent study, the investigators have proved that oral rabeprazole and IV
      omeprazole are equally effective in preventing rebleeding (13/78 in rabeprazole vs 12/78 in
      omeprazole, p>0.1) in high-risk bleeding peptic ulcers.11 All secondary outcomes between the
      two groups were similar, including the amount of blood transfusion, hospital stay, need for
      surgery and mortality.

      The objectives of this study are to assess the outcomes of two different regimens of oral
      lansoprazole vs high dose of intravenous nexium after endoscopic therapy in patients with
      peptic ulcer bleeding.
    
  