
    
      Evidence indicates that Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia (ADRD) family caregivers
      suffer long-term mental and physical health effects that place them at risk for premature
      death. They do not relinquish their role after placing a family member with Alzheimer's
      disease or a related dementia (ADRD) in long-term care. In fact, these caregivers experience
      increased symptoms of depression, symptoms of anxiety, and chronic grief post-placement. In
      the long-term care (LTC) environment, caregivers' chronic grief is exacerbated by their lack
      of knowledge about late-stage Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia (ADRD) and their
      sense of loss, guilt, and role captivity. Interventions targeting improvement of ADRD
      caregivers' mental health have focused overwhelmingly on in-home care. We tested a Chronic
      Grief Management Intervention (CGMI) with ADRD caregivers in in long-term care and found it
      feasible (recruitment, retention, and attendance). The Chronic Grief Management Intervention
      (CGMI) had significant effects on caregiver knowledge and mental health outcomes (heartfelt
      sadness/longing and guilt; aspects of chronic grief). Although caregivers reported high
      satisfaction with this intervention, many could not attend the 12 face-to-face group sessions
      due to the burden of time and competing responsibilities. Therefore, we reduced the number of
      sessions to 8 and adapted the Chronic Grief Management Intervention to be delivered as a live
      streaming video, online group intervention; Chronic Grief Management Intervention-Video
      (CGMI-V), using Adobe Connect (online platform) and iPads. We tested CGMI-V in a single group
      pilot study for feasibility (recruitment, retention, attendance and technology ease of use)
      with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia (ADRD) caregivers post-placement. We obtained
      100% retention with high caregiver satisfaction with the intervention and the online
      technology used to deliver it. Our proposed study, Chronic Grief Management: A Live Streaming
      Video, Online Intervention (CGMI-V) builds on these results and is guided by a Model of
      Dementia Caregiver Chronic Grief in the Long-Term Care Setting. The purpose of this study is
      to test the effects of the 8-week CGMI-V on a caregiver primary outcome (chronic grief); a
      secondary mental health outcome (symptoms of depression, symptoms of anxiety, and positive
      states of mind) and a secondary facility-related outcome (caregiver satisfaction with care
      and conflict with facility staff) related to a minimal treatment (MT) control group. We
      propose to test the group-based Chronic Grief Management Intervention-Video (CGMI-V) in a
      Stage I longitudinal, randomized clinical trial. 144 Alzheimer's disease or a related
      dementia (ADRD) caregivers whose family members reside in one of the participating long-term
      care facilities will be randomly assigned to either CGMI-V or MT condition. Caregivers in the
      Chronic Grief Management Intervention-Video (CGMI-V) condition will participate in 8 weekly
      live streaming video, online group sessions. Caregivers in the minimal treatment (MT)
      condition will receive written information about late-stage ADRD at baseline. For both
      conditions, data will be collected at baseline, 8 weeks (immediately post-intervention) and
      then at 24 weeks post-baseline, using measures of caregiver grief: Marwit-Meuser Caregiver
      Grief Inventory(MM-CGI); depressive symptoms: Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression
      Scale (CES-D); anxiety symptoms: Stait-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI); positive states of
      mind: Positive States of Mind Scale (POSMS); satisfaction with care: Family Perception of
      Care Tool (FPCT); conflict with facility staff: Family Perception of Caregiving Role (FPCR
      subscale), knowledge of Alzheimer's disease: Family Knowledge of Alzheimer's Test (FKAT),
      loss, guilt and role captivity (FPCR subscales). Specific aims are to: 1) Establish effect
      sizes of the Chronic Grief Management Intervention-Video (CGMI-V) condition and Minimal
      Treatment (MT) control condition on changes in caregiver chronic grief. 2) Establish effect
      sizes of the CGMI-V and Minimal Treatment (MT) control condition on changes in caregiver
      symptoms of depression and anxiety and on positive states of mind. 3) Establish effect sizes
      of the CGMI-V condition and the Minimal Treatment (MT) control condition on changes in
      caregiver satisfaction with care provided in the facility and conflict with staff, and 4)
      Explore mechanisms of intervention impact on all caregiver outcomes. Our long-term objective
      is to develop a chronic grief treatment modality that will be adopted in long-term care
      facilities as part of routine support for Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia
      caregivers post-placement. This in turn will impact public mental health for this growing
      segment of the population.
    
  