
    
      To verify that the baseline conditions were adequate for the start of the collection, the
      volunteer remained 15 minutes at rest in supine position . They were measured and recorded :
      blood pressure by auscultation , using a mercury sphygmomanometer and a stethoscope ; and
      heart rate at rest by a heart rate monitor , with all measures carried out by the same
      researcher . Then the volunteer remained in the same position and was initiated to collect
      data with the registration of iR -R by Polar heart rate monitor model RS800CX (Polar Electro
      Co.Ltda . Kempele , Finland ) for 15 min. During the registration time, the participants
      maintained spontaneous respiration , were told not to talk , not sleep and avoid sudden
      movements . Subsequently , the recorded iR - R were transferred via an interface to a
      computer compatible for Polar softwere , the data being further processed into .txt format.

      For the analysis we used the Kubius HRV Analysis Version 2.0 software (Kuopio, Finland). From
      the choice of the most stable stretch of five minutes, HRV was analyzed in the time domain
      (TD) and the variables selected the RR interval, the square root square mean difference
      between normal adjacent iR-R expressed in milliseconds (RMSSD) and SDNN, in the frequency
      domain via LF, HF and LF / HF addition to the non-linear analysis with the contents SD1, SD2
      and Shannon Entropy.

      To carry out the treatment with virtual reality Xbox 360® video game was the (Microsoft)
      used, the KinectTM Sensor, the kinectTM Adventures !, games with 6 modes and different phases
      and kinectTM Sports: Ultimate collection with 8 sports and different phases and TV Philips®
      the mark of 42 inches. The selected games were only the balance category, attention and
      planning, which consists of ten games, but only eight were used, including Kinect Sports game
      - "Tennis", "golf", "Ski" and the Kinect Adventure - "space bubble", "rapids", "top of the
      reflexes," "Hall of ricochets" and "leaks".

      Before the first virtual training session , the presentation of the goals of each of the
      games and an adaptation session was held , where the therapists were next to the volunteer
      performing verbal commands . During the Games volunteers remained in the standing position
      and barefoot .

      The volunteers performed 24 sessions in pairs, supervised by researchers for three times a
      week , every other day , lasting an hour each session. The scheduling range of care was
      organized so that the GP volunteers were always trained in the ON period of medication.
    
  