
    
      Rationale: Both Continuous intrajejunal Levodopa Infusion (CLI) and Deep Brain Stimulation
      (DBS) are accepted therapies for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). As
      directly comparative studies are lacking, it is unknown whether one of the therapies is more
      effective. Besides, CLI seems to be more expensive. To determine the optimal treatment in
      advanced PD, a comparative study of CLI and DBS is warranted.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that CLI is a more expensive therapy in advanced PD than DBS and
      that the surplus in costs is not cost-effective with regard to benefits for the patient and
      caregivers in quality of life, PD symptoms and adverse events.

      Objective: To realize a cost-effective treatment strategy in advanced PD. Study design:
      Prospective, randomized, open label multicentre trial, with two additional patient preference
      treatment arms ("patient preference randomized trial").

      Study population: Patients with PD who, despite optimal pharmacological treatment, have
      severe response fluctuations, dyskinesias, painful dystonia, or bradykinesia. A total of 66
      patients will be randomized, at least 120 patients will be included in the patient preference
      arms.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to DBS or CLI. For DBS treatment, 2 electrodes will
      be implanted in the brain. The electrodes are connected to an implanted pulse generator,
      which will be placed subcutaneously in the subclavian area. For CLI treatment, a tube will be
      placed in the jejunum via a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG). This tube is connected
      to an external pump that delivers the levodopa-gel.

      Main study parameters: There are 8 specified assessment visits: at baseline, and 1 week, 3,
      6, 9, 12, 24 and 36 months after start of the study treatment. The primary health economic
      outcomes are the costs per unit on the PDQ-39 and the costs per QALY for the
      cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses, respectively. The EQ-5D will be applied as the
      utility measure. Among the secondary outcomes are quality of life, functional health,
      complications and adverse effects, use of care and perceptions of patients and neurologists
      regarding both treatments.
    
  