
    
      Trabeculectomy is the most common operation performed for all forms of glaucoma. The
      procedure depends upon appropriately modulated healing of the conjunctiva and sclera, a major
      component of which is delivery of frequent topical corticosteroid eye drops (prednisolone
      acetate 1%) by the patient, initially every 2 hours when awake for 1-2 weeks, then in
      tapering frequency over the 6 weeks after surgery. While the initial success of
      trabeculectomy at one year varies from 55-80% depending upon the criteria chosen to measure
      outcome, improvements in success would benefit hundreds of thousands of patients in the USA
      yearly. There is reasonable evidence that steroid drops benefit success, but there is
      essentially no data on how successfully patients remember to take the drops. In previous
      research, investigators have shown that glaucoma patients take only half to two-thirds of
      prescribed drops. An electronic monitoring device is now available that can fit the eye drop
      bottle used in steroid drops, accurately measuring the time and date of each drop taken. The
      investigators can further assess the accuracy with which each patient can deliver a drop from
      the bottle being monitored in a clinic session directly onto the eye's surface by observing
      their performance. The proposal's hypothesis is that the one year success rate of the
      procedure will be related to the adherence to steroid drop taking by patients. The outcome
      will have two important benefits. First, if adherence is less than ideal (which is very
      likely), then those with greater adherence will have more successful surgery, confirming that
      steroid treatment is effective. This has only been measured once, 30 years ago, at a time
      when trabeculectomy was being performed quite differently. If steroid treatment is not
      related to success, a change in preferred practice patterns is in order. If steroid treatment
      is related to success and adherence is variable, the investigation will have proven means to
      increase adherence through reminder systems, which have shown in past randomized clinical
      trial to be effective.
    
  