
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Stratify and reduce treatment for pediatric patients with extracranial germ cell tumors
           while maintaining event-free survival.

        -  Treat newly diagnosed patients with extracranial germ cell tumors requiring chemotherapy
           with a carboplatin-based strategy.

        -  Develop a common strategy for the treatment of patients with recurrent or progressive
           extracranial germ cell tumors.

        -  Register all cases of mature and immature teratoma.

        -  Develop a common strategy for the management of immature and mature teratoma, including
           follow-up strategies to permit early detection of yolk sac recurrence.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients who have not had prior biopsy or surgical resection undergo biopsy (if feasible) or
      surgical resection. Patients with mature or immature teratoma undergo observation. These
      patients who relapse (i.e., tumor regrowth) may undergo further surgical resection unless
      tumor markers are significantly elevated. If the tumor markers are significantly elevated,
      these patients proceed to JEB chemotherapy according to risk group. Patients with all other
      malignant germ cell tumors are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups according to risk.

        -  Low-risk group: Patients with normal tumor markers undergo observation. Patients with
           rising tumor markers only AND no imageable tumor proceed to treatment as in the
           intermediate-risk group. Patients with rising tumor markers AND/OR imageable tumor are
           considered to have relapsed and proceed to treatment as in the intermediate- or
           high-risk group.

        -  Intermediate-risk group: Patients receive JEB chemotherapy comprising etoposide IV over
           4 hours on days 1-3, carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 2, and bleomycin IV over 30
           minutes on day 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Patients with residual
           tumors after completion of chemotherapy may undergo second-look surgery.

        -  High-risk group: Patients receive JEB chemotherapy as in the intermediate-risk group for
           6 courses. Patients with residual tumors after completion of chemotherapy may undergo
           second-look surgery.

        -  Relapse therapy: Patients in the intermediate- or high-risk group who relapse after
           completion of JEB chemotherapy receive vinblastine IV on days 1 and 2, ifosfamide IV
           over 1 hour on days 1-5, and cisplatin IV on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days
           for 6 courses.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 105 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  