
    
      HIV is characterized by persistent immune system activation, and early in the course of
      infection the body establishes an immune activation "set point" related to the amount of HIV
      in the blood stream. This set point affects the rate of CD4 cell loss. Without CD4 cells, or
      with very low levels of CD4 cells, the body cannot fight off illness. This is known as
      immunodeficiency. If left untreated HIV can lead to extreme immunodeficiency and AIDS.

      Immune system activation includes activating the CD8 cells. These cells attack body cells
      infected with viruses. Because of this, CD4 cells infected with HIV are frequently destroyed
      by CD8 cells. The purpose of this study is to learn how well chloroquine reduces the level of
      activation of CD8 cells in people infected with HIV. Increased activation of CD8 cells is
      thought to lead to a more severe path of disease in HIV infection.

      The constant immune activation observed in HIV- infected patients has also been linked to
      higher levels of byproducts from certain naturally occurring bacteria found in the gut that
      are known to be immune stimulants. By decreasing the stimulation from these byproducts with
      chloroquine treatment, HIV disease may be slowed.

      The purpose of this study was to learn how well chloroquine reduces the level of activation
      of CD8 cells and lowers the levels of bacteria byproducts in people infected with HIV, either
      off antiretroviral therapy (ART) (protocol version 1.0 dated December 17, 2008) or on-ART
      (protocol version 2.0 dated October 1, 2010). The off-ART (Arms A and B) and on-ART (Arms C
      and D) participants were enrolled during different time periods, and the study was designed
      to analyze the two study populations separately. This study also looked at how well
      chloroquine was tolerated and its safety in HIV- infected participants.

      Off-ART participants in the study were randomized with equal probability to one of two
      treatment arms:

      Arm A: Participants received 12 weeks of chloroquine treatment followed by 12 weeks of
      placebo

      Arm B: Participants received 12 weeks of placebo followed by 12 weeks of chloroquine

      On-ART participants in the study were randomized with equal probability to one of two
      treatment arms:

      Arm C: Participants received 12 weeks of chloroquine treatment followed by 12 weeks of
      placebo

      Arm D: Participants received 12 weeks of placebo followed by 12 weeks of chloroquine

      Study treatment was given once a day for a full 24 weeks. There was an additional 4 weeks of
      follow-up for purposes of safety. After treatment has started, participants were asked to
      come to the clinic on Weeks 4, 10, 12, 16, 22, and 24. At each visit participants were given
      enough study treatment to last until the next visit. Each visit lasted between 30 and 60
      minutes. At most visits, participants had a physical exam, answered questions about any
      medications they were taking and how they are feeling, and had blood drawn for safety to
      assess CD4/CD8 cell counts and viral load. Some additional blood were also stored for
      immunology testing. At some visits, participants were asked questions about their medication
      and medical history, had pupils dilated, had a hearing test, and had an electrocardiogram
      (EKG). Some visits required participants to arrive fasting. Pregnancy tests were also
      conducted if the participant is able to become pregnant or if pregnancy was suspected.
    
  