
    
      This is an open label, prospective cohort study of 10 people with ALS (PALS) from the Duke
      ALS Clinic. The first 5 enrolled PALS (Group 1) will receive standard ALS care for the first
      month, then standard care plus Triheptanoin for the next 5 months. The next 5 enrolled PALS
      (Group 2) will receive standard ALS care plus Triheptanoin for 6 months (Figure 1). All Group
      1 and Group 2 PALS who complete this 6-month study will have an option for Triheptanoin
      treatment extension for an additional 12 months. In addition to the PALS, there will also be
      5 healthy controls enrolled (Group 3), people that do not have ALS or any other
      neurodegenerative disease). These participants will not receive any treatment; the only
      outcome measure they will complete is serum and urine biomarker testing at
      screening/baseline, month 1 and month 6.

      The rationale for delaying triheptanoin treatment in one group is to look for differences in
      MR spectroscopy related to treatment at the 1 month time point. The target triheptanoin dose
      for this study is 1g/kg/d. This target dose was selected because it was safe and tolerable
      and altered brain MR spectroscopy in patients with Huntington's Disease. Participants will
      taper up to this dose as follows: start at 0.25g/kg/d for 1 week, then take 0.5g/kg/d for 1
      week, then take 1g/kg/d and stay on this dose for the duration of the study. Triheptanoin
      will be administered orally with food or by gastrostomy tube over 3 divided doses (breakfast,
      lunch, and dinner). If at any point after week 1 a participant does not appear to be
      tolerating their current dose, it will be reduced by 0.25g/kg/d. If they cannot tolerate the
      starting dose of 0.25g/kg/d, the treatment will be discontinued. A dietician will make
      contact with all participants every month, either in person or by telephone, to try and
      maximize compliance.

      The primary outcome measure is the ALSFRS-R score obtained monthly for all treated
      participants (in person at screening/baseline, month 1, month 3 and month 6; via telephone at
      months 2, 4 and 5). We will also obtain this measure by phone at months 6 and 12 of the
      extension. For all enrolled PALS in Groups 1 and 2, we will compare the slope of ALSFRS-R
      progression before enrollment to the slop of ALSFRS-R progression during the trial. ALSFRS-R
      is a quickly administered (five minute) ordinal rating scale (ratings 0-4) used to determine
      patients' assessments of their capability and independence in 13 functional activities. All
      13 activities are relevant in ALS. Initial validity was established in ALS patients by
      documenting that their change in ALSFRS-R scores, which correlated with change in strength
      over time, was closely associated with quality of life measures, and predicted survival. The
      test-retest reliability is greater than 0.88 for all 13 itemsactivities. The ALSFRS-R
      declines linearly with time over a wide range during the course of ALS. The minimum
      clinically significant change in this scale is said to be 20%. The measure can be reliably
      conducted over the phone.

      Secondary outcome measures include:

      MR Spectroscopy NAA/Cr ratio in motor cortex will be measured at screening/baseline and 1
      month time points. This measure declines over time in patients with ALS. This measure can
      respond to treatment; it was shown to improve over 3 weeks in patients with ALS on riluzole
      compared to a group that was not on this treatment. We will compare the MR spectroscopy
      changes over 1 month in Group 1 to the MR spectroscopy changes over 1 month in Group 2.

      A Serum and Urine Biomarker Panel will be obtained at screening/baseline, 1 month and 6-month
      time points and analyzed using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Laboratory,
      pathologic, and epidemiologic evidence clearly supports the hypothesis that oxidative stress
      is central in the ALS pathogenic process, particularly in genetically susceptive individuals.
      Oxidative stress biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma, and urine are elevated,
      suggesting that abnormal oxidative stress is generated outside of the central nervous system.
      Magnitude of lipid peroxidation, measured as non-enzymatic oxidation products of arachidonic
      acid, F2-isoprostanes, appears the most obvious oxidative stress marker. We will measure
      urine F2-isoprostane metabolites (class III: iPF2α-III, and 2,3-dinor iPF-2alpha-III, class
      VI: iPF-2alpha-VI, and 8,12-iso-iPF-2alpha-VI), urine creatinine, and serum and urine
      glutamate, a-keto-glutarate, NADH, coenzyme A levels in all treated participants and healthy
      controls at screening/baseline, month 1 and month 6 time points. We will compare the
      biomarker changes at different times points across between Groups 1, 2 and 3.

      For safety monitoring:, concomitant medications, vital signs, weight, physical exam and
      safety labs (CBC, CMP, Lipid Profile, GGT, LFT and pregnancy testing for sexually active
      females with child bearing potential) will be measured at screening/baseline, 1 month, 3
      month, and 6-month time points. Adverse events will be monitored continuously throughout the
      study, as described in Section 5.1.

      The primary statistical analysis is the slope of the revised ALS functional rating scale
      (ALSFRS-R) during treatment compared to pre-treatment. Pre-treatment slope for each
      participant will be estimated as follows: (48-enrollment ALSFRS-R)/months since symptom
      onset. This frequently used "pre-slope" method is simple and inexpensive, and can predict
      disease progression as well as more complicated and expensive tools, at least for periods of
      less than 1 year.
    
  