
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the disease control rate at 6 months in patients with recurrent glioblastoma or
      isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-wildtype anaplastic astrocytoma treated with Laser
      Interstitial Thermal Therapy (LITT) at recurrence, followed by salvage chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate overall survival (OS) of patients with recurrent glioblastoma, or isocitrate
      dehydrogenase (IDH)-wildtype anaplastic astrocytoma treated with LITT at tumor recurrence,
      followed by salvage chemotherapy.

      II. Estimate time to progression (TTP) of patients with recurrent glioblastoma, or isocitrate
      dehydrogenase (IDH)-wildtype anaplastic astrocytoma that are treated with LITT at tumor
      recurrence, followed by salvage chemotherapy.

      III. Analyze volumetric data consisting of thermal damage threshold lines and overall tumor
      volume to determine any role of 'extent of ablation' in outcomes (OS and/or TTP).

      IV. Characterize the safety profile of LITT followed by treatment with lomustine chemotherapy
      in the recurrent disease setting, using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) version 4.0.

      V. Assess the long-term steroid requirements following LITT, compared to historical controls.

      VI. Determine the radiographic evolution of LITT-treated glioblastoma over time, using
      conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (T1 pre and post-contrast images, T2-weighted
      images [T2WI], fluid attenuating inversion recovery [FLAIR] images) and advanced brain tumor
      imaging (ABTI) [magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion [dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC),
      dynamic contrast enhancement (DCE) and arterial spin labeling (ASL)], MR-diffusion, and MR
      spectroscopy), to include quantitative tumor metrics (volumetric extent of ablation and
      Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology [RANO] criteria).

      VII. Analyze health care utilization as measured by length of hospital stay following LITT
      (including inpatient rehabilitation care).

      VIII. Evaluate patients' functional status (using the Karnofsky performance score [KPS] and
      the occurrence of symptoms [using the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumor Module
      (MDASI-BT[English])] self-reporting tool), and correlate to disease progression and tolerance
      to treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identify correlative tumor and peripheral blood molecular markers that impact outcomes,
      etc, and identify inflammatory/immunologic markers to assess neoantigen expression, etc, if
      sufficient tissue is available.

      II. Identify and characterize changes in tumor tissue following LITT, by analyzing and
      comparing pre- and post-procedure tissue samples, if sufficient tissue is available.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo LITT at baseline and receive lomustine orally (PO) on day 1. Treatment with
      lomustine repeats every 42 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unaccepted toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  