
    
      Cardiovascular (CV) event prevention (e.g., myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident)
      remains the single most important public health problem in the United States, and
      cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death among VA users. Improving the provision of
      prevention services is a primary focus of the Secretary's New Models of Care Transformational
      Initiative. However, prevention has been challenging to achieve. Multifactorial behavioral
      interventions are effective in treating a number of chronic illnesses (e.g., hypertension,
      diabetes), but less is known about their ability to reduce risk among patients without a
      unifying chronic illness. Group visits are an efficient, effective strategy for delivering a
      multifactorial behavior change intervention; the VA is committed to the group visit strategy
      to address a wide array of primary care problems. Groups have been shown to be an effective
      means of improving a number of outcomes in a number of individual diseases, but, again, their
      role in cardiovascular prevention among patients without a single common illness is unknown.
      Coaching is a type of multi-factorial behavioral intervention that involves goal-setting, and
      working to overcome barriers to behavior change. Coaching can be performed one-on-one, but
      coaching interventions have been delivered in group settings. The investigators have shown,
      in a 150-subject RCT, that group coaching plus individualized telephone coaching reduces
      cardiovascular risk, but the population in that study was very different from typical VA
      users. The investigators propose a three-site, two-arm randomized trial measuring the
      effectiveness of a group prevention coaching (GPC) intervention in improving cardiovascular
      risk, compared to VA usual care. The study will be performed at the Durham, Buffalo, and
      Syracuse VAMCs. Each arm will have 200 patients; patients will be VA users without prior
      history of cardiovascular event, but with at least 5% risk of such an event, and with either
      inadequately controlled hypertension or dyslipidemia, or current smoking. The GPC
      intervention will focus on changing a behavior of the patient's choice that is likely to lead
      to improvements in cholesterol, blood pressure, or to smoking cessation. Behaviors that will
      be reinforced will include but not be limited to healthy eating, decreased caloric intake,
      increased physical activity, stress reduction, and participatory decision making with
      physicians. Barriers to these behaviors will be identified. The coach will adopt a
      problem-solving approach to overcoming the above barriers and reinforcing the above
      behaviors; problem-solving is a well-described framework for behavior change. The GPC
      coach/interventionist for will be either the facility's Health Behavior Coordinator (HBC) or
      a person hired for the research enterprise but trained and credentialed identically to an
      HBC. All outcomes will be obtained at baseline, 6, and 12 months after enrollment by blinded
      research personnel. The primary outcome will be change in 10-year risk of fatal coronary
      event or non-fatal MI 6 months after enrollment, as measured by Framingham Risk Score. Key
      secondary outcomes will include dietary content by Food Frequency Questionnaire, physical
      activity as measured by International Physical Activity Questionnaire, and weight. The
      investigators will also determine if group cohesion, as measured by the Group Dynamics
      Inventory, influences the effectiveness of GPC. The investigators well also assess whether
      time spent in contact with a coach influences the effectiveness, by database log-in
      timekeeping strategies.
    
  