
    
      Background and rationale

      Hip fracture is a common injury in older people, with over 28,000 hip fractures occurring
      annually in Canada. Approximately 900 hip fractures occur in Edmonton each year. More than
      90% of hip fractures result from simple low-energy falls. Many patients who survive do not
      recover to pre-fracture functional levels and may require permanent long-term care.

      The immediate goal of treatment is to control pain while preparing the patient for surgery;
      greater than 95% of hip fracture patients are treated with surgery to restore mechanical
      stability and manage pain. Pain after hip fracture has been associated with delirium,
      depression, sleep disturbance, and decreased recovery. However, in the elderly population,
      narcotics are also associated with similar side effects such as delirium, cardiovascular and
      respiratory depression and nausea. This is complicated further in hip fracture patients, in
      whom pre-existing dementia is common - up to 50% of patients will present with altered
      cognition. Most studies that examine pain management interventions after hip fracture exclude
      those with pre-existing dementia. Further research to determine the feasibility of including
      subjects with cognitive impairment in pain management studies is needed.

      Regional anaesthesia can reduce post-operative narcotic use. However, few randomized studies
      have examined the impact of preoperative regional anesthesia on postoperative outcomes.
      Effective pain management can affect long-term outcomes: poorly managed pain is associated
      with delayed ambulation, pulmonary complications, and delayed hospital discharge. Our
      previous work found limited evidence that nerve blocks may have benefits for hip fracture
      patients. Other prospective studies have reported the effectiveness of single nerve blocks in
      reducing narcotic use in Emergency rooms. Continuous preoperative femoral nerve blockade
      (CFNB) offers the potential benefit of reducing pain in these often frail patients well
      avoiding adverse outcomes such as delirium. Further work is needed to determine the
      effectiveness, timing, and safety of a preoperative CFNB on preoperative and postoperative
      outcomes in the frail hip fracture population, including those with cognitive impairment.

      Study objectives

      The primary objective is to determine the feasibility of a definitive randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) that examines the effect of preoperative CFNB in patients with hip fracture,
      including those with cognitive impairment. Specifically, the investigators will examine 1)
      Eligibility/recruitment rates; 2) Treatment fidelity; 3) Outcome selection.

      The secondary objective is to determine the impact of pre-operative CFNB in patients with hip
      fracture on the following outcomes within five days of surgery: 1) Proportion of patients
      with delirium and duration of delirium; 2) Daily pain levels; 3) Total narcotic utilization;
      4) Proportion of patients mobilized on postoperative day 1; 4) Readiness for hospital
      discharge; 5) Complications in hospital, including mortality.

      Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesize that pre-operative CFNB will be feasible in this population and
      will decrease: delirium frequency / duration, pain, and narcotic requirement; will increase
      the number of patients mobilized on post-operative day 1; and reduce complications and time
      to readiness for discharge.Study procedures

      Research Framework: A complex intervention framework will be used to explore the impact of
      preoperative CFNB in patients with hip fracture on both preoperative and early postoperative
      outcomes. The work proposed will undertake initial steps to identify appropriate subjects and
      assess feasibility and impact of the intervention.

      Pilot Study Design: Inception cohort of 75 participants using a concurrent control group with
      2:1 allocation of intervention and control subjects. This will allow comparison of outcomes
      between groups as well as sub-analyses within the intervention group (n=50) to examine
      treatment fidelity and potential confounding. Although the investigators may be under-powered
      in this pilot study, they will determine the numbers needed for a future RCT. The proposed
      sub-analyses will allow us to determine if those with cognitive impairment can be
      appropriately treated with a CFNB and adequately assessed and if there is an optimal
      preoperative time frame in which CFNB should be applied.

      Intervention: Subjects who score ≥13 on the MMSE, consent to participate, and are recruited
      within 20 hours of ward presentation will be allocated to receive pre-operative CFNB. Twenty
      hours was selected as the maximum time that the CFNB could be delayed after presentation to
      hospital and expect to have an impact on pain management based on anecdotal experience of our
      Acute Pain Service (APS) team members. The APS will administer the CFNB using a standardized
      protocol.

      Usual Care (Control group): Subjects enrolled after 20 hours of hospital admission (due to
      delays in obtaining consent) will be allocated to the control group provided that a CAM,
      required on ward admission as per the hip fracture pathway, was done within 6 hours of ward
      admission to assess baseline delirium. The investigators do not anticipate selection bias as
      suitable numbers of patients who are consented before and after 20 hours of admission to the
      ward should occur.

      Femoral Nerve Blockade: The side of hip fracture is identified and marked. With the patient
      lying supine, the groin is exposed and prepared with 2% chlorhexidine gluconate/70% isopropyl
      alcohol. A 13-6 MHz high frequency linear ultrasound probe is placed just distal to the
      lateral edge of the femoral crease and orientated parallel to the crease. The probe is then
      moved medially, inferior and parallel to the femoral crease, to identify the common femoral
      artery. The femoral nerve is then identified lateral to the artery and deep to fascia iliaca.
      Two milliliters of 1% lidocaine is infiltrated subcutaneously at the lateral edge of the
      probe using a 3 mL syringe and a 25G needle to provide anesthesia to the skin.

      A 21G x 95 mm catheter-over-needle assembly is inserted 'in-plane' to the ultrasound probe
      from the lateral edge of the probe and directed medially under direct visualization to the
      target position - deep to the fascia iliaca, between the femoral nerve and iliopsoas muscle.
      The spread of 5 mL dextrose 5% in water injected through the needle confirms correct
      position. The catheter needle is removed, and the first dose of 20 mL local anesthetic
      mixture (0.5% Ropivacaine and 0.125% Bupivacaine) is bolused through the catheter using a
      syringe.

      Immediately after, the catheter is secured with a Tegaderm dressing and then connected to an
      infusion pump programmed to deliver a continuous 1 mL/hr infusion and 4 mL/hr bolus regime of
      0.2% Ropivacaine. The infusion/bolus regime is continued until just prior to surgery, at
      which point, it is discontinued and the catheter bolused with a further 20 mL of local
      anesthetic mixture prior to catheter removal. Following the regional anesthetic intervention,
      the subjects are returned to the Orthopaedic ward to await routine surgical care.

      Surgery: Surgery within 24-48 hours of admission reduces morbidity and mortality after hip
      fracture. Over 80% of patients at the UAH are treated within 48 hours of admission. Surgical
      care will be determined by fracture pattern and patient factors as well perioperative
      anaesthesia. Study allocation will not affect surgical priority. Both groups will receive
      routine care pre- and postoperatively as per the clinical pathway, aside from the
      intervention group receiving the CFNB preoperatively.

      Data collection: Baseline data will consist of demographic (e.g., age, gender, residence),
      medical (cognition (MMSE), delirium (CAM), comorbidities) data and pain using a Visual
      Analogue Scale (VAS) for those without cognitive impairment and a validated non-verbal pain
      scale for those with cognitive impairment. Preoperatively, research staff will collect
      narcotic and non-narcotic analgesic consumption, CAM scores that are performed each shift
      (i.e., 2 times/day). Pain at rest and with activity will be collected two times/day, between
      9-10 am and again between 3-4 pm. During weekend hours, the APS team will collect pain
      scores. Post-operative data collection will occur until postoperative day 5 or discharge,
      whichever is sooner. Delirium and pain at rest and with activity will be assessed twice daily
      as per the preoperative protocol. Narcotic and non-narcotic analgesic utilization will be
      recorded. The research staff will record when subjects first mobilize (i.e., got up out of
      bed) and subjects' readiness for discharge (as per the clinical pathway). Complications will
      also be noted.

      Analysis

      The process evaluation will assist in determining: 1) Recruitment rate: All patients with hip
      fracture admitted during the enrollment period will be screened to determine the recruitment
      rate and generalizability of the cohort; 2) Treatment Fidelity: Defined as delivering the
      intervention as it was intended, this will be determined by assessing a) the number of
      Intervention subjects who received the CFNB as prescribed b) the impact of time to CFNB to
      determine if an optimal preoperative window for the CFNB exists, c) the impact of cognitive
      impairment on the intervention's effect and the ability to assess outcomes; 3) Outcome
      Selection: The investigators will evaluate the following issues around outcomes- a) selecting
      a responsive and appropriate primary outcome measure, b) determining the appropriate time to
      measure the intervention's impact (i.e., at a single point in time or impact over time), c)
      comparability of verbal and non-verbal pain assessment, d) completion rate for the clinical
      pathway elements. The intervention evaluation will determine the impact of preoperative CFNB
      by comparing outcomes between groups using T-tests and repeated measures analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) for continuous variables and chi-square tests for categorical variables. Our primary
      outcome measure for this evaluation will be comparison of delirium between groups using the
      CAM.

      Outcomes

      The following standardized outcome measures will be used: Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for
      Pain Assessment - Pain at rest and activity will be measured using an 11-point VAS (0-10), a
      reliable and valid method of measuring patient-reported pain. The Checklist of Non-verbal
      Pain Indicators (CNPI) has been shown to be reliable and valid in the non-verbal assessment
      of patients with hip fracture and cognitive impairment. The Confusion Assessment Method (CAM)
      is able to distinguish between dementia and delirium and can detect delirium in the presence
      of dementia. Narcotic Consumption - All narcotic medication will be recorded. The total
      amount of narcotic used will be measured using a morphine equivalency scale with the
      resulting equivalents totaled to give a single score reflecting the total narcotics used.
    
  