
    
      The investigators will conduct a randomized clinical trial (RCT) at the S. Anna University
      Hospital of Ferrara (Italy) on consecutive patients undergoing SLNB for breast cancer and
      subsequent ALND in case of SLN metastases. Eligible patients for radioguided sentinel lymph
      node biopsy (rSLNB) will be randomly divided in two groups: 1) experimental group in which
      patients undergoing rSLNB and ARM photodynamic procedure; and, in case of SLN metastases,
      subsequent ALND with ARM node preservation; 2) control group in which patients undergoing
      rSLNB and ARM photodynamic procedure; and, in case of SLN metastases, subsequent ALND with
      ARM node removal.

      Consent procedure

      Patients will be visited in the outpatient clinic by one of the treating surgeon, who will
      approach the subject and explain the study. If the patient is interested in participating,
      further details will be provided and consent will be obtained.

      Experimental design

      Step 1

      Patients enrolled in both groups will be subjected to rSLNB associated to ARM photodynamic
      procedure.

      Radioguided SLNB technique:

      The day before surgery, four peri-areolar subcutaneous injections of Tc-99m Nanocoll® will be
      performed for an overall volume of 0.4 ml (standard activity of 74 MBq). Pre-operative
      imaging of SLN consists of an anterior and lateral static acquisition, generally performed
      between 1 and 5 hours post-injection (max. 18 hours), by means of a double head gammacamera
      (Siemens, ECAM). The gamma camera energy selection peak is centered on the 140 KeV of 99mTc
      (with a window of ± 10%), and the use of high-resolution collimators and of a 256x256
      acquisition matrix. Acquisition time varies between 2 and 8 minutes. Cutaneous projection of
      SLN will be marked with a skin-marking pen. The day of surgery, after intraoperative routine
      prep and drape, a handheld gamma probe (EuroProbe III, EURORAD, Chennevières-sur-Marne,
      France) will be used to localize radioactivity before skin incision and during axillary
      dissection to identify SLN, that is defined by counts >10% of background.

      ARM photodynamic procedure:

      The day of surgery, 15 minutes before surgical incision, patients will be subjected to
      injection of 1 ml of ICG (5mg/ml) in the upper forearm and during SLNB we will perform an
      evaluation of lymphatic arm pathways with fluorescence (IC-Flow Diagnostic Green, SEDA
      S.p.a., Milano, Italy). If a crossover between SLN of the breast and the arm's lymph node
      will be find, the ARM lymph node identified by the photodynamic technique will be excised for
      pathological evaluation.

      Step 2

      Patients with tumor positive SLN, eligible for ALND, will undergo to preoperative arm
      lymphoscintigraphy in order to asses possible changes in lymphatic drainage pathways of the
      arm after rSLNB.

      The day before ALND, an injection of a volume of 0.4 ml of Tc-99m Nanocoll® in each hand will
      be performed, fractioned in all interdigital space. The subsequent scintigraphic planar
      acquisition is performed using a double head gamma-camera (Siemens, Ecam) according the
      following protocol:

        -  5 minutes post injection: imaging acquisition on hands and forearms positioned over
           collimator with a marker near right arm;

        -  10 minutes post injection :anterior acquisition with gamma camera head 1 on elbows and
           shoulders;

        -  15 minutes post injection : anterior acquisition on both axilla and thorax using cobalt
           wires markers drawing cranium profile;

        -  20 minutes post injection :marking with skin-marking pen of skin projection of most
           radioactive axillary nodes;

        -  120/180 minutes post injection : acquisition in the same position for checking of
           possible number and/or site changes of nodes marked before.

      Step 3

      Experimental group:

      In case of SLN metastases, during radical ALND (I, II,III levels of Berg), the ARM lymph node
      identified with both radioguided and photodynamic methods will be isolated from the other
      axillary lymph nodes and preserved. Photodynamic method will also allow us to visualize the
      lymphatic drainage of the arm that will be preserved.

      Control group:

      In case of SLN metastases, during radical ALND (I, II,III levels of Berg), the ARM lymph node
      identified with both radioguided and photodynamic method will be isolated from the other
      axillary lymph nodes and removed.

      Step 4

      The post-operative follow up will be conducted in inpatient setting and after discharge in
      outpatient setting (surveillance for early and delayed surgical complications). All patients
      will be clinically evaluated at 10, 30, 60, and 180 days after surgery and undergoing
      bilateral arms lymphoscintigraphy at 60 days after surgery to determine possible
      lymphoscintigraphic changes underlying a subclinical BCRL. Clinically follow-up will include
      the clinical presentation (pain, integumentary abnormalities, paresthesia, hypoesthesia,
      neuro-vascular deficits), measurement of 7 records [diameters of the upper limb (hand, wrist,
      15 cm and 10 cm distally to olecranon, elbow (olecranon), 10 cm and 15 cm proximally to
      olecranon)] and final conversion into volumes. In case of BCRL diagnosis patients will be
      addressed to rehabilitative center for therapy.

      Statistical analysis

      A prospective analysis will be obtained from database in which patients data will be
      collected, with details of the patients and tumors characteristics, lymphatic drainage of the
      upper extremity, intra- and post-operative outcome, and follow up. The power analysis, based
      on preliminary results, reports that 150 women in each group are required to achieve a power
      of 0.9 and to detect a significant difference (p<0.05). Data will be expressed as mean ±
      standard deviation or median (interquartile range - IQR 25-75) according to the distribution.
      The Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to assess the assumption of normality. Categorical data
      will be presented as number (%). Data will be analyzed using the Chi-square test to compare
      percentages, t-Student test will be used to compare the means and Mann-Whitney test to
      compare non parametric data. Logistic regression analysis will be employed to construct a
      model predicting BCRL using factors regarding the patient [age, gender, BMI, American Society
      of Anesthesiology (ASA) classification], the tumor (size, stage, bio-molecular
      characteristics ), crossover, type of intervention (preservation of ARM lymph node vs.
      dissection), and post-operative treatment (chemotherapy, radiotherapy). Significance will be
      considered for values of p<0.05. Statistical analysis will be performed with IBM SPSS
      Statistics for Windows, Version 24.0 (IBM Corp. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.).
    
  