
    
      Patients will be randomized to either a ketogenic diet, or a low-fat diet higher in
      carbohydrate and based on current dietary guidelines. Regardless of what group you are
      randomized to, you will consume the diet for a period of 4 weeks. All foods will be prepared
      by our research group and provided to you. Both diets will be based on an approximately 25%
      reduction in your dietary caloric requirements, so some weight loss may occur over the 4-week
      intervention.

      Primary data collection will occur at baseline and at four weeks, with more frequent
      monitoring of blood markers, blood pressure, heart rate, and overall health. Throughout the
      duration of the study, you will be continued on standard heart failure therapies as guided by
      your treating physician. The duration of the study is expected to last for approximately 6
      weeks. This includes all before and after testing, as well as the 4 weeks on diet.

      All patients will undergo a resting MRI scan of the heart at enrollment (baseline), and again
      at the end of the 4-week diet. You will not receive any injections.

      All participants will also undergo a cardiopulmonary stress test (CPET, also known as VO2
      testing) at enrollment (baseline) and again at the end of the 4-week dietary intervention.
      During the Cardiopulmonary stress testing you will be asked to exercise on a treadmill while
      breathing into a mask.

      All participants will also undergo body fat and body fluid composition by dual-energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA) at enrollment (baseline) and again at the end of the 4 week dietary
      intervention. You will be exposed to a very small amount of radiation by the DXA scanner used
      to measure your body composition. However, amount of radiation used in DXA is extremely low
      (by comparison, a standard chest x-ray is 125 times more radiation than a DXA scan).

      Blood tests will be performed at enrollment (baseline) and again at the end of the 4 week
      dietary intervention. Blood draws may cause discomfort at the skin puncture site and a small
      bruise may develop that may persist for several weeks. There is also a small possibility of
      an infection. These risks are identical to standard clinical blood draws.

      After 2-weeks, and again after 4 weeks on diet, all participants will undergo a clinical
      examination by a cardiologist.

      All participants will be provided with a handheld glucometer and test strips to check ketone
      levels daily in the morning after an overnight fast. This requires a finger prick to obtain
      the drop of blood required for the test. The finger stick may cause a slight immediate
      discomfort at the specific stick site. Subjects will also be required to check and record
      ketones 4x/day on one day per week to capture a more accurate record of ketone levels during
      waking hours. You will bring the glucometer readings with you when you pick up food so that
      the results can be downloaded and recorded by a member of the research team.

      Patients on either diet will personally pick up food 3X per week. Patients will weigh-in and
      have their heart rate and blood pressure checked at the time of each food pick up. The MRI,
      the cardiopulmonary stress test and all blood testing will be done at the Ross Heart Hospital
      or the Davis Heart and Lung Research Institute. The DXA testing, as well as the food pickup
      will be done at the Physical Activity and Educational Services (PAES) building on The Ohio
      State University campus.
    
  