
    
      15 million people in the England suffer from long term conditions (LTCs). Furthermore, the
      number of people with three or more LTC's has risen from 1.9 million people in 2008 to 2.9
      million in 2018. And with the growing number of people suffering from these conditions, the
      pressure grows for health care providers to provide long term solutions to meet this increase
      in demand.

      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is an exemplar for LTCs, requiring frequent routine
      appointments, an ongoing testing regimen and costly pharmacological intervention. Moreover,
      people living with Crohn's disease (CD) or Ulcerative Colitis (UC) are often young and report
      that their condition leads to a significant reduction in quality of life (QOL) even when
      symptoms are relatively well-controlled. Patients present with diarrhoea, abdominal pain,
      weight loss and other symptoms that have a significant impact on quality of life (taking into
      account social functioning, employment status, psychological distress). The condition has an
      estimated prevalence of 0.3% in North America, Northern Europe and Oceania (1) with a
      substantial direct and indirect costs. The majority of patients require lifelong medication
      and are followed up in secondary care. Like many immune mediated inflammatory conditions, it
      is a disease of relapse and remission. At times of relapse patients require rapid access to
      specialist advice, managing flares early leads to better outcomes such as returning to work
      or daily activities and avoids costly admission to hospital.

      Up to 76% of patients with CD and 51% with UC, will need immunomodulators (thiopurines or
      methotrexate) which require regular blood monitoring at minimum 4 times per year to screen
      for side effects of myeloid and hepatotoxicity (2). Patients on sub-cutaneous biologic
      medications such as adalimumab, golimumab and Ustekinumab also require regular blood
      monitoring which often necessitates clinic visits. In a recent nationwide survey of 2400
      consecutive outpatient appointments in a wide variety of hospitals throughout England and
      Scotland up to 75% of patients were deemed to be in a quiescent or mildly active phase of
      disease (2). The majority of those patients are being seen in outpatients based on an
      antiquated model of routine follow up appointments, with dates of 2, 3, 4, 6 and 12-month
      intervals chosen either to have safety-based blood tests or a date arbitrarily chosen by
      clinician or patient. Appointments such as these rarely reflect a clinical need and lead to
      an inflexible system in which patients Clinicians at King's College Hospital wanted to
      explore whether digital self-management could be an effective way of reducing the burden the
      condition places on the patient and on the health system. Using the My IBD Care app, they
      provided patients with a convenient digital touchpoint for their treatment, facilitating easy
      access to information, including their care plan, health record and self-management content;
      and digital contact with hospital staff via an app.

      From a hospital perspective, self-managing patients cost less to treat and place less of a
      burden on hospital appointments, thereby contributing to shorter waiting times. Moreover, My
      IBD Care allows patients to submit PROMs to their clinical teams remotely and in real time,
      allowing clinical staff to monitor their status and intervene as required.

      Scientifically validated digital therapeutics exist for diabetes, cardiovascular disease and
      sleeping disorders, however there are none addressing the complex, costly challenges of
      inflammatory conditions.

      In the context of these conditions - which include Crohn's, ulcerative colitis, inflammatory
      arthritis and psoriasis (UK TAM c3.5m people) - a digital therapeutic is digitally-supported
      behaviour change, tailored to the alleviation of symptoms such as pain, fatigue and anxiety.
      Importantly, for a therapeutic to be accepted as such, an evidence-based approach is
      required.
    
  