
    
      Morbid obesity (Body mass index > 40 kg/m2 or 35-39 kg/m2 with comorbidity; 37.5 kg/m2 for
      Asians) is a growing global health issue. Bariatric surgery is the only intervention that has
      demonstrated sustainable reduction in weight and comorbidities.1,2 Among the various
      bariatric procedures, laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) has rapidly gained popularity
      worldwide.3,4 Physiological alterations following LSG include reduction in gastrointestinal
      surface and reduced retention of food. Bioavailability of drugs may be affected but published
      literature in this area is sparse and studies are usually small and uncontrolled.5-7
      Moreover, some reports concerning gastric banding and jejunoileal bypass are no longer
      practiced because of the associated risk. In general, bioavailability of orally administered
      drug changes with a reduction in gastrointestinal area. While Kroll et al showed slight
      increase in area under curve of rivaroxaban post bariatric surgery8, Skottheim et al
      demonstrated significant but variable change in systemic exposure of atorvastatin after
      gastric bypass (from threefold decrease to twofold increase) that diminished but was
      sustained with time (21-45 months post gastric bypass)9-10.

      No study has investigated the change in pharmacokinetics of simvastatin post LSG.

      Simvastatin is a widely-used lipid-lowering agent with a low bioavailability of 5% due to the
      extensive first pass metabolism.11 As simvastatin undergoes hydrolysis in the stomach to the
      active form12, it is postulated that bioavailability of simvastatin will decrease after
      LSG.13-15 A decrease in bioavailability may be associated with reduced efficacy. Authors of
      review articles suggested choosing an alternative agent to simvastatin post bariatric
      surgery. However, such recommendation is largely based on theoretical concern rather than
      solid evidence.14,15 A previous study attempted to model the pharmacokinetics of simvastatin
      post Roux-en-Y and biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch.13 The data is not
      applicable to LSG and the model did not take into account of the pH-dependent hydrolysis.
      This will be the first study aiming to investigate the change in systemic exposure of
      simvastatin post LSG.
    
  