
    
      This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial. 50 patients with primary pterygium in
      both eyes for whom surgery was advised, will be recruited to the study. Criteria for
      pterygium excision surgery is mostly cosmetic, local eye symptoms, or visual impairment.

      The following data will be collected and analyzed:

        1. Demographic data such as: age, gender

        2. Clinical data: best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) full biomacroscopy examination,
           before surgery and at post-operative day (POD) 1 and 3

        3. Symptoms and discomfort: Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score and pain killer use. The
           differences in these variables values preoperatively and on the first and 3rd
           postoperative day will compared between the two treated eyes.

      Surgical technique and postoperative care

      All patients will be operated for the same pterygium excision under local anesthesia in the
      formal accepted surgical method. All patients will be treated with ofloxacin drops +
      dexamethasone drops four times daily during the first postoperative week. The only difference
      is that one group will be bandaged with tight bandage patching and the other with therapeutic
      contact lenses (TCL) only for the first 24 hours.

      Patient-centered outcome

      Discomfort and pain will be evaluated on the follow-up meeting on the first and 3rd
      postoperative day. The patient will be asked to rate pain and discomfort for each operated
      eye on pain scale of VAS ranking the pain on a line from No pain at 0 cm to worst possible
      pain at 10 cm and the estimated pain given by the patient's translation of pain into spot on
      a line.

      Patients will also be queried about the number of hours during which they feel pain, and the
      number of pain killers used ( every patient will be given prescription for 3 tabs of
      Paracetamol 500 mg (giving no drugs sensitivity for paracetamol) on POD 1 & 3).

      Their sleep quality will rated according to whether they reported having a full night's sleep
      and the number of times they were awoken due to pain/discomfort.

      Statistical analysis

      The t test was used to calculate differences in numerical variables (VA, hours of pain,
      number of pain killers, etc.). Non-parametric Wilcoxon Mann-Whitney was used to calculate
      differences in non-numerical variables such as pain level (VAS scale). Chi-square analyses
      were used to calculate proportional group differences (e.g., use of pain killers and sleep
      pattern). The overall significance level was set to a value of 0.05. The statistical analysis
      was carried out using Microsoft Excel 2013.
    
  