
    
      UTIs produce symptoms that may be unpleasant and distressing for patients and have the
      potential to lead to complications. It is also commonly misdiagnosed and treated
      inappropriately, resulting in unnecessary antimicrobial exposure and increased potential for
      adverse effects (including secondary infections, such as Clostridium difficile), as well as
      the selection of resistant pathogens. The incidence of UTI in women is 12% annually, with 50%
      of women reporting to have had a UTI by 32 years of age. Recurrence of infection occurs in
      25% of women within 6 months of the first UTI, and this rate increases when more than one
      prior UTI has been experienced. In the elderly, the prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria
      (ASB) increases, with up to 20% of women at the age of 75 or older affected and up to 50% of
      institutionalized, non-catheterized elderly women affected, a finding that often results in
      the overuse of antibiotics. With bacterial resistance on the rise and a limited pipeline of
      antibacterials with novel mechanisms of action, antimicrobial stewardship has become
      imperative to maintain the effectiveness of available antimicrobials. Pharmacists are
      accessible primary care professionals that are well-positioned to take on a larger role in
      the management of medical conditions, including UTIs, and have an important role to play in
      antimicrobial stewardship. Therefore, it would be of great value to quantify the real-world
      impact of pharmacists providing care to patients with UTI, and then disseminate this
      information to inform best practice and policy change.

      Design: prospective web-based registry Setting: ~40 community pharmacies in New Brunswick,
      Canada Patients: Any adult patient presenting to a pharmacy with symptoms suggestive of
      urinary tract infection (UTI) and assessed to be uncomplicated; or those presenting with a
      prescription for antibiotics from another healthcare provider for a UTI that are assessed to
      be uncomplicated or asymptomatic bacteriuria.

      Intervention: Pharmacists will assess symptoms and prescribe antibiotics or perform
      prescription adaptation or therapeutic substitution, as necessary. They will also discontinue
      antibiotics for asymptomatic bacteriuria in cases where treatment is unnecessary. Follow-up
      will occur at 2 weeks to assess for clinical cure, as well as adverse reactions, adherence to
      the treatment regimen, early recurrence of infection, and other outcomes. Additional
      follow-up will occur as needed, and will also be captured in the registry.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome will be clinical cure at 2 weeks. Secondary outcomes will
      include medications used, number and nature of pharmacist interventions, follow-ups
      conducted, patient adherence to initial recommendations and follow up, adverse events,
      treatment failures (including reasons for; such as adherence, delay in accessing care, missed
      baseline complicating factors, presence of a resistant organism, and complications such as
      pyelonephritis), and patient satisfaction.

      Quality assurance: Data will be collected via a secure web-based portal. Data quality will be
      monitored by EPICORE Centre, University of Alberta, and site audits will be performed
      periodically.

      Analytical plan: Most outcomes will be descriptive in nature. Target sample size of 750
      patients over 8 months; this is a bit more than necessary for the primary outcome, but the
      intention is to also have enough power for analyses of some of the secondary outcomes.
    
  