
    
      Patients with squamous cell carcinoma or papilloma of the upper aerodigestive tract who are
      candidates for standard or investigational therapy are eligible to participate in this pilot
      immunopathogenesis study. Patients with these neoplasms exhibit alterations in immune and
      metabolic regulation. These alterations in immunoregulation have been shown to affect
      prognosis, and have thus far been an obstacle to the successful development of active
      immunization and cytokine immunotherapy that have been attempted in order to improve
      preservation of organ function and survival. This is a pilot study to explore the basis for
      alterations in immune and metabolic regulation in patients with these tumors. Similar
      alterations in immunity and metabolism usually occur in response to injury and infection, and
      are mediated by expression of immunoregulatory signals. The study will evaluate the
      hypothesis that regulatory and structural genes involved in immunoregulation are abnormally
      expressed within the tumor and that these signals can promote tumor development and
      progression by conferring a selective growth or survival advantage. The expression and
      activity of immunoregulatory genes and signals which are expressed by neoplastic or
      non-neoplastic cells within the tumor will be analyzed using tumor cells and leukocytes
      derived from patient specimens obtained during clinically indicated biopsies or surgical
      therapy. Tumor and keratinocyte cell lines will be established for analysis of differential
      gene and cytokine expression of neoplastic cells, and lymphocyte cell lines will be
      established to test culture and signal conditions for stimulating regulatory and effector
      immune responses of patient lymphocytes in vitro. The potential of factors identified to
      promote altered immune and metabolic function will be evaluated in the patients by skin,
      blood and urine immune and metabolic assays performed before and after tumor resection or
      cytoreduction. Patients participating in these investigations would be expected to benefit
      from receipt of standard therapy and would encumber minimal additional risk beyond those
      procedures for the standard or investigational therapy for which the patient will be asked to
      consent. Twenty patients each with squamous cell carcinoma and papilloma will be accepted to
      undergo standard therapy under this protocol, and twenty patients may be accepted for study
      while undergoing therapy on other approved investigational protocol(s). Twenty age-matched
      clinical research volunteers will be evaluated as control subjects for the skin, blood and
      urine tests.
    
  