
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      l. To determine either the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of Z-endoxifen hydrochloride or the
      dose level associated with endoxifen steady state concentration (Css) of at least 2 uM in
      women with metastatic estrogen-receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer. (Dose Escalation
      Cohort) II. To describe the safety profile of Z-endoxifen (Z-endoxifen hydrochloride) at each
      of the doses examined. (Dose Escalation Cohort) III. To evaluate changes in vision after 2
      cycles of treatment. (Dose Escalation Cohort) IV. To gather preliminary data on the clinical
      benefit in terms of tumor response rate and progression-free survival. (Dose Escalation
      Cohort) V. To evaluate the changes in the frequency and severity of hot flashes after 2
      cycles of treatment. (Expansion Cohort) VI. Evaluate changes in irritability scale using a
      validated irritability questionnaire. (Expansion Cohort) VII. To evaluate changes in markers
      of bone formation and absorption after 2 cycles of treatment. (Expansion Cohort) XIII. To
      evaluate changes in vision after 2 cycles of treatment. (Expansion Cohort).

      IX. To further characterize the safety profile of Z-endoxifen. (Expansion Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the plasma pharmacokinetics and urinary excretion of Z-endoxifen at each
      of the doses examined.

      II. For patients beginning in dose level 7 as well as the expansion cohorts, we will describe
      any changes in tumor expression of ER (both full length and truncated forms), progesterone
      receptor (PR), steroid receptor co-activator (SRC)1, SRC3, as well as the insulin-like growth
      factor receptor (IGF)1R/phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/v-akt Murine Thymoma Viral
      Oncogene Homolog 1 (AKT)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway and
      proliferation-related Ki-67 antigen (Ki67) after 1 cycle of treatment (approximately 28
      days).

      III. To determine the frequency of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) mutations and the presence of
      antitumor activity (response rate and progression free survival [PFS]) in all patients whose
      tumors harbor ESR1 alterations.

      IV. To determine whether the ESR1 mutations identified in pre-treatment tumor biopsies can be
      detected in matched plasma cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from the same patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study followed by an expansion cohort study.

      Patients receive Z-endoxifen hydrochloride orally (PO) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then at 3
      months.
    
  