
    
      In summary, the study will focus on the following items:

        -  The frequency and disease burden of acute hypoxaemic respiratory failure in winter

        -  The aetiologies of acute hypoxaemic respiratory failure requiring ventilatory support.

        -  The incidence of ARDS based on the Berlin definition within this patient cohort

        -  The mortality from ARDS within this cohort, and how does this vary based on ARDS
           severity

        -  Natural history of ARDS (duration and evolution by severity)

        -  Therapeutic resource utilization

             -  Use of treatments, such as recruitment maneuvers, prone positioning, nitric oxide,
                high frequency oscillation, ECMO, transfer to tertiary hospital from smaller
                regional ones) according to the severity of the disease

             -  Use of non-invasive ventilation in management of ARDS patients (use in different
                stages: early ARDS versus immediately after extubation).

      This is a prospective observational study, aimed at collecting an adequate dataset on a large
      cohort of patients admitted to a large number of ICUs.

      ICUs will be invited to participate on a voluntary basis. ICUs enrolling into existing
      databases (e.g., ERIC study, ICON audit) will be invited to participate. It is important that
      participating ICUs commit (by written agreement) to fully comply with the study protocol. ICU
      recruitment in each country will be spearheaded by a national coordinator Each ICU will be
      requested to recruit for 4 consecutive 'winter' weeks

        1. Northern Hemisphere - 4 week period between February 1st and March 31st 2014.

        2. Southern Hemisphere: 4 week period between June 1st - August 31st 2014 There will be 2
           data collectors per participating ICU's. Each data collector will undergo an online
           training program designed to standardize data interpretation [esp. CXR's] and will
           receive a login authorization following completion of this training.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA: All patients admitted to the participating ICUs receiving invasive or
      noninvasive ventilation will be screened and included in the database.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Age < 16.

      DATA COLLECTION: Data collection will web based, permitting conditional Data Collection
      screens, i.e. data collectors will be automatically guided as to which sections to complete
      based on data entered indicating whether Inclusion Criteria are met. Data collection will be
      done at 10am each morning. Our aim is to obtain a sample of at least 1000 ARDS patients
      within the cohort of patients receiving assisted ventilation. The reported incidence of ARDS
      in ICU patients varies, from 2.2% of ICU admissions develop ARDS in ALIEN, 7.1% in ALIVE
      Study, to 17.5% of Ventilated patients in KCLIP . A reasonable projection of the incidence of
      ARDS among patients admitted in ICUs can be estimated to approximate 5% of ICU admission. As
      a conservative estimate, if a medium-sized ICU admits 50 patients/month and collects data for
      four, 500 ICUs will be necessary to achieve this number.
    
  