
    
      Older adults living with incurable and advancing life-limiting illness frequently desire to
      spend as much time as possible comfortably at home, rather than in hospital. They often have
      complex problems that not only affect their ability to function, but also their and their
      family caregivers' overall quality of life (QOL). Routine assessment of their perceived
      health care needs and their self-reported QOL is necessary to ensure that patients' and
      family caregivers' concerns are visible to home care clinicians so that they can be
      effectively monitored and addressed. These types of assessments involve asking people to
      respond to questions about their symptoms, their physical, psychological, social and
      existential/spiritual wellbeing, and their experiences with health care. Electronic
      information systems are increasingly used and recommended to facilitate such QOL assessments.
      However, there is a need for information about how such systems are best translated into
      practice improvements that ultimately may improve patient- and family-centred outcomes. This
      study will try to improve patient and family caregiver QOL while improving the efficacy of
      the health care system by studying the implementation of an innovative health care
      information system, the Quality of life Assessment and Practice Support System (QPSS), into
      routine care provided by home care services for older adults with life-limiting illnesses and
      their family caregivers.

      Research aims and questions:

      This integrated knowledge translation project involves working with clinicians, patients, and
      family caregivers to answer the following aims and research questions.

      Aim 1: To examine the efficacy of the QPSS in home care for older adults who have advancing
      life-limiting illnesses.

      • Does the routine use of the QPSS in home care improve quality of care, as indicated by
      patients' and family caregivers' reports of enhanced QOL and experiences with the care
      provided?

      Aim 2: To evaluate the cost consequences of implementing the QPSS in home care.

      Aim 3: To understand the process of implementing the QPSS in home care.

      • How can the integration and routine use of the QPSS in the home care for older adults who
      have advancing life-limiting illnesses and their family caregivers be best facilitated?

      Aim 4: To examine how integration of the QPSS with health information systems will meet the
      needs of administrators for quality improvement and accreditation.

      Design:

      This project will be conducted in 3 stages at 8 home care service sites:

      Stage 1: The local adaptation stage will use qualitative methods (user-centered design focus
      groups and interviews with clinicians, managers, patients, and family caregivers) to adapt
      the QPSS to the unique context of each home care service site and develop site-specific
      protocols for its routine integration in daily practice. For evaluative purposes, this stage
      will also include (a) measurement of patient and family caregiver QOL and their health care
      experiences prior to integrating routine use of the QPSS into home care to serve as a
      pre-intervention comparator group (Aim 1) and (b) data collection regarding the cost of local
      adaptation of and training to use the QPSS (Aim 2).

      Stage 2: During the evaluation stage, the investigators will (a) conduct a randomized
      controlled trial to evaluate the impact of using the QPSS on the QOL and care experiences of
      patients and their family caregivers (Aim 1); (b) conduct an economic evaluation to estimate
      the cost consequences of implementing the QPSS in home care (Aim 2); and (c) apply
      qualitative and quantitative methods to examine the process of using the QPSS in home health
      care (Aim 3). The investigators aim to recruit 540 patients and 540 family caregivers.
      Patient participants will be 55 years of age and older who are receiving ongoing home care
      due to advancing life-limiting illnesses. Family caregiver participants are identified as
      eligible and competent by the patient, or by a clinician if the patient is unable to do so,
      and as the person most involved in the care of a patient who meets the abovementioned
      eligibility criteria. No more than one caregiver per patient will be recruited. Patient and
      family caregiver participants must have the ability to speak English and capacity to provide
      informed consent.

      STAGE 3: The sustainability stage will focus on (a) whether the results warrant sustained and
      widespread integration of the QPSS into practice, and if so, (b) how to scale this up, (c)
      how to further integrate the QPSS with other health information systems to facilitate use by
      health care administrators for continuous quality improvement and accreditation (Aim 4) and
      (d) dissemination of results.

      The start and end dates and recruitment information for this registration pertains only to
      the randomized controlled trial in stage 2 (evaluation).
    
  