
    
      Method Patients All patients pathologically diagnosed with sigmoid or rectal cancer in Peking
      University Third Hospital from January 2010 to December 2018 were included in our study as
      the cancer group. Data regarding clinical characteristics and radiological results were
      retrospectively extracted from the department's database. Patients who were found on
      endoscopy to have cancer more than 20 cm from the anal verge were not included. Patients who
      received emergency surgery or palliative surgery, patients with a previous history of pelvic
      surgery, and patients without extractable radiological examinations were also excluded.

      To evaluate the relationship between the height of the sigmoid take-off and all baseline
      covariates in normal patients, the results of 200 patients without any intestinal-related
      abnormalities who underwent pelvic MRI in our center from January 2019 to June 2019 were
      reviewed as a normal group.

      Endpoints The sigmoid take-off is the radiological sign representing the transition from
      mesocolon to mesorectum. It was described as "the point that the surgeon felt there was
      mobility of the colon away from the vertebral column" . The point of the sigmoid take-off was
      determined by combining both the sagittal and axial planes in CT and MRI. The distance from
      the anal verge was measured in sagittal planes by curvilinear distances in accordance with
      the lumen of the rectum. The distances of the sacral promontory, third sacral segment, and
      superior and inferior margin of cancers from the anal verge were measured in both CT and MRI
      following the same standard. The distance of the anterior peritoneal reflection from the anal
      verge was also measured in MRI. CT and MRI scans were reviewed originally by a junior
      specialist, and the process of measurement was recorded in the form of photographs. All
      photographs were then reviewed simultaneously by a senior surgeon and a senior radiologist
      who were both on colorectal cancer with over fifteen years' experience and were blinded to
      clinical outcomes and endoscopy results. The data were accepted if both of the senior
      specialists agreed with the strategy of measurement. If either of the two senior specialists
      disagreed with the measurement of a certain patient, the strategy of the measurement would be
      adjusted by the junior specialist until a consensus was reached.

      The heights of the superior and inferior margins of the cancers were compared with the
      heights of various anatomical landmarks in order to classify cancers into different groups
      according to different definitions of the rectum, and to determine how the distribution of
      cancers would vary using the different definitions. Both dual classifications (sigmoid colon
      cancer and rectal cancer) and triple classifications (sigmoid colon cancer, rectosigmoid
      cancer, and rectal cancer) were applied. In the dual classification, only the distance of the
      inferior margin of the cancer was compared with the height of certain landmarks. If the
      distance of the inferior margin was below the height of the landmark, the cancer would be
      classified as rectal cancer, otherwise, it would be classified as sigmoid colon cancer. In
      the triple classification, a cancer would be classified as rectal cancer if the height of its
      superior margin was below the height of the landmark. Rectosigmoid cancer represented cancers
      straddling the landmark. As in the dual classification, cancers, whose inferior margins were
      above the height of the landmark were defined as sigmoid colon cancers.

      Statistical Analyses Demographic and clinicopathologic data were collected and analyzed in
      both the cancer group and the normal group. Mean values with standard deviation (SD) or
      median values with ranges were calculated as appropriate. The influence of factors sex and
      age on the distance of the sigmoid take-off in the normal group was evaluated by
      nonparametric statistics and Spearman's correlation analysis, respectively. The distances of
      the sigmoid take-off as measured in the MRIs of both groups were compared using propensity
      score matching method. Aside from age and sex, heights of sacral promontory, third sacral
      segment, and peritoneal reflection were included in constructing the propensity score. A 1:1
      matching using both optimal and greedy algorithms without replacement was adopted with a
      caliper width of 0.1. Differences among results of CT, MRI, and endoscopy in the cancer group
      were tested using paired T-tests. Both univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses
      were carried out in both groups to explore the relationship between the height of the sigmoid
      take-off and individual factors including age, sex and body habitus. Selection of variables
      entering into the multivariable regression model was based on statistical significance (P<
      0.100). All analyses were carried out with IBM SPSS Statistics version 22.0 for Windows. A
      two-tailed P value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  