
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effect of induction therapy comprising cetuximab, paclitaxel, and
           carboplatin followed by chemoradiotherapy comprising cetuximab, paclitaxel, carboplatin,
           and radiotherapy and maintenance therapy comprising cetuximab on 1-year event-free
           survival (freedom from surgery at the primary site and freedom from recurrence and
           death) in patients with stage III or IV operable squamous cell cancer of the head and
           neck.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pathologic antitumor response at the primary site in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine local/regional and distant failure rates in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on selective biologic pathways, total and
           phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor, ERK/MAPK, and P13K/AKT in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy (weeks 1-6): Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours, paclitaxel
           IV over 1 hour, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36.

      During week 7 or 8, patients undergo biopsy and evaluation of the primary site. Patients then
      proceed to chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy (weeks 9-13): Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour, paclitaxel IV
           over 1 hour, and carboplatin IV over 15 minutes on days 57, 64, 71, 78, and 85. Patients
           also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, on weeks 9-13.

      Patients with a positive biopsy at week 7 or 8 or persistent tumor at the primary site after
      induction therapy undergo a second biopsy after chemoradiotherapy at week 14. Patients with a
      negative biopsy at week 7 or 8 who achieve a complete clinical and pathological response at
      the primary site OR patients whose biopsy becomes negative at week 14 receive an additional
      3-weeks of chemoradiotherapy beginning at week 15. Patients receive cetuximab, carboplatin,
      and paclitaxel as in chemoradiotherapy (as outlined above) on days 99, 106, and 113. Patients
      also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 3 weeks (weeks 15-17). Patients with
      N1-N3 disease undergo neck dissection in weeks 20-21.

      Patients with a positive biopsy at week 14 do not receive additional chemoradiotherapy, but
      rather undergo surgical resection of the primary site in weeks 18-19. Patients with N1-N3
      disease also undergo neck dissection at this time.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning after completion of surgery and/or chemoradiotherapy,
           patients receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour once weekly for 6 months in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 74 patients were accrued for this study.
    
  