
    
      This is a single centre observational uncontrolled prospective study, Hypertensive patients
      that are either treatment naïve or uncontrolled on current monotherapy and meet all inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, will be assigned to Rasilez treatment (start for 2 weeks on 150 mg
      and if well tolerated the dosage will be increased to 300 mg). The treatment will then be
      continued for additional 10 weeks. Rasilez can be administrated as monotherapy or as add on
      to other antihypertensive (patients currently on single medication).

      The patient will have additional visits at week 6, and at week 12 For all eligible patients a
      24 h ABPM test will be performed at the week prior to visit 2 (treatment initiation) and at
      the week prior to the final visit.

      Each patient will receive an automatic blood pressure monitor [OMRON MX3 plus] for SBPM
      measurements, The monitor will be provided by the sponsor for the whole study period. The
      patient will be trained for blood pressure measurements. SBPM will be performed twice a week
      [morning and evening] Nurse blood pressure measurements will be performed at each visit,
      after 10 minutes of rest, prior to the medical visit.

      Office blood pressure will be performed by the physician at each visit Blood samples for
      electrolytes, renal function, liver function and hematology, will be taken at base line
      visit, at week 2 and at week 12 Other antihypertensive can be added at any time during the
      study, according to the decision of the investigator, except ACE inhibitors and ARBs.

      AEs have to be reported at the appropriate site on the CRF page. In case of discontinuation
      of aliskiren or interruption of aliskiren treatment the reason has to be given. Serious
      adverse events (SAEs) have to be documented additionally on the separate SAE form and have to
      be reported within 24h to the NOVARTIS Pharma, Drug safety department Adherence to treatment
      will be evaluated using standard formulas. Estimated time for recruitment of 50 patients: One
      year. Study design scheme Visit 1 -[week -2] physician and nurse BP. Sign inform consent-
      command ABPM a week prior to visit 2 - SBPM training Visit 2 [week 0] physician and nurse BP.
      Start Rasilez 150 mg and command laboratory exams prior to next visit.

      Visit 3 [week 2] physician and nurse BP. Titrate Rasilez to 300 mg Visit 4 (week 6).
      physician and nurse BP. ABPM and command lab exams (a week prior to visit 5) Visit 5 (12
      weeks) physician and nurse BP SBPM data will be collected at visit 2,3,4 and 5.

      Efficacy will be defined in terms of therapeutic goals expressed as target blood pressures
      according to WHO and ESH [ for SBPM and ABPM] criteria:

      Office Blood Pressure: Diastolic blood pressure (DBP) ≤ 90 mmHg and Systolic blood pressure
      (SBP) ≤ 140 mmHg for non-diabetics or DBP≤ 80 mmHg and SBP≤ 130 mmHg for diabetics,
      respectively.

      SBPM : DBP ≤ 85 mmHg and SBP ≤ 135 mmHg 24 h ABPM: DBP≤ 130/80 mmHg SBP≤ 130 mmHg, Awake DBP
      ≤ 85 mmHg, Awake SBP ≤ 135 mmHg Asleep DBP ≤70 mmHg, asleep SBP ≤ 70 mmHg. Effectiveness and
      Safety will also be evaluated taking into consideration patient compliance

      Safety assessments:

      Safety will be assessed by means of (S)AE reporting.
    
  