
    
      The role of inflammation in disease is increasingly appreciated in clinical medicine. Too
      much or too long a course of inflammation can lead to serious and sometime fatal
      complications for patients who experience significant physical trauma, particularly those
      whose injuries are serious enough to warrant intensive care follow up. On the other hand, the
      sheer stress of the traumatic injury can leave patients deficient in their ability to mount a
      protective immune/inflammatory response leaving them susceptible to concomitant infection.
      Another component to the conundrum is that after the trauma (first hit), the surgeons are
      faced with the dilemma of complete surgical repair of the injury - the second hit (i.e. full
      orthopedic repairs) vs stabilization of the injury until the patient recovers from the shock
      of the first hit. The difficulty for the medical team is predicting who can safely tolerate a
      full second hit (total surgical restoration) vs who needs to be further stabilized before
      further intervention. In the obese individual, this conundrum is compounded by the known
      immune/inflammatory alterations characteristic of the obese state. How these patients in
      particular can be safely triaged for immediate vs delayed definitive therapy based upon
      specific immune/inflammatory parameters is the object of this initial pilot study.

      Hypothesis

      Obese individuals who experience severe traumatic injury will develop immunoregulatory
      dysfunction shortly after injury that is greater than nonobese individuals experiencing
      similar traumatic injury. Depending upon severity and duration of this immunoregulatory
      dysfunction, the post injury inflammatory responses will also be altered resulting in
      increased risk for pneumonia and/or adult respiratory distress syndrome, major morbidities
      associated with trauma.

      Specific Aims

        1. Determine immunoregulatory and inflammatory blood cytokine and endocrine stress hormone
           profiles in adult patients with significant traumatic injury correlated with subsequent
           development of pneumonia and/or adult respiratory distress syndrome.

        2. Examine the role of obesity in the initial immunoregulatory dysfunction and subsequent
           short term clinical course of trauma patients.

        3. Investigate whether demographic differences (age, gender, race) impact the risk for
           immunoregulatory and/or inflammatory dysfunction as well as risk for pneumonia and/or
           adult respiratory distress syndrome in obese s non obese trauma patients.
    
  