
    
      All women will use all 4 products in a randomized study design with a crossover evaluation
      during 10 visits over two months. Visits will be scheduled when the participant is not
      menstruating/bleeding. The sequence of film use will be randomized. Study procedures will
      involve a screening visit (VISIT 1) during which a baseline cervicovaginal lavage will be
      collected and infections will be excluded. After randomization (VISIT 2) women will be given
      instructions and instructed to insert the first film. An external genital examination will be
      performed after the participant inserts the film to verify film placement. In the event a
      participant has difficulty placing the film, the study clinician may place the film for them.
      Following each film insertion, a questionnaire will be administered to obtain feedback
      regarding ease of administration. Thirty minutes after product insertion a clinician will
      visualize film placement in the vagina by speculum examination. Women will be counseled to
      avoid sexual activity or vaginal product usage before VISIT 3 scheduled for the following
      day. At visit 3 women will have a speculum examination to assess whether the film has
      completed disintegrated and a CVL sample will be collected. Women will be given an
      appointment for the next film insertion in 7-20 days. The general sequence of events will be
      repeated for each subsequent film. At the next visit (VISIT 4) women will insert the second
      film and have the same evaluation as visit 2. A CVL sample will be collected 24 hours later
      (VISIT 5). Women will be asked to return to insert another film 7-20 days later (VISIT 6) and
      a CVL sample will be collected the next day (VISIT 7). Women will receive the final film 7-20
      days later (VISIT 8) and have the final CVL collection following film insertion the next day
      (VISIT 9). A final visit (VISIT 10) will be scheduled >14 days after visit 9. During this
      visit a CVL will be collected for glycomic and innate antiviral activity studies and an in
      depth interview will be conducted in order to gain insights into the role of film polymer and
      size on perceived ease of insertion across the four film types.
    
  