
    
      Design: Open labeled trial.

      Recruitment and Randomization: Men and women aged 18 or older receiving care at the
      University of Utah dialysis centers.

      Study procedures: Men and women on hemodialysis for at least for 3 months with malnutrition
      (defined as Body Mass Index less than 23 kg/m2 or serum creatinine < 8 mg/dL) will be
      approached to determine whether they want to participate in the study. If they are
      interested, the study purpose and procedures will be explained and informed consent obtained.
      5 ml of screening blood will be obtained before dialysis to measure CRP. If it is greater
      than > 3 mg/dL, that individual will be eligible to participate in the study. Participants
      will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire on demographics (age, gender, race,
      education), comorbid conditions, physical activity level and quality of life. Height, weight,
      and waist circumference will be measured. Relevant data on dialysis, medications, laboratory
      markers will be obtained from the electronic medical records.

      The investigators anticipate to obtain screening blood draw in about 80 participants and that
      about half of these will have elevated CRP and qualify to participate in the study. The 40
      participants will receive dietary advice to increase protein intake to 1.2 g/kg/day and
      monitored for 12 weeks. Then, each participant will receive 45 grams of liquid protein
      supplement at each dialysis treatment for additional 12 weeks for total study duration of 24
      weeks. Compliance and tolerance of the supplement will be monitored.

      Protein supplementation such as Boost, Procel or liquid supplements is used regularly in
      dialysis patients. The protein supplement used in the study is Provide Sugar Free produced by
      Provide Nutrition LC. The Food and Drug Administration regulates it as a nutrition
      supplement. It is a liquid supplement made from enzyme hydrolyzed collagen protein. This
      supplement is used in malnutrition, bariatric surgery, dialysis, poor appetite, and wound
      care. The investigators chose this supplement because the investigators were able to get it
      at a reduced cost. There is no data available to show that this supplement is better or worse
      than any other supplements currently available. The manufacturer states that the sugar free
      Provide is phosphorous free. However, the investigators will monitor phosphorous levels in
      the study patients.

      Pre-dialysis blood sample (15 ml in lithium heparin tube) and post dialysis blood sample (5
      ml in lithium heparin tube) will be drawn at baseline, 4, 12, 16 and 20 weeks. Pre and post
      dialysis creatinine along with 44-hour urine collection for creatinine will be obtained at
      baseline 4, 12, 16 and 24 weeks for estimating muscle mass using creatinine kinetics. Short
      Form -12 survey for quality of life will be obtained at baseline 4, 12, 16, and 24 weeks.
      Distances walked during in 6-minutes will be recorded at baseline, 4, 12, 16 and 24 weeks.

      Assays of Serum analytes:

        1. Interleukin-6 (IL-6): The measurement of serum IL-6 will be performed using an IMMULITE
           1000 analyzer and reagents from Diagnostic Products Corporation. The performance
           characteristics of this immunoassay include an analytic measurement range of 2 to 1000
           pg/mL, imprecision of <7.6% from 88 to 1000 pg/mL, and a reference interval of <6 pg/mL.

        2. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha): The measurement of serum TNF- alpha will be
           performed using an IMMULITE 1000 analyzer and reagents from Diagnostic Products
           Corporation. The performance characteristics of this immunoassay include an analytic
           measurement range of 2 to 1000 pg/mL, imprecision of <6.6% from 17 to 788 pg/mL, and a
           reference interval of <8 pg/mL.

        3. high sensitivity CRP: The measurement of serum C-reactive protein will be performed
           using the FDA-cleared Roche Tina-quant latex high sensitivity kit on a Roche MODULAR P
           analyzer. The performance characteristics of this turbidimetric assay include an
           analytic measurement range of 0.1 to 20 mg/L and imprecision of <5.8%.

        4. Insulin: The measure of insulin will be performed using a Diagnostic Products
           Corporation kit on an IMMULITE 2000 analyzer. The performance characteristics of this
           immunoassay include an analytic measurement range of 2 to 300 mIU/L , imprecision of
           <7.4% from 8 to 291 mIU/L, and a fasting reference interval of <29 mIU/L.
    
  