
    
      Although radiation therapy is currently the treatment of choice for most spinal metastases,
      radioresistant and recurrent neoplasms remain therapeutic dilemmas. Because of the debility
      and shortened life expectancy of patients with spinal metastases, treatment that minimizes
      blood loss, convalescence, and immobility is critical. The effectiveness and safety of
      intratumoral injection of absolute ethanol in eradicating vertebral hemangiomas and hepatic
      metastases suggests that intratumoral ethanol injection may also be effective in treating
      vertebral metastases. Since most spinal metastases can now be diagnosed with MRI before they
      produce spinal instability, it may be possible to treat them with direct ethanol infusion
      while preserving spinal stability. Direct ethanol infusion may prove especially useful in
      treating symptomatic patients who have received maximal tolerable radiation doses to the
      spinal cord. Unlike radiation, which is limited by total radiation dosage, and intraarterial
      alcohol, which precludes multiple treatments by occluding the feeding arteries, intratumoral
      ethanol injection can be repeated as necessary to obliterate residual tumor. The potential
      neurotoxic effects of ethanol can be avoided by using CT-guidance to position the needle, by
      monitoring a test injection with contrast, and by injecting ethanol slowly and in small
      volumes. Intratumoral injection of absolute ethanol warrants a clinical trial because it is
      minimally invasive, has been effective in treating peripheral metastases, can be used
      repeatedly, and does not preclude other types of treatments such as open surgery.

      As well as testing the therapeutic efficacy of intratumoral ethanol for spinal metastasis,
      this protocol seeks to elucidate the pathophysiology of pain from spinal metastasis.
      Correlation of changes in pain with changes in tumor size and tumor pressure pre- and
      post-ethanol injection should indicate the relationship of pain to tumor size and pressure.

      A group of 11 patients with vertebral hemangiomas has been treated with intratumoral ethanol
      at the NIH. This protocol will accrue patients with vertebral hemangiomas who require
      treatment with intratumoral ethanol and will continue the post-treatment evaluation of
      patients previously treated with intratumoral ethanol at the NIH.
    
  