
    
      Peripheral nerve blocks using long-acting local anesthetics are commonly utilized as the sole
      anesthetic technique or as an adjuvant to general anesthesia for post-operative pain
      management. However, the duration of sensory block after single dose of long acting local
      anesthetics is not consistently sufficient to avoid the use of postoperative opioids. Many
      adjuvants were added to local anesthetics to augment the potency and prolong the duration of
      peripheral nerve blocks. Alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists such as clonidine have been shown to
      increase the duration of peripheral nerve block. Dexmedetomidine is a more potent and
      selective α-2-adrenoceptor compared to clonidine. Peri-neural dexmedetomidine was evaluated
      in animal studies where it prolonged the duration of sensory and motor blocks of local
      anesthetics without any evidence of neurotoxicity for up to 14 days after initial
      administration. The effectiveness of perineural dexmedetomidine in augmenting the duration of
      sensory block of upper limb extremity blocks is based on good quality clinical evidence.

      Arthroscopic knee surgery is associated with severe postoperative pain which could be
      adequately managed by femoral nerve block. However femoral nerve block has been associated
      with significant motor block and decreased quadriceps muscle strength which may delay
      ambulation and increase the risk of falling. More recently, adductor canal block (ACB)
      emerged as a selective motor sparing effective variant of femoral nerve block. Compared with
      baseline values, the adductor canal block reduces quadriceps muscle strength by 8%, versus
      49% for the femoral nerve block. A recent dose finding MRI study reported that 20 ml of local
      anesthetic is the closest volume to the ED95 for adductor canal block with minimal proximal
      spread and an estimated success probability of 95.1% (95% credibility interval: 91-98%).
    
  