
    
      Damage to penile tissue due to infection, inflammation or trauma often leads to structural
      deformity that may result in loss of sexual function that can profoundly affect quality of
      life. Traumatic injuries in civilians and battlefield related injuries in soldiers often
      require reconstructive procedures to restore the anatomy and functionality of the penis.
      However, these procedures are often limited by poor availability of functionally intact
      penile tissue. Various penile reconstructive procedures, such as penile prostheses and
      autograft implantation have been attempted. While cosmetic appearance may be improved,
      restoration of spontaneous and natural erectile function is usually not achieved. This is
      often due to critical defect of the corpora cavernosa, which are responsible for erectile
      function. Recently, the concept of a tissue engineering-based therapy has been proposed for
      reconstructing damaged penile corporal tissue.

      The primary objective of this Armed Forces Institute for Regeneration Medicine (AFIRM II)
      sponsored clinical trial is to evaluate the safety of autologous engineered corpora cavernosa
      + albuginea constructs for treatment of complex penile deformities. The proposed study design
      is a prospective non-randomized and uncontrolled, multi-center investigation. Autologous
      endothelial and smooth muscle cells obtained from enrolled participants' corpora cavernosa
      biopsy sample, will be culture expanded in vitro and used to seed decellularized corpora
      cavernosa + albuginea obtained from cadaveric-donors to create autologous bioengineered
      corpora cavernosa/albuginea constructs for repair of damaged penile tissues.

      A total of ten male patients, referred for the treatment of damages of albuginea and/or
      corpora cavernosum without concurrent urethral injury will be recruited for this study. The
      estimated duration of the study for each subject following treatment is 36 months. The study
      team anticipates a duration of approximately 48 to 60 months to complete all enrollment and
      follow up. Enrolled participants will undergo a corporal tissue biopsy as an out-patient
      surgical procedure. Autologous corporal smooth muscle cells and corporal endothelial cells
      will be isolated and then seeded on cadaveric decellularized corporal bodies. Approximately
      3-4 weeks later, the engineered construct including corporal tissue with attached tunica will
      be transplanted into the surgically prepared site of penile injury. Participants will be
      followed through 36 months post-implantation to monitor for safety.
    
  