
    
      Pigment dispersion syndrome (PDS) is not an uncommon ocular condition and is frequently
      associated with myopia. There is loss of pigment from the posterior iris, seen clinically in
      most cases as iris transillumination with pigment deposited on the corneal endothelium, iris
      surface and on the angle structures overlying Schlemm's canal. In a subset of patients ocular
      hypertension or glaucoma may develop.

      Ocular hypertension is defined as 3 separate measurements of the intraocular pressure greater
      than 22 mm/Hg in the absence of visual field loss. Glaucoma is defined as the presence of a
      characteristic field defect (Bjerrum scotoma, nasal step or arcuate scotomas) with
      intraocular pressures greater than 22 mm/Hg measured sometime during a diurnal curve testing.

      The etiology of this condition is not known. Hypotheses include developmental abnormalities
      of the iris dilator muscle or mechanical rubbing of zonules against the iris, resulting in
      pigment dispersion in the anterior chamber and pressure elevation. PDS is then viewed as a
      variant of primary open-angle glaucoma or may be secondary to pigment deposited in the angle
      structures with secondary damage to the trabecular meshwork. A hereditary component does
      appear to play a role in the PDS syndrome and may also predispose to the development of
      glaucoma.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate and determine the risk factors that differentiate
      patients with PDS, PDS+OH, or PDS+GL by documenting the ophthalmic findings and following
      their clinical course. In order to do this, diagnostic tests including intraocular pressure
      and visual fields will be performed. This data may make it possible to determine the risk of
      patients having PDS of developing OH, GL or other possibly associated findings such as
      retinal detachment or cataract. In addition, patients with "pigmentary glaucoma (PG)" will be
      compared to those with the known characteristics of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) to
      determine whether PG is different than or a variant of POAG. When possible, family members
      will be examined to investigate the inheritance pattern of this syndrome and its relationship
      to POAG.
    
  