
    
      The investigators will perform a registry-based standardized prospective Natural History
      Study (NHS) in SPAX and related disorders. Participants will be seen annually. At study
      visits a standardized clinical examination will be performed including application of
      clinical rating scales (selection of rating scales may vary depending on the individual
      phenotype and specific genotype); data will be entered into a clinical database (HSP
      Registry; https://www.hsp-registry.net and ARCA Registry; www.ARCA-registry.org). At all
      study visits, patients will be asked to donate biosamples; biomaterial collection is optional
      and participants can elect to participate in sampling of blood, urine, CSF, and/or a skin
      biopsy.

      Optionally, additional examinations may be performed including imaging, quantitative movement
      analysis, neuropsychological examinations, analysis of patient or observer reported outcomes
      and OMICS analysis to characterize molecular biomarkers.

      In participants without a genetic diagnosis, next generation sequencing may be performed.

      Thus this study will establish a model of disease progression and mechanistic evolution in
      SPAX, which will allow to track and understand selective as well as overlapping dysfunction
      of the cerebellum and corticospinal tract. In a transatlantic natural history study we will
      longitudinally validate clinician- and patient-reported, digital and molecular outcomes. In
      addition, we will improve on existing and develop new outcome parameters that show superior
      sensitivity to change. These include a novel clinical SPAX composite score, a smartphone
      mHealth toolbox combining remote assessment of daily living by wearable sensors with
      app-based patient-entered outcomes (SPAX.app), and multimodal MRI radiomics with an
      innovative machine learning approach for multisite MRI analysis, including in particular the
      infratentorial space. Longitudinal validation of targeted fluid biomarker candidates will
      aslo be an important part.
    
  