
    
      BAY 43-9006® (Sorafenib) is an experimental agent designed to stop the growth of cancer
      cells.

      In order to enroll in this study, you must also be enrolled in Protocol 2005-0823: A
      Biomarker-integrated study in Chemorefractory patients with advanced Non-Small Cell Lung
      Cancer. Protocol 2005-0823 is the screening study in a group of studies called the BATTLE
      program. Participants in Protocol 2005-0823 are assigned to one of the treatment studies. The
      results of your tumor analysis helped the study doctor determine to assign you to this
      particular treatment study.

      While on study, you will take 2 tablets of sorafenib each morning, and again each evening.
      Sorafenib should be taken with about 1 cup of water on an empty stomach (either 1 hour before
      a meal or 2 hours after a meal). Sorafenib must be swallowed whole without chewing. If you
      feel nauseated before or after taking the medication, anti-nausea medications should be used.
      If you miss a dose, you should skip it and take the next scheduled dose at the right time.
      Your medication should be stored at room temperature.

      Every 4 weeks (1 cycle) your complete medical history will be recorded and you will have a
      physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, temperature, and
      breathing rate) and weight. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be drawn for routine
      tests. You will have a performance status evaluation (questions about your ability to perform
      everyday activities) and blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check your blood clotting
      function. Your study doctor will also ask you about any medications you are taking and your
      smoking history. You will be asked to record your weekly blood pressure for the first 6 weeks
      of study treatment. The study doctor or research nurse will review the log at each clinic
      visit.

      Every 2 cycles, your tumor will be evaluated by chest x-ray and computed tomography (CT) or
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to evaluate the status of the disease. If you are
      taking Coumadin® (warfarin), you will have blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check your
      blood clotting function weekly for the first 6 weeks of treatment and then every cycle after
      that.

      You may continue receiving sorafenib for as long as the cancer responds to study treatment.
      Your doctor may decide to take you off this study if you experience intolerable side effects
      or your medical condition gets worse. If you stop study treatment, you will be allowed to
      enroll in one of the remaining 3 protocols of the BATTLE program.

      After you have stopped taking the study treatment, you will have a physical exam, including
      measurement of vital signs. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine
      tests. You will also have blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check your blood clotting
      function. You will have a performance status evaluation, a chest x-ray, and a CT or MRI scan.
      Following this evaluation, you will be contacted by telephone every 3 months for up to 3
      years, to see how you are doing.

      You have the right to leave the study at any time. If you choose to stop participating in
      this study, you should contact the study chair and/or research nurse. Your doctor may decide
      to take you off this study if your medical condition gets worse and/or you are unable to
      comply with study requirements.

      This is an investigational study. Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) has been approved by the FDA for
      treatment of advanced renal cell cancer; however, it's use in this research study is
      investigational. Up to 62 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 50 will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  