
    
      This single center convenience sample controlled study will admit all subjects admitted to
      the Cardiovascular Surgical ICU unit. Subjects can have up to a Stage III pressure ulcer
      (full thickness ulcer) if they are assessed by the clinical wound team not to require a
      specialty mattress. This 12 bed ICU will have 6 TC500 beds, and 6 existing Total Care beds. A
      waiver of consent is requested for initial bed placement, to accommodate normal bed
      assignments within the facility, however, informed consent will be obtained prior to the
      collection of data for study purposes. Consented subjects will have primary and secondary
      diagnoses recorded, as well as pressure ulcer risk assessments, assessment of ventilation /
      oxygenation support measures, and estimated cardiac condition. They will be followed by daily
      skin assessments until they reach one of the following study endpoints: 1) discharge from the
      850 Cardiovascular SICU unit, 2) have skin breakdown, which in the clinical assessment of the
      wound team staff would require a specialty bed, 3) expire, 4) withdraw informed consent, or
      5) complete the 21 day study period.

      Subjects who experience either development of pressure ulcers, or worsening of their skin
      and/or existing pressure ulcers to the point where a specialty bed is deemed required by the
      wound team staff will be considered treatment failures, and will be placed on the appropriate
      mattress identified by the treating staff of the hospital for their admitted condition. If
      the mattress is a rental therapy mattress, an estimate of the costs to rent this product will
      be calculated for each patient moving onto a rental mattress.

      An assessment of skin care protocol adherence will be performed by the Wound Care team on a
      daily basis where subjects will be audited as to the percent of prescribed measures
      implemented.

      If subjects require rental therapy beds for pressure ulcer development, the costs associated
      with this rental will be estimated (# days x average dollar value). These costs will be
      compared between the rental groups.
    
  