
    
      Crohn's disease is an autoimmune, pan-intestinal disease which can affect any portion of the
      alimentary tract, but which has a preference for the small intestine, the colon, and the
      anus. It is now well established that Crohn's disease most commonly presents with an
      ileocolic distribution, followed by involvement of the small intestine, the colon, and the
      anus. Treatment for Crohn's disease is principally medical, reserving surgery to address
      complications from the disease which cannot be adequately resolved with medication alone. The
      single greatest challenge in treating this incurable disease is dealing with its recurrence
      rate. The cumulative probability of disease recurrence is quite high, with 75% of Crohn's
      patients requiring abdominal surgery at some point during their life.

      Following surgery, recurrence rates are significant, varying depending on the manner in which
      recurrence is defined. With regard to clinical recurrences, where the recrudescence of the
      disease is associated with symptoms caused by new intestinal lesions, the recurrence rate is
      10-20% per year.In some instances, clinical recurrences can appear within 3 months of
      surgery. Taking into account the need for additional surgery as defining a "surgical
      recurrence", reoperation rates for Crohn's disease range from 16% to 65% 10 years after a
      previous surgery. When recurrence is viewed from the vantage point of evidence of new Crohn's
      disease activity based on radiographic studies, radiographic recurrences range from 41-60%
      over the first 10 years following surgery. One of the most common measures of recurrence has
      become demonstrating evidence of new Crohn's disease activity based on colonoscopy. This
      endoscopic recurrence has consistently been shown to be as high as 50-75% at 3 months after
      surgery, and 50-90% at 12 months. It is widely accepted by physicians treating Crohn's
      patients that the appearance of endoscopic lesions has prognostic significance, as endoscopic
      evidence of Crohn's disease temporally precedes radiographic, clinical and surgical
      recurrences.

      The role that Cimzia should play in preventing recurrence of Crohn's disease following
      ileocolectomy for Crohn's disease remains to be determined, as does its relative advantages
      and disadvantages compared to the use of mesalamine.
    
  