
    
      Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia whom estimated prevalence rise
      to more than 5 millions in the US. AD patients display progressive impairment of episodic
      memory and instrumental signs including aphasia, apraxia, and agnosia, together with general
      cognitive decline, death occurring 6-9 years after diagnosis. Up to now, no treatment had
      shown consistent efficacy to stop or slow down the disease. Recently, it has been shown that
      memory abilities have been enhanced by bilateral chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the
      fornix in the hypothalamus, in a patient initially treated for malignant obesity (Hamani C,
      Ann Neurol, 2008). This report showed that neuro-anatomic circuits involved in memory
      processes are reachable and can be modulated. This modulation may have therapeutic
      implications in AD patients with memory decline.

      The primary objectives of this prospective, non-controlled, pilot study are to evaluate the
      feasibility and safety of DBS in AD patients with mild cognitive and memory impairment, and
      to evaluate the efficacy of DBS to slow down or stabilize this decline. The secondary
      objectives are to determine which cognitive and memory aspects are improved, and the duration
      of the efficacy of DBS on AD symptoms.

      The inclusion criteria are: patients with AD (DSM IV) diagnosed less than two years, age
      between 50 and 65, with mild cognitive decline (MMSE between 20 and 24), and specific
      impairment of episodic memory (using the free and cued selective reminding test: FCSRT ),
      able to give and sign an informed consent. Patients with associated DSM I axis pathology,
      contra-indication to surgery or MRI, or preoperative MRI abnormalities will not be included.
      Five patients will be included in a 2-year period.

      The evaluation criteria for feasibility will be the proportion of patients undergoing the
      procedure, chronic stimulation and evaluation process without adverse event (AE). Efficacy
      will be evaluated using numerous cognitive and memory testing including WAIS, MMSE, ADAS
      scales, TMT-A and TMT-B testing, language evaluation, FCSRT and Rey figure. CGI and IADL will
      evaluate global improvement. Neuro-imaging changes after stimulation will be evaluate by
      morphological MRI (hippocampal volume) and functional imaging (PET). Changes in behavioral
      and mood scales, and changes in hypothalamic functions (clinical, biological and hormonal
      assessment) will evaluate safety and tolerance.

      Experimental paradigm: Clinical, neuro-psychological, biological and imaging assessment will
      be performed 3 and one month before and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Bilateral
      electrodes (Medtronic 3389) will be implanted, under local anesthesia, by MR-guided
      frame-based stereotaxy, in the hypothalamic part of the fornix, before its entry in the
      mamillary body (well defined on T2 weighted sequences). Intraoperative stimulation will be
      used to search adverse effects or acute effects. Electrodes will be connected to the
      generator (Kinetra, Medtronic) under general anesthesia. Chronic high-frequency stimulation
      will be delivered immediately after surgery.

      Expected results and perspectives: Spontaneously, neuropsychological scores progressively
      decline with time in AD patients (MMSE 3-4 points decrease and ADAS 6 points increase per
      year). We expect to slow down, or to stabilize these scores after 6, 12 and 24 months of
      stimulation.

      In case of efficacy DBS might offer to AD patient the possibility to slow down/stabilize
      their symptoms, which no other treatment can currently offer, and to increase their quality
      of life.
    
  