
    
      Patients who require vitrectomy for any indication and those meeting the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be included. Patients will be consented to participate in the study and for
      surgery.

      Nondiabetic patients will be included in one of two groups. Twenty will receive topical
      ketorolac (Acuvail速) preoperatively for 3 days and then samples will be taken at the time of
      surgery. Twenty other patients will serve as controls for intraocular prostaglandin and
      cytokine levels (to be compared to diabetic patients). This group will not receive
      preoperative ketorolac (Acuvail速).

      Diabetic patients will be included in one of two groups. Twenty patients will have
      intraocular prostaglandin and cytokine levels measured. Twenty other patients will be in the
      interventional group to determine if topical ketorolac (Acuvail速) can successfully lower
      intraocular prostaglandin and inflammatory cytokine levels.

      In all cases, patients are undergoing vitreoretinal surgery as the surgical treatment of
      choice for their condition. For this study, undiluted samples will be drawn from the vitreous
      cavity and anterior chamber at the beginning of the vitrectomy. These samples will be stored,
      analyzed and frozen.

      Samples will be tested for prostaglandin levels, in addition to other inflammatory cytokines,
      and ketorolac levels.

      Three days of Acuvail速 given four times per day was chosen, as previous studies have shown
      that one dose of ketorolac 0.4% achieves a peak aqueous concentration of 57.5 ng/mL,1 and
      that 12 doses over two days achieves an aqueous concentration of 1079 ng/mL.2 Both values are
      well above the IC50 for COX-1 (5.3 to 7.5 ng/mL) and COX-2 (33.9-45.2 ng/mL). The upper end
      of this dosing spectrum was chosen, as more doses and a longer duration of therapy is likely
      required to achieve sufficient vitreous levels to inhibit COX-1 and COX-2. This dosing
      regimen was also used in another clinical study that assessed ketorolac levels and
      prostaglandin levels in the vitreous cavity after topical administration four times a day for
      three days preoperatively.3
    
  