
    
      Pancreatic Fistula (PF) remains the main complication following pancreatic surgery with an
      incidence described in up to 45% of cases, even in high volume centers. It can determine the
      onset of other complications such as abdominal abscesses, surgical wound infections, sepsis
      and bleeding, sometimes fatal. In addition, the economic impact due to the extension of
      hospital stay and the management costs of the PF are not of secondary importance.

      The International Study Group on Pancreatic Fistula (ISGFP) has standardized the definition
      of PF identifying it as "the leak from a surgical or percutaneous drainage of any measurable
      quantity of fluid, starting from the third postoperative day (POD3), with an amylase content
      three times higher than the upper normal limit of serum amylases. " However, according to
      this definition, all patients who satisfy this condition, even in the absence of any clinical
      signs or symptoms, are defined as suffering from pancreatic fistula.

      To overcome this, a three grades classification system of PF was introduced, based on the
      clinical impact:

        -  Grade A: It is biochemical fistula; No intervention needed, not significant change of
           the post-operative hospital stay.

        -  Grade B: it requires an extension of the post-operative hospital stay, the permanence of
           surgical drains, the possible positioning of further drainages under radiological guide,
           antibiotic therapy and the use of artificial, enteral or parenteral nutrition;

        -  grade C: re-surgery is needed. Grade B and C represent clinically relevant fistulas. It
           is therefore evident that a correct definition of PF and its grade (A, B, C) can only be
           formulated "a posteriori".

      However, considering the high prognostic impact of PF, it is needful to identify risk factors
      and diagnostic tools capable of stratifying patients at risk of pancreatic fistula and reach
      an early diagnosis in order to plan better plan both the treatment of it and the
      complications that may arise.

      Many authors assume that the main predictive factor of PF is represented by the level of
      amylases in the abdominal drainage fluid, at different cut-offs and on different
      postoperative days. Others assume that abdominal drainage itself determines the development
      of PF and other complications.

      Molinari has shown that a level of amylase in the abdominal drainage fluid <5000 IU / L in
      POD1 identifies a subgroup of patients at low risk of PF in which abdominal drainage is
      unfavorable to maintain. In Molinari's work, however, patients with PF grade A were also
      considered.

      In his experience, Fong has identified a high-risk of PF subgroup in patients underwent DCP
      with an amylase level in abdominal drainage fluid > 600 IU / L in POD1. The author therefore
      proposed the immediate removal of abdominal drainage in patients considered low risk.

      One of the most consistent bias of the Fong study is that in some patients there was an
      intrapancreatic drainage connected to the outside. Recently, Seykora has shown how in
      patients underwent DCP it is possible to use different amylase level cutoffs on drainage
      fluid in POD1, POD3 and POD5 in order to predict the clinically relevant PF risk and modulate
      the management of surgical drainages.

      One of the limitations of the cut-offs identified by Seykora is represented by the fact that
      they have been identified considering their negative predictive value rather than their
      positive predictive value.

      In a study recently conducted at Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome, Caputo confirmed that
      the dosage of amylase on the abdominal drainage fluid represents the most important
      clinically relevant predictor of PF and has confirmed, as underlined by Seykora, that the
      management of abdominal drainage is necessarily a dynamic process conditioned mainly by the
      serial dosage of amylases on drainage liquid (POD1-3).

      Furthermore, in the Caputo's work, cut-offs of amylases on the abdominal drainage liquid (>
      666 IU / L in POD1 and> 252 IU / L in POD3) have been identified as able to predict more than
      80% of the clinically relevant PF. It has also been shown that the value of the amylases on
      the abdominal drainage fluid in POD3> 207 IU / L and the presence of an abdominal collection
      of dimensions equal to or greater than 5 cm in the abdomen CT without contrast performed on
      the same day significantly correlates with the risk of developing a biliary fistula.

      If confirmed by this study, the practice of maintaining drainage in place up to POD3 could be
      validated. Drainages could be removed in POD3 in case of amylase levels in POD1 <666 U / L
      and amylase levels in POD3 <252 U / L except in cases where the amylase levels in POD3 are ≥
      207 and for which the routine use of abdominal CT on the same day seems to be justified in
      order to detect abdominal collections ≥ 5 cm which confirm the risk of this complication. In
      this latter category of patients, considering the risk of biliary fistula, drainages could be
      maintained beyond POD3.
    
  