
    
      This investigation will be a randomized, observer-masked, controlled, parallel-arm,
      human-subjects clinical trial. Of note, the investigators will be using standard-of-care
      perineural catheters and local anesthetic under their FDA-approved purpose and do not plan to
      research a possible change of indication or use of these drugs as part of this research
      project.

      Consenting adults undergoing surgery with a planned popliteal-sciatic perineural catheter
      placement will be offered enrollment. Study inclusion will be proposed to eligible patients
      prior to surgery. If a patient desires study participation, written, informed consent will be
      obtained using a current UCSD IRB-approved ICF.

      Following written, informed consent, the investigators will collect baseline anthropomorphic
      information (age, sex, height, and the investigatorsight). Subjects will be then be
      randomized using a computer-generated list and opaque, sealed envelopes to one of two
      treatment groups (blocks of 4, no stratification): perineural catheter insertion using (1)
      through-the-needle technique or (2) suture technique. All catheters will be placed by a
      regional anesthesia fellow or resident under the direct supervision and guidance of a
      regional anesthesia attending (or by the attending him/herself).

      All subjects will have a peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard noninvasive
      monitors applied, supplemental oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face mask, and
      positioned prone. Midazolam and fentanyl (IV) will be titrated for patient comfort, while
      ensuring that patients remain responsive to verbal cues. The area that will be subsequently
      covered by the catheter dressing will be clipped of hair, if necessary. The ultrasound will
      be placed to visualize the short axis (cross-section) of the sciatic nerve to identify the
      sciatic nerve bifurcation which will subsequently be marked, as well as the location 5 cm
      cephalad to the bifurcation. The area will be cleaned with chlorhexidine gluconate and
      isopropyl alcohol and a clear, sterile, fenestrated drape applied. The ultrasound probe will
      be placed to visualize the short-axis (cross-section) of the target nerve(s) and the target
      for the catheter to intercept the nerve may be anywhere between the bifurcation and 5 cm
      cephalad to the bifurcation. All catheters will be placed using standard UCSD
      ultrasound-guided perineural catheter techniques as previously described. Normal saline 5-20
      mL will be administered via the needle and/or catheter to allow catheter insertion and/or
      testing of catheter location (viewed with ultrasound).

      Local anesthetic (20 mL, lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 1:200,000-400,000) will be
      administered via the catheter. A "successful" catheter insertion will be defined as
      sensory-block onset in the tibial nerve distribution within 30 minutes following the local
      anesthetic injection. If the nerve block fails, the catheter will be replaced or the patient
      removed from further study.

      An infusion pump will be attached to the patient's perineural catheter and initiated within
      the recovery room. The pump will provide ropivacaine 0.2% at a 6 mL/h basal rate infusion and
      a 4 mL patient-controlled bolus with a 30 minute lockout (standard at UCSD). Subjects will be
      discharged with a prescription for oxycodone 5 mg tablets for supplementary analgesia.
      Subjects will be contacted via phone for 4 days following surgery to collect study outcome
      measures: worst, average, least, and current surgical pain (Numeric Rating Scale of 0 to 10,
      with "0" being no pain and "10" being the worst pain ever experienced), analgesic use (oral
      opioids and infusion boluses), sleep disturbances, opioid and local anesthetic infusion side
      effects, local anesthetic leakage, gross catheter dislodgement, sensory and motor block, and
      satisfaction with pain control. Subjects or their caretakers will remove the catheters at
      home.

      Primary endpoint:

      Hypothesis 1: Surgical pain will be noninferior within the first 2 days following foot/ankle
      surgery with a suture-method compared with a through-the-needle perineural catheter when used
      for a continuous popliteal-sciatic nerve block to provide postoperative analgesia (the mean
      "average" pain measured daily with a Numeric Rating Scale).

      Hypothesis 2: Opioid consumption will be noninferior within the first 2 days following
      foot/ankle surgery with a suture-method compared with a through-the-needle perineural
      catheter when used for a continuous popliteal-sciatic nerve block to provide postoperative
      analgesia (cumulative dose).
    
  