
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To improve the 3-year event-free survival (EFS) rate of high-risk neuroblastoma patients
      through treatment with a tandem consolidation of thiotepa/cyclophosphamide followed by
      carboplatin/etoposide/melphalan (CEM) as compared to single CEM consolidation.

      II. To improve the rate of end-induction complete response and very good partial response,
      compared to historical controls, by use of a topotecan-containing induction regimen.

      III. To improve the 3-year local control rate, compared to historical controls, by increasing
      the local dose of radiation to the residual primary tumor for patients with less than a gross
      total resection.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacogenetic relationship of cyclophosphamide metabolizing enzymes
      (CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and GSTA1 genotypes) with toxicity and response following dose-intensive
      cyclophosphamide and topotecan induction chemotherapy.

      II. To determine if resection completeness is predictive of a) local control rate; or b) EFS
      rate in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

      III. To prospectively describe the complications related to efforts at local control (surgery
      and radiation therapy) in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

      IV. To describe the neurologic outcome of patients with paraspinal primary neuroblastoma
      tumors.

      V. To determine the variability of 13-cis-retinoic-acid pharmacokinetics and relationship to
      pharmacogenomic parameters and determine if pharmacokinetics and/or genetic variations
      correlate with EFS or systemic toxicity as follows: a) To determine the variability of
      13-cis-retinoic-acid pharmacokinetics and relationship to pharmacogenomic parameters. b) To
      determine if 13-cis-retinoic-acid pharmacokinetic levels are predictive of the EFS rate or
      associated with systemic toxicity following 13-cis-retinoic acid. c) To determine if
      pharmacogenomic variations are predictive of the EFS rate or associated with systemic
      toxicity following 13-cis-retinoic acid.

      VI. To evaluate total topotecan pharmacokinetics and correlate with patient specific data for
      use in an ongoing topotecan population pharmacokinetic analysis.

      VII. To evaluate the presence and function of T cells capable of recognizing neuroblastoma by
      assessing: a) if T cells recognizing the neuroblastoma antigen, survivin, circulate at
      diagnosis; b) if these T cells can be expanded using autologous antigen presenting cells
      (APCs); c) if these T cells will kill neuroblastoma cells as detected in functional assays;
      and d) if the presence and activity of anti-neuroblastoma immunity is decreased by stem cell
      transplantation.

      VIII. To characterize the recovery of T- cell numbers after myeloablative consolidation and
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) and assess the impact of tandem myeloablative
      consolidation on T- cell recovery.

      IX. To characterize minimal residual disease burden using reverse transcriptase-polymerase
      chain reaction (RT-PCR) evaluation of a panel of neuroblastoma specific transcripts in
      patient bone marrow and peripheral blood following induction chemotherapy and after single
      versus tandem myeloablative chemotherapy and to evaluate impact on EFS.

      X. To evaluate the EFS and overall survival (OS) rate for patients 12-18 months with Stage 4,
      MYCN nonamplified tumor with unfavorable histopathology or diploid DNA content or with
      indeterminant histology or ploidy and patients who are greater than 547 days of age with
      Stage 3, MYCN nonamplified tumor AND unfavorable histopathology or indeterminant histology
      following treatment with single myeloablative transplant.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY:

      COURSES 1 AND 2: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes and topotecan
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV
      beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 2 courses. Patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization and harvest
      after course 2.

      COURSES 3 AND 5: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-4, etoposide IV over 1
      hour on days 1-3, and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts
      recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients undergo surgical resection
      of soft tissue disease after course 5 (or after course 6 if medically necessary).

      COURSES 4 AND 6: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 6 hours on days 1-2, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride IV over 24 hours on days 1-3, vincristine IV on days 1-3, and G-CSF SC or IV
      beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 2 courses.

      Patients are then stratified by initial stage of disease and MYCN status, biologic
      characteristics, and response to induction chemotherapy (complete response/very good partial
      response vs partial response vs mixed response/no response). Patients are randomized to 1 of
      2 arms. Patients 12?18 months old (i.e., 365-547 days) with stage IV, MYCN nonamplified tumor
      with unfavorable histopathology or diploid DNA content or with indeterminant histology or
      ploidy AND patients who are 547 days of age with stage III, MYCN nonamplified tumor AND
      unfavorable histopathology or indeterminant histology will be nonrandomly assigned to Arm A.
      Patients begin consolidation chemotherapy no later than 8 weeks after the start of induction
      course 6.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY:

      ARM A (single myeloablative consolidation): Patients receive melphalan IV over 15-30 minutes
      on days -7 to -5, etoposide IV over 24 hours and carboplatin IV over 24 hours on days -7 to
      -4, and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients
      undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) on day 0.

      ARM B (tandem myeloablative consolidation): Patients receive thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days
      -7 to -5, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2, and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on
      day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover. Following clinical recovery from initial
      myeloablative therapy, patients also receive melphalan, etoposide, and carboplatin as in Arm
      A. Patients undergo autologous PBSCT on day 0.

      RADIOTHERAPY: Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to primary site of
      disease as well as to MIBG-avid sites seen at pre-transplantation (i.e., end-induction)
      evaluation between 28-42 days post-transplant. Additional radiotherapy is administered to
      residual tumor at primary site.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients are encouraged to enroll onto Children?s Oncology Group
      (COG)-ANBL0032 following assessment of tumor response after completion of the consolidation
      phase and radiotherapy. Beginning on day 60 post-transplantation patients receive oral
      isotretinoin twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 months in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood and
      tissue sample collection periodically for the following analyses; correlation between peak
      serum concentration level and the existence of polymorphisms, event-free survival, and
      toxicity rates; pharmacogenomics for uridine diphosphate (UDP) glucuronosyltransferase 1
      family, polypeptide A1 (UGT1A1), UGT2B7, CYP2C8 and CYP3A7 alleles; topotecan systemic
      clearance; survivin-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) detected using peptide/major
      histocompatibility complex (MHC) tetramers in human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2+ patients;
      interferon (IFN)-gamma production in enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays to APCs loaded
      with tumor ribonucleic acid (RNA), survivin RNA, or control RNA; response of APC-stimulated
      CTL response to neuroblastoma cells; rate of T cell recovery; and proportion of patients with
      neuroblastoma detected in bone marrow and peripheral blood using RT-PCR and
      immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years and
      then annually for 5 years.
    
  