
    
      Patients Sixty-eight patients undergoing elective coronary bypass surgery with a MECC system
      were consecutively enrolled and randomized into a no pump group (blood cardioplegia
      administration without roller pump) or pump group (blood cardioplegia administration with
      roller pump). Exclusion criteria were: previous cardiac surgery, scheduled surgery with less
      than 3 distal anastomoses, left ventricular ejection fraction <45%, chronic renal failure
      (defined by preoperative creatinine >177 µmol/L) and aortic insufficiency ≥ grade 1. The
      medical ethics committee of the St. Antonius Hospital approved this study and written
      informed consent was obtained for each patient prior to the surgical procedure.

      Administration of blood cardioplegia In all patients warm blood cardioplegia was administered
      via the aortic root immediately after aortic cross-clamping. Warm blood cardioplegia
      consisted of oxygenated blood with added Potassium Chloride/Magnesium Sulphate (KCl/Mg SO4;
      Pharmacy Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, The Netherlands: K+ 1.7 mmol/mL, Cl- 1.7 mmol/mL,
      Mg2+ 0.17 mmol/mL en SO4- 0.17 mmol/mL). An infusion pump was used for the addition of KCl/Mg
      SO4. Dosage was based on a blood cardioplegia flow of 200 mL/min and adjusted according to
      the following protocol: the initial dose of KCl/MgSO4 was 5.7 mmol/min (= 6.7 mL), the second
      dose was 3.4 mmol/min (= 4 mL) and subsequent doses were 2.6 mmol/min (= 3 mL). Each dose was
      given over a period of 2 minutes. Every 15 minutes the administration of blood cardioplegia
      was repeated. In case of recurring ECG activity, blood cardioplegia was given with aberrant
      intervals.

      In the no pump group blood cardioplegia was delivered using the arterial line pressure,
      created by the arterial centrifugal pump of the cardiopulmonary bypass system. Blood
      cardioplegia flow depended on the difference between arterial line pressure and aortic root
      pressure. In the pump group blood cardioplegia was delivered using a roller pump. The blood
      cardioplegia flow was given at 200 mL/min.

      Blood sample collection and analyses Blood was collected in EDTA tubes (6 mL) at baseline
      after induction of anaesthesia (T0), after arrival at the ICU (T1), 4 hours in ICU (T2) and
      at the first postoperative day (T3). Blood samples were fractionated by centrifuging
      1500-2000 x g for 15 min. Plasma was collected and stored at -80°C until analysis. The
      following biomarkers were analysed: Troponin T high sensitive (TnT-hs), Heart-type Fatty Acid
      Binding Protein (H-FABP), N-terminal brain natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) and C-reactive
      protein (CRP).
    
  