
    
      We hypothesize that infertile couples with the female partner 38-43 years of age and
      demonstrating an adequate ovarian reserve will have higher pregnancy rates at no more cost
      through immediate IVF than they would through infertility treatment in which IVF is preceded
      by either two cycles of clomiphene with IUI or two cycles of FSH with IUI.

      This hypothesis is being tested by conducting a randomized clinical trial of couples in which
      the female partner between her 38th and 43rd birthday and determined to have normal ovarian
      reserve by CCT, and who would otherwise be candidates for ovulation induction/IUI as their
      initial treatment. The trial will evaluate the efficacy, cost and cost-effectiveness of three
      alternative infertility treatment strategies: (1) two cycles of clomiphene/IUI followed by
      IVF, (2) two cycles of FSH/IUI followed by IVF, and (3) immediate IVF; the IVF treatment will
      include a maximum of four fresh cycles of IVF and two thaw cycles. The trial has the
      following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To compare the proportion of women with a clinically recognized intrauterine pregnancy
      after two cycles of treatment with clomiphene/IUI, FSH/IUI, or IVF.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the overall effectiveness of the three treatment strategies, and their
      associated complications.

      Aim 3: To evaluate the costs and cost effectiveness of the three treatment strategies,
      including direct and indirect medical costs.

      The study participants will be involved in the study for varying amounts of time. The
      duration of the study will be determined by the treatment cycle in which the participant
      becomes pregnant. It could be as short as several months' treatment plus the duration of the
      pregnancy or it could be as long as several years if the participant does not get pregnant or
      takes breaks during treatment.

      This is a collaborative study between Dartmouth College, Boston IVF, Brigham and Women's
      Hospital, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, and Tufts
      Health Plan.

      Total expected enrollment: 450 Couples
    
  