
    
      AlfaOmega is an observational study that will follow a stage-mixed cohort of at least 500
      patients through their course of treatments, until death or a minimum of 5 years. Patients
      will be longitudinally sampled and matched clinical data (including imaging) will be
      collected. Via a multi-tiered informed consensus process, AlphaOmega will also allow to
      develop companion diagnostics for molecular enrichment strategies in AIRC-driven
      proof-of-concept trials. To achieve the required level of 'experimental precision', patients
      will enter AlphaOmega at two different 'therapeutic checkpoints': i) prior to a surgical
      event or ii) prior to a systemic treatment. In the latter case patients with no previous
      lines of therapy for metastatic disease will be privileged.

      To optimize the enrollment of patients, the longitudinal collection of data/samples and their
      logistic management, AlphaOmega has been designed as a flexible infrastructure organized in
      TIERS for the stepwise comprehension of the biological processes that drive tumor evolution,
      and precisely:

        -  TIER1, Monitoring: the ability to follow CRC evolution under standard of care treatments
           and to define new evolution-linked biomarkers. This will be achieved through the
           collection of clinical data, imaging data, FFPE tissue and frozen plasma/PBMC.

        -  TIER2, Modelling: the ability to develop pertinent experimental models to study
           evolutionary mechanisms and define evolution-targeting therapeutic strategies. This will
           be achieved through the collection of Fresh Tissue, Whole Blood, Stools, Buccal Swabs
           and other fluids.

        -  TIER3, Linking: the ability to access data and samples of patients enrolled in
           proof-of-concept trials to prove the efficacy and study/understand resistance mechanisms
           of evolution-targeting therapies. This will be achieved by introducing the connection in
           the trial protocol.
    
  