
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to compare the Meru Health Program plus
      adjunctive curcumin (MHP-CUR) versus Meru Health Program only (MHP-ONLY) for adults with
      depression. Meru Health is a 12-week integrative treatment program based on several
      evidence-based practices and overseen by licensed clinical therapists that is delivered via a
      Smartphone app. The primary objective of the study is to determine the feasibility, initial
      efficacy (depressive symptoms), and potential harms of taking adjunctive curcumin
      supplementation during the 12-week MHP among adults with depression. Secondary objectives
      include comparing changes in inflammation biomarkers, anxiety, worker productivity, and
      burnout that occur during the program between those in MHP-CUR and MHP-ONLY.

      This feasibility study will use a randomized controlled trial of up to 60 adult patients with
      depression. Patients will be recruited through Facebook ads, complete online and
      telephone/Zoom screening and, if eligible, invited to participate in the 12-week Meru Health
      program. One group will be randomized to being in the MHP plus receiving curcumin
      supplementation (MHP-CUR) and the other will be randomized to being in the MHP only
      (MHP-only). The MHP overseen by a licensed therapist who is available to the participant as
      needed via text messaging and, when requested, telephone. The program is delivered via an app
      downloaded to the user's Smartphone made available via email. The lab orders will be sent to
      each patient's Ultalabs center of choice or, if preferred, done in the patient's home. All
      study participants (in both groups) will be asked to get their blood drawn before starting
      the program, 6 weeks into the program, and just after the 12-week program. Two vials of blood
      will be taken at each visit, one to test for high sensitivity-CRP (hs-CRP) levels and the
      other to test for interleukin (IL-6) levels. 2ml of serum is needed for each vial. Patients
      in both groups will receive a wearable HRVB device via US mail; patients in the MHP-CUR group
      will also receive curcumin supplements via US mail. All non-laboratory study assessments will
      be made via the app and online via email.
    
  