
    
      HIV is a virus that can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a disease that
      breaks down the immune system and allows for entry of life-threatening secondary infections.
      HIV is transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, primarily through sexual
      intercourse. South Africa has been one of the countries in which the AIDS pandemic has had an
      especially devastating effect. New cases of HIV infection in South Africa have been occurring
      at a high rate in people 15 to 24 years of age. There is no vaccine or cure for HIV yet,
      making disease prevention methods imperative. An important part of the prevention process is
      early education on HIV to reduce sexual-risk behavior and to promote safe sexual practices.
      This study will evaluate the effect of an HIV/STD risk-reduction program on the sexual
      behavior of South African adolescents.

      In this single-blind study, participants will include sixth grade students from 18 South
      African schools that meet study criteria. The participants will be randomly divided into 2
      structurally similar treatment groups. One group will take part in HIV/STD risk-reduction
      sessions, while the other group will take part in health promotion sessions. There will be 12
      total sessions, each lasting 1 hour. The participants in the HIV/STD risk-reduction group
      will be taught to practice abstinence and condom use through interactive activities, comic
      workbooks, and take-home assignments. Through similar methods, the participants in the health
      promotion group will be taught about general health problems, such as heart disease,
      diabetes, alcohol and drug abuse, and certain cancers. Participants will also be taught
      healthful behaviors to help prevent these health problems. All participants will provide
      self-reports of sexual behavior and precautionary methods used in sexual intercourse
      immediately before the first and after the last treatment sessions. Follow-up evaluations
      will occur at Months 3, 6, 12, 42, and 54 months post-treatment. STDs will be assessed 42 and
      54 months post-treatment
    
  