
    
      General Aims:

      This pilot RCT aims to assess the feasibility and acceptability of a muscle relaxation
      intervention with guided imagery (experimental group - GE) compared to a neutral guided
      imagery placebo (active control group - ACG) and a group that does not receive any
      psychological intervention (passive control group - PCG), prior to the implementation of a
      future definitive RCT that will assess its effectiveness.

      This study will also examine, qualitatively, the perspectives of patients with DFU regarding
      the relaxation intervention, in order to check its acceptability and applicability; as well
      as the perspectives of health professionals on this adjuvant therapy, its applicability and
      integration into the multidisciplinary team of diabetic foot consultations.

      Pilot RCT specific aims:

        1. To evaluate the rates of eligibility, recruitment and adherence to the study protocol,
           participation in follow-up, and withdrawal. The degree of patient satisfaction with the
           relaxation intervention will also be assessed.

        2. To verify the feasibility of the assessment protocol and to obtain preliminary estimates
           of the effects of the intervention on health outcome measures (degree of DFU healing,
           DFU-related quality of life, anxiety, depression and stress, DFU representations and
           physical and mental quality of life);

        3. Synthesize the information to estimate the sample size required for a future definitive
           RCT.

           Qualitative study nested in Pilot RCT specific aims:

        4. To understand the perspective of patients and health professionals about the relaxation
           sessions;

        5. To explore the contribution of the relaxation sessions to the DFU healing and patients'
           quality of life;

        6. To describe the changes perceived in the patient during the period of relaxation
           sessions;

        7. To analyse the relevance of implementing relaxation sessions in the multidisciplinary
           team consultation of diabetic foot.

      Data Analysis:

      To assess the feasibility of this pilot study (aim 1), the rates of eligibility, recruitment
      and adherence to the study protocol, participation in the follow-up and withdrawal will be
      calculated and its results will be presented in percentage. The results of the degree of
      satisfaction with the intervention will be presented through mean and standard deviation. To
      obtain preliminary estimates of the intervention effects' on health outcome measures (aim 2),
      descriptive measures of the respective variables (means and standard deviations) will be
      calculated and Generalised Mixed Models will be used to check for statistically significant
      differences over time, in the different groups. Data will be analysed using IBM SPSS
      Statistics 26 for Mac. Finally, from the data obtained, the sample size for a future
      definitive RCT will be calculated (aim 3).

      To answer the aims 4 to 7, a semi-structured interview guide consisting of open-ended
      questions will be administered to patients with DFU that benefited from the relaxation
      sessions and to the health professionals who provided them the DFU care. This script will
      remain unchanged throughout the interviews. The audio recording of the interviews will be
      done using a tablet, transcribed verbatim and anonymised in order to safeguard participants
      and data confidentiality. The transcripts of the interviews will be analysed in the same
      order as conducted, using the thematic content analysis technique (Bardin, 2016).

      Sample size calculation:

      The sample size calculation for a pilot RCT, considering the average effect size of 0.5, a
      statistical power of 80% and a significance level of 5%, revealed that 12 participants were
      needed in each of the groups (Cocks & Torgerson, 2013). This approach considers that a
      one-sided 80% confidence interval for the effect size will exclude the minimum clinically
      significant difference if the null hypothesis is true (Brown & Lilford, 2006).

      Procedure:

      The doctor or nurse, in the medical appointment, identifies patients that meet the medical
      inclusion criteria. Patients are invited to participate in the study by the Researcher at the
      end of the medical appointment and are informed about the aims of the study and the voluntary
      nature of participation through informed and informative consent. If patients agree to
      participate, they will sign the consent form. Nurses will then complete RESVECH 2.0 at the
      end of the appointment and doctors will complete the clinical questionnaire. Afterwards, the
      Researcher will accompany the patient to a room provided by the Hospital in order to
      administer the battery of questionnaires in the interview format.

      After answering the questionnaires, the researcher will score the PSS and HADS instruments to
      identify the presence of significant clinical levels of stress, anxiety and depression, and
      if the patient is eligible, at the end of that week, the participant will be randomized into
      one of three possible groups.

      In the next diabetic foot appointment, the respective participant will be informed about the
      group to which he or she has been allocated and whether will benefit, if appropriate, from
      four sessions of relaxation (EG) or neutral guided imagery (ACG), depending on the group. If
      the participant is available, the first session will take place on the same day. The
      following sessions will be scheduled according to the medical diabetic foot consultations. In
      each session, two assessments of blood pressure and heart rate will be performed, before
      starting the session and at the end of the session. At the end of the fourth session, the T1
      assessment will be performed, with a new administration of the questionnaires. Six months
      after T0, the T2 (follow-up) evaluation will take place, with the last administration of the
      questionnaires.

      The interviews with patients, who completed the four sessions of relaxation, and with health
      professionals, will be conducted two weeks after T1, by a different researcher than the one
      involved in the intervention, to reduce the bias of social desirability.
    
  