
    
      1. FNL Despite a wealth of animal studies (Amanoel et al, 2016; Bach et al, 2012), human
           FNL research is in relative infancy.

           This study intends to investigate FNL in humans by exploring preferences of participants
           of different selenium-status regarding selenium-enriched parsnips, with non-enriched
           parsnips and other root vegetables to be used as comparators.

           Participants will be assessed by means of food sensory tests and blood analysis before,
           during and after the trial period.

           The trial aims to recruit 26 lower selenium-status participants of initial
           selenium-status approx. 70μg/L, and 26 higher selenium-status participants of initial
           selenium-status approx. 100μg/L (n=52). (Initial screening sample approx. n=120.) On
           initial screening, potential participants recording a selenium-status of under 28μg/L or
           over 400μg/L will be excluded (and their GP informed) for safety reasons.

           Re parsnips:

           Selenium-enriched parsnips: Se content approx. 0.30ppm. Placebo comparator:
           non-selenium-enriched parsnips: Se content approx. 0.06ppm. Treatment portion: 200g
           fresh weight per day for 14 days. Comparator vegetables: potato, celeriac, turnip.

        2. Relationship between selenium intake & plasma selenium-status. This study will also
           investigate the relationship, if any, between the selenium intake of all participants
           via the different types of parsnips and their individual selenium status. This will be
           assessed via blood tests before, during and after the trial in order to observe
           plasma-selenium status.

      This is deemed an important area for research as research suggests a trend towards selenium
      deficiency in the United Kingdom population (SACN, 2013). It is hoped the current study may
      inform the debate regarding the potential of improving United Kingdom's population selenium
      status via selenium-fortified foods.
    
  