
    
      Introduction Transition creates a time of vulnerability for the child, the parents and their
      relationship. Failure to adjust to the transition, on the part of either parents or children,
      might place the family in a psychological devastating position. There is an imperative need
      to develop and evaluate appropriate interventions for parents so that they can contribute to
      helping their children enjoy a smooth passage to a pleasurable learning life in primary
      school.

      Aim The aims of this study were to test the effectiveness of a parental training programme to
      enhance parent-child relationship and reduce harsh parenting practices and parental stress in
      the preparation of children for transition to primary school.

      Methods A randomized controlled trial, two-group pre-test and repeated post-test,
      between-subjects design was employed. The method of simple complete randomization was
      adopted. Recruitment and data collection were conducted during the summer in 2009.
      Participants were recruited through referrals from the Hong Kong Sheung Kung Hui Welfare
      Council in Tung Chung. Written consent was obtained from parents after they were told the
      purposes of the study and agreed to participate. Parents were told that they were under no
      obligation to participate, could withdraw from the study with impunity at any time and were
      assured of the confidentiality of the data to be collected.

      After they had signed consent forms, a research assistant collected demographic and baseline
      data from parents. Data collection was divided into three phases: at the time of recruitment
      (pre-intervention), at six weeks and three months after the intervention. Parents were asked
      to respond to the Chinese version of the parental acceptance-rejection scale, parental stress
      scale, and self-report scale on parent-child relationship in respect of the transition from
      kindergarten to primary school.
    
  