
    
      Current tools for assessing airway inflammation and oxidative stress, such as fibre-optic
      bronchoscopy with bronchial wall biopsy and bronchial fluid lavage, are mostly invasive
      procedures that are not suitable for routine clinical practice or regular repeat sampling.
      Sample analysis requires a series of laboratory measurements and results can take over 24
      hours to become available.

      Induced sputum analysis is a semi-invasive means of assessing airway inflammation but is not
      always well tolerated by patients and again is not suitable for repeat sampling.

      Non-invasive methods of measuring airway inflammation assess exhaled gases. Fractional
      exhaled Nitric Oxide (FeNO) measures eosinophilic airway inflammation. However, this test
      requires controlled exhalation for at least 6 seconds, making the test unsuitable for
      patients with impaired lung function, who are often not able to sustain this length of
      breath. Furthermore FeNO does not provide information about neutrophilic airway inflammation,
      a recognised component of steroid insensitive asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD).

      In contrast, measurement of Exhaled Breath Condensate Hydrogen Peroxide (EBC H2O2) is
      performed during normal tidal breathing, and is well tolerated even in patients with severe
      airways obstruction and those unable to perform a consistent controlled exhalation. It is
      also not limited to inflammatory cell specific inflammation.

      To date, the measurement of EBC H2O2 has been used as a research tool only, due to the
      complex multiple procedural steps required to deliver a result from the collected exhaled
      breath. Exhalation Technology Ltd. have now developed a novel, handheld device
      (Inflammacheck™) which can produce an immediate measurement of EBC H2O2 levels at the
      patients side. By detecting EBC H2O2 levels immediately, Inflammacheck™ could tell clinicians
      and patients the current level of global airway inflammation in a simple, effort independent
      manner. This could be used by clinicians to diagnose asthma and COPD, to determine a
      patient's phenotype and to guide correct and personalised treatment. It could also measure
      increased levels of airway inflammation that may indicate an exacerbation.

      The 'Inflammacheck™' device now requires a study in a clinical setting to determine whether
      it can differentiate asthma and COPD from healthy, whether it can distinguish mild from
      severe disease and whether it can detect an acute exacerbation of these chronic respiratory
      conditions. The acceptability and ease of use of the device also needs to be assessed for
      both patients and clinicians.
    
  