
    
      Retinal angiomatous proliferation (RAP) is one of the variants of wet form of age-related
      macular degeneration (wAMD). Neovascularization in RAP grows from the retinal deep capillary
      plexus into the subretinal space where it forms subretinal and later choroidal
      neovascularization. It is often accompanied with high macular edema and pigment epithelium
      detachment (PED). As with other forms of wAMD, treatment with intravitreal antiVEGF drugs is
      highly effective. In our study, we would like to compare the efficacy of 2 antiVEGF drugs -
      aflibercept and brolucizumab - in the treatment of RAP.

      This is a prospective, randomised, comparative study comparing the best corrected visual
      acuity (BCVA) and central retinal thickness (CRT) on optical coherence tomography (OCT) in
      the 16th, 26th and 52nd week of the study between patients with RAP treated with aflibercept
      and brolucizumab. In the 52nd week, the total number of injections between both groups will
      be also compared.

      Visit plan:

      Screening visit - 14 to 1 day prior to baseline. Informed consent will be signed prior to any
      other study procedures. Ocular and medical history will be written down. BCVA of both eyes
      will be tested on ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure (IOP) will be measured. Slit
      lamp anterior segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of both eyes will be performed in
      artificial mydriasis. OCT and OCTA of both eyes will be performed. Colour fundus photograph
      (FP) and red-free (RF) FP of the macula of both eyes will be performed. Based on the
      examination results, patients eligibility for the study will be assessed.

      Baseline - day 1 - VFQ-25 questionnaire will be done with the patient. BCVA of both eyes will
      be tested on ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure (IOP) will be measured. Slit lamp
      anterior segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of both eyes will be performed in
      artificial mydriasis. OCT of both eyes will be performed. Based on the examination results,
      patients eligibility for the study will be assessed. Eligible patients will be randomised and
      study medication will be given.

      Week 4, Week 8 - adverse events connected to study drugs or study procedures will be
      assessed. BCVA of both eyes will be tested on ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure
      (IOP) will be measured. Slit lamp anterior segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of
      both eyes will be performed in artificial mydriasis. OCT of both eyes will be performed.
      Study medication will be given.

      Week 16 - adverse events connected to study drugs or study procedures will be assessed. BCVA
      of both eyes will be tested on ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure (IOP) will be
      measured. Slit lamp anterior segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of both eyes will
      be performed in artificial mydriasis. OCT of both eyes will be performed. OCTA of the study
      eye (SE) will be performed. Study medication will be given. Next treatment visit will be
      scheduled based on the disease activity on the OCT, the ocular examination findings and the
      BCVA:

        1. group - aflibercept - treatment interval can be left on 8 weeks or extended by 2 or 4
           weeks based on the presence or absence of subretinal or intraretinal fluid or PED on the
           OCT, on the BCVA and on the presence of other signs of disease activity on the fundus
           examination (e.g. haemorrhage, hard exudates). Final decision is on the investigator.

        2. group - brolucizumab - aflibercept - treatment interval can be left on 8 weeks or
           prolonged to 12 weeks based on the presence or absence of subretinal or intraretinal
           fluid or PED on the OCT, on the BCVA and on the presence of other signs of disease
           activity on the fundus examination (e.g. haemorrhage, hard exudates). Final decision is
           on the investigator.

      Week 24 to week 48 - adverse events connected to study drugs or study procedures will be
      assessed. BCVA of both eyes will be tested on ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure
      (IOP) will be measured. Slit lamp anterior segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of
      both eyes will be performed in artificial mydriasis. OCT of both eyes will be performed.
      Study medication will be given. Next treatment visit will be scheduled based on the disease
      activity on the OCT, the ocular examination findings and the BCVA:

        1. group - aflibercept - treatment interval can be extended or shortened by 2 or 4 weeks
           based on the presence or absence of subretinal or intraretinal fluid or PED on the OCT,
           on the BCVA and on the presence of other signs of disease activity on the fundus
           examination (e.g. haemorrhage, hard exudates). Maximal treatment interval can be 16
           weeks, minimal 8 weeks. Final decision is on the investigator.

        2. group - brolucizumab - aflibercept - treatment interval can be set to 8 or 12 weeks
           based on the presence or absence of subretinal or intraretinal fluid or PED on the OCT,
           on the BCVA and on the presence of other signs of disease activity on the fundus
           examination (e.g. haemorrhage, hard exudates). Final decision is on the investigator.

      W26 - adverse events connected to study drugs or study procedures will be assessed. BCVA of
      both eyes will be tested on ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure (IOP) will be
      measured. Slit lamp anterior segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of both eyes will
      be performed in artificial mydriasis. OCT of both eyes will be performed. OCTA of the study
      eye (SE) will be performed. Study medication will be given and next treatment visit will be
      scheduled based on the disease activity on the OCT, the ocular examination findings and the
      BCVA if planned based on patients treatment schedule.

      W52 - VFQ-25 questionnaire will be done with the patient. BCVA of both eyes will be tested on
      ETDRS charts. Non-contact intraocular pressure (IOP) will be measured. Slit lamp anterior
      segment examination and fundus biomicroscopy of both eyes will be performed in artificial
      mydriasis. OCT of both eyes will be performed. OCTA of the study eye (SE) will be performed.
      Colour fundus photograph (FP) and red-free (RF) FP of the macula of both eyes will be
      performed.

      Study procedures:

      OCT - performed on Spectralis OCT (Heidelberg Engineering GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany). CRT
      will be assessed from automatic retinal thickness analysis in 9 ETDRS subfields including the
      central subfield. 49 horizontal scans in the angle of 20x20° 123 um apart in High resolution
      mode with noise reduction set to ART=4 will be performed.

      OCTA - performed on Spectralis OCT (Heidelberg Engineering GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany). 512
      horizontal scans in the angle of 20x20° 11 um apart in High speed mode with noise reduction
      set to ART=5 will be performed.

      Disease activity assessment:

      Based on the decision of the investigator. Shortening of the treatment interval is
      recommended when the BCVA decrease of more than 5 ETDRS letters is observed, in case of
      intra- or subretinal fluid or PED reappearance or increase on the OCT or when new haemorrhage
      or hard exudates are observed in the macula.

      Extension of the treatment interval is recommended in the absence of intra- and subretinal
      fluid and PED on the OCT with better or stable BCVA, or in case the BCVA and OCT findings are
      stable after 3 injections in the shortest possible interval.

      Rescue therapy:

      Ranibizumab may be given as a rescue therapy in case of patients with study drug related
      sight threatening adverse events or with worsening of BCVA and OCT findings even on the
      shortest treatment interval when resistance to study drug is suspected. Switch to rescue
      therapy must be consulted with and approved by principal investigator.
    
  