
    
      Electrophysiological study (EPS) and catheter ablation is an established method for the
      assessment and treatment of many patients with cardiac arrhythmias (altered heart rhythm). It
      is generally carried out in patients who are usually otherwise fairly fit and healthy. In the
      UK many patients undergo this procedure and the numbers are increasing. The procedure
      involves a number of catheters (tubes) being inserted into the femoral vein over a period of
      up to 2 ½ hours. Presence of the catheter in the vein increases the risk of blood clot
      formation, if a clot blocks a deep vein in the leg (deep vein thrombosis), it can lead to
      pain and chronic leg swelling as well as the need for blood thinning (anticoagulant)
      medications. In some patients, fragments of the blood clot can break off and travel to the
      lungs which can be life-threatening. It is important to detect the presence of a clot as soon
      as possible, so that treatment may be given. The investigators hope to establish if the
      condition is more common than originally thought.

      The investigators plan to recruit 100 patients who are due to undergo EPS or catheter
      ablation. Prior to the participant's clinical procedure, the investigators will perform an
      additional blood test to check blood clotting function. After the cardiac procedure, the
      participants will then undergo Doppler ultrasound scans at 24 hours and a second scan between
      10-14 days to check for the presence of blood clots.

      The aim of the study is to increase understanding of how often these blood clots occur and
      confirm if blood tests or current gold-standard imaging is best at showing the early stages
      of blood clot formation. The results of the study will help decide if a clinical trial is
      needed to test whether giving preventative blood thinning treatment after cardiac procedures
      would be beneficial.
    
  