
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a growing problem due to increased longevity and obesity with
      estimates of 14 million people living with this impairment. Knee OA results in decreased
      activity and lifestyle changes, further exacerbating an individual's health. Exoskeleton
      technology (Keeogo , B-temia, Inc.) may be a viable alternative to standard knee OA treatment
      by providing powered support to reduce pain during mobility. To the investigators' knowledge,
      the Keeogo is the only commercially available (in Canada) robotic exoskeleton for a
      non-paralyzed population who can stand and initiate a stepping action, but have impaired
      mobility for functional tasks. Keeogo provides active assistance during stance and swing
      phases and assists users to perform functional mobility tasks including walking, stair
      climbing, sit-to-stand, bending, squatting, and kneeling. Preliminary studies with the Keeogo
      in six persons with knee OA showed efficacy for pain reduction during different mobility
      tasks. Keeogo may have the potential to address functional mobility problems and pain in
      Veterans with knee OA but is not yet approved by the FDA. An in-laboratory evaluation of
      performance outcomes using the Keeogo compared with standard knee braces are lacking. Absence
      of published prescription and general guidelines for use in Veterans with knee OA were also
      identified as limitations.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate in-laboratory mobility outcomes, pain perception,
      and user satisfaction with the Keeogo as compare with standard knee braces. The investigators
      hypothesize that participants could have improved performance outcomes on mobility tests,
      including a 6-minute walk test, timed up and go test, 13-step stair test, pick up penny from
      floor test, and the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) when using the Keeogo as
      compared with their prescribed knee braces and reduced pain with the Keeogo by the numeric
      pain rating scale (NPRS) as compared with their prescribed knee braces for the mobility
      tests.

      A knee OA-specific tuning protocol will be developed and used in the in-laboratory
      evaluations in 26 Veterans with knee OA at the James J. Peters VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY.
      This in-laboratory study is expected to demonstrate improved walking velocities, stair
      ascent/descent times, improved sit-to-stand, stand-to-sit, and object retrieval from the
      floor with reduced pain while participants use the Keeogo.
    
  