
    
      Materials and Methods: will be conducted an interventional, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study. The series will consist of patients with at least 18 years old,
      suffering from chronic kidney disease stage V on dialysis and mean residential blood pressure
      superior to 135 x 85 mm Hg with left ventricular mass indexed for height to the 2.7 power
      greater than 51 g/m2,7. This protocol follows the guidelines of resolution 196/96 of the
      Brazilian National Health Council and is approved by the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of
      Medicine of Botucatu - UNESP Protocol (CEP 3439-2010).

      All patients will give informed consent in writing. Exclusion criteria will be thew
      following: history or evidence of angina or myocardial infarction, heart failure, peripheral
      vascular disease, Hyperkalemia, valvular disease, atrial fibrillation, anemia (hemoglobin <10
      g / dl) doses of parathyroid hormone (PTH) greater than 300 pg / mL, patients in treatment
      with spironolactone and Patients who have suspended or initiated the use of inhibitors of
      angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers and renin blockers in
      the last six months. Patients will be assessed at baseline (before the run-in phase), weekly
      in the first month and monthly thereafter until one year, or 52 weeks. Will be include
      clinical examination at each visit and laboratory tests. In the visits of weeks zero, 26 and
      52 will be held monitoring home blood pressure, echocardiography, determining the of pulse
      wave velocity, central arterial pressure and augmentation index. Aldosterone an ouabaín will
      be monitored immediately before run-in fase and at 52 weeks.

      Groups: Patients will be randomly divided into two groups: active drug and placebo groups.
      One group will receive spironolactone and the other placebo spironolactone. It is important
      to note that placebo therapy is only of spironolactone and not other anti-hypertensive drugs,
      so patients will not in any way deprived of the benefit established in the literature which
      is the reduction of blood pressure. Physicians' assistants enrolled will be free to prescribe
      any antihypertensive medication except the study drug. In the active treatment group, the
      dose employed will be 25 mg each other day and titrated to 25 mg daily according to the
      potassium. Patients with potassium between 5.5 and 5.9 mmol/L will have reduced
      spironolactone to 25 mg each other day if they are in use 25 mg daily or will not increase
      the dose. These patients receive pharmaceutical care and nutritional guidance according the
      routine of the unit.

      The placebo group will receive placebo with the same protocol. These patients also receive
      pharmaceutical care and nutritional guidance, beyond any conventional antihypertensive
      treatment. The pharmaceutical form of placebo will consist of colloidal silicon dioxide,
      cornstarch, lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose and magnesium stearate, inert
      excipients according to reference literature. The pharmaceutical form of the active drug will
      consist of spironolactone 25 mg and the other components of the placebo.

      The laboratory tests will be performed as routine in our dialysis unit, which follow the
      rules of operation of hemodialysis established by the Brazilian Ministry of Health, as
      follows: blood samples are collected immediately before the start of hemodialysis for routine
      hematology (red blood cells, platelets white blood cell count) and biochemical (urea,
      creatinine, potassium, calcium, phosphorus, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase and venous blood
      gas) monthly. Will be held quarterly glycosylated hemoglobin for diabetics, total proteins
      and fractions, alkaline phosphatase, transferrin, serum iron, ferritin, C-reactive protein,
      parathyroid hormone and lipid levels, the dosage of uric acid is each six months and aluminum
      will be annual. Measurement of plasma renin, aldosterone, angiotensin II and ouabaín will be
      held at time zero and after 52 weeks. Urine collections in 24 hours will be obtained for
      measurement of residual urea clearance and calculation of protein nitrogen appearance in
      weeks zero, 26 and 52. Will be collected monthly samples of urine after dialysis for
      determination of fractional clearance of urea (dialysis dose) that will be determined by the
      Daugirdas's formula (1995). Prior to collecting samples for measurement of plasma renin, the
      patient should be 2 h in the supine position (stabilization of serum and standardization of
      interpretation of results).

      Blood samples for determination of potassium will be collected weekly in the first four
      weeks, fortnightly during the second month and thereafter will be held monthly dosages. All
      antihypertensive medications will be maintained and titrated according to patients' needs to
      achieve the target of 135x85 mm Hg in residential blood pressure monitoring. Criteria for
      suspension therapy: patients are withdrawn from the protocol if develop severe hyperkalemia,
      defined as one serum potassium concentration equal or superior than 6.5 mmol/L in an isolated
      or repeated measures equal to or greater than 6.0 mmol/L. Each death will be analyzed by an
      independent committee and in the event of a statistical difference in the mortality of active
      drug compared to placebo, the work will be suspended immediately.

      Echocardiography: The procedure for echocardiography will be performed according to
      previously standardized technique. The following data are recorded: heart rate, systolic and
      diastolic pressures obtained during the examination, systolic and diastolic dimensions of
      left ventricular posterior wall thickness and septum, internal dimensions of left atrium and
      aorta, stroke volume, ejection time of LV peak mitral flow velocity (E), peak velocity of
      atrial filling (A), deceleration time of E wave; slope of the deceleration ramp of the E wave
      and isovolumic relaxation time. These data will be used to calculate the relative thickness
      of the left ventricle, the left atrium/aortic diameter, left ventricular mass index, left
      ventricular mass, fractional shortening of the ventricular diameter, meridian end-systolic
      stress, cardiac output index, heart rate, left ventricular stroke work.

      Home monitoring of blood pressure: will be conducted with equipment validated by the BHS and
      AAMI (Omron model HEM 781 INT). Patients will receive guidance to carry out three
      measurements in the morning upon waking and fasting and three measures at bedtime during a
      week exempting Saturday and Sunday. The measures will be undertaken with the patient seated,
      back supported, arm at heart level, the forearm in the supine position. Will use the upper
      limb that showed the highest blood pressure measurement in the office, except if the patient
      has vascular access in one of the arms which will require taking the measurements in the
      contralateral arm. The patient will be instructed to not perform measurements of any other
      person with the same apparatus. After one week the patient will bring the unit back and the
      device memory will be analyzed. Will be taken as representative value of the average home
      blood pressure of all valid measurements, except for the first day.

      Pulse wave velocity, central arterial blood pressure and augmentation index will be performed
      by applanation tonometry. The patient should be fasting on exam day and will remain at rest
      for five minutes before the start. The analysis of PWV will be held simultaneously with
      checking blood pressure. Begins the reading with the placement of the forearm without
      arteriovenous fistula on support equipment, palpation to the radial artery and apply the
      tonometer sensor. The corresponding central waveform is generated by the use of a validated
      transfer function (SphygmoCor, AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia). Will be collected waves
      pulse for 10 seconds at least twice, which will be recorded directly on a laptop. After at
      least 20 recorded waveforms, the average of peripheral, as well as their corresponding
      central, and also an average of measurements of systolic, diastolic and pulse pressure.

      Statistical analysis: The sample size of 24 patients in each group (active drug and placebo
      groups) is sufficient to detect a difference of 15g/m2 in left ventricular mass index with
      standard deviation of the differences estimated in 23g/m2, statistical power of 0.8 and p
      <0.05. However, as the expected mortality of up to 20% per year, the total sample is
      comprised of 30 patients in each group. The results will be quantified and analyzed
      descriptively, initially through the observation of minimum and maximum values, and the
      calculation of averages and their standard deviations. To investigate the behavior of groups,
      will be used the techniques of analysis of variance parametric and nonparametric, followed by
      a posteriorly tests appropriate to the characteristics of each variable evaluated.
    
  