
    
      Dementia is a progressive decline in cognition that impairs a person's ability to perform
      activities of daily living. Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, the most
      common neurodegenerative disease in older adults, and the 6th leading cause of death in the
      US. Neuropsychiatric symptoms (apathy, depression, anxiety) and altered gait and balance are
      prominent secondary symptoms of Alzheimer's disease that increase medical costs and decrease
      quality of life for both the person with dementia and their caregiver.

      In a report from the Secretariat (Executive Board, 134th Session, December 20th, 2013), the
      World Health Organization identified a need to integrate evidence-based palliative care
      services into the continuum of care for serious chronic diseases, including Alzheimer's
      disease. However, two recent NIH workshops identified major gaps in the evidence supporting
      the wider use of non-pharmacologic activities to ameliorate secondary symptoms of chronic
      disease. Arts-based activities were identified as particularly understudied for symptom
      management, given growing evidence that various arts-based activities can improve quality of
      life, relieve symptoms, and reduce reliance on medications. It is important that these
      benefits can be achieved without adding medications. Dance is an arts-based activity that can
      improve quality of life, decrease symptoms of depression, and improve balance in healthy
      older adults, those with Parkinson disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Thus, dance is a
      non-pharmacological intervention that simultaneously addresses two sets of prominent
      secondary symptoms in Alzheimer's disease: 1) gait and balance and 2) neuropsychiatric
      symptoms. However, the mechanisms through which dance exerts these effects are unknown.

      Pilot data from the investigators' laboratory suggest that participating in a group
      improvisational movement class twice weekly improved balance and connectivity in
      motor-related brain regions, as well as improving mood and connectivity in brain regions
      associated with social engagement. Improvisation is the ability to create new gestures and
      movements spontaneously. Improvisation can be a part of many different art forms. However,
      improvisational movement can also be practiced as a specific dance form. The objective in
      improvisational movement is that choreographed movement is replaced by a cue or prompt that
      allows the possibility for multiple responses. This unique form of dance is especially
      well-suited for people with dementia because it: 1) does not rely heavily on memory of
      repeated movements; 2) can be seamlessly adapted to include sitting, standing, or moving
      around the room; 3) is cognitively challenging; and 4) fosters a social, playful atmosphere.
      Participants seemed to benefit from both the social nature of the class and the movement.
      Therefore, the overall aim of this proposal is to experimentally determine the independent
      and combined effects of dance movement and social engagement on quality of life in people
      with early stage dementia, and test the neural mechanisms of these effects.

      To accomplish this goal, the investigators will use a 2x2 factorial design and randomize 120
      community-dwelling older adults adjudicated as having early-stage dementia of the presumed
      Alzheimer's type to one of four 3-month interventions: 1) Dance Group, 2) Non-group Dance, 3)
      Social Group, or 4) No Contact Control.

      It is not hypothesized that dance affects the underlying disease course, and therefore no
      improvement is expected in cognition.
    
  