
    
      Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) is one of the most effective psychotherapy for depression.
      Yet, it is effective only for 40% of the depressed people who receive this treatment.
      Currently, there is no method of predicting who can be helped among depressed patients by
      CBT. In this study, we examine whether the level of psychological mindedness can predict who
      may benefit from CBT among depressed patients.

      Participants who are clinically depressed are randomized to 12 sessions of CBT and supportive
      therapy. The evaluation process and all sessions will be administered virtually using
      HIPAA-compliant video teleconferencing. Participants must have access to the internet and
      have video conferencing capabilities. Besides the virtual sessions, participants will need to
      come in person once for a urine & blood test (protocol #6669) and twice for an
      electroencephalogram (EEG) (protocol #6559).

      Please exercise caution when traveling in public and follow public health guidelines, such as
      wearing masks in public and avoiding crowds. It would be best if you stay informed of public
      health recommendations and guidelines regarding COVID-19, such as those issued by the Centers
      for Disease Control (CDC.gov) and local governments. If you have questions about how you will
      travel for appointments or do not feel safe traveling, please let us know, and know that you
      can call to reschedule visits.

      It is important to note that subjects who enroll in the study can't take any psychiatric
      medications, nor can they attend any other psychotherapy besides what is offered in the
      study. Should the participant decide to make alternations and use medication, this will not
      affect their participation in psychotherapy or this study.

      Participants who are eligible for the study will begin within two weeks after the evaluation
      visit. An evaluator will rate the HDRS-17 and CG I-Severity. If they are still eligible, they
      will sign the study consent form, have the study explained, including its risks and possible
      benefits, as well as alternatives and its voluntary nature. Once they sign the consent form,
      patients will complete a battery of self-report instruments online. Also, they will be
      interviewed by a clinician with a structured clinical interview of PM. They will then be
      randomized between CBT and supportive therapy (control group) and will schedule their weekly
      virtual sessions with the study therapist. During 12 weeks, they will be clinically monitored
      by Beck Depression Inventory at the beginning of every session and HDRS-17 every three weeks.
      They will complete study measures at week six and after the 12 weeks sessions.

      Study participants who do not remit (end treatment HDRS-17 > 7) at the end of the CBT trial
      will receive a referral for alternative psychotherapy per the patient's preference.
    
  