
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV/HHV8) is a blood-borne virus that is
      etiologically associated with Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), primary effusion lymphoma which is a
      form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and a subset of multicentric Castleman's disease which is a
      lymphoproliferative disorder. The investigators developed serologic assays to measure
      antibodies specific to KSHV latent and lytic antigens. Antibodies to KSHV antigens are found
      in 70-100 percent of all clinical forms of KS patients. In contrast, relatively low
      prevalence (2 to 5 percent) is found in the general population of North America.
      Seroconversion is detected prior to KS onset in AIDS-KS patients, suggesting that primary
      KSHV infection occurs predominantly in adulthood and is not ubiquitous. Antibody titers to
      KSHV antigens remain elevated for years after seroconversion. The investigators have recently
      found a 5 percent prevalence of KSHV infection in blood donors from San Antonio. Further,
      KSHV has been found in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of blood donors, and
      organ transplantation and animal studies have provided evidence of likely person-to-person
      transmission of KSHV. Thus, KSHV is a potential candidate for screening in blood and plasma
      donors in view of its etiologic role for several malignancies, low but appreciable prevalence
      in the general population, and lifelong persistence in a cross-sectional study in blood
      donors from Texas.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The first aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of KSHV infection in blood donors
      using specific KSHV serologic assays. The investigators used recently developed KSHV specific
      serologic assays for detecting antibody to KSHV latent nuclear antigen, lytic antigen, and
      orf65 (lytic antigen minor capsid protein) to determine the prevalence of KSHV infection in a
      cross-sectional study of four representative blood banks in San Antonio, Dallas, and Houston,
      Texas. A total of 500 random donors at each site were studied to detect site-specific
      seroprevalence to plus or minus 2 percent with 95 percent confidence.

      The second aim of the study was to analyze the demographic characteristics and the patterns
      of other blood-borne infections of KSHV-seropositive blood donors. The cross-sectional study
      in Houston and San Antonio was expanded to prospective study seroprevalence in a larger
      population with questionnaire obtained demographic data to include gender, age, ethnicity,
      education level, household income, and zip code. A total of 10,500 donors were obtained from
      Houston. As the San Antonio center had the highest proportion of Hispanic donors, an
      additional 2,000 donors were obtained and characterized demographically.

      The third aim was to investigate KSHV molecular epidemiology in blood donors through sequence
      determination of specific nested-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and RT-PCR products from
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of KSHV-seropositive donors. The 2,000 blood
      samples from San Antonio were also used to amplify KSHV sequences from peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells of KSHV positive donors using PCR, nested PCR and RT-PCR with and without
      phorbol ester induction. Sequencing of amplified products was compared to KSHV isolates from
      New York, Italy, England, and Africa for phylogenetic analysis and assessment of diversity
      and distribution of KSHV strains in Texas. While the proposed sampling represented only one
      center in Texas, comparison to isolates for New York and abroad allowed determination of the
      likelihood that Texas strains were unique or imported from Europe or Africa.

      This regional project was performed in collaboration with the University Health System Donor
      Center in San Antonio, BloodCare in Dallas, and Gulf Coast Regional Blood Center in Houston,
      thus providing results for three separate metropolitan areas with rather different ethnic
      compositions. These studies should provide valuable information to assess the necessity and
      feasibility of national screening of blood donors for KSHV, and gain insight into the
      patterns of infection as well as the diversity, the distribution, and the origins of the
      virus strains in blood donors.
    
  