
    
      Infants with Neurodevelopmental Disabilities (ND) show emotional, cognitive and
      socio-interactive dysregulation dramatically impacting on caregiving behavior. Parents may
      report critical emotional burden with heightened risk for chronic levels of distress,
      depression and anxiety. This constitutes a crucial point considering that parenting
      represents the first preventive factors for infants' development also in the presence of ND
      conditions. Thus, it is not surprising that early rehabilitation interventions that focus on
      the parent-infant dyad have been found to be the most effective in recent meta-analytic study
      and to be the most rewarding for healthcare systems in terms of economic return in the
      long-term. Specifically, the VFI constitutes an early family-centered intervention that
      proved to be effective in promoting sensitive parenting and supporting infants' behavioral
      and socio-emotional development. The use of VFI intervention has been also documented to be
      beneficial in dyads of children with neurodevelopmental disability reducing child's
      disruptive and emotionally negative behaviors; promoting maternal sensitivity, increasing
      self- efficacy and reducing parenting stress. It should be highlighted that delivering VFI in
      hospital or home-based context should be highly demanding for the healthcare systems due to
      high cost and disparities in access to the service for families in remote areas. As such,
      delivering VFI through telemedicine approaches (e.g., videoconferencing) appears to hold
      promises of promoting a reduction in inequality of care, greater access to early
      family-centered support and a more effective and efficient promotion of health outcomes for
      infants with ND. We still do not know how a VFI support for parents of infants with ND may
      end up in being effective and efficient in terms of promoting infants' development and
      parental health. Consistently, the Supporting Parenting at Home: Empowering Rehabilitation
      through Engagement (SPHERE) project is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) aiming at
      assessing effectiveness of an early family centered VFI parenting support delivered through
      videoconferencing on dyads with infants with ND.

      The SPHERE RCT will include two arms (see arm description) and three assessment phases: T0,
      baseline; T1, immediate post-intervention; T2, follow-up (6 months after the intervention).
      For both arms, standardized assessment sessions will include video-recording of mother-infant
      interaction and maternal self-report scales (depression [Beck Depression Inventory, BDI; Beck
      et al., 1961]; anxiety [State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, STAI-Y, Spielberg, 1983] parenting
      stress, [Parenting Stress Index, PSI; Abidin, 1983] and infants' temperament [Infant Behavior
      Questionnaire Revised, IBQ-R, Gartstein et al., 2003]).
    
  