
    
      This study is a phase IV prospective, open-label, controlled treatment protocol consisting of
      once daily Kaletra dosed at 800mg lopinavir with 200mg ritonavir in four combination tablets
      plus Viread dosed as 300 mg tenofovir DF. This will be a single site, multi-investigator,
      study for 48 weeks. Consecutive eligible patients will be enrolled into the study to reach
      the enrollment goal of 30 patients. Eligible patients will be identified and screened during
      routine initial or follow-up visits at the Internal Medicine Specialty Services Clinic. This
      clinic serves as the HIV/AIDS specialty care clinic and is a subdivision of the Department of
      Internal Medicine, Oklahoma State University Center for Health Sciences College of
      Osteopathic Medicine. The study site currently serves >700 persons living with HIV in
      northeast Oklahoma with four to five antiretroviral naïve patients seen each week.

      Patients meeting all inclusion criteria will receive routine standard of care for our program
      as prescribed by the DHHS guidelines. Patients will have a Complete Blood Count (CBC),
      Complete Metabolic Profile (CMP), fasting lipid profile, CD4 count, HIV-1 RNA level, and
      other prescribed or indicated laboratory preformed at baseline and throughout the study as
      described in the Visits and Evaluations section of this protocol. All of the aforementioned
      laboratory tests will be performed at the Diagnostic Laboratories of Oklahoma, a division of
      Quest Diagnostics. Any antiretroviral resistance testing will be performed at Virologic Labs,
      Inc. Adherence will be assessed at discontinuation of the study and when indicated for
      evaluation of virologic failure by Memory Electronic Monitoring Systems caps and pharmacy
      refill data. Patients will be monitored at each study visit for tolerability and adverse
      events. Patients who develop a study related Grade 1 or 2 Adverse Events (Aes) may continue
      the study. Those who develop Grade 3 or 4 AEs will have study medications discontinued.
      Patients with asymptomatic elevations of triglyceride or Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL)
      cholesterol levels may be treated with appropriate lipid lowering therapy at the
      investigators discretion.
    
  