
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in reproductive age,
      with an incidence of 5 -10% . Classically clomiphene citrate (CC) is the first approach to
      induce ovulation in patients with PCOS. Although 70-80% of PCOS women can ovulate by the
      treatment with CC, only 40%of the PCOS women become pregnant. Women who do not ovulate with
      increasing doses of CC are described as being CC-resistant and remain a major challenge in
      gynecologic endocrinology. Traditional alternatives for CC-resistant patients include
      gonadotropin therapy and laparoscopic ovarian diathermy.

      Gonadotropin therapy is widely used for ovulation induction in CC-resistant PCOS patients.
      The use of purified FSH preparation virtually free of LH activity, is a recommendable
      treatment since there is evidence that pure FSH may significantly reduce tonic LH levels,
      favourably alter the intraovarian hormonal milieu, and promote the initial follicular
      development with minimal risk of multiple follicular growth or ovarian hyperstimulation .

      The use of metformin in PCOS is associated with cycle regulation, improved ovulation, and a
      reduction in circulating androgen levels (5). Metformin likely plays its role in improving
      ovulation induction in women with PCOS through a variety of actions, including reducing
      insulin levels and altering the effect of insulin on ovarian androgen biosynthesis, theca
      cell proliferation, and endometrial growth. In addition, potentially through a direct effect,
      it inhibits ovarian gluconeogenesis and thus reduces ovarian androgen production .

      Laparoscopic ovarian drilling (LOD) can avoid or reduce the need for gonadotropins for
      ovulation induction. Several potential mechanisms of action of LOD have also been suggested.
      The reduction of inhibin production following LOD is followed by an increase in FSH secretion
      and recruitment of a new cohort of follicles. Other theory is restoration of normal
      production of the putative gonadotropin surge after laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery.
      Moreover, drainage of androgens and inhibin from follicles surface may inhibit the excessive
      collagenisation of overlying ovarian cortex and facilitate Softening of ovarian tunica.
      Neighbouring follicles that are not undergoing atresia may then mature and gain access to the
      ovarian surface, facilitating ovulation. Initiation of normal inhibin B pulsatility by LOD
      appears to correlate with the postoperative onset of ovulatory cycles (3).

      The main drawbacks of LOD are adhesions formation and ovarian atrophy. That is why minimising
      the number of diathermy points and avoiding diathermy near the ovarian hilum are recommended.

      All women with clomiphene resistant PCOS attending the subfertility clinic of Cairo
      university hospitals will be invited to participate in the study. PCOS diagnosis will be
      based on chronic anovulation and sonographic picture of polycystic ovaries (8). Clomiphene
      resistance will be defined as failure of ovulation in spite of receiving 150mg of clomiphene
      citrate for 5 days during the menstrual cycle.

      Exclusion criteria are age >40 years, other causes of infertility, hyperprolactinaemia,
      allergy to FSH or metformin, previous FSH or LOD therapy, and body mass index (BMI)>35.

      The study will be explained to all the participants and a written informed consent will be
      obtained before participation.

      Full history will be taken followed by complete examination and sonographic evaluation.
      Sonographic picture of polycystic ovaries will be defined when there are at least 12
      follicles 2-9mm in the ovary and/or ovarian volume>10cm3.

      210 women with clomiphene resistant PCOS will be randomly divided into 3 equal groups using
      computer generated random numbers. Group 1 will receive combined metformin and FSH, group 2
      will have LOD and group 3 will act as the control group with no intervention.

      Group 1 will receive urinary purified FSH (Fostimon速 IBSA, Switzerland) 75IU daily for 7 days
      starting from the 3rd day of menstruation or progesterone withdrawal bleeding. If the
      follicle does not exceed 9mm the dose will be increased by 37.5IU every 7 days. The cycle
      will be cancelled if no follicles exceed 9mm 4 weeks after starting FSH. This was combined
      with oral metformin (Cidophage速 CID, Egypt) 500 mg tds.

      Group 2 will have LOD in which the ovaries will be stabilised by grasping the ovarian
      ligament and monopolar diathermy will be used to do 4-10 punctures in each ovary. The number
      of punctures will be individualised according to the size of the ovary. Serial vaginal
      ultrasound scans were done starting from the 10th day of menstruation, the frequency of
      monitoring will be individualized according to the women's response.

      When the dominant follicle reaches 17mm or more in either group, women will receive Human
      chorionic gonadotrophin (Choriomon速 IBSA, Switzerland) 5000IU and a timed intercourse will be
      advised 36 hours later.

      Group 3 will have regular progesterone withdrawal bleeding in the form of norethisterone
      (stereonate速 Hi Pharm, Egypt).
    
  