
    
      Ankle inversion sprain is a common injury that can cause joint stiffness and range of motion
      deficits.(Holmer 1994, Beynnon 2001, Denegar 2002, Green 2001) Subtalar joint manipulation
      has been advocated as an intervention for inversion sprains to reduce pain, decrease joint
      stiffness, and improve range of motion.(Lopez-Rodriguez 2007)

      The ankle is comprised of the talocrural and subtalar joints and their respective joint
      axes.(Hubbard 2006) Ankle rotation about these axes can be parameterized using quaternions, a
      four dimensional unit vector. Range of motion (ROM) about these axes can be determined by
      performing an eigen analysis of the quaternion matrices to determine the root mean squared
      values of the motion data about these axes.

      The objective of the study is to investigate the immediate effects of subtalar joint
      manipulation on the ROM about the ankle's talocrural and subtalar joints on ankles that have
      sustained a subacute, grade II inversion sprain.

      Forty patients with one sprained ankle and one asymptomatic ankle will be recruited. The
      subjects will be randomized into either a subtalar manipulation group or a sham manipulation
      group. The sprained ankle of each patient will receive either a standardized subtalar joint
      manipulation or a sham manipulation. The same patient's asymptomatic ankle will serve as the
      non-treatment control group. Range of motion pre- and post-manipulation will be quantified
      utilizing a quaternion eigen analysis. Kinematic and kinetic parameters will be collected
      during the manipulation to biomechanically characterize the manipulation. Pain pressure
      threshold and visual analog scale measurements for pain, stiffness, and quality of movement
      will be collected.

      Our primary hypothesis is subtalar joint manipulation will increase subtalar ROM, but will
      have no effect on talocrural ROM. Our secondary hypothesis is subtalar joint manipulation
      will have positive effects on pain, stiffness, and quality of movement.
    
  