
    
      This is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter clinical trial that will take place at up to
      25 US/ Outside US (OUS) sites. Primary endpoints have been determined to show the safety,
      effectiveness, and clinical outcomes of the iCAST™ RX Stent System. Safety and effectiveness
      will be evaluated based on the primary patency rate at 9-months on a per lesion basis
      evaluated against a performance goal of published studies with bare-metal stents. The primary
      clinical endpoint will assess the improvement in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) at 9-months as
      compared to baseline Systolic Blood Pressure.

      Eligible subjects will undergo a two-week Medical Documentation Screening period to confirm
      resistant hypertension (SBP ≥ 155mmHg) while on maximum tolerable doses of ≥ three
      anti-hypertensive medications from at least three distinct classes of drugs, one of which
      must be a diuretic.

      There must be documented clinical evidence to support likelihood of angiographic findings >
      80% whether it is Duplex Ultrasound (DUS), Computed Tomography angiogram (CTa), Magnetic
      Resonance angiogram (MRa) or other medical evidence. After meeting screening and clinical
      eligibility criteria, subjects will undergo a baseline assessment for angiographic
      eligibility. After angiographic documentation of a ≥ 80% renal artery stenosis or Fraction
      Flow Reserve (FFR) < 0.8 is confirmed, the subject may be enrolled in the trial by placement
      of the investigational device.

      The 9-month visit will include a follow-up DUS of the target renal artery. If the DUS is
      non-diagnostic due to an imaging problem, such as overlying bowel gas or body habitus, a
      second DUS may be attempted. If the DUS is indicative of ≥ 60% stenosis as determined by the
      core laboratory, or the second DUS remains non-diagnostic, a contrast angiogram will be used
      to assess the degree of restenosis of the covered stent(s).

      Clinical follow-up visits will be required for all enrolled subjects at 30-days, 9-months,
      12-months, 24-months, and 36-months. A 6-month and 18-month visit will occur via telephone to
      collect medication usage and Adverse Events (AEs) only. The 36-month clinic office visit will
      be required as the final safety visit.
    
  