
    
      Background: The global epidemic of chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) is an intractable issue
      adversely impacting gross domestic products and costing billions in lost productivity. The
      expansion of CMP occurs concurrently with historical global mass population movements.
      Geopolitical negative and racist rhetoric have arisen in response to increased immigration
      rates. CMP is an invisible disease decoupled from normal tissue healing and results from the
      complex interplay of biological and psychological processing. Different theoretical models of
      CMP development now include potential demographic and socio-cultural factors. CMP occurs
      disproportionately in populations at risk for marginalization, including women,
      non-Caucasians, immigrants, and people experiencing increased socioeconomic deprivation. The
      same marginalized populations also are at greater risk for limited access to healthcare and
      demonstrate worse functional limitations, outcomes, and quality of life. Aims: The primary
      aims are 1) to characterize self-reported features in people who have CMP and experience
      marginalization and 2) to interpret the pain experience for marginalised populations of
      people who have CMP. Methods: A mixed-methods sequential explanatory design study will be
      used. The first quantitative phase will be a multi-language survey that includes questions
      related to pain status, patient beliefs, pain interference/social support, and perspective on
      healthcare utilization. Latent class analysis (LCA) will be used to generate experience-based
      subgroups in CMP. Focus group will elucidate, confirm, and more richly describe the findings
      from the first phase. Discussion: Results from this study will be used to inform clinical
      conversations with patients who have CMP and experience marginalization. By increasing
      awareness of the potential influences on the clinical conversation, we hope to build
      opportunities to address inequities in CMP management.
    
  