
    
      An Open-label, Phase 2 Study Treating Subjects with First or Second Relapse of Multiple
      Myeloma with Carfilzomib, Pomalidomide, and Dexamethasone (KPd)

      This trial is designed to estimate the efficacy of a carfilzomib-based triplet in first or
      second relapse of multiple myeloma for subjects refractory to lenalidomide and exposed to
      daratumumab The study is an open-label, phase 2 trial. Approximately 85 subjects will be
      enrolled in the study. Subjects may receive treatment until progression.

      Myeloma disease status will be monitored locally for response and progression per
      International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria (Kumar et al, 2016) every 28 ± 7 days
      from cycle 1 day 1 until confirmed progressive disease (PD), death, lost to follow-up, or
      withdrawal of full consent (whichever occurs first), regardless of cycle duration, dose
      delays or treatment discontinuation. Subjects with a suspected complete response (CR) or
      better will have a bone marrow for minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment at 12 and 24
      months (± 4 weeks) from start of treatment (unless a MRD assessment was performed within 4
      months before planned assessment).

      Subjects who end study drug(s) without confirmed PD are required to complete disease response
      assessments and report new anti-myeloma treatment every 28 ± 7 days until first subsequent
      anti-myeloma treatment, death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of full consent, confirmed PD,
      or end of study, whichever occurs first. Subjects who discontinue treatment and either start
      new antimyeloma treatment or have PD will enter long-term follow-up every 12 weeks until
      death or end of study.

      Approximately 85 subjects will be enrolled in the study, with approximately one-third of
      subjects in first relapse and two-thirds in second relapse.

      This study will enroll adults ≥ 18 years of age with first or second relapse multiple
      myeloma.

      Eligible subjects will have relapsed multiple myeloma after receiving 1 or 2 prior lines of
      therapy.

      Subjects must be refractory to lenalidomide and completed at least 2 consecutive cycles of
      daratumumab.

      Subjects may not have received prior pomalidomide. Prior exposure to a proteasome inhibitor
      is allowed. Subjects previously exposed to carfilzomib must have responded with at least a
      partial response to carfilzomib, must not have discontinued carfilzomib due to toxicity, may
      not have relapsed while receiving or within 60 days of the last dose of carfilzomib, and must
      have at least a 6 month carfilzomib treatment-free interval since their last dose of
      carfilzomib.

      Subjects must have measurable disease per IMWG consensus criteria, Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) of 0 to 2, and at least partial response (PR) to
      1 line of therapy.
    
  