
    
      Patient selection:

      Female patients referred or presenting with genital warts at each site will be eligible and
      evaluated against the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Women who are clinically or severely immune-compromised will not be included into the study,
      but both HIV negative and HIV infected women will be included. Seventy-five women with large
      or recurrent genital warts will be recruited for this study from 2 sites in South Africa.

      Recruitment:

      Women with genital warts will be evaluated for inclusion into the study. Those who fit the
      inclusion criteria and are without any of the exclusion criteria will be fully informed and
      invited to participate. The first target will be to recruit the first seventy-five
      consecutive eligible patients who have signed written consent; recruitment for the study will
      be done for at least 24 months.

      First clinical visit:

        -  Evaluation genital lesions:

      On study entry tumour size and position will be documented graphically and photographically
      and viral typing from the vulva wart and cervix will be done using Roche Linear Array test.

        -  Evaluation immune status:

      HIV status and CD 4/CD 8 count will be recorded and tested and the serum will be collected
      for antibody testing. Cervical disease of clinical significance will be excluded or treatment
      offered if relevant.

        -  Randomization:

      Patients will be randomized to receive either quadrivalent HPV or Hepatitis B vaccine.

        -  Vaccination:

      The participants assigned to the test group will be administered quadrivalent HPV vaccine in
      three doses as recommended by the manufacturer. Participants assigned to the control group
      will receive Hepatitis B vaccine in three doses as recommended by the manufacturer.

      Follow-up clinical visits: week 8, week 16 and week 24:

        -  Evaluation genital lesions:

      Three follow up visits will be scheduled two months apart at which time the lesion size will
      be recorded.

        -  Evaluation immune status:

      After month 6 or the third visit, the serum will again be collected for antibody level
      testing.

        -  Treatment decision:

      According to the clinical response as measured at month six and onwards, locally destructive
      or surgical treatment will be allowed according to the preference of the clinician and as
      determined by clinical factors.

      Follow up after treatment:

        -  Follow up will be done at six monthly intervals.

        -  Evaluation genital lesions:

      At these visits lesion size will be determined and documented. HPV typing on the cervical and
      vulval lesions will be repeated at least once.

        -  Further treatment of warts:

      If needed, repeat surgery and/or local destruction will be allowed and documented. These will
      be around week 48 and week 72, or study exit

      Study exit:

        -  Participants will exit the study in week 72.

        -  In the absence of harm as determined at interim analysis or suggested by participant
           disease history, researchers will be unblinded for participant status at study exit and
           alternative vaccines will be offered to each of these women.
    
  