
    
      Perform non-invasive neuro-navigated repeated Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) at low
      frequencies (LF) with to reduce the occurrence of seizures over time. Seizure reduction and
      improvements in the quality of life in patients with epilepsy will be associated with
      increased cortical inhibition resulting from the LF-rTMS sessions over time. This procedure
      using rTMS at low frequencies (LF-rTMS) between 0.5 and 1 Hz is a safe and painless method
      for noninvasive focal cortical brain stimulation, which will be evaluated in its efficacy at
      reducing/suppressing seizures. Accordingly, we propose a clinical trial in patients with
      epilepsy to test whether LF-rTMS can improve seizure suppression. The location of the
      presumed 3D source in the brain will be stimulated for few minutes (10 to 15 min.). Using a
      double-blinded, sham-controlled design, we will enroll up to 100 participants aged 18-80 with
      focal and generalized retractable epilepsy. Baseline data will include a detailed seizure
      diary over 4 weeks, psychometric testing/neuropsychology evaluation, and 20-minute EEG
      recordings. Each patient will then begin treatment with 14 minute sessions of 1 Hz rTMS or
      sham rTMS, 120%MT, and 800 stimuli on the position of the calculated 3D source using EEG,
      MRI, and digitized electrode locations. The protocol will be divided in 3 groups (Groups 1, 2
      and 3) as follows:

        -  Groups 1, 2, and 3: LF-rTMS for 2 weeks (5 days per week for total of 10 days).

        -  Group 1: protocol total duration: 1 year: LF-rTMS 1 session/week for 1 month (4 days),
           and LF-rTMS 1 session/month for 11 months

        -  Group 2: protocol total duration: 1 year: LF-rTMS 1session/month for 12 months

        -  Group 3 (placebo protocol, total duration: 1 year): LF-rTMS 1session/week for 1 month (4
           days); and LF-rTMS 1session/month.

      During each session EEG may be recorded. Also, we will obtain the number, frequency, and
      duration of seizure events from an ongoing seizure diary. Psychometric testing will be
      performed at the beginning of study, 3 months, and at the end of the study. Thus, each
      patient will have rTMS testing, psychometrics, and EEG recordings. With the same rTMS
      modality, we will also perform motor threshold mapping in conjunction with its fully
      integrated and compatible electroencephalography (EEG) module.
    
  