
    
      This study compares two groups of patients who have voluntarily chosen to undergo roux-n-y
      gastric bypass surgery. The groups will be randomized to receive micro-laparoscopic or
      laparoscopic surgery to be performed by the same surgeon, Dr. Keith Zuccala.

      Study Schema

        -  The patient attends an informational seminar conducted by the Bariatric Surgery
           Department

        -  The patient is scheduled for an initial consultation with the bariatric PA/NP where the
           patient provides: a letter of referral for Bariatric Surgery from primary care doctor or
           specialty physician; insurance referral; and assurance that health insurance coverage
           includes Bariatric Surgery.

        -  Following the initial consultation, the patient is scheduled for the following:
           comprehensive blood testing; psychological screening/evaluation; dietary evaluation;
           appointment with the surgeon; pulmonary evaluation (if needed); cardiology evaluation
           (if needed); gastroenterology evaluation (if needed).

        -  An appointment for medical clearance with the referring surgeon is scheduled and
           completed within three weeks of surgery. At this appointment an electrocardiogram (EKG)
           and repeat blood work will be carried out.

        -  The patient is deemed to meet all inclusion criteria.

        -  The patient is advised to follow all pre-operative instructions as advised by the
           nursing staff and explained in the Danbury Hospital Center for Weight Loss Surgery
           Guide.

        -  Surgical procedures performed are standard for those already utilized daily in the
           surgery department for gastric bypass procedures.

        -  The patient is closely observed in the hospital and given specific discharge
           instructions upon leaving the hospital

        -  The patient is followed for a maximum of 60 days after surgery and asked how many days
           of work they missed.

        -  The NSQIP data base and patient medical record are used to assess outcome, postoperative
           pain, OR time and surgery cost
    
  