
    
      Two Adult General Medicine Services, which do not have a rounding pharmacist (RPh), will be
      identified by the investigators. Permission to approach the patients on each service will be
      obtained from the attending physician of each respective General Medicine Service at the
      beginning of each attending physician's time on service. The attending physician will be
      asked to communicate to the study personnel of situations in which patients should not be
      approached (i.e., patient has communicated disinterested in being approached about study
      participation opportunities and/or, in the opinion of the attending physician, the patient
      should not be approached).

      Patients who will be recruited from pre-specified medical services will be screened for
      eligibility and, if deemed eligible, then will be approached by study personnel and asked if
      they would like to enroll in this study. If the patient accepts, written informed consent
      will be obtained and the patient will enter the study. Patients will be randomly assigned to
      either the intervention or control arm. Patients randomized to the intervention arm will
      receive discharge medications and pharmacist-provided discharge medication counseling prior
      to hospital discharge, and patients randomized to the control group will receive standard
      discharge procedures and obtain discharge medications per their usual process. After the
      patient has been enrolled in the study, study personnel will collect patient demographic data
      for study purposes, utilizing patient medical records and/or patient interviews. At
      discharge, patients will receive either the intervention or standard of care defined by the
      arm of the study to which each patient has been randomly assigned. After discharge, a maximum
      of seven attempts will be made via phone to contact all patients in both arms for follow up
      at 30 (+/- 7) days after discharge. During the follow phone call, a blinded pharmacist will
      conduct a structured interview to collect data for the study endpoints. The pharmacist
      conducting the interview will have the most recent discharge medication list (the list the
      patient received at his/her hospital discharge) from the patient's medication record to be
      used for comparison to the information gathered from the patient's interview 30 days post
      discharge.

      Intervention Arm - After enrollment, a pharmacy technician not associated with the study will
      collect information necessary to process and fill the patient's discharge prescriptions by
      the Duke Outpatient Pharmacy. On the day of discharge, a pharmacist will perform a chart
      review and medication reconciliation on all patients' discharge medications (for patients
      randomized to the intervention arm). Any medication discrepancies will be addressed with the
      patient's primary care team. At the time of discharge, the patient will receive his/her
      discharge medications dispensed from the Duke Outpatient Pharmacy, along with medication
      counseling by a licensed pharmacist.

      Control Arm - Patients will receive the standard discharge process provided by nurses and/or
      physicians. Patients will obtain outpatient medications per usual care.

      Data Evaluation - After a patient has completed the phone follow up interview, two pharmacist
      co-investigators who have not been involved in the inpatient care of the patients will review
      the collected data to assess for adverse drug reactions and drug-drug interactions. When
      there is a disagreement between the pharmacists concerning the occurrence of an adverse
      reaction (including causality or severity), or a drug interaction (including severity), a
      third pharmacist co-investigator who was not involved in the inpatient care of the patient
      will review the patient's data to make a final decision concerning the disagreement. All
      patients who complete the follow up survey will be evaluated in this manner.
    
  