
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival, disease specific survival, and time to progression in
           patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with total
           androgen suppression with or without pelvic irradiation.

        -  Compare the symptomatic control as measured by the rates of surgical interventions
           needed for control of local disease (e.g., transurethral resections, stent insertions,
           nephrostomies, and colostomies) in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the sensitivity of the EORTC-QLQ-C30+3 and a trial-specific checklist (PR17)
           with the FACT-P questionnaire in measuring changes in quality of life of patients
           treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center,
      initial PSA level (less than 20 vs 20-50 vs greater than 50 ng/mL), method of node staging
      (clinical [no CT scan] vs radiological [CT scan negative] vs surgical), Gleason score (less
      than 8 vs 8-10), prior hormonal therapy (excluding orchiectomy) (yes vs no), and choice of
      hormonal therapy (bilateral orchiectomy with or without antiandrogen vs luteinizing
      hormone-releasing hormone [LHRH] with antiandrogen). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive antiandrogen therapy comprising oral flutamide every 8 hours,
           oral nilutamide every 8 hours for 1 month and then once daily, or oral bicalutamide once
           daily. Patients also choose to undergo bilateral orchiectomy or LHRH agonist therapy
           comprising goserelin subcutaneously (SC) every 4 weeks (short-acting formulation) or
           every 3 months (long-acting formulation), leuprolide intramuscularly every 4 weeks
           (short-acting formulation) or every 3 months (long-acting formulation), or buserelin SC
           every 8 weeks or every 12 weeks. Patients choosing orchiectomy may receive an
           antiandrogen for at least 6 weeks before surgery to counter any flare phenomenon and may
           continue the antiandrogen after surgery (at the physician's discretion).

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo total androgen ablation as in arm I. Patients with
           node-negative dissection undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6.5-7 weeks. All other
           patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks, followed by boost radiotherapy
           5 days a week for 2-2.4 weeks.

      Hormonal therapy on both arms continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on the last day of radiotherapy, at 6 months, and
      then every 6 months thereafter.

      Patients are followed at 1, 2, and 6 months and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,200 patients will be accrued for this study within 7.5 years.
    
  