
    
      Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common cancer among men in Finland with the highest
      incidence of all cancers. Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) also has high prevalence,
      increasing with age. BPH may cause harmful lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and it is
      demonstrated that by the age of 60, over 50 % of men have clinically significant prostate BPH
      and up to 40 % of men over age 60 suffer from LUTS.

      Currently curative intended therapies for PC, radiation therapy (RT) and radical
      prostatectomy (RP), offer desirable oncologic local control but have major impact on
      genitourinary function and quality of life (QoL). Some patients are unfit for surgical
      procedures or cannot tolerate RT due to concomitant medical conditions or prior therapies. At
      present lower risk PC is increasingly managed with active surveillance. However, diagnosis of
      PC and active surveillance itself may both lead to notable psychological and emotional burden
      impairing QoL. Further, significant amount of cases in some point end up in radical treatment
      resulted from either risk profile upgrade or patients preference. For these patients optimal
      treatment might be a focal therapy with sufficient oncologic control and minor impact on QoL.

      There is controversy related to optimal treatment in local recurrence after RT. 45% of
      patients will have local recurrence after RT within 8 years after treatment. Androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) decelerate disease only temporarily and salvage RP includes major
      risks and is technically demanding, but can provide long-term cure in selected patients.

      On the aspect of palliation, there is an eminent need for less invasive supplementary
      therapies since patients presenting with metastatic or locally advanced PC, generally have
      low performance status.

      Management of benign prostatic obstruction has also faced challenges with conventional
      treatment modalities, since ageing and profuse co-morbidities among patients have increased.
      Transurethral resection of prostate (TURP) is still the standard treatment in severe LUTS
      caused by BPH.

      Recently the major development of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been achieved
      improving PC diagnosis and local staging. Even though PC is often multifocal, evidence
      indicates that both clinical outcome and prognosis of PC is determined predominantly by index
      lesion. Because of the notable risk of morbidities involving radical treatments and
      significant evolution of MRI, focal therapies have attained wide interest. One of the most
      interesting focal mini-invasive treatment is high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). HIFU
      technique exploits thermal energy; by raising target temperature over 55°C target volume is
      destroyed due to acute coagulation necrosis. Modern devices delivering HIFU to the prostate
      are transurethral and emit directional high intensity ultrasound to the focused regions
      utilising superior MRI guidance compared to older generation ultrasound guidance. Magnetic
      resonance thermometry technique utilizes noninvasive measurement of tissue temperature
      allowing monitoring real time temperature changes during treatment. The MRI treatment system
      is equipped with active dynamic temperature feedback control designed to maintain a constant
      temperature inside the target volume and at the boundary of the target area. By this way
      conformal three-dimensional ablative volumes with great spatial accuracy and precision can be
      achieved simultaneously avoiding damages to the surrounding sensitive tissues. Therapy
      verification is confirmed instantaneously after treatment by acquiring contrast enhanced MRI
      (CE-MRI) that visualise the non-perfused-volume (NPV) describing the success of total
      ablation of the target prostate volume.

      This prospective clinical single center feasibility and safety study will evaluate the role
      of MRI guided transurethral HIFU ablation for various PD and clinical settings. All enrolled
      patients have prostate pathology and different clinical situation with need of definitive
      interventions and they are divided to four arms/groups according to specific inclusion
      criterion. Group 1 localised PC prior to RP, group 2 symptomatic locally advanced PC in need
      of palliative surgical intervention, group 3 locally recurrent PC after EBRT and group 4
      symptomatic BPH in need for intervention.

      The hypothesis is that MRI guided transurethral HIFU is feasible and safe in various prostate
      diseases and clinical settings. If hypothesis is proven for certain or for all groups, the
      investigators will continue with that group or groups to phase 2 clinical multi-institutional
      studies.
    
  