
    
      The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and activity of whole brain
      radiation therapy with RRx-001, an experimental radiation sensitizer, in participants with
      brain metastases. As a radiation sensitizer, RRx-001 may increase the effect of whole brain
      radiation, the standard of care for brain metastases, on cancer cells in a specific target
      area while reducing damage to normal healthy cells. The ability to sensitize the cancer cells
      to radiation sets off a 'domino effect' of free radical damage in the tumor from a given
      amount or dose of radiation.

      This study, which is called BRAINSTORM, since RRx-001 is associated with the development of a
      "free radical storm" in the brain tumors, is divided into two stages. In the first stage,
      approximately 3 participants at a time will be entered at a particular dose level of RRx-001
      and then observed in order to see whether that dose results in side effects with radiation.
      If no bad side effects are observed, a second group of approximately 3 subjects will be given
      a slightly higher dose of RRx-001 and also monitored for side effects with radiation. This
      process will be repeated until a dose is reached, which has the most activity against the
      cancer cells without unacceptable side effects. At this point, more participants will be
      entered at this dose level until a maximum enrollment of approximately 30 participants has
      been reached.

      RRx-001 releases a gas called nitric oxide, which widens the diameter of blood vessels, and
      allows the delivery of more oxygen to tumors. The presence of oxygen in tumors is critical
      for the effectiveness of radiation therapy, since cancer cells are about two to three times
      more vulnerable to radiation when oxygen is present. The reason that cancer cells are so much
      more vulnerable to the effects of radiation when oxygen is present is that radiation relies
      on the formation of harmful molecules known as free radicals that damage proteins and genetic
      material (DNA); without oxygen lower levels of free radicals are produced. Changes in the
      diameter go blood vessels will be studied by magnetic resonance imaging.

      Unlike chemotherapies or other radiation sensitizers, RRx-001 does not have to enter the
      tumor to be effective because nitric oxide, as a gas, is able to spread or diffuse from the
      bloodstream into cancer cells.
    
  