
    
      Hypothesis:

      Acupuncture is a feasible, effective and safe method for alleviation of insomnia symptoms in
      breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy as compared with a wait-list control.

      Objective:

      To determine whether the insomnia condition in the acupuncture group is significantly
      improved when compared to the wait-list control group.

      Design and strategy:

      This is a randomized, wait-list controlled, assessor-blinded trial. 30 subjects will be
      recruited and randomized (in 1:1 ratio) to receive either acupuncture treatment or wait-list
      control. All patients in the 2 groups will receive routine Western medical care for symptom
      management.

      Study instrument:

      Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) will be employed as a primary outcome assessment.

      Intervention:

      In the treatment group, 12 sessions acupuncture treatment (electroacupuncture & auricular
      acupressure) will be given twice a week for 6 weeks after randomization. In the wait-list
      control group, no treatment except routine care will be given at the first 6 weeks, followed
      by 12 sessions treatment as treatment group.

      Main outcome measures:

      Primary outcome: ISI scores will be measured at week 0, 3, 6, 10, 14.

      Secondary outcomes:

      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Sleep diary, Actiwatch, Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Breast Cancer, and adverse events will be documented and compared between groups.

      Data analysis: The primary endpoint will be the continuous ISI score. For the primary
      analysis, if normality of the ISI or its transformation can be achieved, a two-sample t-test
      on the average ISI score will be performed to access the significance of the treatment
      effects; otherwise, a nonparametric approach will be taken.

      Expected outcome: ISI score of the acupuncture group is expected to be significantly lower
      than wait-list control group after 6 weeks of treatment.
    
  