
    
      The broad, long-term objective of our proposed research is to understand the oral health
      status, oral health-related behaviors, and quality of life in the US population of patients
      with systemic sclerosis (scleroderma or SSc). SSc is a rare, progressive connective tissue
      disease that affects predominately women (3.8:1) with a higher risk of the severe form among
      African-Americans. SSc adults experience manifestations of the systemic disease that include
      microstomia, xerostomia, and impaired manual dexterity. The two specific aims of this study
      are: 1) to characterize the oral health status of adults with SSc, and 2) to determine the
      SSc disease specific manifestations (microstomia, xerostomia, and manual dexterity
      impairments) that are associated with the severity of oral health problems and oral
      health-related quality of life among adults with SSc. This first study of US adults with SSc
      is a cross-sectional survey of 250 adults with SSc in South Carolina. This population is 25%
      African-American which is similar to the racial distribution of SSc in the US adult
      population. Data collection includes information on: oral health status (periodontal, dental,
      mucosal and microbial), oral manifestations of SSc (size of oral aperture, severity of oral
      dryness, and manual dexterity for oral hygiene), and oral health-related behaviors and
      quality of life. The oral health status of the South Carolina SSc population will be compared
      to that of the adult US population based on an analysis of corresponding measures using the
      National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2002 data. Multivariable regression
      modeling will be used to evaluate hypothesized risk and protective factors that are
      associated with oral health status in adults with SSc. Results of this study in South
      Carolina will be used in regional efforts for the development of interventions for improved
      oral health status of adults with SSc. Second, these results will provide the basis for a
      larger US study of oral health problems of adults with SSc.
    
  