
    
      Subjects will receive 2 perineural catheters: a femoral and sciatic. With a high-frequency
      linear array ultrasound transducer, the target nerves will be identified in a transverse
      cross-sectional view: the sciatic nerve proximal to the anticipated level of amputation and
      the femoral nerve at the inguinal crease. For each insertion, normal saline will be injected
      via the needle to open the perineural space allowing subsequent insertion of a perineural
      catheter 3-5 cm beyond the needle tip. The needle will be removed over the catheter, and the
      catheter affixed to the skin and covered with occlusive dressings. Local anesthetic (20 mL,
      lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 2.5 µg/ml) will be injected via each catheter.

      The nerve blocks will be evaluated 20 minutes following local anesthetic injection and the
      catheter insertions considered successful when subjects have a decreased sensation to cold
      temperature (alcohol swabs) in the appropriate cutaneous distribution for each target nerve.
      Catheters may be re-bolused with lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 2.5 µg/ml, at the discretion
      of the Site Director.

      Treatment group assignment (randomization). Subjects will be randomized to one of two groups:

        1. Experimental: bupivacaine 0.3% (or ropivacaine 0.5%) for a total of 7 days

        2. Control: bupivacaine 0.1% (or ropivacaine 0.2%) for 1 day followed by normal saline for
           6 additional days

      Randomization will be stratified by institution in randomly chosen block sizes of 2 or 4.
      Investigational pharmacists at each institution will prepare all study solutions as
      determined by the randomization lists. Unmasking will not occur until statistical analysis is
      complete (termed "triple masking").

      In addition to the perineural infusions, subjects will receive standard-of-care oral and
      intravenous postoperative analgesics. The perineural infusions will be initiated within the
      operating or recovery room. The continuous basal infusion rate for lower extremity catheters
      will be determined by amputation location: below-knee [femoral 3 mL/h; sciatic 5 mL/h] and
      above-knee [femoral 5 mL/h; sciatic 3 mL/h]. No patient-controlled bolus dose will be
      included.

      The morning of postoperative day 1, the local anesthetic reservoirs will be replaced with new
      reservoirs containing study infusate: additional bupivacaine 0.3% for the Experimental group
      [alternative: ropivacaine 0.5%]; normal saline for the Control Group. Subjects will be
      discharged home with portable infusion pumps when medically ready, without restriction due to
      study participation and telephoned daily. If premature dislodgement occurs prior to 72 hours,
      the subject may opt to have the catheter replaced as soon as can be arranged with the
      investigators (a minimum of 72 hours will be considered a successful treatment application).

      Seven days following catheter insertion, subjects or their caretakers will remove the
      perineural catheters with instructions given by an investigator via telephone.

      Outcome measurements (end points). The primary end point will be mobility at 9 months
      following surgery (measured with the Locomotor Capabilities Index). The primary analyses will
      compare the two treatment groups. End points will be evaluated at baseline (postoperative day
      0), during the initial infusion of either bupivacaine 0.3% or 0.1% [alternative: ropivacaine
      0.5% or 0.2%] (morning of postoperative day 1); during the second infusion of either
      bupivacaine 0.3% [alternative: ropivacaine 0.5%] or placebo (postoperative day 2), following
      the completion of the infusion (postoperative day 8), and the follow-up period (postoperative
      months 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12).

      The questionnaires will differentiate among multiple dimensions of limb pain:

      Residual limb ("stump") pain: painful sensations localized to the portion of limb still
      physically present Phantom limb sensations: non-painful sensations referred to the lost body
      part Phantom limb pain: painful sensations referred to the lost body part

      Medical history will include the indication for amputation, history of the surgical limb
      (e.g. previous surgeries), preoperative limb pain levels (e.g., least, average, worst and
      current), comorbidities, medications, and amputation level. In addition, we will apply the
      PTSD Checklist (PCL-C) at baseline.

      Hypothesis 1: Mobility will be significantly increased within the 12 months following a
      surgical amputation with a 7-day high-concentration perioperative CPNB compared with usual
      and customary analgesia (as measured with the Locomotor Capabilities Index-5). The primary
      outcome measure of the proposed trial will occur at the 9 month time point.

      Hypothesis 2: General physical and emotional disability will be significantly lower within
      the 12 months following a surgical amputation with a 7-day high-concentration perioperative
      CPNB compared with usual and customary analgesia (as measured with the World Health
      Organization Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0).

      Hypothesis 3: Depression will be significantly decreased within the 12 months following a
      surgical amputation with a 7-day high-concentration perioperative CPNB compared with usual
      and customary analgesia (as measured with the Beck Depression Inventory).

      Hypotheses 4 & 5: Phantom and residual limb pain will be significantly decreased within the
      12 months following a surgical amputation with a 7-day high-concentration perioperative CPNB
      compared with usual and customary analgesia (as measured with Brief Pain Inventory questions
      1-4). Current/present, worst, least, and average phantom pain will be assessed using a
      Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) included in the Brief Pain Inventory (short form). These same
      measures will be included for residual limb pain as well. Additional pain-related data.
      Frequency and average duration of non-painful phantom sensations, phantom limb pain, and
      residual limb pain will also be assessed. In addition, other pain locations/severity will be
      evaluated using the NRS. Lastly, to investigate masking adequacy, subjects will be queried
      the day following catheter removal on the infusion type they believe they received (active
      drug vs. placebo).

      Hypothesis 6: Opioid consumption will be significantly decreased within the 12 months
      following a surgical amputation with a 7-day high-concentration perioperative CPNB compared
      with usual and customary analgesia (measured in oral morphine equivalents).

      Supplemental analgesic use will be recorded at all time points.

      Data collection. Subject demographic, surgical and CPNB administration data will be uploaded
      from each enrolling center via the Internet to a secure, password-protected, encrypted
      central server (RedCap, Department of Outcomes Research, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio).
      The questionnaires for all subjects-regardless of enrolling center-will be administered by
      telephone from the University of California San Diego. Staff masked to treatment group
      assignment will perform all assessments.

      Statistical Plan and Data Analysis Primary analyses will be modified intent-to-treat, such
      that all randomized patients who receive at least some of the study intervention will be
      included in the analyses. All patients will be analyzed in the group to which they were
      randomized.

      Aim 1 - Mobility (H1). We will assess the treatment effect of continuous peripheral nerve
      blocks (CPNB) versus standard therapy on the primary outcome of the Locomotor Capabilities
      Index (LCI) at 9 months using a proportional odds logistic regression model, as long as the
      proportional odds assumption holds (i.e., P-value > 0.05 assessing proportional odds). In the
      event that the proportional odds assumption does not hold, we will compare groups using an
      extension of the Wilcoxon rank-sum test to allow covariate adjustment. The primary analysis
      will use the total LCI score (range 0-56), while the basic and advanced LCI
      subscales-comprised of 7 questions each-will be considered as secondary. Additional secondary
      analyses will compare groups at each of 6 and 12 months on the same outcome. We do not use
      repeated measures or longitudinal data models because we do not expect the treatment effect
      to be consistent across 6, 9 and 12 months.

      Aim 1 - General physical and emotional disability (H2). We will assess the effect of CPBN on
      general physical and emotional disability as measured by the World Health Organization
      Disability Assessment Schedule 2 (WHODAS2) questionnaire across time points 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months post-randomization using a linear mixed effects model to account for the
      within-subject correlation over time (assuming an auto-regressive correlation structure).
      Baseline WHODAS2 scores will be adjusted for in order to gain precision in the treatment
      effect estimates. The WHODAS2 overall score across the 36 items and the 6 subscale scores
      will be calculated for each exam using the complex scoring algorithm (called
      "item-response-theory" (IRT) based scoring) which takes into account multiple levels of
      difficulty for each WHODAS 2.0 item. Scores will then be converted to a 0 (no disability) to
      100 (full disability) scale for ease of interpretation.

      Aim 1 - Depression (H3). We will assess the effect of CPBN on depression at 12 months post
      randomization as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) using a multiple linear
      regression model to adjust for baseline BDI scores and clinical site, as well as to assess
      the treatment group-by-site interaction.

      Aim 2 - Phantom limb pain (H4), Residual limb pain (H5), opioid consumption (H6). We will
      assess the effect of CPBN on each of phantom limb pain, residual limb pain and opioid
      consumption over time using linear mixed effects models as specified above for analysis of
      the WHODAS2 score. In these models we will assess the treatment-group by time interaction
      over all times (postoperative days 1, 2, 8, months 1, 3, 6, 9, 12) and also the interaction
      between treatment group and early times (postoperative days 1, 2, 8) versus late times
      (postoperative months 1, 3, 6, 9, 12).

      Opioid consumption will be log-transformed (or other appropriate transformation) to achieve
      normality in the observed data before modeling and will be analyzed as the amount of opioids
      being consumed at each time point. Throughout these models we will adjust for baseline pain
      score or opioid consumption as a covariate to improve precision of the treatment effect
      estimates.

      Interim analyses. We will conduct interim analyses for efficacy and futility at each 25% of
      planned enrollment using a group sequential design and gamma spending function for alpha
      (efficacy, parameter -4) and beta (futility, gamma parameter -2).

      Sample size considerations. We powered this trial to be able to detect a clinically important
      difference between groups on the primary outcome of the LCI-5 at 9 months post-randomization
      with 90% power at the 0.05 significance level. While the minimal clinically important
      difference (MCID) for the LCI remains undetermined, current literature suggests that the MCID
      for similar instruments is about 10% of the possible range of the scores, or else, similarly,
      about half of a standard deviation of the score (please see following paragraph for details
      on the MCID). For our study we therefore power the study to detect a difference of 5.6 on the
      56-point LCI total score, and we assume a SD of 11 for the total score (Larsson, 2009
      observed SD of 9 and 11 for two different time points). With the given assumptions we would
      require 89 subjects per group, or a total of 178 for a 2-sample t-test. While the analysis
      will utilize a proportional odds logistic regression, with a range of 56 points the outcome
      variable might be close to normally distributed and the power for the planned test is
      expected be close to that of a 2-sample t-test on the same data. Incorporating the planned
      interim analyses at each 25% of total enrollment, the study requires a maximum total of 203
      subjects. Expecting a maximum of 7-8% of patients lost-to-follow-up or withdrawn by 9 months,
      we will enroll a maximum total of 218 patients to achieve the goal of N=203 for analysis.
    
  