
    
      The primary objective of this phase 2, open-label, single-cohort, multicenter trial is to
      evaluate the efficacy of belumosudil 200 mg BID using the Combined Response Index in diffuse
      cutaneous Systemic Sclerosis (CRISS) after 24 weeks of therapy.

      Subjects who have signed an Institutional Review Board/Independent Ethics
      Committee-(IRB/IEC)-approved informed consent form (ICF) and met all of the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled. A total of 12 to 15 to subjects at
      approximately 5 to 6 sites will receive belumosudil 200 mg in tablet form administered PO BID
      for 52 weeks. The total duration of the study is approximately 14 months: a 4-week screening
      period, a 52-week treatment period, and a 4-week follow-up.

      The primary endpoint will be analyzed using Week 24 data.

      Efficacy will be assessed at baseline and throughout the 52 weeks (Weeks 8, 16, 36, and 52)
      of the treatment period using:

        -  Scleroderma Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (SHAQ-DI)

        -  Modified Rodnan Skin Score (mRSS)

        -  Pulmonary Function Tests (PFTs)

        -  Physician Global Assessment

        -  Patient Global Assessment

      Safety will be assessed throughout the study and will include:.

        -  Physical examinations (PEs)

        -  Vital sign measurements

        -  Weight measurements

        -  Blood sample collection for hematology and chemistry; urinalysis

        -  Electrocardiograms (ECGs)

        -  Adverse event (AE) assessments

        -  Concomitant medication assessments

        -  Pregnancy testing for females of childbearing potential.

      Reasons for discontinuation of treatment because of toxicity will be documented. Careful
      monitoring of all toxicities will be carried out. In the case of Grade ≥ 3 toxicity, dosing
      will be held until toxicity has resolved to Grade 1 or below. Dosing can be reduced 1 dose
      level. If the dose is not tolerated, then the subject will be discontinued from the study. If
      there is a interruption of dosing, after 4 days the subject will be discontinued from the
      study.

      Subjects will be given a study drug diary to record the details of each dose of belumosudil
      200 mg. Diaries will be dispense/collected on each visit. Compliance with dosing will be
      confirmed using subject diaries, which will be examined at each visit by site staff to
      determine if dosing is as instructed per protocol and follow-up.

      A 4-Week Safety Follow-up Visit will occur 28 days (± 3 days) after the last dose of study
      drug.
    
  