
    
      On the other hand, despite the EUS-injection of coils and CYA have shown very promising
      results, it is extremely important to have experience performing this technique, as the
      injection in a wrong vessel could be catastrophic. It has been develop in our unit a
      modification of Binmoeller´s original technique by performing the injection of coils and CYA
      by EUS and fluoroscopic guidance. The performance of an angiography guided by EUS and under
      fluoroscopy evaluation, represents a modification to the original technique that add some
      benefits: 1) The injection of water-soluble contrast allows identifying the variceal flow and
      the afferent feeding vessel (left gastric vein) and avoiding splenic vessels embolization. 2)
      Also, if there is a shunt it can be detected and the injection of CYA can be avoided. 3) In
      case of active bleeding the angiography allows visualizing which varix is bleeding, and
      target the correct vessel.

      The aim of this study is to show the results and potential benefits by adding an angiography
      to the original EUS-guided injection of coils in combination with CYA technique, to
      determinate and confirm the feeder vessel in GV treatment.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Study design: It will be an interventional, descriptive and prospective study, performed in
      the Ecuadorian Institute of Digestive Disease (IECED), Omni Hospital Academic Tertiary Center
      Ecuador. Patients have been included from July 2015 and will continue to be included up to
      October 2017. The study protocol and consent form has been approved by the institutional
      review board, and will be conducted according to the declaration of Helsinki. Written
      informed consent will be obtained from all subjects.

      Population selection, inclusion and exclusion criteria: Patients above 18 years old with
      gastric varices (GV) on the initial standard diagnostic upper endoscopy will be enrolled. GV
      will be classified according to Sarin and Kumar classification. Only gastro-esophageal
      varices type II (GOV II) (fundal varices communicating with esophageal varices) and isolated
      gastric varices type I (IGV I) (fundal varices within a few centimeters of the gastric
      cardia) will be included. Gastro-esophageal varices type I (GOV I) will be excluded as they
      can be successfully treated by endoscopic band ligation. Patients with active bleeding and
      history of previous bleeding due to GV (secondary prophylaxis) will be included as well as
      patients with high-risk GV suitable for primary prophylaxis according to Baveno VI consensus.
      The exclusion criteria will be pregnancy, concurrent hepatorenal syndrome and/or multi-organ
      failure, platelet count less than 50,000/ml or International Normalized Rate (INR) >2,
      esophageal stricture, splenic or portal vein thrombosis and allergy to iodine.

      Endoscopic Procedure and Technique: All procedures will be performed in a hospital-based
      interventional endoscopy setting, where radiology is available and by one endoscopist
      (C.R.M), under general anesthesia, with tracheal intubation, with the patient in supine
      position and using antibiotic prophylaxis. EUS examination will be performed using a 3.8 mm
      working channel linear-array therapeutic echoendoscopes (EG 3870UTK; Pentax, Hamburg,
      Germany), attached to an ultrasound console (Avius Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan). The echoendoscope
      will be positioned in the distal esophagus at the level of the cardia (anterograde
      trans-esophageal, transcrural approach) to visualize the gastric fundus and intramural
      varices.

      Detection of the feeder vessel by EUS: Once positioned, water will be instilled to fill the
      gastric fundus, in order to improve acoustic coupling and visualization of GV. EUS color
      Doppler imaging will be used to allow direct visualization of the varices flow. Following the
      gastric vessel, and by using the fine-flow doppler color of the ultrasound console, the
      vessel or vessels will be followed from the cardia (distal part of the esophagus) to the
      proximal part of the esophagus (2 to 3 cm) above the cardia, to detect the feeding vessel.
      The feeding vessel is characterized by the convergence of all vessels. Once the feeding
      vessel has been found, a 19 gauge EUS-fine needle aspiration (FNA) (Expect® flexible; Boston
      Scientific®, Marlborough, USA) will be used to access the vessel, the stylet will be
      withdrawn and a 20 ml syringe with negative pressure will be used to evaluate blood return,
      confirming intravascular location. In order to prevent blood clotting of the needle tip, 5 ml
      of saline solution will be instilled. Moreover, the flush with saline solution allows to
      confirm the flow of the gastric vessels under B-mode ultrasound visualization.

      Using angiography to confirm the target vessel (feeder vessel) and flow traject: In the final
      diagnostic step, an angiography will be performed using 5 to 10 mL of water-soluble contrast
      (Ultravist, Bayer, Ecuador) under fluoroscopic evaluation, in order to ensure intravascular
      location and study varix flow direction (afferent or efferent). Angiography technical success
      will be measured, determined as the possibility to define the flow trajectory vessel under
      fluoroscopy.

      EUS-guided deployment of Coils and Cyanoacrylate injection: Finally, patients will be treated
      by EUS-deployment of coils followed by CYA injection. The intravascular embolization coils
      that will be used (10-16 mm coiled diameter, 12-20 cm straight lengths, 0.035 inches
      diameter, Nester Embolization Coil; Cook Medical) will be delivered into the vessel through
      the FNA needle, using the stylet as a pusher. Special attention will be paid not place the
      needle tip on the counter wall due to the risk of perforation, bleed, coil extrusion and to
      allow enough space for the coil to curl.

      The CYA that will be used is the 2-Octyl-CYA (Dermabond; Ethicon, Piscataway, NJ). It will be
      injected always after the coils are deployed and then 1 mL of saline solution will be used to
      flush the glue completely through the needle. The diameter (10-16 mm), number of coils and
      the volume of the 2-Octyl-CYA injected will be calculated according to the diameter of the
      vessel measured on EUS and by the angiography of the vessel. After 30 seconds, once CYA has
      been solidified and the risk of bleeding on the puncturing site decrease, the needle will be
      withdrawn. Obliteration of the vessel will be confirmed 3 minutes later using Doppler
      imaging. Complete obliteration of the treated varix will be defined as absence of Doppler
      flow on EUS.

      A direct visualization of the gastric varices will be performed after the EUS procedure to
      determine the effect of the obliteration of the feeder vessel by using a standard
      videoendoscope. After the procedure, patients will be observed for 2 hours in the recovery
      room before being discharged of the unit. In cases of primary prophylaxis the treatment will
      be ambulatory.

      Finally, a 1, 3, 9 and 12 months follow-up will be performed in order to confirm the results
      of the EUS-therapeutic by EUS and by upper endoscopy.

      Technical success will be considered as target of the vessels and deployment of the proposed
      EUS-therapeutic. Treatment failure and early rebleeding will be considered when bleeding
      occurred the first five days and between 5 and 90 days respectively.

      Statistical analysis: Demographic characteristics, previous medication and radiological
      images will be described. Quantitative variables will be described in mean or median, and
      standard deviation or range, as corresponding. Qualitative variables will be described in
      percentages. A Kolmogorov-Smirnov test with a p value <0.05 will be considered to be
      statistically significant. The IECED institutional biostatistician will review statistical
      methodology of the study. Statistical calculations will be performed in SPSS software suite
      v.22.
    
  