
    
      Snoring is the vibration of respiratory structures and the resulting sound due to obstructed
      air movement during breathing while sleeping.

      Snoring during sleep may be a sign, or first alarm, of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).

      Snoring can cause significant psychological and social problems to sufferers. Multiple
      studies reveal a positive correlation between loud snoring and risk of heart attack and
      stroke.

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the commonest type of sleep apnea and is characterized by
      inturpted snoring, repeated attacks of complete or partial pharyngeal closure during sleep
      despite the effort to breath resulting in nocturnal hypoxemia, frequent arousals during
      sleep, and excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS).

      Obstructive Sleep Apnea is differentiated from Central Sleep Apnea (CSA) which is
      characterized by changes in the respiratory cycle during sleep but without the effort to
      breath during the apnea.

      the episodes of decreased breathing are called "hypopnea " and it's definition requires a <
      30% drop in flow for 10 seconds or longer associated with < 3% oxygen desaturation , the
      episodes of breathing cessations are called "apneas" and defined as a< 90% drop in flow for
      10 seconds or longer and associated with < 3% oxygen desaturation or an arousal It is a
      serious and potentially life threatening disease that is far more common than generally
      expected. Several risk factors, including obesity, male sex, age, and heritable factors, as
      well as the supine decubitus position during sleep. have been associated with an increased
      prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea in the general population.

      It has become a major health issue all over the world affecting quality of life with an
      increasing prevalence and associated with high comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus,
      hypertension, cardiovascular disease, dyslipidemia, malignancies, and overall mortality.
      Results of different studies indicate that approximately 60-70% of patients with OSA are
      obese.

      Snoring and witnessed apnea are more frequent among men but insomnia for example is more
      frequent among women. The OSA frequency increase with age for the women. The mortality is
      higher for women The data regarding association of OSA among nonobese patients is rare and
      needs great effort as fewer studies have reported magnitude of association.
    
  