
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To investigate the 1 year leptomeningeal disease (LMD)-free rate among patients with
      surgically resectable metastatic brain lesions randomized to post-operative stereotactic
      radiosurgery (SRS) (standard care) versus pre-operative SRS followed by surgery (experimental
      arm).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To investigate the local control (LC), distant brain metastasis rate, overall survival
      (OS) of pre-operative (pre-op) versus (vs) post-operative (post-op) SRS in patients with
      brain metastasis.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the reliability of different imaging features by using a combination of patient
      data and phantom data to quantify the uncertainties associated with using magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) for radiomics studies.

      II. To assess the correlation of imaging-pathology correlates using multiparametric imaging
      that characterize the tumor and peri-tumoral microenvironment including features such as
      tumor vascular characteristics, cellular density, oxygenation and presence of
      inflammation/immune reactivity.

      III. To investigate the neuro-cognitive impact, patient reported outcomes and health-related
      quality of life of pre-operative (pre-op) vs post-operative (post-op) SRS in patients with
      brain metastasis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I (PRE-OPERATIVE SRS): Patients undergo SRS within 15 days of randomization followed by
      surgery within 15 days. Patients may undergo additional SRS if disease returns after
      treatment.

      GROUP II (POST-OPERATIVE SRS): Patients undergo surgery within 15 days of randomization
      followed by standard of care SRS within 30 days. Patients may undergo additional SRS if
      disease returns after treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  