
    
      In the early stages of the disease, 90% of patients with chronic renal failure present
      evidence of bone remodeling due to secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT). As the disease
      progresses and patients require dialysis for end-stage renal failure (ESRF), the incidence of
      secondary HPT declines to 25-40% with reduced bone remodeling as shown by osteomalacia
      observed in 4-12% of patients and adynamic bone in 20-40%. Observational studies have
      described an association between serum phosphorus level, phosphorus-calcium product,
      parathormone (PTH) level, and mortality. Since there is no real consensus, treatments,
      basically diet and drugs, are tailored to each individual. The therapeutic range is wide and
      interactions are frequent. Therapeutic efficacy is compromised by the variability of PTH
      assay results, the ambulatory nature of interventions, and poor patient adherence. The
      guidelines issued in 2003 stipulate that corrective measures, i.e. dietetic counseling with
      or without drug therapy, are needed when serum PTH exceeds 300 pg/ml. When the PTH level
      exceeds 500, or even more so 800 pg/ml, HPT can constitute an indication for parathyroid
      surgery or calcimimetic treatment.

      Data from a randomized comparison between cinacalcet and surgery are lacking. The
      evidence-based decision for surgery is made conjointly by the nephrologist, the surgeon and
      the patient, limiting the feasibility of randomization. Parathyroidectomy can be achieved by
      three techniques whose efficacy has been studied in historical observational studies.
      Cinacalcet received marketing approval in 2004 for "the treatment of secondary HPT in
      patients with ESRF treated by dialysis. Mimpara can be used in the context of a regimen
      including phosphate chelators and/or vitamin D analogs, as needed". Four double-blind studies
      have demonstrated the efficacy of cinacalcet versus placebo in decreasing the PTH level, but
      there is no proof of the efficacy of cinacalcet in terms of cardiovascular events and
      mortality. One cost-effectiveness study showed that parathyroidectomy was superior to
      cinacalcet, except if the patient was on dialysis for a short period before renal
      transplantation or presented contraindications for surgery.

      While randomized trials are the gold standard, such trials include a limited number of
      patients for a limited period of time. This does not enable an observation of long-term
      practices and adverse effects. Moreover, such trials do not concern patients with other
      co-morbid conditions taking several drugs, in particular, elderly subjects. The concept of
      the pharmacoepidemiological study is to describe real-life populations taking a given drug,
      using both quantitative and qualitative parameters to determine efficacy, risk, and drug use
      in real-life conditions free of the constraints of a clinical trial.

      ÉPHÉYL is an observational pharmacoepidemiological study concerning the prescription of
      calcimimetic agents and parathyroidectomy in patients with ESRF on dialysis who present
      severe secondary HPT (PTH ≥ 500 pg/ml). The aim is to describe indications and efficacy:
      control of PTH, calcium and phosphorus serum levels within their recommended ranges, patient
      tolerance of the therapeutic interventions, and the cost of such interventions, as well as
      patients' adhesion to treatment and their self-assessed quality-of-life. This three-year
      inclusion study, based on the Lorraine REIN registry, will involve all participants in the
      Néphrolor network. The study will begin on April 1st, 2009.
    
  