
    
      The Western Cape province of South Africa (SA) is implementing the policy of universal
      initiation of lifelong ART in all HIV-infected pregnant women regardless of CD4 cell count or
      disease stage ("Option B+"). However there are few well-developed models of service delivery
      to support implementation of "Option B+" in the Western Cape and many parts of the continent.
      In particular, while systems for initiation and follow-up of pregnant women on ART are based
      within well-established antenatal care clinics (ANC), there are major concerns regarding
      delivery of ART to HIV-infected women during the postpartum period. Multiple studies indicate
      high levels of non-retention in care, and/or inadequate ART adherence, during the postpartum
      period, presenting a threat to HIV-infected women and their infants.4-8 In turn, there is an
      urgent need for evidence-based approaches to support the growing number of HIV-infected
      mothers on ART.

      In this context, the parent study-- Strategies to Optimize ART Services for Maternal & Child
      Health (MCH-ART)-- provides a rigorous implementation science framework for understanding
      optimal approaches for managing HIV-infected women and their HIV-exposed infants in the first
      year after delivery under "Option B+". While MCH-ART focuses on clinic-based models of care,
      there is also growing attention to the role of community health workers (CHWs) in supporting
      patients on ART, including community-based distribution and adherence support away from
      health facilities.To complement MCH-ART, the PACER study aims to investigate community-based
      Adherence Clubs as an effective model for engaging and retaining breastfeeding women beyond
      pregnancy to maximize maternal and infant health. In Cape Town, specifically, Adherence Clubs
      have been developed in which ART services are located away from clinics and are led by CHWs
      with support from ART clinic nurses. These clubs have been implemented to help decongest ART
      clinics by shifting stable patients to community-based services, but they have not been
      studied as an effective strategy among breastfeeding women in the postpartum period. PACER
      seeks to address this gap by randomizing women in the parent study, MCH-ART, to either the AC
      system or to the nearest adult ART clinic. Infants in both arms will receive the same
      services, following the local standard of care.
    
  