
    
      Over 1.4 million hospitalizations for mental health conditions occur annually in the United
      States (3.4% of all hospitalizations), and more than half are for major depressive disorder
      (MDD). Remarkably, of the 30 antidepressant and antipsychotic medications available to treat
      MDD, nearly 50% are primarily metabolized by the liver enzyme encoded by the CYP2D6 gene. The
      CYP2D6 gene is notable for common sequence and structural polymorphisms which markedly affect
      the enzyme's capacity, causing a decrease or increase in drug metabolism in 60% of patients,
      and creating challenges for therapeutic management. The metabolic alterations caused by
      CYP2D6 gene polymorphisms may require longer hospitalizations due to "trial-and-error"
      prescribing, which delays improvement in health status and consumes resources. Reliable
      genotype testing is now available to detect an array of 21 gene alterations. Prescribing
      psychotropics using knowledge of the patient's CYP2D6 gene status is potentially cost
      effective.

      For this research, the Genetics Research Center performs the CYP2D6 genotyping, and the
      Institute of Living's Clinical Evaluation and Monitoring System (CEMS) transmits explicit
      alerts regarding prescription or proscription of specific psychotropics.

      The RCT will compare outcomes in patients whose treatment is guided by CYP2D6 functional
      status and pharmacogenetic alerts versus standard-of-care treatment to test the hypothesis
      that the provision of clinically actionable prescription or proscription information can
      decrease hospitalization length of stay and reduce subsequent readmission.

      Using funds from AHRQ R01 HS022304-01, the RCT will enroll patients admitted to IOL over the
      next 5 years with a diagnosis of MDD and who are receiving psychotropic therapy at the time
      of admission or who will receive psychotropic therapy during hospitalization. Patients will
      be assigned to standard-of-care pharmacotherapy (Group S), where CYP2D6 genotype is
      determined but not transmitted to the clinician and psychotropic therapy follows the
      institutional norm. Patients will be assigned to genetically-guided pharmacotherapy (Group G)
      where pharmacogenetic alerts based on CYP2D6 genotype are furnished via CEMS to the clinician
      within 48 hours of admission. Genotyping encompasses 19 common polymorphisms in CYP2D6 and
      their quantification into a drug metabolism reserve index to establish levels of sub-normal
      function (poor metabolizer) or supra-normal function (rapid metabolizer). For the estimated
      40% of patients in Group G who are poor or rapid metabolizers, CEMS will proscribe
      medications which are major CYP2D6 substrates.

      The PI is Dr. Gualberto Ruaño, Director of GRC, and the lead clinician and Co-I is Dr. John
      Goethe, retired Director of IOL's Burlingame Research Center. Drs. Ruaño and Goethe have
      previously collaborated for 15 years on the pharmacogenetics of CYP450 and psychotropics. Dr.
      Theodore Holford of Yale University serves as statistical consultant.

      The expected benefits are quantitative understanding of CYP2D6 pharmacogenetic information on
      outcomes and associated costs of psychiatric hospitalization. Importantly, this Program will
      provide objective benchmarking data for the comparative effectiveness of CYP2D6 genotyping
      for guiding psychiatric inpatient prescription.

      The Specific Aims are:

        1. RCT RECRUITMENT: To recruit patients with Major Depressive Disorder admitted to the IOL
           and randomly assign to Group G (genetically guided) and to Group S (standard of care).

        2. RCT INTERVENTION: To conduct CYP2D6 genotyping of null alleles (*3, *4, *4XN, *5, *6,
           *7, *8, *11, *12, *14, *15), deficient alleles (*9, *10, *17, *29, *41), functional
           variants (*1, *2), and rapid alleles (*1XN, *2XN, *2a, *35) for all patients. In Group G
           the genotyping result is communicated to the treating clinician with prescription and
           proscription alerts for CYP2D6 substrate drugs; in Group S, the genotype is withheld.
           CEMS furnished results for 826 patients.

        3. PRIMARY ENDPOINT: To compare length of hospitalization for all patients in Groups G vs.
           S.

        4. SECONDARY ENDPOINT: To compare the rates of 30-day psychiatric hospital readmission in
           Group G vs. S.

        5. ANCILLARY STUDIES: To assess the impact of genetic stratification in Groups G vs. S.
           with regard to the primary and secondary endpoints and specific drug utilization
           (removals, additions, co-prescriptions).
    
  