
    
      The purpose of the present study is to determine the effectiveness of the Progressive Goal
      Attainment Program (PGAP) with individuals with anxiety and mood disorders. PGAP has been
      suggested as an effective therapy to reduce psychosocial barriers and help individuals return
      to life roles including readiness to return to work. PGAP has been shown to be effective with
      some chronic health conditions however has not been specifically studied in mental health
      populations.

      The study consists of 10 one hour weekly therapy sessions with a clinician and follow the
      PGAP manual. The therapy sessions focus on reducing psychosocial risk factors that result in
      disability through the use of goal setting, activity planning, activation and re-engagement
      in activities, monitoring and challenging thoughts about return to work, and problem solving.
      Participants are also encouraged to participate in homework which involves daily activity
      planning, participating in planned activities, and tracking the activities completed.
      Participants will also be asked to complete short self-report questionnaires as well as a
      semi-structured interview about the participants anxiety, mood, impact of disability, and
      current functioning at the beginning of session one and within two weeks after session 10.
      Two short questionnaires will also be completed at each session measuring the degree to which
      the participants daily life impacts and is affected by anxiety or mood symptoms.

      Our first hypothesis is that participants who receive PGAP will report significant reductions
      in functional disability as measured by self-report as well as by interview, decreases in
      self-reported work avoidance, increases in work readiness, and decreases in self-reported
      symptoms of anxiety and depression. Our second hypothesis is that mean reductions in the
      above-noted outcome variables will be similar in magnitude to those reported in published
      studies that have examined PGAP in chronic medically ill populations. Retention rates and
      satisfaction of the therapy will also be assessed to determine feasibility of implementing
      the program on a larger scale.

      To examine the effectiveness of PGAP with participants with an anxiety or a mood disorder,
      the investigators will conduct a series of dependent sample t-tests on the outcome variables
      pre and post intervention. The investigators will also compare mean changes on the outcome
      variables to those in the published literature. The investigators will calculate retention
      rates with the aim of retaining more than 75% of participants, which is comparable to
      retention and drop out rates for psychotherapy trials with participants completing at least 8
      out of 10 sessions or having returned to employment. Feasibility will also be measured by
      looking at satisfaction ratings. A minimal standard will be an average satisfaction rating
      across participants of midpoint (neutral) or above in terms of the therapy received.
    
  