
    
      The placement of cervical cerclage is standard of care for women who experience incompetent
      cervix. Treadwell et al, published the largest retrospective review of 482 patients receiving
      cerclage (364 elective and 118 emergent). They found premature rupture of membranes (PROM) in
      38% of the subjects with 9% delivering <27 weeks. Preterm birth is the cause of at least 75%
      of neonatal deaths that are not due to congenital malformations. The question of whether to
      remove cerclage after preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) is one of the unresolved
      controversies in obstetrics because the few available studies are retrospective, all have
      small numbers of patients, and the studies have given conflicting results regarding the
      safety of retaining a cerclage after preterm premature rupture of the membranes. It is
      unclear from the retrospective studies whether latency (the interval from membrane rupture to
      the onset of labor) is prolonged with retention of the suture. Furthermore, some, but not all
      studies suggest an increase in major infectious maternal morbidity and possibly neonatal
      morbidity. For this reason, clinicians vary greatly in deciding on whether to remove a
      cerclage in a patient with PPROM and either practice is currently an acceptable standard.
      This is a fairly rare complication, the combination of PPROM in a patient with cerclage in
      place only occurs in about 1-3/1000 pregnant women. Thus it has been impossible to study this
      problem prospectively in any single institution. The establishment of the Obstetrix
      Collaborative Research Group affords the unique opportunity to study this rare complication.
      Obstetrix manages 19 practices of Perinatologists around the U.S. and Mexico and is comprised
      of nearly 100 such subspecialists. This problem is most often referred to a Perinatologist
      when it occurs, so it is not unusual for these practices to see 5 - 10 such patients per
      year. Obstetrix fully funds the infrastructure of this research group and inclusion in this
      study will not alter the cost of patient care in either group as there is virtually no cost
      in removing the cerclage and all these patients are kept in hospital until delivery when
      membranes rupture as standard of care.

      This is a multicenter trial. The purpose is to determine whether retention of cerclage after
      preterm premature rupture of the membranes improves latency (without a significant increase
      in chorioamnionitis) and lessens neonatal morbidity.
    
  