
    
      1.1 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and standard treatment HCC is the third most common cause
      of cancer death globally. It is also the second cause of cancer mortality in Korea, despite
      the incidence of HCC was fifth. The most important cause of this discrepancy is connected
      with the fact that the significant portion of the HCC is detected as unresectable status. At
      the point of HCC diagnosis, only 30% of the patients could receive standard curative
      treatment, like resection, liver transplantation, and radiofrequency ablation (RFA), TACE has
      been shown in randomized trials to improve survival compared with symptomatic therapy alone,
      in the patients without macrovascular involvement, extrahepatic disease and tumor related
      symptoms. However, in the recent review of TACE, TACE might be contraindicate or not
      recommended in the patients who showed vascular tumor invasion, more than 10 cm size, poor
      portal blood flow and/or repeated poor response.

      1.2 HCC with PVTT The presence of PVTT in patients with HCC is one of the most significant
      prognostic factors for poor prognosis, without treatment, their survival is less than 3
      months. Recently, Sorafenib, which is one of the target agents, showed survival advantage on
      unresectable HCC patients in two randomized study. In those study, sorafenib improved
      approximately three month overall survival increment, however, the median survival duration
      was only 10.7 months in experiment group (received sorafenib), and even 6.5 months in
      Asian-Pacific trial. Additionally, the possibility that sorafenib effect could be reduced in
      the patients had hepatitis B virus (HBV) was suggested in the subgroup analysis.

      1.3 Radiation therapy (RT) for the HCC The use of RT in HCC is increased with the radiation
      technological advances. In the unresectable patients, RT showed 50 to 60% response rate with
      the dose response relationship. Especially, in the HCC patients who combined with PVTT, RT
      showed 50% of local control and about 10 months survival duration. Despite the standard
      treatment of the HCC combined with PVTT is sorafenib, but Korean Liver Cancer Study Group
      (KLCSG) recommend RT as an option in those patients.

      Investigators previously reported the retrospective study that the scheduled interval TACE
      followed by RT for HCC combined with PVTT and 60% of the patients showed objective response
      without significant elevation of complication.

      1.4 Hyperthermia It is reported that hyperthermia is effective in S phase, Low partial oxygen
      pressure (pO2), acidic condition, and low perfusion site which are known as radio-resistant.
      Because of these characteristics, it considered as the most valuable radiosensitizer in
      cancer treatment, theoretically. Furthermore ,mild hyperthermia (41 to 41.5 ºC) can promote
      tumor reoxygenation.

      1.5 Purpose of the study Based on those studies, we start this prospective study to evaluate
      the objective response and adverse event in the combination treatment of RT and hyperthermia
      after TACE in the unresectable HCC patients who combined with PVTT.

      2. Hypothesis and sample size Several prospective trials showed 50% to 60% of objective
      response rate when conventional RT was administered for HCC with PVTT, thus we determined the
      objective response rate of conventional RT as 60%. We expect additional 20% increase of the
      local progression free rate than conventional RT when treated with combined RT and
      hyperthermia for HCC with PVTT.

      To determine sample size, we designed to have 80% power to detect an absolute difference of
      20% points in objective response rate between combined RT and hyperthermia and conventional
      RT, with a two-sided alpha level of 0.05. A total of 87 patients are required for this study
      considering a drop-out rate of 10%.
    
  