
    
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is thought to involve a chronic, autoimmune inflammatory process in
      which one's own immune system attacks the myelin sheath surrounding axons in the central
      nervous system. MS is associated with many symptoms that decrease one's quality of life
      including pain, spasticity, fatigue, bowel and bladder problems, dizziness, cognitive
      difficulties, and depression. There is currently no cure for MS.

      Decreased levels of dopamine (DA) have been measured in the cerebrospinal fluid of those with
      the primary progressive type of MS. In individuals with the relapsing- remitting type of MS,
      dopamine levels showed a negative correlation to disease severity such that as dopamine
      levels decreased, disease severity increased. Additionally, many symptoms of MS are related
      to dopaminergic dysfunction and/or abnormalities in dopamine rich brain areas. Dopamine
      levels have been shown to increase via active meditation during PET imaging in long term
      meditators. Other studies have also linked dopamine release to meditation in the peripheral
      nervous system (via measures of a DA metabolite in blood plasma levels). It is not clear
      whether brief meditation training in naive participants may have similar effects. Whether
      meditation could enhance dopamine levels in patients with MS or meditation naïve individuals
      has not been studied. Both dopamine and mindfulness training have been linked to improved
      attention and emotion regulation. Research has also indicated that attentional failures and
      infrequent use of emotion regulation strategies predicted poorer quality of life in patients
      with MS. Thus, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that meditation can enhance attention,
      emotion regulation, and quality of life in individuals with MS and that dopamine may be a
      neurochemical mechanism for this change.

      This study is an open trial pilot design with multiple assessments on measures of
      mindfulness, dopamine, inhibition, and emotion regulation. The primary goal of the current
      study is evaluate the efficacy of an internet based mindfulness program for individuals with
      MS. The investigators hypothesize that individuals with MS will show increased levels of
      mindfulness and improved emotion regulation and cognitive inhibition skills after the course.
      In addition, The investigators hypothesize that contrast sensitivity (a proxy measure of
      retinal dopamine levels) will increase after the course. A secondary goal of this study is to
      examine potential cognitive and neurochemical mechanisms of mindfulness in relation to
      emotion regulation. Specifically, the investigators propose to examine whether dopamine and
      cognitive inhibition mediate the relationship between mindfulness and improved emotion
      regulation.
    
  