
    
      A total of 50 patients will be recruited from the inpatient psychiatry unit for the study. A
      member from the research team will obtain informed consent for the participants and then
      administer the baseline assessment battery. Patients will then be randomized to either (a) an
      experimental group receiving TMBI + follow-up consultation or (b) a group receiving care as
      usual. Patients randomized to the experimental group will receive the intervention prior to
      discharge from the hospital, most likely on the same day as the baseline assessment battery.
      Patients receiving the experimental intervention will then be asked to complete a brief
      post-intervention client satisfaction survey administered by a research team member. All
      study participants will then complete telephone follow-up assessments at 1 and 3-month time
      points administered by members of the research team and supervised by the PI. Additionally,
      patient electronic medical records will be abstracted to document the following health
      services and clinical characteristics in the 12 months following enrollment in the study:
      death for any reason, inpatient hospitalization (both medical/surgical and psychiatric),
      emergency department visits, suicide attempt and other forms of self-directed violence, all
      outpatient appointments with VA service providers, and diagnosis. The PI will rate the TMBI
      sessions for the interventionists. When the PI delivers the intervention, a trained member of
      the research team will review the PI's sessions and rate for adherence. The intervention will
      consist of no more than 90 minutes (expected mean is 45 minutes for the intervention based
      upon previous studies of the TMBI) of 1:1 interaction with a study clinician. The baseline
      assessment battery will take approximately 30 minutes, the post-intervention measure will
      take approximately 5 minutes, and the 1 and 3-month assessment batteries will take
      approximately 30 minutes. The PI and potentially 2 to 3 members of the Suicide Prevention
      Program will provide the intervention to ~25 randomized patients.

      Notes will be kept on patients who decided to drop out of the intervention and/or the study.
      We will examine the mean and standard deviation for the total score and individual items on
      the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire. Notes will be kept documenting all contacts for
      recruitment and the number of eligible patients per month. Reasons for inclusion and
      exclusion of potential participants will be documented as well as reasons participants give
      for choosing not to participate. Number of patients enrolled and randomized each month will
      be documented. Notes will be kept of rates of on-time outcome assessments and days late and
      any assessments missed or participants lost to contact.

      Descriptive statistics for demographic and clinical variables will be tabulated. All scales
      will be scored and subscales described. This process will include examining the data for
      missing values, appropriate ranges, and outliers. Although the randomization design should
      ensure balance between the two groups, it is essential to control for any known confounders
      in the design and analysis to prevent a biased assessment of the brief intervention effect.
      Any baseline demographic or clinical variables found to be statistically significant in the
      analysis will be included as covariates in all analytic models. We will use an
      intent-to-treat sample to complete our analyses. We will utilize mixed-effects regression
      models to obtain between-groups effect sizes for the impact of the TMBI + consultation on
      elevating motivation, hope, reasons for living and social connection.
    
  