
    
      The design and objectives of the BioImage study (NCT00738725) have been published in detail.
      In brief, the BioImage study is investigating whether imaging of target arteries for
      subclinical atherosclerosis and measurement of ABI and circulating biomarkers add to the
      predictive value of traditional risk factor scoring systems, namely, the Framingham Risk
      Score. Enrollment in the BioImage study (January 2008 to June 2009) resulted in inclusion of
      7,687 asymptomatic Americans ages 55 to 80 years from the Humana Health System resident in
      Chicago, Illinois, or Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Of these, 6,104 entered the imaging arm of
      the study. Analysis of the BioImage study cross- sectional baseline findings has yielded
      important novel findings related to presence and severity of subclinical atherosclerosis and
      the role of markers of subclinical disease to identify those at elevated risk for near-term
      atherothrombotic events.

      One of the striking novel findings in the BioImage study was the prevalence of subclinical
      atherosclerotic disease in the carotid arteries as determined by a novel 3D ultrasound
      method. 3D carotid imaging was used to identify lesions located in the cervical part of the
      common carotid arteries (CCA) and internal carotid artery. 3D carotid imaging was initially
      performed using a high- resolution, linear array 2-dimensional transducer and scanning the
      artery in cross-section, slowly moving the transducer manually in the cranial direction from
      the proximal CCA into the distal internal carotid artery (i.e., from the clavicle to
      jawbone). The resulting 10-s digital video clip of this "manual 3D" cross-sectional sweep was
      examined in the core ultrasound laboratory for the presence and quantification of plaque. In
      the second phase of the study an electromechanical transducer was used to accomplish a
      similar sweep, replacing the manual sweep with a controlled movement of the transducer.

      This ultrasound technique identified carotid plaques in 78% of cases. Carotid plaque burden
      was found to correlate stronger with CACS (chi-square 450, p < 0.0001) than did cIMT
      (chi-square 24, p < 0.0001)15. Analyses have indicated that subclinical atherosclerosis as
      determined by 3D ultrasound is an important risk factor with marked incremental value over
      conventional risk-factor based scores such as the Framingham Risk Score.
    
  