
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the antileukemic activity of standard induction chemotherapy with or without
           gemtuzumab ozogamicin in elderly patients with previously untreated acute myeloid
           leukemia.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the rate of response, disease-free survival, event-free survival, incidence of
           relapse, and incidence of death of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the rate, type, and grade of toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to age (61-69 vs 70-75), CD33 positivity (less than 5% vs 5-19% vs 20-80% vs more
      than 80% vs unknown), initial WBC before hydroxyurea administration if needed (less than
      30,000/mm^3 vs at least 30,000/mm^3), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I:

             -  Induction (phase I): Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on days
                1 and 15.

             -  Induction (phase II/MICE regimen): Beginning between days 50 and 53, patients
                receive mitoxantrone IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5; etoposide IV over 1
                hour on days 1-3; and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7. Bone marrow
                evaluation is performed on day 29. Patients with partial remission (PR) receive a
                second course of MICE chemotherapy regimen. Patients with complete remission (CR)
                after 1 or 2 courses of MICE regimen proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients
                with progressive disease go off therapy.

             -  Consolidation: Beginning within 4 weeks of documentation of CR, patients receive
                gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 0; idarubicin IV on days 1, 3, and 5;
                etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-5.
                After at least day 30, patients receive a second consolidation course in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II:

             -  Induction (MICE regimen): Patients receive mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine
                as in arm I induction. Bone marrow evaluation is performed on day 29. Patients with
                PR receive a second course of MICE chemotherapy regimen. Patients with CR after 1
                or 2 courses of MICE regimen proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients with
                progressive disease go off therapy.

             -  Consolidation: Patients receive idarubicin, etoposide, and cytarabine as in arm I
                consolidation.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 450 patients (225 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3.75 years.
    
  