
    
      Headache is a common chief complaint of patients presenting to the emergency department (ED),
      accounting for approximately 3 million ED visits per year. Headache treatment is often a
      source of frustration for both patients and providers. By the time patients with benign
      headaches arrive in the emergency department, they have often failed non-invasive therapeutic
      attempts and providers are often left with few therapeutic options. Treatment of benign
      headache varies between providers, often including systemic medications with a multitude of
      possible side effects. Additionally, most headache cocktails require prolonged duration of
      treatment, occupying valuable bed space in increasingly busy emergency departments.

      In recent years, there has been preliminary investigation into anesthetic injections for the
      undifferentiated headache patient presenting to the emergency department. It has been
      proposed that these patients presenting with benign headache might benefit from this novel
      treatment. Since 2003, paraspinal muscle injections of bupivacaine have been used in
      emergency department patients with encouraging results. The mechanism of action is not
      clearly understood; however, it has been proposed that these injections affect the
      trigeminocervical complex hypothesized to play an integral role in headache physiology,
      similar to the same mechanism behind greater occipital nerve blocks used by neurologists.

      To the best of the investigators knowledge, there has never been a prospective double-blinded
      randomized control trial addressing this novel approach to headache management. Even so, the
      topic of using bupivacaine to inject the paraspinal musculature of the cervical spine has
      gained wider recognition over the past year. The topic has been discussed heavily on
      emergency medicine blogs and podcasts. Additionally, online videos have been posted to
      educate emergency medicine providers on the injection technique. According to retrospective
      literature, clinical efficacy was observed with a significant proportion of the patients
      receiving therapeutic effect. These studies, along with anecdotal experience with the
      procedure at the investigators institution, have led to great excitement concerning the
      possibility of a new approach to emergency department headache management. However, the topic
      still needs investigation with a well-designed prospective clinical trial to determine true
      clinical utility.
    
  