
    
      As the aorta is repaired, the child has no circulation to the body or brain. While short
      periods of circulatory arrest were well tolerated, a modified technique called selective
      cerebral perfusion was developed to maintain blood flow to the brain during aortic repairs so
      as to allow for less hurried repairs with less concern over brain ischemia and injury.

      Selective cerebral perfusion is designed to provide flow to the brain via the right carotid
      artery and collateral intracranial vessels while the aortic arch is isolated for repair. It
      is felt that collateral vessels also allow some perfusion of the lower body, but the adequacy
      of lower body perfusion during selective cerebral perfusion has not been well documented.
      While it is clear that some blood reaches the lower body, the incidence of renal and
      gastrointestinal complications following cardiac repairs involving aortic arch
      reconstructions remains significant.

      The goal of this proposal is to evaluate a simple modification of the standard selective
      cerebral perfusion protocol designed to increase perfusion to the lower body during aortic
      arch reconstructions. Essentially all children who undergo aortic arch reconstruction at
      Egleston hospital have either a femoral or umbilical artery catheter in place for routine
      monitoring. During selective cerebral perfusion, the descending thoracic aorta is clamped, so
      the lower body arterial line is not a useful monitor at that point. We propose to connect a
      pressure line from the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit to the lower body arterial catheter,
      allowing for increased perfusion of the lower body through the femoral/umbilical arterial
      catheter during selective cerebral perfusion We will monitor simultaneous near infra-red
      spectroscopy of the brain, flank, and thigh to determine the adequacy of oxygen delivery to
      the brain, kidney, and lower body musculature during the procedure. Near infra-red
      spectroscopy provides a measure of the oxygenation of hemoglobin in arterial, capillary, and
      venous blood within the path of an infra-red sensor. Blood samples will be collected before
      skin incision, at the end of the procedure, and at 3, 12, and 24 hours after arrival to the
      intensive care unit. Intestinal fatty acid binding protein (i-FABP) and c-reactive protein
      (CRP) serum levels will be measured at each timepoint as markers of intestinal ischemia and
      generalized inflammation respectively. The incidence of documented or suspected necrotizing
      enterocolitis prior to hospital discharge and the time required to achieve full enteral feeds
      will be recorded. Renal function will be assayed by the maximal change from preoperative to
      postoperative serum creatinine, normalized urine output per 12 hour period following surgery,
      total diuretic dose per day, and daily creatinine clearance for the first 3 days after
      surgery.
    
  