
    
      Objective:

      The aim of this controlled trial was to explore the effect of a new mentalization-focused 4D
      interactive ultrasound and a week-by-week pregnancy diary intervention with substance-abusing
      pregnant women.

      Method:

      This trial was conducted at the maternity outpatient clinic for substance-abusing pregnant
      women at Turku University Hospital, Finland, between October 2011 and December 2015. At Turku
      University Hospital there is a specialized antenatal outpatient clinic for pregnant women
      with substance abuse problems. Pregnant women referred to this facility from primary health
      care due to substance abuse were invited to participate the trial.

      At admission, a psychiatric nurse offered all eligible women an opportunity to participate in
      the randomized trial. A written informed consent was obtained from all individual
      participants included in the study. The participants were randomized into the intervention
      and control groups using a computer-generated block-randomization with block size of four,
      and a separate randomization assignment was used for women in medication-assisted treatment
      for opioid addiction. In post-intervention phase at 35 gestational weeks, all participants
      were compensated with a 20 euros gift card targeted to the infant's needs. The research plan
      was approved by The Joint Ethics Committee of the University of Turku and the Hospital
      District of Southwest Finland on the 14th of June 2011.

      Description of the intervention and the control condition:

      The intervention group subjects were offered three mentalization-focused interactive 4D
      ultrasounds at 24, 30 and 34 gestational weeks and a mentalization-focused week-by-week
      pregnancy diary combined with three prenatal sessions and option for one diary session after
      delivery. Detailed intervention method description including a theoretical background of the
      intervention is already published and available (Pajulo et al. 2016).

        1. Mentalization-focused interactive use of 4D ultrasound imaging:

           Three interactive 4D ultrasound sessions were offered for the intervention group
           participants at 24, 30 and 34 gestational weeks at the maternity outpatient clinic. The
           pregnant women participated in the sessions alone. The ultrasound sessions took around
           20-30 minutes, and were performed by an experienced obstetrician and an infant mental
           health professional working in cooperation. The sessions were based on the intervention
           method called "ultrasound consultation" (Boukydis & Stockman, 2012; Boukydis, 2006)
           where the idea is to observe the fetus together with the parent(s); the fetal features,
           position, sleep-awake rhythm, personal characteristics, activities in the uterus and
           responses to mother's initiatives for interaction.The aim is to evoke the mother's
           active interest in this particular child and hence to enhance parental mentalization and
           maternal-fetal attachment.

        2. The mentalization-focused week-by-week pregnancy diary:

      To keep the fetus more actively in the mother's mind across pregnancy, a new
      mentalization-focused pregnancy diary was designed for the intervention group. Three prenatal
      meetings (45 minutes) with the infant mental health professional were offered for reflecting
      the mother's experiences on using the diary. The diary contains short sections for each
      pregnancy week including information about pregnancy, fetal development and health promoting
      practices. The key elements in the diary are the mentalization-focused questions and tasks
      encouraging the pregnant woman to reflect on her fetus and pregnancy and becoming a parent.

      The control condition:

      The intervention and control group received active treatment as usual in an obstetric
      tertiary setting, and treatment as usual formed the control condition for the intervention.
      The treatment was offered by a multidisciplinary team consisting of an obstetrician, a
      midwife, a social worker and a psychiatric nurse . The patients were referred to addiction
      and psychiatric treatment when needed. The Child Protection Services were involved in
      prenatal phase in accordance with the Finnish legislation.

      Data collection:

      The primary outcome was prenatal maternal depressive symptoms post-intervention, and
      secondary outcomes were anxiety symptoms, prenatal parental mentalization, maternal-fetal
      attachment and substance abuse. Other outcomes were utilisation of prenatal care, perinatal
      outcome, neonatal withdrawal symptoms and neonatal neurobehavior, postnatal maternal
      depressive and anxiety symptoms, parental mentalization, experienced stress from parenting
      and experienced social support, and emotional connection and commitment with the baby.

      The pregnant woman and her child were followed-up until the child was one year old. The data
      was collected from multiple sources: standardized measures, questionnaires constructed for
      the study and information available from hospital medical records. As a part of routine
      clinical practice, the pregnant women were interviewed by the psychiatric nurse and the
      social worker. The interviews based on the European Addiction Severity Index-questionnaire
      (EuropASI) (Kokkevi & Hartgers, 1995), where the items regard maternal physical and mental
      health, substance abuse, employment and income, legal status and close relationships.
      Sociodemographic data was obtained by a ten-item questionnaire at baseline. Information
      regarding maternal psychiatric diagnosis and/or history was based on documented self-report
      or medical records. Information regarding maternal substance abuse was obtained through the
      medical records, and was based on maternal self-report or clinical documentation
      (intoxications, urine screening results, marks indicating intravenous substance abuse).
      Meconium sample was collected after birth for detection of illicit drugs. Data regarding
      utilisation of obstetric care and perinatal outcome was obtained from hospital medical
      records.

      The standardized measures used to assess maternal depressive and anxiety symptoms,
      maternal-fetal attachment and parental mentalization were administered during pregnancy at
      two time points, i.e. before and after intervention (< 24th and > 34th gestational weeks,
      respectively). Routine postnatal follow-up visits at the socio pediatric unit were conducted
      when the infant was at 3 months and 1 year age. Standardized measures were administered
      during those follow-up visits to assess maternal postnatal depressive and anxiety symptoms,
      parental mentalization, experienced stress from parenting and experienced social support, and
      emotional connection and commitment with the baby. Medical records concerning health and
      psychosocial situation of the mother and infant were available, based on informed consent,
      until the child was one year old. The assessment time points and measures were the same for
      both groups.

      The registration of the trial is made retrospectively, but the research plan and outcomes are
      reported in this registration as they were originally documented in the research plan
      approved by The Joint Ethics Committee of the University of Turku and the Hospital District
      of Southwest Finland on 14th of June 2011.
    
  