
    
      Aim 1: Test if implementation of SBIRT improves processes of care for hospital inpatients
      currently using tobacco, alcohol or non-prescription drugs.

      Aim 2: Estimate the cost of SBIRT implementation and delivery for the health system.

      Design and Sample:

      A phased cluster randomized mixed methods design using a wait-list usual care control on one
      medical surgical unit in 14 hospitals will be conducted. The intervention is an SBIRT
      toolkit.

      Each hospital within the healthcare system is eligible to participate, and has agreed to
      participate (N=14). A computer generated allocation based on a stratified random sampling
      approach using SPSS was used to randomize hospitals into an intervention (Group 1, n=7) or
      wait-list usual care control (Group 2, n=7) group. Prior to randomization, hospitals were
      stratified by type (academic health center, community hospital, or critical access hospital).
      Allocation to the intervention or wait-list usual care control groups is based on cluster,
      and participants will be aware of their cluster allocation. One medical surgical unit within
      each hospital will be selected by the nurse executive to participate. All hospitals will
      receive the intervention. Group 1 (n=7) hospitals will participate in the implementation and
      intervention first, with Group 2 (n=7) following six months later.

      Methods:

      Smoking cessation practices will be collected from nurses (N=560) at baseline. SBIRT use will
      be collected from nurses on randomly selected days via survey. Observations of SBIRT use and
      interviews with study coordinators will also be conducted.

      SBIRT process delivery for patients will be assessed through review of de-identified
      electronic medical records (EMRs) abstracted at three time points: baseline, six-months post
      and 12 months using a random sample of 61 patient EMRs from the participating hospital units
      at each time point (N=2,562). Data abstracted is retrospective, and consists of SBIRT process
      elements only.

      This study protocol incorporates standardized education on using SBIRT through a
      train-the-trainer approach. Site coordinators will receive information about the nurse survey
      and secondary data abstraction procedures. Each group will receive training on the SBIRT
      intervention (Group 1 first, then Group 2 six months later). Training for site coordinators
      will include skills in how to teach SBIRT to others and systems strategies for promoting
      SBIRT uptake. After the site coordinator training is completed, each hospital (via the site
      coordinator) will train additional nurses, validate skills in SBIRT and develop a referral
      process specific to its needs.
    
  