
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objective of efficacy is the reduction in the area of devitalized tissue based on
      the photographic record.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate:

        -  formation of granulation tissue;

        -  the lesion reduction during treatment;

        -  the healing process of the Pressure Ulcer (PU) range of PUSH;

        -  the safety of the investigational product.

      Study Plan:

        -  Estimated 92 research participants;

        -  Aged between ≥ 18 years and ≤ 80 years - both sexes;

        -  Visits from 1 to 10;

        -  The maximum lasting period in the study for each research participant will be
           approximately four weeks.

      Evaluations During Study:

      Evaluation of Digital Photography: The digital photographic record can provide the relative
      size of the wound, the tissue color and condition of the surrounding skin. The evaluation of
      digital photograph of each research participant will be performed by the classification
      assigned to the decrease of devitalized area and tissue e repair related to the time of
      healing and observed the formation of granulation tissue and epithelialization from
      standardized photographs.

      Evaluation by PUSH Scales:

      In order to provide an evaluation instrument of PUs in Brazil, so that satisfies the
      simplicity of the use in different clinical scenarios keeping its measurement properties, as
      previously attested from its original version, the PUSH scale was adapted into Portuguese.

      The PUSH Scale considers three parameters or sub - scales of the wound healing process and
      treatment outcomes: wound area, amount of exudate present on the wound, appearance of the
      wound.

      Retention of Records:

      The investigator shall retain all documentation of the study over a period of at least five
      years from the end of the study. The Sponsor or its designee will provide a list of all
      documentation which should be kept by the Investigator.

      Monitoring:

      All aspects of the study will be carefully monitored by Cristália Pharmaceutical Chemicals
      Ltda. or designated representative of it (Clinical Research Organization - CRO) for
      evaluations related to good clinical practice and applicable local regulations.

      Case Report Forms:

      The Monitor will be available if the investigator, or other person of his team, needs
      information and guidance.

      The Monitor of the study should have permanent access to all documentation and it is his
      obligation to ensure that the Case Report Forms are complete and completed correctly, as well
      as checking if the data are described according to the source documents, in order to
      eliminate interferences that may compromise the accuracy of the data generated in the
      clinical trial.

      Audit and Inspections:

      Authorized representatives of the Sponsor or designees, regulatory authority or the Ethics
      Committee of the institution may conduct audits or inspections during or after the study
      conclusion.

      Collecting Data:

      The information corresponding to the data of interest from the study will be collected and
      recorded in Case Report forms provided by Sponsor, and filled from the information contained
      in the source documents.

      Documents are considered sources for study: medical records used by the professional at the
      time of the visits, diagnostic tests or image.

      Informed Consent of Trial:

      The Principal Investigator will ensure that the research participant receive verbally and in
      writing all relevant information about the nature, purpose, the test drug, the possible risks
      and benefits of the study.

      Research participants will be notified that they are free to discontinue the study at any
      time. That they will have the opportunity to ask questions and to have sufficient time to
      consider the information received.

      Formation of the database:

      The database of the study will be assembled with the data from the Case Report Forms. Doubts
      and discrepancies will generate questions (queries) written to the Principal Investigator.
    
  