
    
      The Alzheimer's Disease (AD) epidemic is a looming crisis, with an urgent need for new
      therapies to delay or prevent symptom onset and progression. Advances in AD biomarker
      research have demonstrated changes in amyloid, brain metabolism, and other pathophysiologies
      prior to the onset of memory loss, with some markers possibly changing one or two decades
      earlier. Since MCI coincides with the onset of brain atrophy, this early stage of AD
      pathogenesis may offer a critical window of time to initiate novel therapies aimed at the
      secondary wave of events that lead to progressive neurodegeneration.

      From recently emerged basic research in animal models of AD: loss of norepinephrine (NE)
      incites a pro-inflammatory condition that is neurotoxic and reduces Aß clearance, and
      remarkably, rescue of norepinephrine reverses these effects and slows neurodegeneration. This
      study seeks to extend this proof-of-concept to humans for the first time. The study proposes
      that atomoxetine, a selective norepinephrine transport inhibitor, is an ideal drug to
      translate these findings to humans because it is already FDA-approved and safe in the elderly

      Subjects with mild cognitive impairment (amnestic or multi-domain subtypes) will be randomly
      assigned to treatment with placebo or flexible doses of the Norepinephrine Transporter (NET)
      inhibitor atomoxetine, starting with 10 mg po daily and increasing weekly by increments to a
      maximum of 100 mg po daily or the maximum tolerated dose. Participants will be treated for
      upto 29 weeks, and will undergo venous blood draws and lumbar puncture for biomarker analyses
      at baseline and up to weeks 29. At a maximum of 29 weeks time point, subjects assigned to
      active treatment will crossover to placebo and those subjects who were initially randomized
      to placebo will initiate active treatment.

      Participants who complete study are eligible to receive open-label Atomoxetine at the
      maximum-tolerated dose received during the double-blind phase of the trial. Subjects in the
      open label are seen every at week 29 upto maximum of 2 years.
    
  