
    
      Subjects will be enrolled in either arm of the study for duration of 4 months. Patients that
      are randomized into study arm 1 will come to the clinic for Speech Language Pathologist (SLP)
      directed face-to-face rehabilitation for a period of 2 months. The patients will then
      transition to participate in weekly face-to-face Electropalatography (EPG) biofeedback
      training. The EPG biofeedback will be used for 2 months. Patients that are randomized into
      study arm 2 will first undergo a self-directed tongue strengthening program (oral exercises)
      for a period of 2 months and then transition into EPG biofeedback training.

      Although randomization will be used, this is a nonstandard trial because all patients will
      receive biofeedback EPG. Patients from both study arms will receive biofeedback training
      after undergoing an SLP directed face-to-face rehabilitation program versus a self-directed
      tongue strengthening program (oral exercises). The SLP directed face-to-face rehabilitation
      program or self-directed tongue strengthening program will be initiated at least 2 weeks
      post-surgery. If the patient is treated with adjuvant radiation, the patient will take a
      self-directed biofeedback holiday with a target of restarting at least 2 after the completion
      of adjuvant treatment.

      This design was chosen because there is equipoise with respect to the efficacy of the
      intervention and uncertainty with respect to whether the intervention is most valuable
      following an SLP directed face-to-face rehabilitation program versus a self-directed tongue
      strengthening program. The design offers all patients the opportunity to participate in the
      intervention. This approach will also allow us to analyze between subject change and within
      subject change.

      The A.I.D.S assessment has been in place for approximately 50 years. The mean A.I.D.S.
      efficiency score (95%CI) in the current pilot study (n=16) is 0.54 (46.0, 62.3). With 33
      patients in each group, there will be over 80% power to detect a 10% difference in the speech
      efficiency score even under the condition that there may be low (rho<0.1) correlation within
      subject. Higher correlation within subject on the various scores would serve to increase the
      efficiency of the analysis.

      Bivariate comparison will be made between the arms with respect to the primary and secondary
      outcome variables at each time point.

      Linear mixed model will be used to account for multiple measures at multiple time points. The
      first step will be to compare arms with respect to the primary and secondary outcome
      variables. For those tests that are significant a backward selected regression will be
      performed to control for confounders and to look for important effect modifier variables.
      Variables related to rehabilitation participation will be modeled in the backward selected
      regression.
    
  