
    
      Study design

      We propose an interventional study investigating the effects of acute and chronic
      beta-blockade on cardiorespiratory performance prior to elective surgery.

      We aim to recruit 64 abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) patients under surveillance who will
      undergo 2 cardiopulmonary exercise tests to investigate the effect of beta blockade on
      cardiopulmonary performance. This sample size is calculated by using a 2-tailed sample
      t-test, with 90% power to detect an estimated increase of 10% in oxygen delivery (VO2) at
      anaerobic threshold. We also estimated a drop-out rate of about 25% which is built into our
      power calculation estimates.

      Interventions

      Patients on long term beta blockade will be studied to investigate the effect of chronic beta
      blocker use. They will undergo two CPETs, the first on beta blockers, the second after
      discontinuing their beta blocker for at least 48 hours.

      Patients not on beta blockers will be studied to investigate the effect of acute beta
      blockade. They will undergo two CPETs, the first off medication, the second after
      commencement of beta blockade (weight adjusted, started 48 hours prior to CPET).

      Potential subjects will be provided with the patient information sheet in clinic, 1-2 weeks
      prior to their initial CPET. They will be given at least 1 week to consider the study in
      which the investigators will follow them up via a telephone call. Informed consent to
      participate in the study will be obtained at their initial (standard care) CPET.

      All consenting subjects will perform exercise using electro-magnetically braked equipment
      during a ramped-incremental protocol in two different occasions. Prior to the tests full lung
      function tests will be performed by body plethysmography. The exercise tests will be
      performed with subjects wearing nose clips and breathing through a mouthpiece throughout the
      test. The initial cycling workload will be zero but will progressively increase at a rate of
      10-15 Watts/min. After a resting period of 30 seconds and 2 minutes warm up subjects will
      stop when they can cycle no further. All gas exchange parameters will be measured and a
      metabolic cart, heart rate and oxygen saturation will be monitored at pre and post testing.

      Subjects will also be asked to score their perceived breathlessness and leg fatigue using
      modified Borg scores every minute during exercise, and inspiratory capacity will be measured
      every minute during the exercise test.

      At the end of this test, they will be given a date for the 2nd CPET and a prescription for
      oral bisoprolol once daily (dose adjusted to patients body weight), to be started 48 hours
      prior to the test (two doses in total). Patients will be informed of potential side effects
      of the medications at this visit. This will be weight adjusted with a specific dose as
      follows: 1.25 mg if patent weighs 50-75 kg, 2.5 mg if 75-100 kg and 3.75 mg if >100 kg.

      Patients will then attend for the 2nd CPET, following which bisoprolol will be discontinued
      or continued based on clinical indication.

      If patients are already chronically on a beta blocker, they will have their first CPET while
      on medication, and then will be asked to stop the medication for a period of 48 hours before
      the second CPET. It is standard procedure to take the patient off beta blockers prior to
      their CPET at Aintree University Hospital. Patients will be informed of potential risks of
      stopping their beta blocker at their first visit. The beta blocker will be restarted or
      discontinued based on clinical indication after the second CPET.
    
  