
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy and toxicity of cyclophosphamide and rituximab in patients with
           previously untreated, high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy and toxicity of early vs delayed administration
           of vaccine therapy comprising KGEL and autologous tumor cells after cyclophosphamide and
           rituximab in these patients.

        -  Compare the magnitude of the T-cell response to early vs delayed administration of this
           vaccine after rituximab and cyclophosphamide and correlate these responses with the
           extent of immune reconstruction.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized phase II study for patients with asymptomatic or minimally
      symptomatic, untreated CLL with poor-risk features.

      Patients undergo peripheral blood collection for vaccine production. Patients then receive
      rituximab IV over at least 4 hours on days 1 and 2 in course 1 and on day 1 only in
      subsequent courses and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment with rituximab and
      cyclophosphamide repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression. Patients undergo evaluation 4 weeks after completion of rituximab and
      cyclophosphamide. Patients achieving partial or complete response are randomized to 1 of 2
      vaccine treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (early administration): Beginning 2 weeks after evaluation, patients receive
           vaccine therapy comprising an autologous tumor admixed with an allogeneic vaccine (KGEL)
           that produces sargramostim (GM-CSF) and autologous tumor cells intradermally. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (late administration): Beginning 20 weeks after evaluation, patients receive
           vaccine therapy comprising KGEL and autologous tumor cells intradermally. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  