
    
      This study will be carried out on patients attending the outpatient clinic in Oral and
      Maxillofacial Surgery Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University.

      10. Eligibility criteria:

        -  Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age group: from 15 to 60 years old.

        -  Patients with pure blow-out fractures.

        -  Exclusion criteria:

             -  Patients suffering from dermatological diseases,

                11. Interventions:

                  1. Pre-operative phase:

                     Patients will be subjected to:

                       1. Case history including personal data, medical, surgical and family
                          history.

                       2. Clinical examination.

                       3. Preoperative anesthesia assessment for fitness for general anesthesia.

                       4. Treatment planning.

                  2. Operative phase:

                     All cases will undergo surgery under general anesthesia. The inferior wall can
                     be easily accessed through transcutaneous or transconjunctival approach (with
                     or without lateral canthotomy). The latter avoids a visible scar and is less
                     likely to result in eyelid retraction. The medial wall can be accessed through
                     transcaruncular approach. Careful exploration under the periosteum allows easy
                     visualization of the fracture boundaries as well as correction of the
                     herniated tissue.

                     Then various implants can be used to support the orbital soft tissue and
                     prevent recurrent herniation. Porous polyethylene sheets (Medpor) are one of
                     most commonly used implant materials. Other autogenous (cranial, rib or iliac
                     bone graft) or alloplastic (gelatin film, silicone sheet, Teflon, Supramid,
                     titanium mesh or bioresorbable copolymer plates) materials are also available.

                     Periocular fractures are often managed first by the ophthalmologist. With good
                     clinical examination and radiographic imaging, an informed decision can be
                     made whether surgical intervention is required.

                  3. Postoperative care:

      Proper postoperative instructions will be given the patient, in addition to the postoperative
      medications including antibiotics, corticosteroids and analgesics.
    
  