
    
      Type 1 diabetes mellitus is a systemic disease that affects the biochemical, morphological
      and functional properties of various tissues of the body. It is characterized by the loss of
      insulin-producing cells associated with an autoimmune disorder.

      The chronotropic response is an increase in heart rate due to physical activity and metabolic
      demand. Chronotropic disorder is an inadequate cardiac response and is frequently encountered
      in individuals with diabetes. Diabetes-related comorbidities or physiological abnormalities
      may lead to impaired chronotropic response, such as altered blood catecholamine levels during
      exercise, structural myocardial anomalies, and impaired baroreflex sensitivity. While there
      are studies on chronotropic response in individuals with type 2 diabetes, chronotropic
      disorders have not been investigated in adults with type 1 diabetes.

      Diabetes affects the lungs negatively. In individuals with diabetes decreased lung volume,
      and diffusion were observed. Dynamic lung capacity of individuals with type 1 diabetes with
      the pulmonary function test will be investigated.

      There are limited studies evaluating respiratory muscle strength and endurance in individuals
      with type 1 diabetes. These studies have presented conflicting findings. Informations will be
      provided to literature by evaluating respiratory muscle strength and endurance.

      Physical activity is positively correlated with in the cardiovascular risk factor.
      Hyperglycemia stresses or fear of hypoglycemia experienced by individuals with type 1
      diabetes may lead people to a sedentary life.

      Physical activity level of individuals with type 1 diabetes will be evaluated using metabolic
      holter, which is an objective method.

      Patients and healthy individuals will be evaluated and compared. According to the sample size
      analysis, 27 patients and 27 healthy individuals with similar demographic characteristics
      will be included in the study. Evaluations will be completed within two days.
    
  