
    
      For HRIPT, a total of 9 induction patches were applied at the rate of three patches per week
      for three weeks. The patch was retained in place for 48 hours during week days and 72 hrs
      over the weekend. Each induction patch was applied to the same site unless the degree of
      reaction to the test substance or the adhesive necessitates relocation. Two sites, adjacent
      to the original site, were available if patch relocation was deemed necessary. A rest period
      of 12-20 days between the final induction patch application and challenge patch application
      was provided. Challenge patches were applied 12-20 days after the last induction patch
      application. Patches were worn for 48 hours (± 1 hour), then removed at the site and
      discarded.

      For PT, the test products along with a blank chamber as negative control were applied on the
      back of the subjects in contralateral paired symmetry under occlusion for 24 hours. After
      completion of 24 hours of occlusion, both patch systems were taken off. Subjects were
      acclimatized for 30 minutes post removal of the patch and dermatological assessment of the
      sites (including controls) was performed. Post assessment, one of the two sites and an
      untreated blank control site (randomized and investigator blinded) was irradiated with 0.5
      MED (specific for each subject). Follow up assessments were performed at 10 minutes post
      irradiation and subsequently at 24 and 48 hours post irradiation.

      For CIT, the patches were prepared in a vertical row and applications were made every day for
      14 days. All applications for individual test substances were made to the same site (the site
      used for the initial patch application) unless reactions become so strong (grade of 2.0 or
      greater) as to make continued application inadvisable. Patches were worn for approximately 23
      hours (± 1 hour). Subjects were instructed to keep their patches dry. Subjects were
      instructed to return to the test facility for patch removal and disposal by test facility
      personnel. Skin sites were gently wiped with water and patted dry to remove excess test
      substance immediately following patch removal. Skin sites were graded approximately 20-40
      minutes following patch removal. Subjects were not allowed to replace any patches that fall
      off. Subjects were provided with instructions and a schedule of the study dates on the first
      day of the study. Telephone numbers were provided to report adverse events or answer
      questions on a 24-hour basis.
    
  