
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate that patient-reported Patient-Report Outcomes Version of the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) data will be able to detect differences
      in symptoms between participants treated witheribulin mesylate (eribulin) and standard weekly
      paclitaxel at 12 weeks.

      II. To validate rs7349683 in EPHA5 as a predictor of peripheral neuropathy from treatment
      with a microtubule targeting agent (i.e., eribulin or paclitaxel).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival, progression free survival (PFS), objective response rate
      (ORR), duration of response (DOR), and time to treatment failure (TTF) in patients receiving
      eribulin versus standard weekly paclitaxel.

      II. To compare the 12 month rate of disease progression in patients receiving eribulin versus
      standard weekly paclitaxel.

      III. To evaluate the clinical value and feasibility of collecting patient-reported symptom
      toxicity information via the Patient-Report Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE).

      IV. To further validate the PRO-CTCAE sensory neuropathy items. V. To compare patient
      reported neurotoxicity between arms using the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ)-Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral
      Neuropathy 20 (CIPN20) instrument.

      VI. To assess the toxicities in patients receiving eribulin versus standard weekly
      paclitaxel.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare new metastasis free survival in patients receiving eribulin versus standard
      weekly paclitaxel.

      II. To explore the relationship between common single nucleotide polymorphisms in FGD4, FZD3,
      and VAC14 as predictors of peripheral neuropathy from treatment with a microtubule targeting
      agent (i.e., eribulin or paclitaxel).

      III. To evaluate circulating nucleosomes and the apoptosis associated M30 neo-epitope as
      potential biomarkers associated with clinical benefit from treatment with eribulin
      specifically or the microtubule dynamics inhibitors in general.

      VI. To evaluate tubulin isotype expression, mutations, and signaling pathway modifications in
      tumor tissue as potential biomarkers associated with clinical benefit from treatment with
      eribulin specifically or the microtubule dynamics inhibitors in general.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive eribulin mesylate intravenously (IV) over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and
      8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks.
    
  