
    
      Purpose: To compare the performance of a new female condom (PATH Woman's Condom) with an
      FDA-approved female condom (FC2), as assessed by reported clinical failure and vaginal PSA

      Design: This is a comparative, open-label two-period crossover study of up to 505 couples
      comparing the PATH Woman's Condom to the FC2 female condom. We will enroll up to 505 couples
      at the California Family Health Council to have 375 complete both periods. The study will
      provide data on functional performance, vaginal semen exposure, safety, and acceptability of
      the two female condoms.

      Primary objective: To compare the performance of the PATH Woman's Condom (WC) to the FC2, as
      assessed by self-reported total clinical failure and its components (clinical breakage,
      slippage, misdirection, and invagination).

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To compare the ability of the WC and the FC2 to prevent vaginal exposure to semen, as
           indicated by detection of PSA within the vagina

        -  To calculate the sensitivity and specificity of reported failures using PSA as the gold
           standard for the presence of semen

        -  To compare acceptability of the WC and FC2

      Study Population: Healthy heterosexual couples at least 18 years of age and at low risk for
      pregnancy or STIs.

      Study Size: up to 505 couples divided between multiple recruitment locations under one
      center.

      Study Duration: Accrual will require approximately 14 months. Each couple will be expected to
      complete the study in 2-3 months. Therefore, the clinical portion of the study should be
      completed within approximately 17 months. Data preparation, analysis, and report writing are
      expected to require up to 7 months after completion of the clinical portion.

      Treatment Regimen: The couples will be randomized to one of two condom use sequences (WC then
      FC2 or FC2 then WC). Four condoms of each type will be used by couples over two 2-4 week
      periods. For first period, one set of pre- and post-coital vaginal swabs will be collected
      around unprotected intercourse. For each coital act where a condom is used in the period, pre
      and post-coital vaginal swabs and a post-coital condom swab will be collected. A Condom Use
      Questionnaire will be completed after each condom use. An Acceptability Questionnaire will be
      completed at the end of each period. After a follow-up visit, these procedures will be
      repeated with the second 4 condoms, without collection of vaginal swabs at unprotected
      intercourse.

      Study Center: California Family Health Council

      Funding Source: United States Agency for International Development (USAID) & National
      Institute for Child Health and Development (NICHD)
    
  