
    
      Unhealthy diets have many social determinants; however, there is a markedly lower
      availability of components of the DASH diet-recommended foods (such as fresh fruits and
      vegetables, skim milk and whole grain foods) in predominantly African-American and
      lower-income neighborhoods compared with Caucasian and higher-income neighborhoods. Unhealthy
      dietary consumption patterns contribute, in part, to hypertension through deficiencies in
      potassium, magnesium and vitamin C - all micronutrients with independent blood
      pressure-lowering effects. Furthermore, use of thiazide-based antihypertensive therapy often
      worsens deficiencies through increased urinary excretion. Strategies that take into account
      the multi-level nature of the problem of poor nutrition among low income African Americans
      are needed to improve adherence to dietary recommendations and reverse micronutrient
      deficiencies in hypertensive adults. The Five Plus Nuts & Beans Study is a randomized,
      controlled trial to compare two strategies for translating the results of the DASH (Dietary
      Approaches to Stop Hypertension) Study into practice for 120 African American participants
      who are on stable doses of antihypertensive medications. The first arm of our study offers
      minimal DASH-oriented dietary advice along with a food credit at a local supermarket where
      they make their own decision of what to eat. The second arm consists of a single one-hour
      session with a nutrition expert who provides choices and places an on-line order from a
      community grocery store (Santoni's Market) with targeted purchases of fruits, vegetables,
      nuts and beans. Following the initial contact, there is a weekly call with the coordinator
      for a $30 per week food delivery. Food orders are delivered for pick-up weekly by
      participants at a Baltimore Public Library in participant's neighborhood. Our primary outcome
      is change in blood pressure at 8 weeks. Secondary outcomes are effects on glucose, uric acid,
      urine potassium excretion, and self-report consumption of fruits and vegetables during the
      same period. After completion of the active phase of the trial, we will follow blood
      pressures in the electronic medical record for one year to assess long-term effects.
    
  