
    
      Background: Thoracic paravertebral blocks (TPVBs) have been effective for postoperative
      analgesia in mastectomy, thoracic and video-assisted thoracic surgeries.

      Objective: The objective was to assess whether addition of ultrasound-guided TPVBs to general
      anaesthesia (GA) could postpone time to first pain and improve postoperative analgesia in
      patients undergoing bilateral reduction mammoplasty.

      Design: A historical cohort study. Patients: Of the 70 female patients who underwent
      bilateral reduction mammaplasty, 64 patients had complete data in the acute pain/regional
      anaesthesia database.

      Intervention: Standard monitoring was applied before any anesthetic techniques were
      performed. All patients were given sedation in the form of midazolam 1-2 mg and fentanyl
      50-100 µg. Patients underwent bilateral reduction mammaplasty were distributed to two groups
      due to their data: 1) Patients received only general anaesthesia (GA) were included in Group
      GA, and 2) Patients received preoperative US-guided TPVBs as an adjunct to GA were included
      in Group TPVBs. Thirty patients were in Group GA. Thirty-four patients who were in Group
      TPVBs received bilateral single injection ultrasound-guided TPVBs with 20 mL bupivacaine
      0.375% (20 mL per injection) at the level of T3-4, as an adjunct to GA. Patients in both
      groups were administered intraoperative fentanyl if heart rate or mean arterial pressure
      increased >20% above pre-induction values. They also received postoperative tramadol 1mg/kg
      in the postoperative care unit (PACU) and rescue analgesics as metamizole sodium 4x1g and/or
      paracetamol 3x1g on wards, if numeric rating scale (NRS) was ≥4.

      Main outcome measures: The primary endpoint was time to first pain after the surgery.
      Secondary endpoints were intra- and postoperative opioid and other rescue analgesic
      requirements, length of stay in the PACU, pain scores, incidence of postoperative nausea and
      vomiting (PONV), and patient and surgeon satisfaction through the postoperative first 2 days.
    
  