
    
      According to the National Health Survey in 2010, more than 50% of adults between 60-69 years
      old in Singapore had hypertension. As the population ages and life expectancy continues to
      increase, an increasing incidence of hypertensive heart disease would be expected. Similar to
      aortic stenosis, left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with hypertension was associated
      with adverse cardiovascular outcome, independent of traditional risk factors including
      peripheral blood pressure. Unlike aortic stenosis (a condition with fixed obstruction),
      arterial hypertension is dynamic and with effective medical therapy, left ventricular
      hypertrophy can regress and outcome will improve. As such, contemporary guidelines recommend
      more aggressive blood pressure control in patients with hypertension and left ventricular
      hypertrophy. However, the correlation between arterial pressure and left ventricular mass is
      weak, particularly in treated individuals. Coupled with the inherent limitations of measuring
      peripheral blood pressure, it is clear that using arterial pressure to monitor progression or
      assess treatment response in patients with hypertensive heart disease is not optimal.

      Without timely and appropriate therapies, left ventricular hypertrophy will become
      progressively maladaptive and ultimately the heart fails. Whilst heart failure is more
      commonly known by the signs and symptoms related to impaired systolic ejection fraction,
      heart failure with preserved ejection fraction is an increasingly recognized complex entity
      characterized by signs and symptoms of heart failure in the presence of preserved ejection
      fraction. To date, therapies that improve outcomes in heart failure with reduced ejection
      fraction have not shown similar benefits in patients with heart failure and preserved
      ejection fraction. There is no single explanation for these negative findings, but one
      potential reason may relate to the heterogeneity of patients recruited into these trials, and
      thus supporting a more targeted approach to specific phenotypes rather than a standard
      treatment strategy for all patients.

      Therefore, a focus on the transition from compensatory left ventricular hypertrophy to
      ventricular decompensation is crucial not only in furthering our understanding of the
      pathophysiology of hypertensive heart disease, but also instrumental in designing future
      trials. Small studies had reported replacement myocardial fibrosis in patients with
      hypertension. But these studies were small and unable to establish determinants associated
      with myocardial fibrosis. Unlike the increasing evidence of myocardial fibrosis in aortic
      stenosis, the prognosis associated with myocardial fibrosis in patients with hypertension is
      currently not known. Although there is promising data suggesting regression in myocardial
      fibrosis with certain antihypertensive therapies, the effects of myocardial fibrosis
      regression on long-term outcome is not known. As discussed earlier, other than relying on
      peripheral blood pressure, there are no biomarkers to monitor response of antihypertensive
      therapy on regression of left ventricular mass and myocardial fibrosis.

      Our investigators would establish a paradigm to demonstrate the significance of myocardial
      fibrosis in hypertensive heart disease; and examine other biomarkers associated with
      myocardial fibrosis and myocyte death that have high potential of translating into clinical
      application to monitor treatment response.
    
  