
    
      2 RATIONALE FOR THE STUDY In a previous study the efficacy of Lb CD2 on interim covariates
      related to caries development was tested. So, it was decided to plan a new study on
      schoolchildren from the same area. The aim of the present research protocol was to evaluate
      the anticariogenic effect of probiotics daily used, on the caries development in children.
      The null hypothesis was that the probiotic Lb CD2 would not modify the caries risk of the
      children. Moreover, the study will be carried out to investigate the plaque acidogenicity in
      situ following the regular consumption of a probiotic product compared to a control group.

      3 STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

      The regular consumption of probiotic will lead to a significantly lower caries increment
      compared to a placebo. Regular oral hygiene is permitted.

      .

      Target criteria:

      Efficacy: Lower caries increment Safety: Determination of side effects

      Safety: Determination of side effects Side effects such an especially changes of the oral
      mucosa after the consumption of the product.

      4 STUDY DESIGN 4.1 Study design and study centre Double blind, placebo-controlled,
      longitudinal study on 440 test subjects. The study will be carried out at a single centre in
      the Department of Surgery, Microsurgery and Medical Sciences -School of Dentistry of the
      University of Sassari, Viale San Pietro 43/C Sassari.

      The planned duration of the study is January-February 2013 to March 2015 (with Final Report).

      Proposed start of the recruitment of test subjects January-February 2013.

      5 TEST SUBJECTS 440 healthy male or female chidren test subjects. These will be recruited
      from primary schools in Sassari.

      5.1 Concomitant treatment not permitted In general, other probiotic-containing products,
      except dairy products.

      5.2 Permitted concomitant medication All other medications are allowed. However, for the 30
      days prior to the screening phase and during the entire study period, they must be entered in
      the case report form under the "Concomitant Medication" section.

      5.3 Criteria for premature termination of the study in individual test subjects.

      Reasons which may be given for the premature withdrawal of an individual test subject are:

        -  Retraction of consent

        -  If continued participation in the study is no longer acceptable or justified on
           important medical grounds as assessed by the investigator

        -  Occurrence of intolerable side effects (SE) as assessed by the investigator

        -  Violation of the protocol, according to the decision of the investigator, with reasons
           given in writing

        -  Non-attendance by the test subject

        -  Lack of compliance and motivation on the part of the test subject (e.g. not wearing the
           intra-oral specimen holder for more than six hours a day) Test subjects who withdraw
           from the study prematurely should be subjected to the final examination.

      The reasons for withdrawal from the study and the date must be recorded by the investigator
      in the case report form.

      5.4 Criteria for discontinuing the entire study In particular, the recognition of new
      information and/or risks which requires the benefit/risk ratio to be reassessed. In the case
      of a negative outcome, the LKP may discontinue the study in discussion with the principal
      investigator and the sponsor.

      If there is inadequate recruitment or persistent or recurrent serious objection to the trial
      protocol, the sponsor, in agreement with the LKP and after discussion with the principal
      investigator, may decide to terminate the study prematurely for administrative reasons.

      Should the premature termination of the study be unavoidable, measures must be decided upon
      and introduced to protect the interests and well-being of the test subjects as far as
      possible.

      6 STUDY PRODUCTS 6.1 Test products and placebo The test products for the study is
      manufactured and provided by CD Investments srl, Italy. The placebo lozenges will look like
      the active lozenges with the same taste and weight of 1 gram containing only the ingredients
      listed above in the same proportion as the active but with no L. brevis CD2. It will not be
      possible to differentiate the two products.

      The study center and the monitor must be informed of any deficiency in the study products
      (products will be kept at 4° degrees during the study).

      6.2 Standard toothpaste and toothbrushes Standard toothpaste containing fluoride:
      monofluorophosphate containing toothpaste (800/1000 ppm)

      6.3 Packaging and labelling 6.3.1 Test product Before use, the investigator will store the
      test samples at 4° degrees temperature. For each subject one container of study medication
      for the study period will be delivered, as well as one replacement container in each case.
      The test samplesy were produced and supplied by CD investiments (Italy) and coded as either
      'green' or 'red'. The code was sealed by an independent monitor, and not broken until the
      statistical analysis was finalized.

      6.4 Determination of compliance 6.4.1 Test medication The containers will be weighed before
      and after the study period.

      6.4.2 Standard toothpaste The test subjects must use the standard toothpaste throughout the
      study. A check will be made on compliance by questioning the test subject.

      6.5 Documentation on the whereabouts of the test samples The investigator will record the
      whereabouts of the test samples in an inventory. Delivery notes and notices of returns will
      be signed by the investigator.

      7 DOSAGE In the treatment phase subjects will use 2 losanges a day.

      8 STUDY SCHEDULE AND TEST METHODS 8.1 Study schedule 8.1.1 Planned schedule Prior to the
      start of the study, demographic, ethnic and prognostic data will be collected (screening
      phase). A medical history will be taken, with documentation of previous and concomitant
      treatment and a clinical examination of the oral cavity (dental status, oral mucosa) will be
      performed by the investigator. If the test subject meets all the inclusion criteria without
      fulfilling any of the exclusion criteria, he/she will be enrolled in the clinical trial and
      given a test subject identification number.

      All test subjects will receive a patient diary in the screening phase. Individual specimen
      holders will now be prepared for each test subject.

      Period 1: (180 days) consumption of the study product, regular oral hygiene At the start of
      the period ICDAS score will be recorded with plaque pH and salivary mutans streptococci. All
      subjects are instructed about oral hygiene and about the consumption of the study product. At
      the 90th day plaque pH and salivary mutans streptococci will be also recorded again.

      Period 2: (90 days) regular oral hygiene plaque pH and salivary mutans streptococci will be
      recorded again. Period 3: (180 days) consumption of the study product, regular oral hygiene
      At the start of the period ICDAS score will be recorded with plaque pH and salivary mutans
      streptococci. All subjects are instructed about oral hygiene and about the consumption of the
      study product. At the 90th day plaque pH and salivary mutans streptococci will be also
      recorded again.

      Period 4: (90 days) regular oral hygiene plaque pH and salivary mutans streptococci will be
      recorded again. Period 5: (180 days) consumption of the study product, regular oral hygiene
      At the start of the period ICDAS score will be recorded with plaque pH and salivary mutans
      streptococci. All subjects are instructed about oral hygiene and about the consumption of the
      study product. At the 90th day plaque pH and salivary mutans streptococci will be also
      recorded again.

      9 MATERIALS AND METHODS 9.1 Clinical parameters ICDAS (International Caries Detection and
      Assessment System) index, Oral mucosa

      9.2 Investigation of saliva factors Saliva factors pH and flow rate will be measured during
      the screening phase on three days, each time in the morning. The mean of the three
      measurements will be calculated.

      The Dentobuff® test kit (Vivadent, Liechtenstein) will be used.

      9.3 Teeth brushing technique Test subjects are required to clean their teeth at minimum two
      times a day with the fluoride-containing toothpaste and a soft toothbrush. During that time,
      a fresh, damp gauze (soaked in water) will be placed in the container each day in order to
      provide a moist atmosphere for the appliances. The specimens should not be allowed to dry
      out.

      The enamel specimens themselves are likewise carefully cleaned with the soft toothbrush
      except the last day of every period.

      9.4 Randomization Using a computer program (Excel 2010 for Mac OsX), the randomization will
      carried out on an individual basis.

      9.5 Application of the study product The subjects are not allowed to chew the lozenges. They
      are allowed to swallow the lozenges.

      9.6 Plaque-pH evaluation At the end of each phase plaque acidogenicity will be assessed using
      the MicroTouch technique after a previous sucrose challenge. Evaluations of pH will be
      carried out at on each specimen. The pH will be measured in quintuplicate at 6 different time
      points: at baseline (before sucrose rinse) and 2, 5, 10, 20 and 30 min after a 1-min rinse
      with 10 ml 10% sucrose, using active movements.

      An iridium touch microelectrode (diameter 0.1 mm; Beetrode NMPH-1, World Precision
      Instruments, Sarasota, Fla., USA, with a porous glass reference electrode (MERE 1, World
      Precision Instruments) will be used. A salt bridge will be created in a KCl (3 M) solution
      between the reference electrode and a finger of the subject. Before each session of pH
      evaluation, the electrode will be calibrated using buffer solution at pH 7.00 and 4.00.
    
  