
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of continuous daily administration of lapatinib
      (lapatinib ditosylate) in combination with weekly administration of MK2206 (AKT inhibitor
      MK2206) in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive advanced
      breast cancer.

      II. To determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and identify the maximum-tolerated dose
      (MTD) and/or recommended phase II dose (RP2D) for this administration schedule.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of MK2206 and lapatinib, each given alone and in
      the combination.

      II. To evaluate potential pharmacogenetic influence of the candidate drug metabolizing
      enzymes and transporters on the PK of MK2206 and lapatinib.

      III. To evaluate the change in select breast cancer biomarkers in the phosphatase and tensin
      homolog (PTEN)/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt-signaling pathways, (e.g.,
      phosphorylated [p]PTEN, PTEN, pAkt, Akt, phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase
      (pGSK)3-beta, GSK3-beta), Wnt/beta-catenin pathway (e.g., activated beta-catenin (ABC),
      beta-catenin), and pHER2.

      IV. To evaluate the change in breast cancer stem cell (BCSC) biomarkers, aldehyde
      dehydrogenase (ALDH)1 and cluster of differentiation (CD) 44+/CD24-, before and after 2 weeks
      of treatment with the combination of MK2206 and lapatinib at the MTD. The percent change in
      BCSCs in tumor biopsies will also be evaluated.

      V. To determine tumor response in patients with measurable disease as assessed by the
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), and by percent change in BCSCs within
      the tumor before vs after 2 weeks of combination treatment.

      VI. To perform genomic profiling of the tumor cell and BCSC populations before and after 2
      weeks of treatment with the combination of MK2206 and lapatinib at the MTD.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by an expansion cohort study.

      Patients receive lapatinib ditosylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1 and 15-28 of
      course 1 and on days 1-28 of subsequent courses. Patients also receive AKT inhibitor MK2206
      PO QD on days 8, 15, and 22 of course 1 and on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of subsequent courses.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  