
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the efficacy of T-cell-depleted vs unmodified allogeneic marrow rescue
      with regard to disease-free survival, post-transplantation leukemic relapse rate, incidence
      and severity of graft-versus-host disease, quality of engraftment and hematopoietic
      reconstitution, and immunoreconstitution following transplantation in patients with acute
      leukemia in first or second remission.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease (acute
      lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) vs acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and age (20 and under vs over
      20). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Patients under age 5 are
      nonrandomly assigned to Arm I and those over age 55 are nonrandomly assigned to Arm II. Arm
      I: Patients receive total body radiotherapy on days -7 through -4 followed by
      cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2. Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow
      transplantation (ABMT) IV over 2-4 hours on day 0. Patients also receive standard graft vs
      host disease prophylaxis with cyclosporine and methotrexate. Arm II: Patients receive total
      body radiotherapy on days -9 through -6, thiotepa IV on days -5 and -4, and cyclophosphamide
      as in Arm I. Patients undergo T-cell depleted ABMT IV over 15 minutes on day 0. Patients over
      age 15 receiving bone marrow from female donors over age 30 or from male donors of any age
      also receive graft rejection prophylaxis consisting of antithymocyte globulin IV over 6-8
      hours on days -5 and -4 and oral methylprednisolone twice daily on days -5 and -4. Beginning
      2 months following transplantation, adult patients with AML and a prior history of CNS
      disease, all adult patients with ALL, and all pediatric patients (ALL and ANLL) receive CNS
      leukemia prophylaxis with cytarabine intrathecally with the diagnostic lumbar puncture and
      then monthly for 5 months (1 year in patients with a prior history of CNS leukemia).

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 128 patients will be randomized. At an anticipated accrual rate
      of 35 patients/year, accrual is expected to be completed in 4 years.
    
  