
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate disease-free survival with pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride) as compared to
      placebo, defined as the time from randomization to the development of recurrent disease,
      second primary cancer (other than localized breast, localized prostate, or non-melanoma skin
      cancer) or death from any cause for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with
      no evidence of disease following metastasectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the overall survival of patients with advanced RCC randomly assigned to
      receive placebo or pazopanib for one year following metastasectomy to no evidence of disease
      (NED).

      II. To describe treatment and (at recurrence) disease-related adverse events in the two
      treatment arms.

      III. To analyze quality-adjusted time without symptoms of disease or treatment (Q-TWiST) for
      subjects in the two treatment arms.

      IV. To characterize changes in patient-reported fatigue and (at recurrence) kidney
      cancer-related symptoms during and following treatment with pazopanib compared to placebo.

      V. To explore the association between plasma trough levels of pazopanib and disease-free and
      overall survival.

      VI. To prospectively bank preserved tissue from primary tumors and associated metastatic
      sites in patients with RCC.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up
      to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for the first
      two years, every 6 months for the next 3 years, and then annually up to 10 years.
    
  