
    
      Background: A transient ischemic attack (TIA) has traditionally been defined as a focal
      neurologic deficit lasting less than 24 hours, but alternative definitions based on tissue
      injury have been more recently proposed.1 This clinical definition has been based on the
      assumption that TIAs are associated with complete resolution of brain ischemia occurring
      rapidly enough to cause only transient symptoms and no permanent brain injury, i.e. stroke. A
      recently completed MRI research study at the University of Alberta indicates that TIA and
      minor stroke actually represent a continuum of symptoms secondary to brain ischemia.2 There
      is also substantial evidence that the period shortly after a TIA or minor stroke is one of
      elevated recurrent stroke risk; as high as 17% at 3 months.3, 4 We have previously reported
      that MRI markers of new infarction are actually present within 7 days of the index event in
      18% of patients.2 TIA and minor stroke can therefore be seen as a sentinel warning for
      impending major stroke, which offers a potential window for therapeutic intervention. Given
      the large number of patients who suffer a TIA/minor stroke, it is important to identify and
      target those patients at highest risk for early recurrence.

      Treatment of Minor Stroke/TIA: A logical approach to prevent early recurrence is aggressive
      hyperacute antithrombotic therapy following TIA/minor stroke, as is now the standard of care
      in acute coronary syndrome management. This treatment strategy is aimed at preventing both
      recurrent thromboembolism and propagation of existing thrombi. In acute coronary syndrome
      patients, antithrombotic therapy consists of both anticoagulants (low molecular weight
      heparin) and combination antiplatelet agents (ASA+high dose clopidogrel, or more recently
      prasugrel/ticagrelor). In ischemic stroke patients the benefits of traditional
      anticoagulants, particularly heparin, have been consistently offset by an increased incidence
      of intracranial hemorrhagic complications.5 Combination antiplatelet therapy is sometimes
      used empirically following TIA/minor stroke, although this may not be an ideal approach
      either. A previous trial in 392 patients demonstrated a trend towards reduction of recurrent
      events by day 90 when patients were treated with a combination of ASA and clopidogrel for 90
      days (Absolute Risk Reduction = 3.3% [95% CI -1.9, 9.4]), but this was also complicated by
      excess hemorrhagic events.

      The direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran is a very effective antithrombotic agent that has
      been shown to be superior to warfarin in the prevention of cardioembolic ischemic stroke.
      Dabigatran is unique in that unlike other antithrombotic drugs studied in cerebrovascular
      disease, it appears to be associated with a much lower risk of intracranial hemorrhagic
      complications, including intracerebral and subdural hemorrhages.7 This therefore appears to
      be an ideal drug for treatment of acute cerebrovascular syndrome patients.

      MRI as a Surrogate Outcome Marker in TIA/Minor Stroke: Our previous serial MRI study
      indicates that the rate of new DWI lesion development in a TIA and minor stroke population is
      22% at 30 days and more importantly 92% of these lesions developed within the first 7 days
      after the initial symptoms.2 The majority (90%) of patients who developed new lesions had
      baseline DWI lesions and all had areas of hypoperfusion evident on perfusion images. Thus
      stroke 'recurrence' in fact appears to represent completion of the natural history of an
      acute cerebrovascular syndrome. Having identified this high-risk group of patients, we now
      aim to reduce the rate of development of new lesions. DWI lesion load has been shown to be
      highly predictive of neurological and functional recovery following ischemic stroke, making
      this an ideal surrogate outcome marker in smaller phase IIa studies.

      The investigators have designed a two-phase study aimed at demonstrating the safety (phase I)
      and efficacy (phase II) of acute dabigatran treatment following TIA/minor ischemic stroke.
      Phase I is described below. The final design of phase II will be dependent on the results of
      Phase I.

      Study Aim and Design Phase I: The primary aim of phase I is to demonstrate the safety of
      early use of dabigatran following TIA/minor stroke. Phase I is an open label, single arm
      study. Patients with TIA/minor stroke (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS)
      score >/=3) who can be treated within 24 hours of symptom onset will be eligible. All
      patients will be treated with dabigatran for 30 days. The dose of dabigatran will be
      determined by age and renal function (patients >80 years old and/or with GFR 30-50 ml/min
      will received 110 mg bid, and all other patients will receive 150 mg BID).The primary
      endpoint is symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation. Patients (n=50) with TIA/minor stroke,
      defined as having a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale Score of </=3, will undergo an
      MRI, including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), as well as gradient recall echo (GRE)
      sequences, which will be used to assess for hemorrhagic transformation. Patients will have a
      repeat MRI examination at 7 and 30 days to assess for hemorrhagic transformation and new
      lesion development. The primary endpoint of of phase I is symptomatic hemorrhagic
      transformation, defined as a parenchymal hematoma on the day 7 MRI scan (GRE sequence),
      associated with clinical worsening (>/=4 point increase in National Institutes of Health
      Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score).

      Sample Size: Phase I is an open label, single arm study. The primary endpoint is symptomatic
      hemorrhagic transformation. A total of 50 patients will be treated with dabigatran. A priori
      stopping rules, based on the expected number of patients experiencing hemorrhagic
      transformation in a group this size, will be employed.
    
  