
    
      Patients with acute Achilles tendon rupture will be screened for eligibility at the
      Karolinska University Hospital and Södersjukhuset, Stockholm.

      One hundred-fifty patients will be included and enrolled and assigned to the interventions
      either by a third party nurse or by a research nurse. Randomisation will be performed with
      use of computer-generated random numbers in permuted blocks of four, through an independent
      software specialist, and consecutively numbered, sealed, opaque envelopes opened after
      surgery and prior to treatment.

      The patients will be randomized to undergo either treatment as usual using plaster cast
      treatment alone or direct post-operative functional mobilization with a weight-bearing
      orthosis with adjustable range of motion of the ankle.

      The power calculation was based upon data from a recent study reporting a 50% rate of
      CDU-verified DVT after ATR surgery (Domeij-Arverud et a. 2015). We estimated early functional
      mobilization (EFM) to confer a 50% risk reduction. Sixty-three patients in each group were
      required to detect a difference of 25% in the incidence of DVT (two-sided type-I error rate =
      5%; power = 80%). We decided to include 150 patients to counteract drop-outs. On
      recommendations from the ethical committee, a ratio of 2:1 was chosen, since our hypothesis
      was that the EFM group would perform better.

      The endpoint of the first part of the study is tendon healing quantified at 2 weeks by
      microdialysis followed by quantification of markers for tendon repair. The sample size for
      the outcome in the microdialysis study was calculated on a difference of the glutamate
      metabolite of 12 µM between the two groups. For this power analysis, we used a glutamate
      standard difference of 15 µM resulting from a previous study. It was determined that a sample
      size of 25 patients per group would be necessary to detect the glutamate difference with 80%
      power when alpha was set equal to 5%. Anticipating that we would lose 10% of participants
      enrolled, we plan to enroll 27 patients in each group for microdialysis.

      The primary aim of the short-term follow up of this randomized, controlled trial was to
      assess the efficacy of EFM to reduce the DVT incidence after ATR surgery, at two and six
      weeks post-operatively, compared to treatment-as-usual, i.e. two weeks of plaster cast
      followed by four weeks' orthosis immobilization. The secondary aim was to evaluate the effect
      of patient intrinsic factors (age, BMI, calf circumference, ankle range of motion, pain and
      fear of movement) and patient extrinsic factors (amount of weightbearing, number of daily
      steps) on the risk of sustaining a DVT.

      The primary aim with the long-term follow up is to investigate the effect of early
      postoperative functional mobilization compared to immobilization on patient-reported
      function, health, fear of movement, physical activity level, and differences in functional
      capacity. The second aim is to explore if the occurrence of DVT postoperatively effects
      functional outcome in the long-term after surgical treatment of ATR.

      Additional aims:

      The primary aim of the second part of this study was to assess the number of steps and the
      amount of loading in a weight bearing orthosis during the first six weeks post-surgical ATR
      repair. A secondary purpose was to investigate if the amount of loading was correlated to
      fear of movement or/and pain.

      The aim with this substudy is to describe differences between the two groups over time
      regarding tendon elongation, differences in muscle cross-sectional area and differences in
      tendon cross-sectional area (on the injured side) and to examine if the differences can
      predict functional outcome in the long-term and if any of the follow-up occasions are most
      important for long-term functional outcome.
    
  