
    
      Syncope is a condition that has vexed cardiologists worldwide due to its elusive nature.
      Often a third of patients with syncope remain undiagnosed despite assessments by
      multidisciplinary teams and the availability of various screening techniques such as
      electrocardiography, 24-h Holter monitoring, carotid sinus massage, echocardiography,
      exercise testing, head-up tilt test, and electrophysiological studies. Recently, ICM's have
      been developed to continuously monitor heart rhythm and thus aid in the diagnoses and
      management of clinical conditions such as ventricular arrhythmias, cryptogenic stroke,
      recurrent unexplained syncope and for monitoring atrial fibrillations (AF) post ablation.
      ICM's such as Confirm Rx from Abbott are leadless devices that detect arrhythmias largely
      depending on sensing of changes in R-R interval and R wave amplitude in the ECG signal.
      Whilst ICM's have been helpful in detecting arrhythmias in up to 40% of these patients with
      unexplained syncope, there is paucity of data regarding changes in signal quality with
      variations in body posture, physical activity and device movements that could potentially
      have effects on ECG signal and thus event detection. To this extent, this is an Abbott
      sponsored prospective, single arm, non-randomized, open-label, multi-center, clinical trial
      of 100 subjects designed to characterize the safety and performance of Confirm Rx™ in
      relation to physical activity and posture in these subjects with unexplained syncope.

      ConfirmRx™ has come a long way since its inception with a significant reduction in size (78%
      reduction by volume) that has led to relatively simple insertion procedures through a small
      skin incision. The less complicated insertion process permits the insertion procedure to take
      place in settings besides operating rooms and furthermore, smaller devices are associated
      with significantly lower incidence of infections. We believe that this study will add to
      growing body of evidence of the efficacy of ConfirmRx.

      The primary objective of this clinical investigation is to characterise the safety and
      performance of the Confirm Rx™ Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM) by assessing quality of
      signal attained from device post implant with changes in posture and physical activity at
      implant and 30days post procedure.

      Primary Endpoints

        -  Changes in R-wave amplitudes at time of insertion and 30 days post-insertion.

        -  Changes in R-wave amplitude with below defined movements at time of insertion, and
           30days post-insertion.

      To identify any gross migration of Confirm Rx device 30 days following implant. Secondary
      Endpoints

        -  Change in measured distance/position of scar relative to distance from left lateral
           sternal border at baseline and 30 days

        -  Measurement of tip of device from left lateral sternal border

        -  Deviation of proximal tip of device from scar compared to baseline
    
  