
    
      Anticoagulant treatment reduces the incidence of death and cardioembolic events in patients
      with atrial ﬁbrillation or prosthetic heart valve and the incidence of death and recurrences
      in patients with VTE.

      Warfarin and similar vitamin K antagonists (VKA) have been the standard therapy for patients
      with a metallic valve, or bioprosthesis with atrial fibrillation (AF). Warfarin works by
      binding to vitamin K epoxide reductase to inhibit vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors II,
      VII, IX, and X. For all its extensive use, warfarin has many clinical shortcomings, including
      variable pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics properties, a narrow therapeutic index range,
      and numerous interactions with certain foods and drugs. All of these factors contribute to
      the need for frequent coagulation laboratory monitoring and dosage adjustments.

      Even with the appropriate use of therapy, the incidence of thromboembolic events is still
      substantial: 1-4% per year. Furthermore, bleeding risk is significant, ranging from 2% to 9%
      per year. The VKA's narrow therapeutic index and they have a complex pharmacology, e.g. long
      pharmacologic inertia and the common interaction with other drugs. These features make the
      management of these drugs a challenge for physicians and their patients.

      The Dabigatran versus Warfarin in Patients with Mechanical Heart Valves (RE-ALIGN) trial
      comparing dabigatran etexilate to warfarin was the only randomized controlled study in
      patient with mechanical valve prosthesis, but it was terminated prematurely because of an
      excess of thromboembolic and bleeding events among patients in the dabigatran group. Most
      thromboembolic events among patients in the dabigatran group occurred in population A
      (patients who had started a study drug within 7 days after valve surgery), with fewer
      occurring in population B (patients who had undergone valve implantation more than 3 months
      before randomization). Besides, stroke, death and major bleeding occurred only in population
      A. In this study, rivaroxaban will be used in patients with mechanical valves and unstable
      INR in a before and after designed.
    
  