
    
      Participants will be required to wear a pair of shorts, a loose T-shirt, and a pair of tennis
      shoes for this study. On the first visit, the investigators will do some tests to make sure
      that potential participant has good feeling and strength in his/her legs. Next, each
      participant will fill out a few forms asking about daily function and back pain. Then, the
      investigators will ask the participant to perform a balance test and seven functional tests.
      Two investigators will be there to give these tests.

      During the balance test, each participant will stand on one leg and reach out for a distance
      with the other leg. During the functional tests, the participant will perform 7 different
      tasks, including a deep squat, hurdle step, in-line lunge, shoulder mobility, active straight
      leg raise, rotary stability and trunk stability push-up. The investigators will demonstrate
      these tests before the participant perform them.

      After the balance and functional tests, each participant will be randomly assigned to one of
      the exercise programs. One of the investigators will instruct each participant to do the
      appropriate exercises depending on his/her ability and pain level.

      After the first visit, participants will be asked to come back 1-2 times per week for 4 weeks
      so the investigators can update participants' exercise program and make sure that
      participants do each exercise in the correct form. Each follow-up visit will take about 30
      minutes. In addition to the physical therapy visits, the investigators will ask participants
      to do the most updated exercises at home once a day and at least 5 times a week. The
      investigators will give each participant an exercise log to track the frequency of the home
      exercise sessions. At the end of the 4 weeks, participants will come to the last physical
      therapy session and will be asked to continue to do the updated exercises at home once a day
      and at least 5 times a week for another 4 weeks until the 8-week follow-up visit.

      At the 2-week, 4-week and 8-week follow-up visit, the investigators will repeat the balance
      and the 7 functional tests.

      Each testing session will last about 30 minutes. The testing sessions at 2 and 4 weeks will
      be done on the same visit of physical therapy for the participants' exercise sessions. During
      the 8-week follow-up visit, the investigators will ask the participants to fill out the forms
      about their daily function and back pain in addition to the balance and 7 functional tests.
      At the end of the 8 weeks, if the participants wish to have the other exercises, the
      investigators will instruct them with those exercises.
    
  