
    
      1. Background and study aims Exercise has consistently yielded short-term, positive effects
           on health outcomes in people with multiple sclerosis (MS). However, these effects have
           not been maintained in the long-term. Behaviour change interventions aim to promote
           long-term positive lifestyle change. This study, namely, "Step it Up" will compare the
           effect of an exercise plus Social Cognitive Theory (SCT)-based behaviour change
           intervention with an exercise plus control education intervention on walking mobility
           among people with MS. Our hypothesis is that those in the exercise and SCT-based
           intervention will achieve significantly more improvement in walking mobility than the
           control group post-intervention (12 weeks) and that this improvement will be maintained
           at 24- and 36- week follow up.

        2. What does the study involve? Exercise plus contact control education intervention The
           control group will receive an exercise and a didactic control education component. The
           exercise intervention will include aerobic and strengthening components and will be
           delivered by physiotherapists. The aim of the exercise component is to progressively
           increase the intensity of both aerobic and strengthening activities to enable the
           participants to reach the recently published MS exercise guidelines (Latimer- Cheung et
           al 2013). The aerobic activity will be walking, the intensity of which will be monitored
           using step rate measured using the Yamax digiwalker pedometer* (which will be provided
           to all participants) and an exercise log to document duration of walking exercise and
           number of steps taken. It is widely accepted that 100 steps per minute equates to three
           MET or moderate intensity physically active (PA) among people with MS (Agiovlasitis and
           Motl 2014). Participants will begin with 10 minutes of walking twice weekly at a rate of
           100 steps/minute and increase incrementally in 5 minute intervals over 5 weeks until
           they reach the guideline of 30 minutes twice weekly (Latimer-Cheung et al 2013).

      The strengthening programme is based on a community-based exercise programme that has been
      evaluated previously (Garrett et al 2013) and will consist of 10 exercises targeting major
      muscle groups for the upper and lower extremities using elastic resistance band. Participants
      will begin with one set of 10-15 repetitions and gradually increase the number of sets,
      repetitions and level of resistance until they meet the target of two sets of each exercise
      twice weekly with sufficient resistance that they are failing on the 12th repetition. Over
      the 10-week programme participants will attend the group exercise class on six occasions,
      supplemented with a telephone coaching call in the weeks without classes (intervention weeks
      4, 6, 7 and 9). These telephone calls will consist of direct questions about the frequency,
      intensity, type and duration of exercise they have completed and whether they have
      experienced any adverse events or relapses. After each of the group exercise classes the
      control group will receive an education session about topics unrelated to physical activity
      behaviour, e.g. diet, vitamin D, sleep, temperature and hydration, and immunisations and
      vaccinations.

      Exercise plus SCT-based intervention The exercise plus SCT-based intervention group will
      receive the same exercise intervention as the control group (as described in the previous
      section).This group will also receive a behaviour change intervention based on the principles
      of SCT. The SCT-based education sessions will be delivered after each exercise session by
      physiotherapists and will incorporate the principle elements of SCT including self-efficacy,
      outcome expectations, impediments and goal-setting. Beyond providing presentation notes,
      individual reflection and written exercises, group discussion on each of the principles of
      SCT, and providing on-going feedback on all aspects of PA behaviour, the program will include
      video files of people with MS discussing PA behaviour and their experiences of initiating and
      maintaining a physically-active lifestyle. On the weeks when the participants do not attend
      group sessions, they will receive a telephone coaching call from the physiotherapist. These
      coaching calls will consist of guided conversations that consider the components of SCT
      delivered in the previous session and a revision of other components.

      4. What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? Benefits to the participants
      include access to a free physiotherapy-led exercise programme, of which benefits such as
      improved aerobic capacity, mobility, fatigue, mood, muscle strength are anticipated. The
      education session may also help participants to keep those benefits for longer. The
      investigators do not envisage any adverse effects of these interventions.

      5. Where is the study run from? This study has been organised by Clinical Therapies,
      University of Limerick.

      6. When is study starting and how long is it expected to run for? This study started in
      September 2014 and it is anticipated that data collection will end in March 2016.
      Participants will be recruited until June 2015.

      7. Who is funding the study? The Irish Health Research Board, Health Research Award Grant is
      funding the study.

      8. Who is the main contact? Dr. Susan Coote (susan.coote@ul.ie)
    
  