
    
      Physical inactivity (PI) adversely affects various non-communicable diseases (WHO, 2010) and
      has been recently entitled "the biggest public health problem of the 21th century" (Blair,
      2009). Despite the strong evidence for physical activity (PA) related health benefits, one
      third of the world's population is physically inactive (Hallal et al., 2012). In Switzerland,
      35% of the adults are not meeting the minimum recommendation of 2.5h moderate to vigorous
      activity per week (BASPO, 2013). Present PI patters accompanied with demographic changes and
      the burden of non-communicable diseases (WHO, 2010) constitute a notable challenge to the
      health-care system. Thus, effective prevention programs that engage individuals to become
      more physically active are needed and of public interest.

      Regarding the application for a wide public, the use of technologies for a remote delivery of
      PA promotion programs is promising (Castro & King, 2002). Thereby, PA lifestyle interventions
      including individually tailored program components (Noar, Benac, & Harris, 2007), personal
      coaching (Foster, Richards, Thorogood, & Hillsdon, 2013), behavior change techniques (BCT)
      (Michie, Abraham, Whittington, McAteer, & Gupta, 2009) and regular prompting (push
      notifications) (De Leon, Fuentes, & Cohen, 2014) are regarded as effective means to improve
      PA behavior. However, it is still not examined to date, which intervention components could
      be effectively translated into practice. The required density, the most effective modality
      and long-term outcomes of PA promotion program need to be examined (Foster et al., 2013).

      Within this study three versions to communicate an individually tailored PA promotion program
      will be compared. The program consists of individual counseling but is delivered without
      face-to-face contact. Exercise recommendations and behavior change techniques will be
      elaborated on an individual basis, communicated and assessed. The programs content will then
      be tailored according to personal background information (e.g. goals, preferences) assessed
      by questionnaires.

      A personalized activity-profile on a specifically developed internet portal (on
      www.movingcall.com) enables safe exchange between participant and coach. The activity-profile
      includes a weekly activity plan, questionnaires and a diary to document daily PA behavior.

      All enrolled participants will have access to a personal activity profile and receive a
      tailored advice to increase their physical activity levels. Depending on the interventional
      arm the advice will be delivered in a more supportive and interactive manner. Participants
      will be randomly assigned to one of the three study arms.

      The primary objective is to assess the effect of regular coaching and prompting on PA level.
      Secondary objectives are the assessment of follow-up effects of PA changes and changes in
      psychosocial determinants of PA as well as the comparison self-reported and objectively
      assessed PA data.

      Outcome measures will be assessed prior to the start of the intervention, at the end of the
      six months and in the follow-up period after 12 months.
    
  