
    
      Aim 1: To investigate the effects of psilocybin on OCD symptomatology. OCD symptom severity
      will be assessed before treatment and 24 and 48 hours after treatment, one week after
      treatment, two weeks, one month, three months, and six months after treatment. Hypothesis: We
      hypothesize that 0.25mg/kg of psilocybin will lead to greater symptom improvement than niacin
      (as the active-placebo-control agent) at all assessment points.

      Aim 2: To explore the relationship between the psilocybin-induced brain connectivity changes
      and neuronal activation following symptom provocation in OCD. Resting-state brain
      connectivity will be assessed before and 48 hours after treatment. Neuronal activation
      induced by OCD-relevant provocative stimuli will be assessed 48 hours after the treatment.
      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that (i) psilocybin will normalize abnormal fronto-striatal
      functional connectivity in patients with OCD; (ii) psilocybin will decrease activation of
      anterior cingulate cortices, amygdala, and putamen in response to symptom-provoking stimuli,
      and normalization of one or more of these abnormalities will correlate with improvement in
      symptomatology after psilocybin treatment.

      This study will pilot a single-center, randomized, active-placebo-controlled, double-blind
      design to examine the clinical and neural effects on OCD, of either 0.25mg/kg of psilocybin
      or active placebo-control agent (niacin 250mg), given along with non-drug preparatory and
      follow-up support appointments to 30 study participants.The duration of the randomized study
      phase is from consent until two weeks after drug administration. Participants will be
      followed for 12 weeks (3 months) post-study drug administration.

      Eligible participants will be admitted as an inpatient for at least 3 nights / 4 days
      surrounding the initial drug administration (or more, at the option of the subject and the
      investigator). Participants will be randomized into active medication and
      active-placebo-control groups, and will be blinded as to their study condition. This
      admission 2 nights prior to the drug administration will allow the participant to adjust to
      sleeping on the unit and allow them to settle in to the research unit routine. A return for
      an fmri scan (48 hours after the administration session) will be scheduled. The participants
      who received active-placebo-control will be offered the option to receive open-label
      psilocybin.
    
  