
    
      The aim of EXCEL is to generate a bi-national multidisciplinary network of integrated care
      for patients suffering acute cardiac or respiratory failure or cardiac arrest requiring
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) to monitor long term outcomes and identify best
      practice.

      Each year around 130,000 Australians and New Zealanders are admitted to an intensive care
      unit (ICU). The sickest patients in the ICU who have severe failure of the heart or lungs may
      require an external machine to oxygenate their blood in addition to a mechanical ventilator.
      This intervention, called extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), involves circulating
      all of the patient's blood through large cannulae to external machinery every minute. It has
      the capability of completely replacing a non-functioning heart or lungs for days to weeks on
      end. These critically ill patients who require ECMO are the sickest in the hospital with only
      42% hospital survival. The use of ECMO has doubled in Australia and New Zealand and globally
      over five years, and in the USA has increased by 433%.

      The use of ECMO is associated with significant costs and risks, and it requires specialist
      training and expertise. In order to prepare for the organisation of these complex
      interventions in the ICU across regions, the investigators need to have accurate data on
      patients undergoing ECMO. The investigators monitor and review current practice in ECMO
      services by providing robust binational registry data to service providers and clinicians
      with a closed-loop feedback system. EXCEL explores barriers and enablers to evidence-based
      care in ECMO services and providing a platform to embed clinical trials. The investigators
      will translate findings with greater capacity, reach, and impact to drive measureable change
      in practice and improve patient-centred outcomes.

      The EXCEL Partnership represents a novel, coordinated effort to create a high-quality,
      detailed, prospective registry of patients requiring ECMO at ECMO centres. A tailored,
      detailed ECMO registry (EXCEL) can be used to address specific safety concerns, clinical
      questions and process of care issues. As a result, EXCEL can be designed and implemented to
      answer new investigator-initiated, hypothesis-driven clinical questions.
    
  