
    
      Curcumin:

      Curcumin, a yellow substance taken from a plant, is commonly used in cooking as a spice
      called turmeric. In this study, participants will receive much higher doses of curcumin than
      can be received through food.

      Curcumin may block proteins that help cells to divide. These proteins also may stop cancer
      cells from dying.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will swallow 2 sticks of
      curcumin per day. You should take the 2 sticks each morning with food and enough water for
      you to be able to swallow them. If you miss taking a dose of curcumin in the morning, you can
      take it later that day (as soon as you remember). However, if you miss a dose all day, do not
      take 2 doses the next day to make up for it.

      Study Visits:

      You will be asked to return for study visits.

      At "baseline" (Day 1), the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked to rate your itching on a scale of 0-10.

        -  You will complete the 2 quality-of-life questionnaires.

        -  The study staff will take photos of up to 6 selected skin lesion(s). These will be
           close-up photos of the lesions and a small area of surrounding skin. "Half-body" photos
           will also be taken. These will be front, back, and/or side views of the top and bottom
           half of your body, depending on where the lesions are. For the half-body photos, your
           private areas will be covered (as much as possible), and your face will not be included
           in the photos unless there are lesions there.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests

        -  You will complete 2 "quality-of-life" questionnaires that ask how the symptoms of the
           disease may be affecting your life. This should take about 5 minutes.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including having skin lesions and affected areas of your
           skin looked at by the study doctor.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a skin biopsy performed. To
           perform a skin biopsy, the area is numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of tissue
           (about the size of a pencil eraser) is removed with a special tool.

      The following tests and procedures will be performed at Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including having skin lesions and affected areas of your
           skin looked at by the study doctor.

        -  You will complete the 2 quality-of-life questionnaires.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked to rate your itching on a scale of 0-10.

      At Weeks 2, 4, and 12 only, the following additional test will be performed:

      -Just like at baseline, you will have skin lesion photos and half-body photos taken.

      At Weeks 4, 12, and 20 only, the following additional test will be performed:

      -Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      If the doctor decides it is needed based on abnormal blood tests at screening, additional
      blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check the status of the disease at Weeks 2, 4, 8,
      and 12.

      If at any time during the study the skin disease seems to have cleared, you will have a skin
      biopsy performed in order to confirm the response.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may continue receiving the study drug for up to 6 months, as long as you and the study
      doctor think you are benefitting from taking curcumin. If the disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur at any time during this study, you will be taken off study.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      When you go off study for any reason, you will have an end-of-treatment visit. The following
      procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked to rate your itching on a scale of 0-10.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor decides it is needed based on abnormal blood tests at screening,
           additional blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check the status of the disease.

        -  A skin biopsy will be performed to check the status of the disease.

        -  Photos of the skin lesion(s) will be taken.

        -  You will complete the 2 quality-of-life questionnaires.

        -  You will have a CT and/or PET scan to check the size of the lymph nodes.

      Follow-Up:

      Every 3 months for 6 months after your last dose of the study drug, the study staff will
      check the results of any routine tests that were performed at your regular follow-up visits
      for MF or SS. If you do not visit the clinic during one or both of these two 3-month time
      periods, you will be called at home at 3 months and/or 6 months after your last dose of the
      study drug. The purpose of the phone calls is to ask how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Curcumin is not FDA approved or commercially available for
      the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. For this purpose, it is being used in research
      only.

      Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  