
    
      Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a side effect that occurs with many of
      the most common chemotherapeutic agents used to treat cancer. Typically, CIPN is experienced
      as tingling, burning, numbness, or pain in the upper and lower extremities and other parts of
      the body. Severity of symptoms can range from bothersome to disabling and can have profoundly
      negative effects on quality of life. Although the specific incidence or prevalence of CIPN is
      unknown, it is generally estimated at 30 to 40 percent in patients who have received the
      classes of chemotherapeutic agents used to treat breast, colon, and lung, cancers, and
      lymphomas. There are no treatments or drugs that consistently ameliorate or lead to the
      reversal of CIPN symptoms.Typically, symptoms of CIPN are considered along with other pain
      symptoms and treated with opioids and analgesics. Additionally, the prescription of
      anticonvulsant medications and tricyclic antidepressants can help alleviate neuropathic pain.
      While these strategies can provide relief from cancer-related pain, they often yield limited
      results for symptoms of CIPN. With few allopathic treatment alternatives for attenuating the
      symptoms of CIPN, people living with these symptoms have few options other than to endure
      them.

      Unlike treatments based upon nociceptive and neuropathic models of pain that regard the pain
      response as the outcome of a finite and mechanistic chain of biochemical events,
      complementary treatments acknowledge the interpenetrating nature of the relationships between
      body, mind, and spirit. Typically, complementary or integrative health strategies incorporate
      psychological, emotional, and spiritual elements along with biochemical strategies when
      addressing pain. Of particular interest in the proposed pilot study are complementary
      techniques that include Yoga, Meditation, and Reiki.

      Utilizing a pretest-posttest control group design with random assignment, this four-arm
      experimental pilot study will be undertaken to determine the feasibility of three
      complementary approaches in reducing the signs and symptoms of CIPN. This design was chosen
      for its ability to support causal inference while managing threats to internal and external
      design validity. The use of random assignment in the development of intervention and
      comparison groups will strengthen the ability of this design to manage threats to internal
      validity more efficiently. This pilot study involves the collection of quantitative data from
      self-administered instruments that have been designed to measure health related quality of
      life, symptoms of neurotoxicity, psychological distress, and mindfulness.
    
  