
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of itacitinib in combination with alemtuzumab in
      patients with T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the event free survival (EFS) in patients (pts) with T-PLL treated with
      itacitinib in combination with alemtuzumab.

      II. To evaluate response complete remission (CR), complete remission without blood count
      recovery (CRi), or partial remission (PR) (CR/CRi or PR) of itacitinib in combination with
      alemtuzumab in patients with T-PLL.

      III. To explore the single-agent activity of itacitinib in pts with T-PLL. IV. To assess the
      time to response, response duration, and overall survival (OS) in pts with T-PLL treated with
      the combination of itacitinib and alemtuzumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the effect of itacitinib on STAT5 phosphorylation in pts with T-PLL II. To
      explore the association of pretreatment somatic mutations and the dynamics of STAT5
      phosphorylation with response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of alemtuzumab.

      CYCLE 1: Patients receive itacitinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and alemtuzumab
      intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, and 27 in the absence of
      disease progression of unacceptable toxicity.

      CYCLE 2 AND BEYOND: Patients receive itacitinib PO QD on day 1-28 and alemtuzumab IV over 2
      hours on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, and 27. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients who achieve a response (CR/CRi or PR) may receive itacitinib for up to
      8 additional cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  