
    
      Aprotinin (Trasylol; Bayer Corporation, Pittsburgh, PA), a serine protease inhibitor isolated
      from bovine lung, is used intra-operatively during cardiac surgery to reduce bleeding. It is
      thought to work by inhibiting the contact activation phase of the coagulation cascade,
      reducing thrombin generation, preventing fibrinolysis and attenuating cardiopulmonary bypass
      (CPB)-induced platelet dysfunction.Though the efficacy of aprotinin in reducing blood loss in
      adults undergoing CPB is well established, its safety profile, specifically its association
      with renal dysfunction, thrombosis and long-term mortality, has been questioned. Although the
      homeostatic derangements of CPB are more significant in pediatric patients, its efficacy and
      safety profiles in this patient population are actually less clear. In children undergoing
      re-operative cardiac surgical procedures, aprotinin has been shown to be effective in
      attenuating post-bypass coagulopathies and decreasing blood product exposure (4). However,
      little information is available for neonates undergoing CPB who receive intra-operative
      aprotinin especially in terms of renal dysfunction and thrombosis.

      All neonates who underwent Cardiopulmonary Bypass surgery (CPB) at Children's Healthcare of
      Atlanta between March 1, 2004 and March 1, 2007 will be candidates for this retrospective
      chart review. Notations will be made regarding those who received aprotinin and those who did
      not. Primary end points will include post-operative renal dysfunction, need for temporary
      dialysis, thrombosis and in-hospital mortality. Post -operative renal dysfunction will be
      defined as a doubling of the pre-operative creatinine level within the first 72 hours after
      surgery. Thrombosis found during the initial hospitalization will be considered significant.
      Chart review will gather demographic data (age, weight and type of surgery) as well as other
      data including CPB time, aortic cross clamp time, presence of regional perfusion, lowest
      temperature on CPB, time to chest closure, hours with a NIRS value below 40 in the first 24
      hours post-op, highest recorded lactate value, blood products administered in the first 24
      hours post-op, chest tube drainage in the first 24 hours post-op, first post-op weight, time
      to extubation and time to ICU discharge.
    
  