
    
      Therapeutic indication:

      Corneal surface reepithelizing

      Statistical methodology:

      The data will be expressed with measures of central tendency: mean and standard deviation for
      the quantitative variables. The qualitative variables will be presented in frequencies and
      percentages. The statistical analysis will be carried out through the Mann-Whitney U test for
      quantitative variables. The difference between the qualitative variables will be analyzed by
      means of square chi (Chi2). An alpha ≤ 0.05 will be considered significant.

      Study period:

      3 to 4 months

      Development phase: I

      Number of patients:

      24 subjects, divided into 2 groups (12 eyes exposed per group)

      Test product, dose and route of administration, lot number:

      PRO-167. Dexpanthenol 5%. Ophthalmic gel produced by Laboratorios Sophia, S.A. de C.V.,
      Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico.

        -  Dose: a strip approximately 1 cm long, 4 times a day during the period of vigil, in the
           bottom of the right eye sac.

        -  Route of administration: ophthalmic.

      Reference product, dose and route of administration, lot:

        -  Corneregel. Dexpanthenol 5%. Ophthalmic gel developed by Bausch and Lomb, Berlin,
           Germany.

        -  Dose: a strip approximately 1 cm long, 4 times a day during the period of vigil, in the
           bottom of the right eye sac.

        -  Route of administration: ophthalmic

      Evaluation criteria:

      Primary security outcome variable:

      - Density of goblet cells.

      Secondary security variables:

        -  Epithelial defects in cornea and conjunctiva.

        -  Presence of adverse events.

      Secondary outcome variables:

        -  Intraocular pressure.

        -  Visual ability

        -  Break time of the tear film.

      Outcome variables of tolerability:

        -  Burning.

        -  Foreign body sensation.

        -  Itching.

        -  Eye comfort index.
    
  