
    
      Study design, site and duration:

      A prospective, follow-up crossover study design was used. Two secondary level referral
      hospitals in Jessore and Kushtia districts were selected as study sites. The selected
      facilities were similar in terms of infrastructure, human resources, and service delivery
      scenarios to typical district hospitals and were thus representative of public hospitals in
      Bangladesh. However, there were a few differences in the number of c-section and stillbirth
      rates in between two study hospitals. The crossover study design adopted under this study was
      designed to minimize the impact of this non-similarity on the study outcomes. The same
      facility was served as its own control at different time point in time. The study was
      conducted in two phases with an intervening pause period. During the first phase, an
      electronic partograph was used in Kushtia district hospital and a paper based partograph was
      used in Jessore district hospital. Both of these hospitals were being crossed to alternate
      partograph tool after the pause period.

      The nurse-midwives from each hospital posted in obstetric wards were the user who observed
      the calculated deliveries (N=506 for each facility) during the study period. Each participant
      attended a two-day long training to become acquainted with the respective partograph that
      they would be utilizing in the first phase of the study. Another training session was also
      arranged during the pause period. Clinical parameters recorded in the partograph were
      validated by the project appointed research assistants with midwifery qualifications who
      observed labor progression and deliveries.

      Sample selection:

      Sample size calculations were completed on the basis of existing prevalence of partograph use
      (17.1 %), and delivery outcome data related to paragraph use such as incidence of birth
      asphyxia (22%) and prolonged labour (7%) . Sample size calculations also took into account
      the refusal rate (10%) and design effects. Thus to observe the 50% improvement for all three
      mentioned clinical parameters (increased use of partograph, decreased level of birth
      asphyxia, and prolonged labour), the number of deliveries that needed to be observed were as
      follows, 105, 216 and 506 respectively at 80% power and 5% significance level. Thus the final
      sample size in each district hospital was taken as 506; half of the sample (253) before and
      the other half (253) after applying the crossover design. Field data collection continued for
      12 months and the data collectors tried to capture all deliveries until the required minimum
      sample size was achieved.

      Inclusion criteria Inclusion criteria for the study were women with spontaneous labour in the
      first stage of labour with cervical dilatation in between 4-7 centimeters, singleton
      pregnancy, gestation of at least 37 completed weeks, cephalic presentations, and no
      additional complications.

      Exclusion criteria Exclusion criteria for the study were women with ante partum hemorrhage,
      breech presentation, multiple pregnancies, premature labour (before 37 weeks), eclampsia,
      elective caesarean section, and induced labour.

      Study procedure and data collection:

      An expert obstetrician, who was also a study investigator, provided training to the nurses
      and midwives. The basics for the paper and electronic partographs were essentially the same,
      so the training methods were not vastly different. For the e-partograph, a junior programmer
      was available by mobile phone, around-the-clock, to provide any instant trouble shooting or
      feedback. In addition, the Android Tablet was used for implementing the digital partograph
      study. Participants were also introduced to varying inconsistencies and errors they might
      face when utilizing the e-partograph. The research assistants became expert users of the
      e-partograph and facilitated the usage for the weak users.

      e-partograph: The electronic version of the partograph was a state-of-the-art application
      that is accessed through smart phone or tablet pc or computer device. The application's user
      interface (UI) is segmented; users will have to concentrate only on a single portion at a
      time that would lessen the existing complexity of using paper-based partograph.

      e-partograph application's user interface in Android programming language for smart tabs, and
      in ASP.net with C# language for personal computers. The application has options to save the
      data in local storage and in a remote central database storage concurrently. Local storage
      contains data for temporarility; the remote server contains the data permanently which makes
      the partograph information searchable at any time and place. This application allows
      partograph data to be monitored remotely.

      The existing knowledge on how to use the paper and e-partograph was assessed for each
      participant before the start of the training to understand the skill status of the
      individuals. The training consisted of two days of intensive hands on training as well as a
      refresher course that was organized six months after the first training to ensure that
      participants would not forget the information. In order to measure user rates, rates of birth
      asphyxia, and prolonged labour, record reviews generated by the partographs were collected
      and analyzed.

      Data Analysis:

      Quantitative data was analyzed using SPSS 23 statistical software. The outcome variables were
      use of the partograph and delivery outcomes (prolonged labour and birth asphyxia). The
      independent variables covered maternal demographic and obstetric variables along with fetal
      characteristics as well as partograph type and facility. Partograph was considered done when
      it was correctly used for labour monitoring among the delivered women who fall under
      inclusion criteria. Prolonged labour was defined as labour extending more than 12 hours and
      birth asphyxia was defined as an APGAR score less than 7 on the 5th minute after delivery.
      Discrete variables were expressed as percentages and presented as frequency tables and cross
      tabulations. Chi square (χ2) tests were employed to test the association between proportions
      of respondents and type of partograph. Statistical significance was defined as p-values of
      <0.05. The data collected between the two groups was analyzed in such a way that a clear
      comparison could be made between the user rate of different periods (before and after
      applying the crossover design). Potential confounding factors were adjusted using binary
      logistic regression.

      Ethical Assurance:

      The Research Review Committee (RRC) of the International Centre for Diarrheal Disease
      Research, Bangladesh (icddr, b) approved the technical part of the proposed study. Then the
      Ethical Review Committee (ERC) of icddr, b who oversees the protection of human rights,
      approved the study. In addition, informed consent was obtained from the hospital
      administration, health workers, and the laboring mothers.
    
  