
    
      Sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) is common in stable chronic heart failure (CHF) (60-83%) and is
      divided into two main types: central SAS (CSAS) and obstructive SAS (OSAS). Several studies
      have shown an association between SAS and HF severity and prognosis (Damy T, et al. European
      journal of heart failure 2012, 14(9):1009-1019).

      Acute heart failure (AHF) is one of the major complications of CHF. It is assumed that during
      AHF, the severity of apnea syndrome increases due to increased capillary pressure and blood
      volume, reason why it is common to screen for a SAS after but not during the decompensation
      phase to avoid its overestimation. Unfortunately, this screening is often performed only in
      specialized centers and requires another stay in hospital.

      The assumption that the severity of SAS increases during AHF has been questioned recently by
      some studies. These studies suggest that the prevalence of SAS and type are similar in the
      acute decompensated phase or after stabilization of HF regarding SAS severity and type.
      Interestingly, in the study conducted at Padeletti, including 10 patients who underwent
      polysomnography control just before or immediately after discharge from the hospital, all
      measured parameters remained stable overall. Padeletti M, et al. Sleep medicine 2009,
      10(3):353-360).

      Khayat et al (Khayat RN, et al. Journal of cardiac failure 2009, 15(9):739-746) demonstrates
      stability of SAS 6 weeks after an episode of decompensation. In this study 395 patients with
      AHF were included with a mean LVEF of 33%, 75% (298) had a SAS with 57% as obstructive and
      18% as central SAS (ref). 100% of patients diagnosed with an obstructive SAS during the
      decompensation phase remained with it 6 weeks later. For central SAS and on the 12 patients
      with two polygraphies, 4 were reported to change type of SAS which become obstructive.

      This raises the question of the importance of early diagnosis of SAS during hospitalization
      for AHF to allow a more rapid care management.

      The aim of this multicenter study is to assess the prevalence, persistence of SAS at 3 months
      following decompensation as well as the prognostic value at 1 year. If SAS is stable between
      the episode of the AHF and the return to a stable CHF, treatment of SAS may potentially be
      considered during the admission phase. The benefit of the therapeutic management will of
      course be validated by a clinical trial.
    
  