
    
      Despite progress in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART), the livebirth rate per oocyte
      retrieval during In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) remain relatively low (15 à 25%). This is in
      part due to the sensitivity of the preimplantation embryo to its environment. Indeed, there
      is growing evidence that culture conditions during IVF are critical not only for the
      development of pre- and post-implantation embryo, but also for long-term health effects; and
      numerous animal data suggest the importance of pH control in the IVF culture medium.
      Maintaining the intercellular pH (pHi) is one of the vital roles of embryo homeostasis since
      pHi regulates many cellular processes. Indeed, variations in pHi can affect embryonic
      development. Although the embryo has biochemical systems to regulate its pHi, these systems
      can be overtaken. Under the conditions of IVF embryo culture, the extracellular pH (pHe) in a
      culture medium is the result of a balance between CO2 concentration in the incubator and
      bicarbonate concentration in the culture medium (determined by the medium manufacturer). The
      recommendations of the manufacturers of embryo culture media are to maintain a pHe slightly
      higher (generally between 7.2 and 7.4) than the pHi (estimated between 7.1 to 7.2) to
      compensate for the acidification due to cell metabolism. However, as the pH scale is
      logarithmic, a pHe variation of 7.2 to 7.4 corresponds to a decrease in the concentration of
      H+ ions by a factor of 1.6 in the medium. Actually, there is no clinical data to know what is
      the ideal pH to apply to a culture medium during IVF.

      This is a clinical study comparing two pH values in the culture medium of embryos obtained by
      IVF, randomized, multicentric (3 centers), patient-blinded, in groups parallel to the ratio
      1: 1. IVF-ICSI will be performed according to the usual procedure and the day of the oocyte
      puncture, the embryologist will proceed to the 1: 1 randomization: culture of the oocytes and
      embryos in the culture medium with a pH at 7.38 ± 0.02 or a pH at 7.22 ± 0.02.

      In case of pregnancy after embryo transfer, patients will be followed until delivery.
    
  