
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is one of the most common chronic diseases in childhood. Each year,
      nearly 86 000 children around the world develop T1D. The annual mean incidence rates varies
      from 0.1-60/100000 with Sweden as one of the "top" incidence countries. Within diabetes care,
      most health care professionals agree that a lack of effective transfer from pediatric to
      adult care may contribute to insufficient continuity of health care and increased risk for
      adverse outcomes in young adults with T1D diabetes. In order to help the adolescent in the
      transitions to adulthood and adult care, transitions programs have been proposed as a complex
      intervention with the objective of maximizing lifelong functioning and potential through
      appropriate healthcare services. Therefore, research on transition and transfer, and on
      interventions that have the potential to improve both these clinical processes, is important.

      Patient empowerment is recognized as an essential element of transition interventions.
      Through the promotion of patient empowerment the adolescents can become active partners in
      their care and have the knowledge and capacity to make decisions that affect their life and
      health status. The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a transition
      program for adolescents with type 1 diabetes within a randomized controlled trial. During the
      course of the study, participants will be part of a transition program or receive usual care
      before being transferred to adult care. The primary outcome is level of empowerment and
      secondary outcomes include health behavior as well as diabetes specific and transfer specific
      variables.

      The investigators will assess the effectiveness of the transition program by comparing the
      level of empowerment (primary outcome) between the participants who received usual care and
      those who participated in the transition program. A higher level of empowerment from the
      group part of the intervention is expected. The economic evaluation entails an impact budget
      assessment and a cost-effectiveness analysis.
    
  