
    
      The primary objective of the study is to assess the impact of radiotherapy in addition to
      self-expanding metal stent (SEMS) placement on time to progression of patient-reported
      dysphagia in a patient population unable to undergo surgery.

      Patients will be eligible to take part in the trial if they have oesophageal cancer, are in
      need of SEMS because of dysphagia, are aged 16 years or older, have been clinically assessed
      to be able to receive radiotherapy, have an expected survival of at least 12 weeks and are
      able to give written informed consent.

      496 patients will be randomised to receive either SEMS alone or SEMS with radiotherapy. The
      radiotherapy will be given as an outpatient either as five treatments (one per day) over one
      week, or ten treatments over two weeks. Questionnaires will be completed before treatment,
      and at weeks two and four and then monthly for up to one year to assess quality of life and
      cost effectiveness. Interviews will be held with trial participants at three time points to
      explore their experiences while on the trial. Interviews will also be held with patients who
      do not consent to take part in the trial to explore their reasons for non-consent.

      Treatments:

      Arm A: Self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) (Control Arm) SEMS insertion will be undertaken in
      accordance with standard local protocols. Covered or partially covered metal stents will be
      used and the length type and mode of stent placement will be selected by the clinician.
      Insertion will occur within two weeks of randomisation.

      Arm B: SEMS plus external beam radiotherapy (Intervention Arm) External beam radiotherapy
      (EBRT) is routinely available at regional cancer centres across the UK. For palliation of
      dysphagia in oesophageal cancer, a radiotherapy course delivering a tumour absorbed dose of
      20Gy in 5 fractions or 30Gy in 10 fractions within 4 weeks of SEMS insertion.

      There will also be a qualitative component of the trial will have two aims: i) to explore the
      feasibility of patients' recruitment to the trial and ii) to explore participants' experience
      of the trial interventions. It will examine their experience of consent and recruitment
      including reasons for declining, and examine patients' motivation to accept randomisation to
      an intervention which may include extra radiotherapy. This is an optional component and will
      require separate consent. Patients who do not consent to the trial, but who do consent to the
      qualitative component, will be interviewed about their reasons for not-consenting as soon as
      possible after the approach to participate.

      Trial participants who consent to the qualitative component will be interviewed three times:
      at weeks one and four to capture initial decision-making thoughts and then after the
      interventions (week 8) to explore patients' experience of interventions and perceptions of
      benefit or detriment.
    
  