
    
      Children were randomly assigned to receive the ABC intervention or a control intervention
      (DEF) in infancy. These two groups, plus a group of low-risk children, will be studied in
      early and middle childhood. Of interest will be differences in parent and child outcomes that
      result from the intervention.

      Hypothesis 1: Neglected children whose parents received the ABC intervention and low-risk
      comparison children will show better inhibitory control than neglected children whose parents
      received the DEF intervention.

      Hypothesis 2: Children in the ABC intervention condition and low-risk comparison children
      will show better emotion regulation than children in the DEF condition.

      Hypothesis 3: Children in the ABC intervention condition and comparison children will show
      less reactive aggression and less hostile attributional bias than children in the DEF
      condition.

      Hypothesis 4: Children in the ABC condition and comparison children will show more normative
      cortisol production than children in the DEF condition.

      Although we expect that sustained changes in parenting are critical for sustained changes in
      child behaviors, several alternative models will be tested. First, it is possible that when
      parents change as a result of the intervention in a child's infancy, there are positive
      outcomes for children regardless of whether the changes in parenting are sustained. If this
      is the case, early parenting will mediate the effects of the intervention when controlling
      for later parenting. Second, if concurrent parenting is what is critical to child
      functioning, current parenting will mediate intervention effects on child outcomes when
      controlling for early parenting. Third, longitudinal modeling of both parent and child
      behaviors allows for analysis of cross-lagged associations using structural equation
      modeling. Such modeling can examine concurrent and transactional associations between parent
      and child. We can also examine associations between change at behavioral and biological
      levels.

      Longitudinal modeling will be used to examine models of change in parenting behaviors and how
      those influence child outcomes.
    
  