
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Sunitinib is designed to block pathways that control important events (such as the growth of
      blood vessels) that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Temsirolimus is designed to block the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells to
      die.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of the combination of sunitinib and temsirolimus based on when you joined this study.
      There will be 2 stages in this study.

      Up to 5 dose levels of the study drug combination will be tested in Stage 1. Two (2)
      participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of participants will
      receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest
      tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found.

      During Stage 2, different doses of the individual study drugs will be tested based on the
      highest tolerable combination dose that was found in Stage 1.

      Study Drug Administration:

      During each 3-week "study cycle," you will take sunitinib 1 time each day (either with or
      without food) for 2 weeks followed by 1 week of rest with no study drug.

      You will receive temsirolimus by vein 1 time every week over 30-60 minutes. About 30 minutes
      before you receive temsirolimus, you will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by vein over 30
      minutes to help prevent side effects.

      If you have any side effects from any of the drugs, tell the study doctor right away. The
      study doctor may then lower the dose or keep the dose level the same.

      Study Visits:

      Every week (right before you receive temsirolimus), blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn
      for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of every cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests (in addition to the weekly
           blood draw described above).

      Every 6 weeks,:

        -  You will have the same imaging scans (CT and/or MRI scan) that you had at the screening
           visit. If you have stable disease after 2 scans, you will have these every 12 weeks.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to check your thyroid function.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      Blood Pressure Monitoring:

      During the first 3 weeks of the study, your blood pressure will be checked weekly. This may
      be done at your local doctor's office. You should write down your blood pressure each time it
      is checked in a blood pressure journal that the study staff will give you and bring it with
      you when you see your doctor.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for as long as you are benefiting. You will be taken off study if
      the disease gets worse or if you have intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After the last dose of study drug, you will have an end-of-study visit. At the end-of-study
      visit, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced since your last visit.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib and temsirolimus are both FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer. The use of the drugs in
      combination is investigational.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  