
    
      PrEvention of posttraumatic contractuRes with Ketotifen 2 (PERK2) is a Phase III randomized,
      controlled, double blinded multicenter trial with 3 parallel groups (Ketotifen 2 mg or 5 mg
      or lactose placebo twice daily orally for 6 weeks) and a primary endpoint of elbow
      extension-flexion range of motion (ROM) arc at 12 weeks post-randomization. The Research
      Hypothesis is that Ketotifen is superior to a lactose placebo in reducing joint contracture
      severity in adult participants with isolated elbow fractures or dislocations. The Primary
      Objective is to determine if Ketotifen given within 7 days of injury can reduce
      post-traumatic elbow joint contractures when compared to placebo. The Secondary Objectives
      are: 1) to ascertain the optimal dose of Ketotifen and 2) to compare adverse events in
      Ketotifen and placebo groups.

      Inclusion criteria: age ≥ 18 years old and skeletally mature; distal humerus (AO/OTA type 13)
      and/or proximal ulna and/or proximal radius fractures (AO/OTA type 2U1/2R1) and/or elbow
      dislocations (open fractures with or without nerve injury may be included); injury ≤ 7 days;
      ability to give informed consent; able to comply with protocol and follow up; operative
      treatment of the elbow fracture or dislocation; participant has negative urine or blood serum
      pregnancy test.

      Exclusion criteria: Pre-existing elbow contracture; elbow arthritis (osteoarthritis,
      inflammatory arthritis, or nonspecific monoarticular arthritis); inability to mobilize elbow
      within 21 days of injury; bilateral elbow injury; oral hypoglycemic medications; history of
      epilepsy; lactose intolerance; language or cognitive difficulties preventing completion of
      questionnaires; pregnancy; breast feeding; male or female unwilling to use 2 methods of
      contraception; total elbow replacement planned for treatment of fracture or dislocation;
      prior elbow injury or operation; concomittant musculoskeletal or visceral injuries preventing
      post-operative elbow therapy; severe renal and hepatic impairment.

      Outcome Measures: Range of motion; Disability Arm, Shoulder, Hand; Oxford Elbow Score; Pain
      Catastrophizing Scale; standardized case report form; radiographic evaluation for fracture
      healing/non-union; and number of participants requiring reoperation for all elbow related
      causes, and post-traumatic joint contractures, 2 - 52 weeks post-randomization.

      Safety Endpoints: The main safety endpoint for this study is the frequency of adverse events
      and serious adverse events, and radiographic assessment for non-union and heterotopic
      ossification (HO), 2 - 52 weeks post-randomization.

      Ketotifen is the first and only agent demonstrating a significant decrease in contracture
      severity in preclinical trials that also has a wide safety profile. Ketotifen has been used
      in the treatment of chronic asthma for over 40 years in humans. Ketotifen is a medication
      that has anti-anaphylactic properties, due to the prevention of the synthesis and/or release
      of growth factors and mediators, as well as antihistamine affects due to H1 receptor
      antagonism. Post market surveillance has confirmed the safety of Ketotifen. A Phase II RCT
      comparing a single dose of Ketotifen (5 mg) to placebo in elbow fractures or dislocations in
      Calgary (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT01902017), demonstrated safety of Ketotifen and
      coupled with preclinical animal studies informed the need to increase the sample size,
      examine multiple doses, and narrow the study population to more severe injuries requiring an
      operation in the Phase III RCT.
    
  