
    
      INTRODUCTION.

      Three large clinical trials (STOP-2, HOPE, LIFE) {Hansson, Lindholm, et al. 1999}{Dahlof,
      Devereux, et al. 2002}{Yusuf, Sleight, et al. 2000} have suggested that drugs that
      specifically inhibit the renin angiotensin system (RAS) such as ACE inhibitors and
      Angiotensin Receptor Antagonists (ARA) have blood pressure-independant cardiovascular
      protecting effects. In the most recent of these studies, the LIFE trial, Losartan-based
      therapy was superior to atenolol-based therapy in hypertensive patients with left ventricular
      hypertrophy {Dahlof, Devereux, et al. 2002}. Very recently, the ALLHAT mega-trial suggested
      that diuretics were as good as ACE inhibitors for cardiovascular protection in hypertensive
      patients {Major outcomes in moderately hypercholesterolemic, hypertensive patients randomized
      to pravastatin vs usual care: The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent
      Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT-LLT)}. These apparently conflicting results underline that the
      mechanisms of cardiovascular protections are not well understood.

      ARAs {Balt, Mathy, et al. 2001}{Moreau, Richer, et al. 1993} have sympathoinhibitory
      properties while beta-blockers induce a small counterregulatory activation of the sympathetic
      system {Lijnen, Amery, et al. 1979}{Sundlof, Wallin, et al. 1983}{van den Meiracker, Man in
      't Veld AJ, et al. 1988}.We have shown recently that telmisartan prevents the increase in NE
      normally associated with a reduction in BP while there are reports that diuretics tend to
      stimulate the sympathetic system {Fernandez, Snedden, et al. 1987}{Lake, Ziegler, et al.
      1979}. It has been suggested that the superiority of ARAs could be due to their unique
      effects on the autonomic nervous system.

      Angiotensin II receptor antagonism also decrease the oxidative stress induced by angiotensin
      II and aldosterone {de Cavanagh, Ferder, et al. 1999}{Hornig, Landmesser, et al.
      2001}{Onozato, Tojo, et al. 2002}.We have also shown that telmisartan decreases plasma
      aldosterone and should therefore decrease the oxidative stress associated with a reduction in
      aldosterone Hydrochlorothiazide and beta-blockers have not been shown to have antioxidative
      properties {Welch & Wilcox 2001}{Taddei, Virdis, et al. 2001}. It is possible that oxidative
      stress partly explains the differences between pharmacological agents.

      Patients included in high blood pressure clinical trials are randomized to a therapeutic
      strategy meaning that a stepped care approach is taken. Hypertensive patients frequently need
      more than one drug for appropriate blood pressure control. Consequently, about half of study
      patients in these trials end up taking more than one drug during the study. First step
      therapy is by definition prescribed to all study subjects but second or third step therapy
      are not as well defined. In the HOPE trial, ramipril was added on top of usual treatment.
      Most of the patients included in HOPE, LIFE, STOP-2 and ALLHAT took at least one other
      antihypertensive drug, most frequently a thiazide diuretic. Though results were reported as
      being ACE inhibitor or ARA based, they mostly reflect a mix of single drug and multiple drugs
      therapy. Whether the beneficial effects of ARAs and beta-blockers are modulated by thiazide
      diuretics is presently unknown.

      We designed a parallel study that primarily assesses the differences between ARAs, diuretics
      and beta-blockers. The simultaneously measured parameters reflect renin-angiotensin system
      activity, sympathetic activity, oxidative stress and systemic inflammation. Secondarily, this
      study assesses the effects of ARA-diuretic and B-blocker-diuretic combinations on the same
      parameters.

      Results from this study will help to understand the results from the previously mentioned
      clinical trials. The forced titration from monotherapy to a combination therapy will allow us
      to measure the influence of drug addition on clinically significant parameters. The
      simultaneous assessment of renin-angiotensin system activity , sympathetic activity,
      oxidative stress and systemic inflammation will allow us to observe baseline and
      pharmacologically-induced associations.

      It is also probable that results from this study will have direct clinical influences on high
      blood pressure therapeutic strategies. Physicians treating hypertension frequently have to
      choose between increasing drug doses to their maximum or adding a new drug. It is presently
      unknown if one strategy offers more benefits than the other. This study should provide
      physicians with clues about the expected benefits for each approach.

      GOALS

      To assess and compare the effects of candesartan and atenolol combined with low dose diuretic
      therapy on the autonomic nervous system, on oxidative stress, on inflammatory markers, and on
      the renin-angiotensin system.

      To assess and compare the effects of candesartan and atenolol and low dose diuretic therapy
      on the autonomic nervous system, on inflammatory markers, on oxidative stress, on
      inflammatory markers, and on the renin angiotensin system.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      1. To measure and compare the effects candesartan 16 mg + HCT 12.5 mg, candesartan 16 mg +
      HCT 25.0 mg, and atenolol 100 + 12.5 mg on noradrenalin release 4h post-dose, at trough, and
      after a 10 minute stand.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To measure and compare the effects candesartan 16 mg + HCT 12.5 mg, candesartan 16 mg +
           HCT 25.0 mg, and atenolol 100 + 12.5 mg on :

             1. frequency power spectral analysis 4h post-dose, and after a 10 minute stand.

             2. oxidative stress, inflammatory markers and adhesion molecules 4h post-dose.

             3. renin, aldosterone and angiotensin II release/production 4h post-dose and at
                trough.

             4. Insulin and glucose plasma concentration

        2. To measure and compare the influences of HCT 25 mg, candesartan 16 mg, and atenolol 100
           mg monotherapy on:

             1. noradrenalin release 4h post-dose, at trough, and after a 10 minute stand.

             2. frequency power spectral analysis 4h post-dose, and after a 10 minute stand.

             3. oxidative stress, inflammatory markers and adhesion molecules 4h post-dose.

             4. renin, aldosterone and angiotensin II release/production 4h post-dose and at
                trough.

             5. Insulin and glucose plasma concentration

      DESIGN

      Prospective, randomized, open label, 3 arm, 2 period parallel study preceded by a placebo run
      in period in non-diabetic patients with essential hypertension.

      Titration period: introduction of hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg daily), atenolol (50 mg
      daily), and candesartan (8 mg daily) in the diuretic, beta-blocker and angiotensin receptor
      blocker groups respectively. First study period (4 weeks), comparison of hydrochlorothiazide
      25 mg, atenolol 100 mg, and candesartan 16mg. Second study period (4 weeks), comparison of
      hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg + candesartan 16 mg, atenolol 100 mg + HCT 12.5 mg, and candesartan
      16mg + HCT 12.5 mg. Measurement of study parameters at trough, 4h post-dose and after a 10
      minutes stand after placebo and after each study period.

      MEASURED STUDY PARAMETERS

        1. Blood pressure

        2. 24h blood pressure

        3. Spectral analysis of heart rate (LF, HF, LF/HF)

        4. Plasma

             1. renin

             2. aldosterone

             3. angiotensin II

             4. catecholamines

             5. 8-epi-isoprostane

             6. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS)

             7. nitrotyrosine

             8. interleukin 18

             9. E selectine

            10. C reactive protein

            11. Insulin

            12. glucose

        5. Urine

             1. 8-epi-isoprostane

             2. sodium concentration

             3. creatinine concentration

      Protocol Sponsored by Astra Zeneca Canada
    
  