
    
      Prolonged labor increases the risk of maternal and neonatal morbidity as well as increases
      healthcare costs. There is limited data evaluating the use of two simultaneous induction
      agents to decrease the time to delivery.

        1. Maternal and neonatal morbidity with prolonged labor The adverse maternal and neonatal
           morbidity association with prolonged labor has been demonstrated in numerous studies. An
           increase in maternal risk of post partum hemorrhage and endometritis has been associated
           with prolonged labor. Cheng et al demonstrated that the risk of post partum hemorrhage
           and endometritis significantly increased with increasing length of labor. Maghoma et al
           evaluated the latent phase of labor and found a similar increased risk in endometritis
           but also noted a significant risk in maternal sepsis with a prolonged latent phase of
           labor.

           Neonatal outcomes are similarly improved with a shorter duration of labor. In addition
           to the risk of chorioamnionitis and decreased 5 minute Apgar score, there is also a
           significantly increased risk of neonatal intensive care unit admission as well as
           neonatal sepsis with prolonged labor.

        2. Increased healthcare utilization with prolonged labor Both direct and indirect medical
           costs have been evaluated in the obstetrics literature. A prolonged labor has been
           associated with an increase in direct and indirect medical costs as well as an increase
           in healthcare utilization. Mackenzie et al evaluated the cost of different induction
           regimens and found a decreased cost for women that remained on the antenatal unit for a
           shorter period of time.

        3. Use of simultaneous induction agents Pettker et al evaluated the use of a transcervical
           foley with and without oxytocin and found no difference in mode of delivery or delivery
           within 24 hours. They found that labor was 2.5 hours shorter with the addition of
           oxytocin although the study was not powered to see a statistical difference. Other
           studies have looked at the concurrent use of prostaglandin with cervical foley.
           Barrilleaux et al evaluated the use of oral misoprostol with cervical foley compared to
           cervical foley alone and found no difference in time to delivery; however, the use of
           oral misprostol has well known side effects, including a high rate of tachysystole which
           was found in this study. Hill et al reported a decreased time to second stage and time
           to delivery with the use of cervical foley and oral misoprostol compared to vaginal
           misoprostol alone; however this was a small study that used with a higher, more
           favorable starting Bishop score in the combined foley+misoprostol group, biasing them
           away from the null. Standardized time cut offs during IOL were not used in this study.
           Recently, Carbone et al performed a randomized trial comparing foley bulb and misprostol
           to misoprostol alone and found a decreased time to delivery among those in the combined
           group. This study was a small trial with 60 patients in each arm and did not compare the
           combined agents to cervical foley alone.

        4. Standardization of IOL The optimal length for an IOL is not well established and data on
           definitions of a failed IOL and prolonged latent phase are lacking. Multiple studies
           have shown that within 6 hours of oxytocin administration, 60-70% of patients are in
           active labor. Although data suggest that the longer latent labor is allowed to proceed,
           the more women that will deliver vaginally, there is also evidence of an increased risk
           of morbidity, without a large incremental gain. Certain dosing and regimens of
           individual agents have been evaluated to try and decrease labor; however, studies have
           not evaluated the use of time cut offs during an IOL to help reduce variation in
           practice and standardize the IOL process.
    
  