
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to either receive fentanyl or placebo. You will have an equal chance
      of being assigned to either group.

      Study Drug/Placebo Administration:

      Before you receive the study drug/placebo, you will walk back and forth in an indoor corridor
      for up to 6 minutes. You may feel out of breath or become exhausted. You may slow down, stop,
      and rest at any time you need to.

      After that, you will sit down and rest (for up to 1 hour). During this time, the study
      drug/placebo will be prepared.

      You will then be given a study drug/placebo shot under the skin in your arms or legs. You
      will then wait for another 15 minutes and repeat the walking test.

      Study Visit:

      During your study visit, the study staff will collect information from your medical record
      about your age, sex, race, disease type, how well you are able to perform the normal
      activities of daily living, any drugs you are taking, and possible causes of shortness of
      breath.

      You will also complete 2 walking tests. Before the walk tests, you will complete 2
      questionnaires. One (1) of them asks about any breathing symptoms you may be having, and the
      other asks about any other symptoms you may be having. It should take about 10 minutes to
      complete these questionnaires.

      Before and after each walk test, the study staff will record your heart rate, breathing rate,
      and the level of air breathed out using a measuring device that will be clipped onto your
      finger. The study staff will also ask you questions about how hard it is to catch your breath
      and your level of tiredness.

      During each walk test, you will be asked about how hard it is to catch your breath. The
      distance you walked and how often and for how long you stopped will be recorded. Before and
      after the second walk test, the study staff will ask you about any side effects from the
      study drug/placebo that you may be having.

      During the rest period between the 2 walk tests, you may be asked how hard it is to catch
      your breath several times.

      At the end of the study visit, you will fill out 1 questionnaire that asks if you think the
      study drug/placebo is helping you, and how satisfied you are with the study. It should take
      about 5 minutes to complete the questionnaire.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on this study for up to 100 minutes.You will be taken off study if intolerable
      side effects occur during the study.

      This is an investigational study. Fentanyl is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of pain. It's use to help with shortness of breath is investigational.

      Up to 20 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  