
    
      The patients eligible will be informed about the procedures of the study and that agree to
      participate and sign the TCLE will be initially evaluated clinically for the clinical
      diagnosis of psoriasis plate with mild and moderate involvement of up to 20% of body surface.
      After the procedures for selection (initial clinical evaluation and verification of the
      criteria for inclusion and exclusion) the patients will be photographed, receive treatment
      and will be targeted and to manage it in proper way and standardized, when they do so at
      home. In each return (after 7, 14 days) will be held photographs of injuries, clinical
      examination, evaluation of adverse events and dispensing of medicine to patients.

      The drugs dispensed will be sufficient for daily use until the next return. The product will
      be applied once a day, during night, preferably after the bath. The follow-up visits will
      occur in times of 07 and 14 days after the start of treatment. If there is complete improves
      the disease, treatment is interrupted before this date. On each visit will be examined by
      clinical parameters validated scales of assessment internationally (PASI), which provide the
      exact data of changes in the framework of each patient in each parameter measured. As
      parameters of the tolerability will be evaluated frequency and intensity of adverse events
      and the potential of irritative formulations, will be held photo of patients and
      questionnaires of cosmeticidade the formulation. Patients will be geared not to expose to the
      sun during the treatment period. At the end of the study, patients who present evolution will
      be full of injuries released the study and those who are still with obvious symptoms have
      treatment interrupted because of the risk of prolonged use of the drug under study. These
      patients will be referred to the Health Service for maintenance treatment with a new therapy.
      The patients who are released and make recurrence of the disease due to the rebound effect
      will be
    
  