
    
      Surgical Skills Assessment:

      Resident Control Group (Routine Educational Practice): Participants in this group will be
      exposed to routine surgical education as practiced at University Hospitals Case Medical
      Center, Department of OB/Gyn. This includes real time instruction at the time of surgery for
      the resident trainee performing all or part of the procedure as appropriate for their level
      of training. The resident may use any teaching tools before or after the surgery including
      online surgical videos, a surgical atlas or textbook. Immediately after the procedure the
      attending surgeon will evaluate the trainee using a validated 13-item Vaginal Surgical Skills
      Index (VSSI) form and the 7-item Global Rating Scale of Operative Performance (GRS) . The use
      of this scale is also part of standard surgical educational practice. The trainee will then
      perform an additional procedure of the same type within a 4 week period (the average duration
      of a rotation) and again undergo evaluation using the VSSI form by the attending surgeon.
      This is again part of routine educational practice in order to monitor progression of
      surgical skills.

      Resident GoPro Group: Participants assigned this group will perform or assist with the
      procedure based on level of training and experience, as is usual practice in the residency
      training program. The resident surgeon will be wearing the camera (GoPro Hero 3) during the
      procedure. This is not part of routine practice. Immediately after the procedure the
      attending surgeon will evaluate the trainee using the VSSI and GRS forms. The trainee will
      then have a chance to review the video of their surgery with the attending surgeon within a
      14-day period. The trainee will then perform a 2nd procedure of the same type within a 4 week
      period (the average duration of a rotation) and again undergo evaluation using the VSSI form
      by the attending surgeon. It is common for residents to perform a type of procedure
      (cerclage, culdoplasty, vaginal hysterectomy, etc.) many times during a rotation. However,
      for the purpose of the research study, we will only be comparing the change in the VVSI score
      between 2 procedures.

      In both groups, surgical assistants will be instructed not to automatically assist but to
      wait for the participant to instruct them on what assistance they require.

      The surgical skills inventory will be marked by the participant with their numerical
      designation and will then be placed in a locked box in the pre-operative area of the Humphrey
      operating room suite. These will be collected by the study investigators at the end of each
      week. The key to the box will be kept in a locked cabinet in Amy Schmidt's office on the 5th
      floor of MacDonald Women's Hospital.

      Medical Student Evaluation of the OR Experience:

      Medical students will be able to watch surgeries in real time using the GoPro App which will
      be downloaded to an iPad specifically purchased for use in this study. The video will be
      streamed over the secure UH BOYD network with both the surgeon and medical student are in the
      same operating room. The GoPro App does not allow the video to be saved to the iPAD.

      At the end of each surgery medical student participants will be given a short survey with how
      satisfied they were with the level of teaching in the operating room (Appendix 3).

      The survey will be marked by the participant with their numerical designation and will then
      be placed in a locked box in the pre-operative area of the Humphrey operating room suite.
      These will be collected by the study investigators at the end of each week. The key to the
      box will be kept in a locked cabinet in Amy Schmidt's office on the 5th floor of MacDonald
      Women's Hospital.

      The results of the survey will be compared between those students viewing the surgery on the
      GoPro App and to those who are participating in the surgery without the GoPro camera. The
      survey is not routine educational practice, however, surveys are often employed in our
      department to gauge medical student attitudes.

      Additionally all students who do not initially view a surgery with the GoPro app (those in
      the control group and those who choose not to participate in the research study) will be
      given the opportunity to use the GoPro app during a different surgery.

      Acquisition of Surgical Video: Patients will be informed that the surgery will be recorded
      using a recording device and, if the patient chooses to allow recording, informed consent
      will be obtained using the standard image release consent form from UHCMC The video recording
      will not include any patient identifiers or markings.
    
  