
    
      The survival rate of cancer patients has greatly increased over the past decades' mainly due
      to early detection and the use of new medications with higher doses and combined protocols.
      This achievement comes with the price of cardio toxicity, leading to cardiac dysfunction
      ranged from transient asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction to cardiac death. In the long
      term, the risk of death from cardiovascular causes exceeds that of tumor recurrence for many
      types of cancer. As a result of the increasing number of long-term cancer survivors the
      magnitude of this problem is growing. Early identification of cardio toxicity can be
      identified by clinical follow-up and the use of electrocardiography, cardiac biomarkers
      (Troponin, brain natriuretic peptide) and echocardiogram. Past studies imply that the
      addition of angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) and beta blockers to the
      patient's treatment may prevent the development of cardiac dysfunction. However, currently
      there are no specific or clear guidelines for the follow-up and management of cardio-toxicity
      in cancer patients.

      The aim of the study: To try to identify who are the patients at increased risk for
      developing cardio toxicity, by follow up of clinical evaluation, cardiac biomarkers and
      echocardiogram examination, in purpose of early diagnosis, management and prevention of
      cardiac events. For achieving this the investigators will build a registry which will include
      all the oncologic patients going an evaluation in the cardio-oncology clinic in the Tel Aviv
      Medical Center .

      The study will be composed of two groups:

        1. The retrospective group analysis will include all oncologic patients who were evaluated
           in the cardio-oncology clinic between 01 January 2014 until 31 May 2016.

        2. The prospective group will include all oncologic patients who will be evaluated in the
           cardio-oncology clinic from 01 June 2016 onward.

      The patients will sign an informed consent form. The data collected will include demographic:
      gender, age, duration of hospitalization, diagnosis, symptoms, clinical as well as
      laboratory, echocardiographic and echicardiogram findings.

      The study will be based on unidentified data taken from medical records or medical files of
      patients. Identified details will be separated in a way that won't enable to review them .
      All data handling and the separation of the identified data will be done by the Principal
      Investigator, or sub-investigator in this study, who is in charge of the hearing screening
      program in Tel Aviv Medical Center.

      The study population will include all patients evaluated in the cardio-oncology clinic in our
      hospital with the diagnosis of cancer and are planned for chemotherapy and/or radiation
      treatment.

      The data collected will include gender, age, cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular
      disease, type of cancer, type of chemotherapy and/or radiation planned, past chemotherapy
      and/or radiation, vital signs, basic ECG, blood test pre and post therapy (including
      troponin, CPK, BNP, glucose HBA1C, cholesterol, triglycerides, CRP, WBC, neutrophil count,
      lymphocyte count, RDW, BNP), Echo at baseline and post therapy (Systolic and diastolic
      function, strain and valvular function), ACE inhibitor and beta blocker treatment,
      complication and mortality.
    
  