
    
      Twelve women in Denmark are diagnosed with breast cancer every day. Breast cancer and ductal
      carcinoma in situ (DCIS) are the primary type of cancer/precursor to cancer in women, and one
      of the main treatment modalities is surgical intervention. DCIS is a non-invasive
      (pre-malignant) condition in the breast with proliferating cells with malignant
      characteristics; confined in situ by the basal lamina in the breast. International DCIS is
      considered as manifest breast cancer, but in Denmark DCIS is considered as a precursor to
      breast cancer.

      Breast cancer and DCIS surgery includes many subtypes ranging from the minor lumpectomy to
      major surgery; e.g. mastectomy and reconstructive surgery with or without axillary clearance.
      All surgical subtypes at the Department of Plastic Surgery and Breast Surgery, Zealand
      University Hospital (ZUH) are performed under general anesthesia (GA) and implies a
      multimodal pain regimen with preoperative oral medication (Paracetamol 1g, Celecoxib (NSAIDs)
      400mg, Gabapentin 600mg, Dexamethasone 8mg and Dextromethorphan 30mg). Standard GA is total
      intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) and consists of Remifentanil, Propofol (and Rocuronium for
      tracheal intubation if needed), and the anesthesiologists will administer IV Sufentanil (a
      synthetic long-lasting opioid) 0.3-0.5 microg/kg 20-30 minutes prior to emergence for the
      immediate postoperative pain treatment. The patients are given additional Sufentanil and/or
      morphine intravenously in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU), if necessary.

      Depending of surgical subtype, the surgeons will sometimes inject local anesthetic (LA)
      during surgery. The anesthesiologists will infrequently (depending on the availability of
      technical skills on the day of surgery) perform ultrasound-guided (USG) nerve blocks (Pecs 1
      (and or) 2 and serratus anterior blocks) in the anterolateral thoracic wall prior to surgery,
      but this is not an implemented standard treatment. It is sadly neither national nor European
      standard to use USG nerve blocks for perioperative pain management for breast cancer and DCIS
      surgery. Instead, the vast majority of surgical centers rely heavily on the use of various
      long-lasting opioids, despite the adverse events associated with these drugs. Only relatively
      few surgical centers in Europe have implemented TPVB or other USG nerve blocks in the
      anterior thoracic wall as standard treatment for perioperative pain management.

      USG multiple-injection TPVB is considered the regional anesthesia golden standard for breast
      cancer and DCIS surgery and reduces both acute and chronic pain as well as postoperative
      opioid consumption.

      To determine which surgical subtype would be the most relevant to investigate (define the
      quantity of the research problem) the research group at ZUH have conducted a thorough
      retrospective study (including 111 patients) regarding postoperative pain and 12- and 24-hrs
      opioid consumption concerning patients undergoing breast cancer and DCIS surgery during
      2016-2017 at the Department of Plastic Surgery and Breast Surgery, ZUH. The electronic
      anesthesia files, PACU files and ward files were meticulously reviewed. Six surgical
      subgroups were reviewed and the UMPR surgery elicited high values on the numeric rating scale
      (NRS) and a substantial need for perioperative opioids. The survey revealed an overall
      accumulated morphine consumption in the first 24 postoperative hours of 86.1±60.1mg (mean ±
      SD) of oral morphine equivalents (OME) and a NRS in the PACU of 4.5±2.4 (mean ± SD) in UMPR
      patients - and this surgical subtype was selected as most relevant and feasible to
      investigate. This dosage should be evaluated in relation to the standardized multimodal
      regimen described above.

      There is definitely room for improvement in regards to the current treatment of this patient
      group. For instance, sub-group analysis reveals that patients having only received our
      current USG blocks (+preoperative oral medication and GA) have an accumulated morphine
      consumption in the first 24 postoperative hours of 81±55.2mg (mean ± SD) of OME.

      Indication for UMPR surgery is either breast cancer or DCIS. UMPR surgery can be performed in
      several stages (and with several techniques) involving multiple GA techniques. However, at
      ZUH one-stage UMPR surgery is common and is described in the following (multiple stage
      surgery is irrelevant for the study protocol).

      Standard operating procedure for one-stage UMPR surgery often involves two surgeons; i.e. one
      breast surgeon performing the mastectomy and one plastic surgeon performing the subsequent
      reconstructive surgery.

      The mastectomy is skin conserving with incision inferolateral to the breast tissue. The
      breast tissue is removed leaving a pocket. The area profound to the major pectoral muscle and
      superficial to the minor pectoral muscle is opened and prepared for a prothesis. Very common
      this prothesis is an expander-prothesis with a filling-chamber (for subsequent ambulant
      re-fillings). An expander-prothesis is either permanent or temporary. If permanent the
      filling-chamber is removed ambulant with LA, if temporary the prothesis is removed in toto
      under GA and replaced with a permanent prothesis. Two surgical drains are installed; one in
      the pocket between the major pectoral muscle and the skin and one between the major pectoral
      muscle and the minor pectoral muscle (beside the prothesis). The drains exit the skin in the
      lateral thoracic wall without an exact defined anatomical point but often it is in the front
      axillary line below the incision.

      The UMPR patient is evaluated by the operating surgeon around 14 days after surgery where the
      pathology results are reviewed.

      Side effects of the current anesthesiologic practice/treatment. The use of morphine (IV and
      oral) can cause severe side effects, including nausea and vomiting, bowl paralysis, urine
      retention, sleep disturbances and respiratory depression. These side effects can delay
      mobilization after surgery, increase the risk of complications and worst of all be fatal.

      In addition to all the well-known adverse events associated with morphine and the synthetic
      opioid derivate, these drugs have several masked adverse events (e.g. immunomodulation,
      hormonal disturbing, delirium triggering, angiogenetic etc.). Despite numerous
      (retrospective) studies regarding these issues, it is not yet possible to definitively link
      morphine consumption to metastasis formation and subsequent cancer recurrence. However, the
      surgical stress during the surgical procedures possibly generates an advantageous environment
      for dissemination of tumor cells when these inevitably are released to the blood stream by
      surgery. Studies advocate that TPVB reduces the perioperative opioid consumption - an
      indication of reduced surgical stress and other studies indicate that TPVB might even
      decrease the metastasis and progression of breast cancer. Large prospective studies regarding
      breast cancer recurrence with TPVB (and thoracic epidurals) are still ongoing.

      Chronic postoperative pain Chronic postoperative pain (CPP) is a significant and very common
      problem associated to breast cancer and DCIS surgery ranging between 20-65% in all patients.
      Moderate to severe pain is reported to be between 10-20%. The underlying etiology is
      multifactorial and not fully understood, but it is suggested that CPP is occurring from a
      perioperative sensitization of the central nervous system. Numerous studies suggest that TPVB
      might decrease CPP and it has been postulated that the effect is due to an efficient
      treatment of acute pain leading to a decreased sensitization (both peripheral and central
      sensory) and a lower incidence of CPP.

      A new prospective observational study finds that severity of acute pain is associated with
      the development of persistent pain.

      The new block. The breast is innervated by the lateral and medial pectoral nerves from the
      brachial plexus and the T2-T6 thoracic spinal nerves. Hence, no regional technique will block
      the entire hemithorax with a single injection. The relatively new USG nerve blocks in the
      anterior thoracic wall like the "pecs block" and serratus anterior plane block, do not target
      the same nerves as TPVB.

      The TPVB is executed in the posterior thoracic wall near the vertebral bodies with the needle
      tip just adjacent to the pleura and thereby with an inherent risk of pneumothorax as well as
      other serious adverse events. In expert hands and with ultrasound guidance the risk is
      probably relatively low. However, many anesthesiologists are still reluctant to perform the
      block due to the perceived risks.

      Recently, the erector spinae plane block (ESPB) emerged and quickly gained a lot of attention
      for various indications. The ESPB have only been used for breast cancer surgery in a few case
      studies and in one RCT but presumably with some success.

      The investigators have modified the ESPB to a novel multiple-injection costotransverse block
      (MICB). MICB is also a USG nerve block in the posterior thoracic wall. With MICB, the
      investigators inject LA on the superficial side of the superior costotransverse ligament
      (SCTL); which is the posterior border of the thoracic paravertebral space (TPVS). The LA will
      spread from the injection point and into the TPVS via the costotransverse foramen and the
      veins traversing the SCTL. Thereby the investigators mimic a TPVB, but - very important -
      with the needle tip in a very comfortable distance to the pleura reducing the risk of adverse
      events. The investigators have already proved this in a large cadaveric study with
      multinational collaboration. In this study, the MICB effectively stained the ventral rami,
      the communicating rami and the thoracic sympathetic trunk. Epidural spread was completely
      absent with the MICB.

      The investigators have published two abstracts concerning this new block modality - and the
      main article is published in Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica.

      Pilot studies show that the MICB is considered a PNB with very little discomfort for the
      patient (NRS 1-2) "as painful as having a standard IV line in the hand" - which aligns with a
      previous study performed in our department regarding a deep nerve block for analgesia of the
      abdominal wall.

      As the end-point for the MICB is the analgesic effect of a TPVB the investigators find it
      relevant to describe the contraindications to TPVB.

      In general, there are few contraindications to TPVB. However, infection at the site of needle
      insertion, empyema, allergy to local anesthetic drugs, patient refusal and tumor occupying
      the TPVS are the most common noted contraindications in the literature. Before the emergence
      of ultrasound for nerve block execution coagulopathy, bleeding disorder or therapeutic
      anticoagulation were considered as relative contraindications for TPVB. Today, with
      ultrasound guidance there are no firm consensus on relative contraindications regarding
      especially therapeutic anticoagulation when performing TPVB.

      Every day the investigators perform deep truncal blocks at the department at ZUH and the
      investigators have yet to see bleeding as a complication. The MICB is NOT a neuraxial block,
      neither do the investigators consider it a deep block. The mere purpose of the MICB is to
      further reduce the already low incidence of complications with TPVB. Recently, one accidental
      pneumothorax (with TPVB) was reported in well over 2000 patients, but not a single bleeding
      complication was reported and another study with 1427 TPVBs only six complications was
      reported (no bleeding); all handled successfully.

      The investigators generally consider the MICB (and other paravertebral blocks by proxy) as
      safe procedures.
    
  