
    
      Thoracic hyperkyphosis, an exaggerated curvature between the first thoracic vertebra body
      (T1) and the 12th thoracic vertebra body (T12), has a high prevalence among older adults. The
      cross-sectional study conducted by the Principal Investigator found 72% of older adults in
      the Chinese community have thoracic hyperkyphosis.

      Thoracic kyphosis has been found having negative effects on self-image, physical function,
      respiratory function, pain, balance, and gait performance. Treatment options of thoracic
      hyperkyphosis included surgery, peptides injection, menopausal hormone therapy, bracing,
      traditional Chinese medicine therapies, and exercise.

      The previous studies reported that different types of exercise such as strength training,
      pilates, yoga, and corrective exercise were effective in reducing the thoracic hyperkyphosis.
      However, the previous studies either excluded older adults who have exercise habits or lack
      of information about participants' daily activity levels. Besides, all the group spine
      exercise interventions in previous studies were delivered by professional trainers or
      physical therapists in the form of face-to-face exercise classes.

      The exercise protocol used by the current RCT was based on that developed by Katzmen and
      team. The previous studies using the same protocol reported three to five degrees decrease in
      the angle of kyphosis. Current RCT provides kyphosis-specific exercise in the form of short
      video and face to face exercise classes. The intervention of the proposed study contains two
      parts. One is the group kyphosis-specific exercise class given by a certified physical
      trainer. Another is the home practice following kyphosis-specific exercise videos. The
      intervention arrangement is : 1. Group learning and practice: a 1-hour kyphosis-specific
      exercise training session will be provided two times in the first week; 2. Weekly follow-up:
      a 1-hour kyphosis-specific exercise will be conducted with reinforcement of learning and
      remedial teaching by a certified physical trainer once a week for five consecutive weeks
      after the group learning and practice; 3. Self-practice: the participant will following the
      kyphosis-specific exercise videos doing self-practice every day for the whole intervention
      period lasting 6 weeks.

      The group kyphosis-specific exercise class will be led by a licensed physical trainer and a
      trained assistant. The participant to instructor (assistant) ratio will no less than 5:1. The
      content of kyphosis-specific exercise videos is the same as an exercise class.

      The participants are to be selected from the communities located in different regions in
      Wuhan by convenient sampling. Every potential participant will have a trained research
      assistant responsible for explaining the RCT details with the information sheet and
      re-assuring the respondents that data collected in the study will be kept strictly
      confidential, and then seeking permission for conducting the screening. The potential
      participants will be screened according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The eligible
      participants will sign the written consent and accomplish the baseline questionnaire and
      assessments (T0). After that, the participant will be randomly divided into the intervention
      group or the control group.

      A block randomization method will be used. The investigator will randomly select block sizes
      such as two, four, or six, to make randomization sequences for 156 participants (sample size
      calculation results). Then randomization sequences will be printed and placed in a
      sequentially numbered opaque sealed envelope. After older adult sign consent and finishing
      the baseline questionnaire and assessments, the researcher will open the envelope according
      to the numbered sequence for the grouping allocation.

      The intervention group will receive a group kyphosis-specific exercise class,
      kyphosis-specific exercise video, and a logbook. Before every exercise class, the researcher
      will send them time and location as reminders. Class attendance is recorded every time. The
      participants are asked to record the time of home kyphosis-specific exercise practice and
      other daily exercises. The participants will also be encouraged to write down questions or
      comments in the logbook. The investigator will check the logbook and respond once a week. The
      Control group will receive a booklet introducing general health education material, and a
      logbook recording the time of daily exercises. After the end of 6 weeks of intervention, all
      participants will be invited to finish the postintervention assessment (T1). The data will be
      analyzed according to the intention to treat after T0 and T1.
    
  