
    
      The overall goal of this five-year R01 study is to test the Coalition Check-Up (CCU)
      technical assistance (TA) system for supporting community coalitions' implementation of
      evidence-based drug prevention programs (EBPs). Over 5,000 community anti-drug coalitions
      operating in the U.S serve as a cornerstone of federal drug prevention. These coalitions,
      however, have only demonstrated efficacy in preventing substance use when they use TA and
      implement EBPs, a key research-to-practice gap. The CCU supports coalitions by identifying
      and addressing gaps in EBP implementation capacity. The proposed study advances
      implementation science by applying Wandersman's Interactive Systems Framework to test the
      effects of CCU on coalition EBP implementation capacity and youth outcomes. Despite the
      popularity of community anti-drug coalitions as a mechanism for EBP dissemination, scant
      research addresses how to support coalitions for optimal EBP implementation. Lacking adequate
      support, coalitions and EBPs often fail. Intensive TA provided in evidence-based coalition
      models is effective but often too expensive to scale in real-world settings. The CCU provides
      a lower-cost TA system that is broadly applicable across coalition models. The study's main
      objective is to test the overall effectiveness of the CCU, including how it contributes to
      EBP implementation and prevention of youth substance use. Building on the Interactive System
      Framework, the central hypothesis is that the CCU can enhance the prevention support system,
      thereby increasing coalition capacity for EBP implementation and the probability that EBPs
      will reduce youth substance use. The study will test this central hypothesis by pursuing
      three specific aims. The first aim is to estimate the impact of the CCU on coalition
      capacity, including team processes, network composition, and collaborative structure.
      Coalitions will be randomly assigned to the CCU or a 'TA as usual' condition. The second aim
      is to estimate the impact of the CCU on implementation of EBPs, including EBP reach,
      implementation quality, and sustainability. The third aim is to estimate the impact of the
      CCU on youth substance use, including alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, and opioids. The CCU is
      innovative in its emphasis on proactive monitoring and data-driven TA, its use of
      motivational interviewing to enhance coalition-driven action planning, and its examination of
      network structure to enhance coalition capacity. The proposed study's contribution is highly
      significant because the field currently lacks clear evidence of the effectiveness of a TA
      model applicable to the heterogeneous mix of drug prevention coalitions in operation. The
      research will enhance community coalition ability to bridge the research to practice gap in
      drug prevention programming. Results are expected to have a positive impact on the field by
      establishing the evidence-base for a low-cost, data-driven, manualized TA model that
      identifies how to intervene with community coalitions to support sustained implementation of
      evidence-based drug prevention programs and policies known to promote community health.
    
  