
    
      Severe intracranial atherosclerosis with concomitant stenosis is responsible for
      approximately 10% of all strokes. In Asian populations intracranial stenoses are even the
      most commonly found vascular lesions. Retrospective studies indicated that up to 50% patients
      with recently symptomatic intracranial stenosis experienced recurrent ischemic events. The
      risk of recurrent stroke increases with the aggravation of intracranial artery stenosis. In
      Warfarin-Aspirin Symptomatic Intracranial Disease (WASID) trial, 14% and 23% of the patients
      with TIA or stroke attributable to high-grade intracranial stenosis had further ipsilateral
      ischemic stroke over the next year despite best medical treatments. If percentage of
      intracranial stenosis exceeded 70%, the stroke risk went up to 20% in the first year. These
      results spurred the enthusiasm for endovascular approaches, including percutaneous
      transluminal balloon angioplasty (PTA) and stenting to treat this potentially harmful
      disease. Due to the high stroke risk, patients with high-grade ≥70% symptomatic intracranial
      stenosis represent the main target group for endovascular treatment.

      Endovascular management of intracranial arthrosclerosis is, however, associated with an
      appreciable number of potential complications, including local thrombosis, thromboembolism
      and, especially, restenosis and in-stent occlusion. To date, the reported 1-year restenosis
      rates after intracranial stenting in case series and small trials have varied widely, ranging
      from less than 10% in some to more than 50% in others. According to a recent review, the
      overall 1-year restenosis rate of intracranial stenting was 25%, and the in-stent occlusion
      rate was nearly 10%. These relatively high rates of restenosis and re-occlusion after
      procedure have raised the question about whether stenting improves the natural course of
      intracranial atherosclerosis.

      Compared with the relatively good durability of angioplasty and stenting procedures within
      the extracranial carotid artery, the high incidence of restenoses appears to be a major
      drawback of intracranial stenting. Recent studies suggested that especially younger patients
      treated with self-expandable stents within the anterior circulation have a higher risk for
      this complication. Considering about 33% of restenoses were symptomatic (TIA or stroke),
      decreasing restenosis rates after intracranial stenting became the key issue for improving
      the clinical feasibility of this treatment strategy.

      Animal studies have indicated that statins can inhibit platelet aggregation and release of
      platelet-derived mediators, reduce inflammatory responses of vascular wall, improve artery
      endothelial function, all of which may contribute to decrease proliferative responses after
      stent implantation. These profiles make statin optimal for preventing restenosis or occlusion
      after intracranial stenting, but this strategy has not been tested by clinical trials to
      date, although statin has been proved by several recent clinical trials to be efficacious in
      preventing restenosis after stent implantation in coronary arteries.

      The initial attempts to lower restenosis rates after coronary balloon angioplasty have failed
      to demonstrate beneficial effects of statin therapy, although the FLuvastatin Angioplasty
      REstenosis (FLARE) trial reported a reduction in mortality and myocardial infarction in the
      fluvastatin treatment patients. Subsequent studies, however, did confirm that statin therapy
      can decrease restenosis rates and the related ischemic events after stent implantation in
      patients with coronary artery diseases. Unlike chronic vessel shrinkage may account for ≥70%
      of recurrence rates after balloon angioplasty, restenosis after coronary stent implantation
      is entirely due to neointimal proliferation. Experimental studies have shown that statins are
      capable of inhibiting intimal proliferation after arterial injury. Results from other studies
      suggested that statins interfere with proliferative responses after coronary stent
      implantation in humans. Statin therapy was associated not only with a significant reduction
      in late lumen loss, but also with a greater net gain after coronary stent implantation. Thus,
      the discrepancy of the effects of statin therapy on restenosis development after balloon
      angioplasty compared with coronary stent implantation may be easily reconciled by the
      different mechanisms underlying the recurrence of luminal narrowing.

      Elevated LDL cholesterol levels increase platelet and red-cell aggregability, and thrombosis
      is believed to have a decisive role in the process of restenosis and in-stent occlusion.
      Lowering LDL cholesterol levels decreases rates of restenosis in the rat-carotid model,
      whereas treatment with statin decreases the progression of disease in the rabbit-iliac model
      independently of an effect on LDL cholesterol. In contrast, in the
      overstretched-swine-coronary model, no relation between either LDL cholesterol or statin and
      restenosis was observed. An attempt was made to resolve these conflicts with a prospective
      clinical study in which 157 patients were treated with or without statin. The results
      indicated that the rate of restenosis was 12 percent with and 44 percent without statin. More
      than one study also identified the diagnosis of hypercholesterolemia at the time of coronary
      stent implantation as a major independent predictor for reduced recurrence rates. But a
      recent study indicated that statin therapy was associated with a comparable reduction of
      restenosis rates in patients with average serum cholesterol levels at baseline, suggest that
      the observed effects are not only due to reduced serum cholesterol levels, but also may be
      related to the non-lipid anti-atherosclerotic properties of statins.

      Since the efficacy of high dose statin in preventing restenosis after coronary artery
      stenting has been confirmed by several clinical trials, it is reasonable to presume that
      high-dose statin is also efficacious in preventing restenosis and in-stent occlusion after
      intracranial stenting, because these two vasculatures share very similar anatomical profiles.
      The present study is aimed to evaluate the preventive effects of atorvastatin 80 mg daily in
      decreasing restenosis in a consecutive series of patients undergoing intracranial stent
      implantation at a single center. The hypotheses of this study is that patients with
      atorvastatin therapy is associated with improved clinical outcome and reduced restenosis
      rates 12 months after intracranial stent implantation than patients without atorvastatin
      therapy.
    
  