
    
      RATIONALE AND BACKGROUND:

      Major strides in surgical care for traumatic injuries and burns over recent decades have
      enabled survival for wounds that would have previously been fatal. In the wake of these
      advancements, new challenges have emerged in managing the chronic aspects of these injuries.
      Among these, hypertrophic scarring remains one of our greatest unmet challenges. Hypertrophic
      scars are a type of pathological scar commonly formed after a traumatic injury, characterized
      by excessive collagen deposition during the wound-healing process that results in the
      appearance of an irregular, raised scar. These scars are the most common scar type formed
      after burn injuries with a reported incidence as high as 70%. In addition to their unpleasant
      appearance, hypertrophic scars can exhibit debilitating symptoms including pain, pruritus,
      and restricted movement in nearby joints. These symptoms often persist long after the initial
      wound has healed, with profound and lasting effects on patient quality of life.
      Stigmatization surrounding the appearance of hypertrophic scars further compounds their
      physical effects with psychosocial elements that are especially significant in the vulnerable
      pediatric population. A majority of affected children are subjected to bullying as a result
      of their scars and many experience increased rates of anxiety, depression, traumatic stress,
      and behavioral problems. Parents of affected children also experience elevated stress,
      depressive symptoms, and guilt. The profound, multidimensional impact of hypertrophic
      scarring necessitates improved treatment methods to preserve patient quality of life.

      Current scar treatment modalities are limited, especially when it comes to improving the
      appearance of hypertrophic scars. This deficiency highlights a need to develop safe and
      effective new approaches that bridge the gap between conservative methods with limited
      efficacy and invasive measures with increased risk to patients such as surgery, laser
      treatment and corticosteroid injection. In recent years, the advent of ablative fractional
      laser (AFL) resurfacing technology has shown great promise in meeting this need with its
      unique combination of safety and efficacy. AFL technology fills the void between milder
      non-ablative lasers, which leave skin intact, and more aggressive fully ablative lasers which
      remove the epidermis of the entire treated surface area. While fully-ablative lasers can
      produce dramatic results, the large area of ablation leads to extended recovery times and
      increased risk of complications such as dyschromia, infection and scarring. By contrast, AFLs
      split the laser beam to target a dispersed pattern of the skin's surface, vaporizing precise
      discontinuous columns of tissue within numerous smaller areas referred to as microscopic
      treatment zones (MTZs). By injuring only a "fraction" of the skin, the healthy tissue
      surrounding the MTZs quickly regenerates and replaces the damaged tissue. Modern AFLs with
      ultra-pulsing technology achieve even greater efficacy by emitting the laser in rapid
      high-energy pulses to limit heating of adjacent tissue. By confining the treatment area to
      precise zones, AFLs can achieve much deeper tissue ablation than fully ablative lasers while
      minimizing collateral damage to surrounding tissue to maximize therapeutic effect.

      Studies involving AFLs have reported a significantly diminished overall incidence of
      complications including those commonly associated with non-fractionated laser ablation:
      dyschromia, infection, and scarring. Dyschromia in the form of hyper- or hypopigmentation of
      the laser-treated skin is perhaps the most common side-effect that has been observed,
      especially in patients with darker skin types. Remarkably, using fractional ablation, the
      incidence of dyschromia is virtually avoided. , In addition to a reduction in overall
      complication rates, post-operative pain associated with AFL therapy is generally mild and
      well-managed even with non-opioid analgesics. General anesthesia remains the clinical
      consensus for avoiding intraoperative pain and thus will be implemented in this trial.
      Overall, AFLs are a powerful tool that can achieve a much more robust dermal remodeling
      response than non-ablative lasers while greatly reducing the risk of adverse effects and
      delayed healing seen with fully-ablative lasers and other more-invasive scar treatments.

      Recent studies have examined the potential use of AFLs to treat hypertrophic scars with very
      promising results, documenting marked improvements in multiple aspects of scar pathology. In
      a large before-after cohort study, treatment of hypertrophic scars using an AFL resulted in
      substantial improvement of pigmentation, erythema, pliability, and thickness as measured by
      the gold standard Vancouver Scar Scale (VSS). The authors of this study reported a
      considerable reduction from 10.4 to 5.2 on the VSS within a diverse cohort of pediatric and
      adult patients. A more recent study that focused solely on treating pediatric burn scars with
      AFL also reported significant improvement with a 23% reduction in score from 89.6 to 69.2 on
      the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS). POSAS is similar to VSS but uniquely
      complements observer assessment of scars with patient-reported assessment including
      unprecedented assessment of pain and pruritus. The investigators will be using POSAS
      alongside SCAR-Q, a novel scar scale that was recently developed to provide more detailed
      patient-reported outcomes and unique assessment of the psychosocial impact of scars.

      The demonstrated safety and efficacy of AFL resurfacing is especially attractive for
      application within the pediatric population. Despite promising initial reports, there remains
      a need to expand high-level evidence and develop optimal laser treatment parameters for
      patients. Existing studies rely primarily on subjective scar assessment scales for evaluating
      patient outcomes and few have included true objective measurements to complement their
      subjective data. While scar assessment scales are popular and widely accepted in both
      research and clinical practice, inherent subjectivity limits their reliability and
      significance without objective data. As such, there is a distinct need to incorporate more
      objective measurements into future studies. This proposed study aims to address this need by
      employing validated objective measurement devices in conjunction with a range of subjective
      measures to better evaluate the efficacy of AFLs in the treatment of pediatric hypertrophic
      scars. Objective measurement devices have been demonstrated to produce far better inter-rater
      reliability than subjective scar scales, providing essential data to more precisely examine
      changes in scars over the study period and substantiate subjective findings. In this study,
      the investigators will be using a device called a Cutometer to measure the viscoelastic
      properties of scars (elasticity and firmness). With more comprehensive data, our intent is to
      integrate and build upon recent efforts to inform further developments and facilitate the
      integration of AFL into the modern scar treatment paradigm.

      STUDY AIM:

      In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of ablative fractional CO2
      laser treatment of hypertrophic scars in children and define a set of laser treatment
      parameters to develop a treatment protocol that maximizes the safety and efficacy of AFL
      therapy in the pediatric population.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

        1. Determine if ablative fractional CO2 laser treatment is effective in reducing pathologic
           symptoms and signs of hypertrophic scars including itchiness, pain, scar stiffness, and
           limited range of motion.

        2. Determine if ablative fractional CO2 laser treatment is effective in improving the
           appearance of hypertrophic scars.

        3. Develop a set of recommended parameters for use of ablative fractional CO2 laser
           treatment including timing of treatment and amount of improvement related to number of
           treatments.

      METHODS:

      Study Population The investigators propose to conduct a prospective split-scar clinical trial
      at Alberta Children's Hospital. A sample size of 44 scars will be sufficient to detect a
      clinically significant improvement in total POSAS score between the treatment and control
      groups of 14 points (10%) with a power of 90% and an alpha of 0.05 (Appendix). The
      investigators will recruit patients presenting to the outpatient burn and plastic surgery
      clinics at Alberta Children's Hospital over two years until reaching a sample size of 44
      scars. Children (age 1- 17) who present with hypertrophic scarring following an acute injury
      or burn may be included in the study. To ensure the safety of participants and consistency of
      our data the investigators will only include patients with stable closed scars at least 3
      months post wound closure. For the purposes of the study, the investigators will define wound
      closure as the point at which skin has been re-epithelialized and no longer requires
      dressings. To provide insight regarding the efficacy of early versus late laser treatment of
      scars, and to facilitate comparison with prior studies, the investigators will also record
      the age of scars being studied within two categories: scars less than 2 years post closure
      and scars greater than 2 years post closure. Multiple scars may be treated and studied for a
      single patient. Patients will be excluded from the study if they have any contraindications
      to general anesthesia or to receiving laser treatment such as open areas in the scar or an
      active infection. The investigators will also exclude patients who previously received CO2
      laser therapy to the area of interest and any patients with an underlying skin disorder such
      as psoriasis which may influence wound healing or scar formation. Parents and patients will
      be consented in advance of the procedure. A document will be provided to potential
      participants outlining the proposal including the risks of the general anesthetic and of the
      laser treatment. Patients and parents will not be blinded to the treatment areas.

      Study Design All patients will receive standard scar treatment modalities and will be
      followed by our plastic surgery team and rehabilitation team. Each scar being studied will be
      split into two halves which will be assigned a unique "Site ID" that will be recorded in a
      data collection sheet and used to identify scars for assessment. Careful initial splitting of
      scars should result in two regions with similar size and appearance as well as similar
      initial ratings on the scar scales and Cutometer measurements (described below). One half of
      the scar will receive standard treatment only and will be designated as the "control" area.
      The other half will be treated with an AFL in addition to receiving standard treatment and
      will be designated as the "treatment" area. The treatment area will be randomized between
      patients. For example, forearm scars may have the half near the elbow treated with laser in
      one patient but if another patient has a forearm scar, the half near the elbow in this
      patient may receive standard treatment only. This randomization will enable blinding of the
      three burn experts when reviewing the clinical photographs and help mitigate bias from
      scar-splitting. A transparency map will be created for each patient to map scars and
      measurement sites to facilitate consistency of assessments over the study period. All laser
      treatments will be performed by a single surgeon, Dr. Fraulin, using the UltraPulse CO2 Laser
      (Lumenis, Israel). Dr. Fraulin has been trained in the use of the UltraPulse CO2 laser and
      has used it previously in clinical practice. All laser procedures will be done at the Alberta
      Children's Hospital in the main operating room under a general anesthetic.

      Treatment Parameters Patients will receive laser treatments at 4 to 8-week intervals for a
      total of 3 sessions. A combination of the SCAAR FX and Deep FX treatment modes, with or
      without Active FX treatment mode, will be used according to individual patient and scar
      characteristics. "SCAAR" stands for Synergistic Coagulation and Ablation for Advanced
      Resurfacing. The initial pass of the laser will be performed in the SCAAR FX treatment mode.
      In this mode, the laser beam penetrates skin up to a depth of 4mm to target the deeper layers
      of scars. For SCAAR FX, the settings include energy (70-150mJ), density (1-5%), and frequency
      (150-250Hz). The second pass will be done using Deep FX to treat more superficial layers of
      scars up to a depth of 1mm. For Deep FX, the settings include energy (12.5-22.5mJ), density
      (5-15%) and frequency (300-600Hz). A third mode, Active FX, is used for superficial ablation
      to smooth out irregular areas. It will only be used in patients with superficial
      irregularities in contour and dyschromia and would be used after the other two modalities as
      a single pass. For Active FX, the settings include energy (80-125mJ), density (2-3%) and
      frequency (100-150Hz).

      Post-operatively patients will be instructed to take acetaminophen for pain control and to
      treat the laser areas with topical petroleum jelly. They will be given instructions to
      contact the surgeon (Dr. Fraulin) in case of any problems such as fever, increased pain,
      spreading redness or persistent open areas.

      Data Collection and Analysis Information will be collected on each study participant
      including demographic data: age, sex, and Fitzpatrick skin type. Burn data will be recorded
      including: date of burn, anatomic location, type of burn (scald, contact, flame, flash,
      chemical, friction, electrical), depth of burn at treatment site and control site, time to
      original healing, and previous treatment of area including skin grafting.

      Assessment tools including the POSAS and SCAR-Q questionnaires, clinical photographs, and
      Cutometer will be used at various time points to document changes in scar appearance and
      pathology over the study period. POSAS and Cutometer data will be collected prior to the
      initial treatment, just before the second treatment, and again 4-8 weeks after the last
      treatment. The SCAR-Q assessment and clinical photographs will only be completed at the
      beginning and end of the study period.

      Total POSAS score will be our primary outcome for the study due to its rising prevalence in
      recent literature as a more reliable and comprehensive alternative to the prevailing
      Vancouver Scar Scale. The POSAS scar scale will be used to assess changes in scar symptoms
      and pathology as reported by the clinical observer and patient. POSAS will be completed twice
      for each scar site to independently assess both the treatment and control areas. As an
      additional measure, the newly-developed SCAR-Q questionnaire will be administered to provide
      more detailed assessment of patient-reported outcomes and unique insight regarding the
      psychosocial impact of scars.14 Clinical photographs of the scars will be taken before the
      first laser treatment and after the final laser treatment to document changes in the
      appearance of scars. These photographs will be reviewed by three members of the plastic
      surgery team with experience in burn and scar management. They will be blinded to the
      treatment and control areas of the scar and asked to compare and evaluate the laser-treated
      and control areas using photos taken at the beginning and end of the study period. Patients
      will not be identifiable from these photographs.

      To complement the above data with objective measurements, the investigators will be using the
      MPA 580 Cutometer (Courage + Khazaka electronic GmbH, Germany) to assess the mechanical
      properties of the skin. This device applies light suction (450mbar) on a small area of the
      skin and measures the resulting deformation with a reflected light sensor. The exact
      parameters may be set by the user; however, the investigators will use consistent settings
      for a total measurement cycle of 4 seconds with 3 repetitions including 2 seconds of suction
      followed by 2 seconds for release. The Cutometer will be applied in 3 adjacent areas to
      record mean values for both the control and laser-treated sites of the scar as well as a
      separate scar-free control (either contralateral or adjacent), if available. Measurement
      sites will be marked on the transparency maps created for each scar to maintain the
      consistency of measurements. The non-invasive nature of the Cutometer and minute application
      pressure required means there is no pain or risk to the patient. The Cutometer software
      records 10 values (R0-R9) reflecting various aspects of the skin's mechanical properties. The
      investigators will be recording and comparing values for R0 (firmness), R1 and R2
      (elasticity). Cutometer data will be recorded using the manufacturer's software (Cutometer
      Dual version 2.2.2.1).

      Statistical Analysis:

      Mean values for the Cutometer measurements as well as the POSAS and SCAR-Q questionnaires
      will be compared between laser-treated and control scar sites. Each of these datasets will be
      tested for normality using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Non-parametric data will be compared using
      Wilcoxon signed-rank test and parametric data will be compared using Student's t-tests.
      Inter-rater reliability for the assessment of the clinical photographs will be determined
      using intraclass correlation. Correlation between assessments will be determined using
      Pearson correlation. Differences will be considered statistically significant when p < 0.05.
    
  