
    
      Aim of the Study:

      Validation of FLT-PET as a proliferation marker for colorectal liver metastases, so that the
      risk of recurrence in patients with resected colorectal liver metastases can be assessed in a
      noninvasive method.

      Study Design:

      Validation study (n=40) to determine the correlation between quantitative FLT-PET (in this
      study determined before resection of the colorectal liver metastases) and the histologically
      determined proliferation index in the resected specimen of the metastases ('golden
      standard'). If correlation is established, the correlation between the proliferation and
      recurrence rate studied is also (n=80).

      Study Population:

      Patients with colorectal liver metastases.

      Intervention:

      FLT-PET scan

      Scientific Basis of Study:

      Several reports show that presence or absence of extrahepatic disease is a determining
      prognostic factor. Patients with extrahepatic disease are rarely suited for resection of the
      liver metastases. Recently several papers describe that the proliferation index of the liver
      metastases is another determining prognostic factor. Patients with a high proliferation
      factor have a worse prognosis. For both of these determining factors, it seems that PET
      diagnostics play an essential role and contribute to better selection of patients suitable
      for resection.

      Diagnostics on Proliferation:

      Seeing that the proliferation rate is preoperatively not determined without a biopsy (which
      is contraindicated due to dissemination), all patients with colorectal liver metastases (with
      no signs of extrahepatic deposits) are resected, without knowledge of the proliferation. FLT
      is a marker that visualizes proliferation and thus seems an ideal candidate to determine the
      proliferation rate in a noninvasive method. As of yet no validation studies of FLT-PET in
      colorectal liver metastases have been described.

      Evaluation:

      Quantitative histologic data are correlated with the quantitative FLT-PET data. If the
      correlation is higher that 0.85, this correlation is established. If this correlation is
      found, the inclusion of patients will be extended from 40 to 80 patients, seeing that this
      will give us the opportunity to correlate clinical data with the histological data. (alpha =
      0.05, one-sided, beta = 0.90, assuming that an acceptable difference in sensitivity between
      both tests is 0 and an unacceptable difference is 0.02). If this correlation is significant,
      a new study will be proposed with the introduction of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, where the
      selection will be determined on basis of the proliferation rate.
    
  