
    
      Naloxone is a combined mu-opioid-receptor (MOR) inverse agonist and antagonist drug, which
      dose-dependently demonstrates hypoalgesic and hyperalgesic properties. Systemically
      administrated naloxone (3.0-10.0 mg/kg) and naltrexone (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) have been used in
      rodents to study the role of endogenous opioids on central processing of pain. It has been
      hypothesized that the endogenous opioid modulation of pain is impaired or altered in chronic
      pain conditions. Administration of naloxone and naltrexone following resolution of an
      inflammatory injury, have demonstrated a reinstatement of hypersensitivity to noxious
      stimuli, indicating a demasking of latent sensitization. It has thus been speculated that the
      endogenous opioid system may play an important role in the transition of acute to chronic
      pain in humans.

      In an early human study using an electrical pain model, naloxone (21 microg/kg) increased the
      established area of secondary hyperalgesia (a measure of central sensitization).

      In a previous translational placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, cross-over study in
      healthy humans, the investigators were unable to show naloxone-induced reinstatement of
      secondary hyperalgesia after resolution of a first-degree burn-injury (BI; H-2-2012-036). The
      investigators hypothesized, that the negative results were attributable to the low dose of
      naloxone (21 microg/kg) or perhaps insufficient tissue injury to generate latent
      sensitization.

      The investigators therefore in a sequel study administered a higher dose of naloxone (2
      mg/kg) 7 days after induction of a BI. The investigators demonstrated in 4 out of 12 subjects
      reinstatement of secondary hyperalgesia. The magnitude of reinstatement was more pronounced
      in high-sensitizers (subjects developing large secondary hyperalgesia areas immediately after
      the BI) The aims of the present clinical study in patients are first, to replicate our
      previous findings of naloxone-induced (3.25 mg/kg) unmasking of latent sensitization
      utilizing the impacted mandibular third molar extraction (TME) model with a more pronounced
      tissue injury than the BI-model. The endpoints are reinstatement of pain and hyperalgesia in
      the resolution-phase, 4 - 5 weeks after TME-surgery. Second, the study examines a potential
      dose-response relationship between three stable naloxone concentrations acquired by target
      controlled infusion (TCI).
    
  