
    
      Overview: This study has three parts: An initial screening visit and two study visits. All
      visits to be conducted at the Institute on Aging at the University of Florida.

      Screening Visit - Screening: Together with the information obtained in the phone screening,
      the main purpose of the screening visit is to find out if the participants are eligible to
      participate in the study.

        -  One of the investigators trained researchers will ask the participant questions about
           their health condition, and recent activities.

        -  The participant will be given instructions and assistance in the collection of saliva to
           determine the baseline level of cortisol in their body.

        -  A trained researcher will then ask the participant questions about their personality and
           experiences in close relationships.

        -  The participant will then be asked to provide the second saliva sample to find out how
           the activity of their genes may impact their cognition and behavior during the tasks
           they engage in as part of the study.

        -  The researcher will then conduct two cognitive tests (Digit Substitution Task, Verbal
           Learning Test).

        -  This will be followed by a blood test to screen for medical conditions that may indicate
           that the participant should not participate in the study, such as certain blood levels
           elevated out of normal range. The blood test will also be used to determine the level of
           oxytocin, testosterone, and estrogen in the participant's body that occur normally.

        -  The participant will then have a brief consultation with a licensed physician, to go
           over their medical review. This will not be a clinical doctor visit for routine medical
           care, but a visit to confirm the participant's healthy medical status to participate in
           the research study.

      Study Visits -

        -  A researcher will ask the participant to answer a short questionnaire comprising
           questions about activities and events during the last 24 hours.

        -  A researcher will ask for the participant to respond to a short questionnaire related to
           their current mood.

        -  The participant will be asked to provide a first saliva sample to determine the baseline
           level of oxytocin in their body on the day of testing.

        -  The participant will be asked to self-administer either the oxytocin or a placebo, into
           their nose by using a nasal spray bottle. Oxytocin is a hormone that naturally occurs in
           the body and has been shown to be relevant for many behaviors, especially in social
           situations. The participant will be assigned by chance, much like the flip of a coin, to
           receive either the oxytocin or the placebo during the first study visit. The participant
           will then receive the other during the second study visit respectively.

        -  The participant will then be asked to participate in an electroencephalography (EEG)
           recording session, that is recording of electrical activity along their scalp. An EEG
           cap, selected for the participant's head size, will be placed on their head. During this
           part of the study, the participant will sit in a comfortable chair while working on the
           Choice Task on the computer screen or resting.

        -  While recording EEG, the participant's eye movements will be monitored with an eye
           tracker. The eye-tracking camera will be placed so that it can capture the participant's
           eyes and after a brief calibration procedure will track the participant's eye movements
           while working on the task or resting.

        -  The Choice Task will involve making decisions that involve the participant as well as a
           fellow player. Before the task starts, the participant will receive detailed information
           and have a chance to ask any questions that they may have about the task or about the
           EEG and eye tracking procedures. They will also have the chance to work on some practice
           trials.

        -  Next, the participant will be asked to provide a second saliva sample to determine the
           level of oxytocin in their body after they have received the oxytocin or placebo and
           some time has passed.

        -  After the Choice Task, the participant will complete a few more questionnaires,
           including questions about feelings and thoughts about themselves and others, and
           questions about how they completed the Choice Task and whether they experienced any drug
           side effects or any discomfort during the EEG or eye tracking.

        -  The second study visit will take place about a week after the first study visit, and
           will be identical in procedure.

        -  Both visits will be followed up by a brief phone call from a researcher about 3 days
           after the study visit.

        -  Upon completion of the study, the participant will receive study reimbursement. A
           researcher will tell the participant about the general goals of the study and answer any
           questions that they may have.
    
  