
    
      The shoulder is the joint that most commonly suffers dislocation, and anterior instability is
      the most frequent form. The overall incidence of first-time dislocations requiring closed
      reduction is 23.1 per 100,000 people/year, with a higher incidence in males and Caucasians.
      Individuals with a younger age at first dislocation show a higher rate of recurrence.

      Arthroscopic repair is the gold standard for the treatment of recurrent shoulder dislocation,
      with similar outcomes to open repair. The technique is less aggressive because the tendon of
      the subscapularis does not need to be addressed, leading to shorter hospital stays, less
      scarring, earlier return to normal activities, and a greater postoperative range of motion.

      In this technique, the glenoid labrum-ligament complex (GLLC) is repaired using bone anchors
      that can be metallic, absorbable, or flexible. Biomechanical studies have shown that these
      three types of anchors are similar in terms of cyclic loading resistance and bone fixation.
      Absorbable anchors are most frequently used because metallic anchors can cause postoperative
      imaging interference in MRI study, can migrate and became loose or break, which can damage
      the articular cartilage. Flexible anchors when submitted to cyclic stress can produce cystic
      cavities in bone tissue attachment 21, and probably can lead to a failure of glenoid
      labrum-ligament complex suture.

      The most commonly used technique is the attachment of GLLC with knotted anchors. Studies have
      shown to perform an arthroscopic knot is challenging and can be technically difficult. The
      knot volume can produce friction during the shoulder movement, leading joint discomfort and
      cartilage damage. The quality of the soft tissue healing depend on the knot quality too. The
      dislocation recurrence rate with this technique ranges from 4% to 19%.

      In 2001, Thal introduced the concept of tissue fixation using knotless anchors and its
      applicability for GLLC lesions. Although this new technique had solved the difficulty of
      tying knots, the results regarding the GLLC suture shown more gap formation between this
      complex and the glenoid bone, delayed anchor loosening and postoperative arthropathy. The
      recurrence rate is high associated with perianchor radiolucency.The recurrence rate with this
      technique is as high as 23.8%.

      Some researchers have published studies using knotless anchors and have compared this
      technique to the use of knotted anchors, demonstrating similar reconstruction of labral
      height and functional outcomes, while the recurrence rate is still contradictory. To date,
      there are no prospective randomized controlled clinical trial comparing these two techniques
      of GLLC repairs.

      Our researchers aims to compare clinical outcomes and imaging evaluation of patients
      undergoing GLLC repair arthroscopically with the use of absorbable knotless and knotted
      anchors.
    
  