
    
      Alcohol is recognized as responsible for 50,000 premature deaths per year and as the second
      most preventable cause of death in France. In adolescence, the brain is in a period of
      maturation. Many synaptic connections are established making the brain more vulnerable to
      toxic substances. Alcohol is the psychoactive substance most experienced by young people. In
      2015, 40% of adolescents and young adults reported drinking alcohol every week. Advertisers
      are increasingly integrating their products into popular television series. These
      representations of alcohol in cultural products bypass existing regulations and make it
      possible to reach a target group that is difficult to reach through traditional advertising:
      young people. During a previous research project, the Centre Hygée research team, in
      partnership with American University, carried out a quantitative and qualitative assessment
      of the images of alcohol in the media viewed by the young public (IMAJe). Within television
      series, there are many messages inherent to alcohol consumption. Not only is alcohol twice as
      prevalent in television series as other beverages, but also, alcohol scenes are mainly based
      on positive results where alcohol refers to celebration and fun. On the other hand, the
      regularity and stability of the main characters in the series contribute to the viewer's
      attachment to the series and its characters. This attachment can lead the adolescent to
      identify with the situations constructed and exposed by developing a "para-social
      relationship" with the media characters. This connection influences the viewer's
      appropriation of the messages. This mode of action on opinions and behaviours is to be
      related to the impulsive model described by Strack & Deutsch (2004).

      The main objective of the project is to reduce the positive representations of alcohol among
      young people by means of an educational module based on information and reflection (reflexive
      model) and a module based on the impulsive system where the para-social connection is
      involved.

      The intervention framework developed uses a modeling system that includes several concepts
      that work together. These concepts describe the influence of media messages on young people's
      opinions and behaviours. This will take into account 1) variables associated with the
      adolescent's connection to the series and his characters (para-social connection), 2)
      variables justifying individual differences such as psychological reactance, 3) sociocultural
      variables. The Alcohol Expectancies Scale will be used before and after the intervention and
      is proposed as a primary outcome criterion.

      Schoolchildren of the Lyon Academy aged between 15 and 19 years old.

      There are currently few successful prevention interventions on alcohol representations among
      young people. The Centre Hygée proposes an original study because it allows the comparison of
      two logics of prevention intervention but also because the only mobilization of the impulsive
      system is little used in the prevention sector. The methodology adopted makes it possible to
      reach validated and effective conclusions for prevention stakeholders.
    
  