
    
      Dr. Gregory Feld, M.D. is conducting a research study to find out more about the short-term
      effects on the esophagus of left atrial ablation (guided by Circa™ esophageal temperature
      monitoring system). The financial supporter of this study is Circa Scientific, LLC.

      When the investigators perform a radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA) at UCSD, the
      investigators routinely use the Circa™ temperature monitor system to prevent damage to the
      esophagus. For this study, patients will receive an esophagoscopy, a procedure in which a
      flexible tube with a camera is inserted through the mouth into the esophagus. The
      esophagoscopy will be conducted the next day following the ablation procedure to examine the
      lining of the esophagus for possible lesions or damage. Patients are asked to participate in
      this study because they are scheduled to have an ablation for atrial fibrillation (AF). There
      will be approximately 40 participants in this study at the University of California, San
      Diego (UCSD) Cardiovascular Center. The use of the Circa™ temperature monitoring system used
      in standard ablation procedures at UCSD and will be used whether or not patients decide to
      participate in this study. Using esophagoscopy, this study will evaluate the lining of the
      esophagus, or swallowing tube between the throat and stomach, the day following atrial
      fibrillation ablation by using an endoscope, flexible tube equipped with a camera.

      Patients enrolled in the study will proceed to their standard of care ablation procedure for
      treatment of atrial fibrillation. There will be no changes to the ablation as part of this
      research study. The Circa™ temperature monitor system will be used throughout the ablation as
      is standard clinical care for all patients receiving AF ablations at UCSD. For research
      purposes only, patients will undergo an esophagoscopy, or endoscopic evaluation of the
      esophagus, the next day following the atrial fibrillation ablation. This procedure will take
      40-45 minutes, and will involve inserting a flexible probe (tube) with a camera, into the
      throat and esophagus (swallowing tube), where it will be inspected for any damage (thermal
      lesions) caused during the ablation procedure.

      Following the procedure, patients will be monitored in the usual fashion in the procedure
      treatment unit (PTU), as is standard of care following AF ablation. Ablation patients will be
      discharged from the hospital in a standard manner after esophagoscopy and asked to schedule a
      follow-up appointment following ablation, as is standard of care. There will not be any
      research follow-up for this study. If for any reason patients cannot complete the ablation or
      esophagoscopy procedure, patient will be withdrawn from study.
    
  