
    
      As part of the study, patients with leg ulcers (venous, arterial, mixed aetiology or
      lymphoedema) requiring surgical debridement will attend 4 visits to the study centre (Day 0,
      Day 1, Day 7 and Day 14). After informed consent and screening for inclusion / exclusion
      criteria patients will be managed as follows:

      Phase 1 (N=10 patients): This is a pilot (non-comparative) phase designed to assess safety,
      pharmacokinetics and achievement of clinically acceptable levels of surface analgesia for
      Tri-Solfen in the intended patient population, prior to surgical wound debridement. Prior to
      surgical debridement all patients will have a single application of the Tri-Solfen product
      2mL/10cm2 wound area) administered. The product will be allowed to remain in contact with the
      wound bed for 1 minute and surface anaesthesia will then be tested by needle-stick for up to
      30 minutes after application (at 1, 3, 5, 10, 20 and 30 minutes, i.e. testing will stop when
      the needle stick can no longer be felt). In parallel serial blood draws of 10mL will be taken
      at 2min, 30min, 1 hr, 2hrs and 6hrs after application to determine systemic absorption of
      lidocaine and bupivacaine.

      Surgical debridement will proceed after a needle stick can no longer be felt and will cease
      when either the wound bed is deemed to be clean and free from necrotic tissue in the presence
      of punctate bleeding or where pain increases to an unacceptable level as defined by the
      patient. Pain assessments will be carried out during the procedure and at 2 min, 30 min, 1
      hour, 6 hrs and 24 hours after the procedure is complete.

      Phase 2 (N=40 patients; 20 per group): This is a comparative phase of Tri-Solfen vs standard
      of care in the management of post-operative analgesia. All patients will receive standard of
      care (i.e. 60 mins of EMLA Cream) to anaesthetise the leg ulcer and will undergo surgical
      debridement after a needle stick can no longer be felt and will cease when either the wound
      bed is deemed to be clean and free from necrotic tissue in the presence of punctate bleeding
      or where pain increases to an unacceptable level as defined by the patient.

      On completion of surgical debridement, patients will be randomised to one of two groups:

        -  Group 1: a single application of Tri-Solfen (2mL/10cm2) with standard of care
           post-surgical analgesia (e.g. paracetamol, NSAID or opiate) provided as required (N=20),
           or

        -  Group 2: standard of care post-surgical analgesia (e.g. paracetamol, NSAID or opiate) as
           required only (N=20).

      Serial blood draws of 10mL from the Tri-Solfen group will be taken at 2min, 30min, 1 hr, 2hrs
      and 6hrs after application of Tri-Solfen to determine systemic absorption of lidocaine and
      bupivacaine. Pain assessments and extent of analgesia required will also be carried out at 2
      min, 30 min, 1 hour, 6 hrs and 24 hours.

      Phase 3 (N=40 patients; 20 per group). Since debridement of the wound may result in removal
      of surface anaesthesia, this phase is intended to compare the quality of anaesthesia from
      standard of care (single application of EMLA cream from administration over 60 minutes) with
      one application of Tri-Solfen administered pre-surgical debridement, and one application on
      completion of surgery. Safety and quality of anaesthesia / analgesia in the intended patient
      population before, during and after the surgical debridement procedure will be monitored.

      Prior to debridement, patients will be randomised to either:

        -  Group 1: Tri-Solfen (2mL/10cm2) administered once prior to wound debridement and once on
           completion of surgical debridement (N=20)

        -  Group 2: EMLA cream (1-2g /10cm2). administered to the wound for 60 minutes under an
           occlusive dressing (N=20).

      In both groups, the time taken to achieve clinically acceptable surface anaesthesia required
      to perform the surgical procedure will be assessed using a needle-stick at the wound site. In
      patients receiving Tri-Solfen, this will be performed at 1, 3, 5, 10, 20 and 30 minutes after
      application of the Tri-Solfen - assessments will stop when the needle can no longer be
      detected by the patient. Needle stick testing will also be undertaken immediately following
      removal of EMLA cream after 60 minutes in EMLA-treated patients to provide a baseline
      comparator of pre-operative anaesthetic efficacy.

      Surgical debridement will proceed only after a needle stick can no longer be felt and will
      cease when either the wound bed is deemed to be clean and free from necrotic tissue in the
      presence of punctate bleeding or where pain increases to an unacceptable level as defined by
      the patient. Pain assessments will be carried out during the procedure and at 2 min, 30 min,
      1 hour, 6 hrs and 24 hours after the procedure is complete.

      Serial blood draws of 10mL from the Tri-Solfen group will be taken at 2min, 30min, 1 hr, 2hrs
      and 6hrs after application of the first dose of Tri-Solfen to determine systemic absorption
      of lidocaine and bupivacaine from multiple dosing.

      All Phases Patients will be followed up for two weeks to confirm that the use of the
      Tri-Solfen (or EMLA) product do not adversely affect wound healing and to assess the
      incidence of adverse events, including wound infections
    
  