
    
      BACKGROUND: Stray energy transfer from monopolar instruments during laparoscopic surgery is
      recognized as a cause of potentially catastrophic complications. The investigators have
      published multiple studies on the varied mechanisms of stray energy transfer during
      laparoscopic procedures. In addition, a preliminary study by the investigators has confirmed
      stray energy transfer during robotic surgery in an in vivo model. However, there are no data
      available on the potential clinical impact of stray energy in robotic surgery. Furthermore,
      there are no studies directly comparing stray energy transfer between laparoscopic and
      robotic procedures.

      PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to assess for thermal injury due to stray energy
      transfer during elective laparoscopic and robotic inguinal hernia repairs.

      HYPOTHESIS: The Investigators hypothesize that thermal injury to the skin surrounding the
      working ports occurs during robotic and laparoscopic procedures. Based on prior data, the
      Investigators hypothesize these injuries will occur more frequently at the camera port during
      laparoscopy, and at the assistant port during robotic surgery.

      METHODS: The Investigators plan to conduct a prospective, randomized controlled trial of
      patients undergoing elective laparoscopic or robotic unilateral inguinal hernia repair.
      Patients will be randomized into two groups, with one group undergoing laparoscopic
      transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) technique and a second group undergoing robotic inguinal
      hernia repair (TAPP technique) with the Xi DaVinci System (Intuitive, Sunnyvale, CA). The
      monopolar instrument will deliver via standard instruments on 30W coagulation mode
      (ForceTriad electrosurgical generator, Covidien, Boulder, CO). At the completion of the
      procedure, skin biopsies will be taken at each of the three port incisions. These samples
      will be examined for visual and histologic evidence of thermal injury by a blinded
      pathologist.

      IMPORTANCE: This will be the first study to demonstrate clinical evidence of tissue injury
      due to stray energy transfer during robotic surgery. The inclusion of a laparoscopic arm will
      allow confirmation of prior study findings as well as direct comparison of stray energy
      transfer in both modalities. This information can then be used to define surgeon modifiable
      factors that can reduce the risk of patient injury. In addition, these data can guide the
      development of future robotic and laparoscopic platforms.
    
  