
    
      Peripheral neuropathies are a dose-limiting, disabling, and debilitating side effect of
      virtually every known class of chemotherapeutic agent, and are referred to as
      chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathies (CIPN) (Seretny et al., 2014). The incidence and
      severity of CIPN increase as the cumulative dose, frequency of administration, and the number
      of therapeutic cycles increase. As many as 68% of patients have CIPN when assessed within 30
      days of completing treatment. Patients experience paresthesias, dysesthesias (an unpleasant
      abnormal sensation, whether spontaneous or evoked), hyperalgesia (increased pain from a
      stimulus that normally provokes pain), allodynia (pain due to a stimulus that does not
      normally provoke pain), numbness or loss of sensation, or ongoing pain that is burning,
      lancinating or electric shock-like in nature. CIPN can seriously diminish a patient's quality
      of life, and can interfere with self-care and activities of daily living. The severity of
      CIPN may also necessitate reducing the dose of chemotherapeutic agent, delaying the next
      cycle of chemotherapy, or terminating treatment entirely (Argyriou et al., 2012; Argyriou et
      al., 2014; Miltenburg et al., 2014; Park et al., 2013).

      Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is an essential redox coenzyme required for cell
      viability, basic bioenergetics, and fast axonal transport (Yang and Sauve, 2016). It plays an
      important role in protection against axonal injury from either mechanical or neurotoxic
      injury (Araki et al., 2004; Sasaki et al., 2006; Sasaki et al., 2009; Gerdts et al., 2015;
      Khan et al., 2014; Conforti et al., 2014; Di Stefano et al., 2015). Nicotinamide riboside
      (NIAGEN®) is a form of vitamin B3 and a precursor in the pathway for synthesis of NAD+
      (Bieganowski et al., 2004; Trammell et al., 2016; Chi and Sauve, 2013). Oral administration
      of NIAGEN® increases levels of NAD+ in the blood, liver, skeletal muscle, and other tissues
      (Canto et al., 2012; Hamity et al, 2017; Airhart et al., 2017; Martens et al., 2018).

      NIAGEN®) has been reported to prevent tactile hypersensitivity and blunt the affective
      dimension of nociception in a rat model of CIPN (Hamity et al., 2017) It also prevents signs
      of peripheral neuropathy in a mouse model of diabetes (Trammell et al., 2016) The proposed
      single-arm pilot phase II study will examine whether daily dosing with NIAGEN®) can prevent
      the progression of CIPN in persons with stage IV breast cancer or recurrent
      platinum-resistant ovarian, endometrial, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer receiving once
      weekly infusions of paclitaxel for 12 weeks.

      In this study, persons with metastatic breast cancer or platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian
      cancer who are receiving weekly infusions of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel and anticipated to
      survive for at least 3 months will be offered the opportunity to enroll in this study when
      they develop a peripheral neuropathy of at least grade 1. Persons with peripheral neuropathy
      of no greater than a grade 2 from prior therapy may also enroll in this study if they are
      receiving weekly infusions of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. Upon enrollment, health care
      providers will review the overall severity of the participant's neuropathy and assign a
      baseline grade. Participants will also complete two short questionnaires that will more
      specifically score how the peripheral neuropathy interferes with daily functions of living. A
      small sample of blood will be taken at the completion of the paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel
      infusion to measure levels of paclitaxel. The participant will then be sent home with
      capsules of NIAGEN® to take twice daily. Each week upon return to the clinic a small sample
      of blood will be taken before the infusion of paclitaxel to measure biomarkers for NIAGEN®,
      and other samples of blood will be taken to evaluate clinical chemistries, kidney, and liver
      function. Another sample of blood will be obtained after the paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel
      infusion to measure levels of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. The health care provider will
      meet with the patient each week to score the overall severity of the peripheral neuropathy,
      and the participant will answer another questionnaire with more specific questions. Once a
      month, the participant will be asked to fill out a second questionnaire. Participants will
      take 300 mg/day NIAGEN® in the first week and 1000 mg/day in the subsequent 11 weeks. The
      study will conclude one week after the 12th infusion of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. Health
      care providers will contact the participant at various times up to 6 months to monitor their
      status.

      Beginning with completion of the trial by the 10th participant and continuing with each
      subsequent participant up to 39, we will use a Bayesian statistical approach (Lee and Liu,
      2008; i.e. predictive probability) to determine whether NIAGEN® has prevented a worsening of
      the peripheral neuropathy. This approach we let us make an early determination of futility.
      We will also determine whether NIAGEN® has decreased the need to delay or diminish the doses
      of paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel due to severity of the peripheral neuropathy. The results of
      this trial will inform the design of a subsequent randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded
      clinical trial.
    
  