
    
      Background Melanoma is a serious and common malignancy in Australia. It is the third most
      common cancer in Australia and approximately 1000 Australians will die of the disease each
      year.At least a quarter of these will be patients under the age of 40 years.

      Neurotropism, defined as invasion by melanoma of peripheral neural tissue, is a feature of
      the disease that may predispose towards a high local recurrence rate. Local recurrence,
      particularly in the head and neck region often requires more extensive, potentially morbid
      surgery. Neurotropism is especially likely to occur in desmoplastic melanoma where it may be
      as high as 40 - 60%.6-8 Desmoplastic melanoma tends to occur in a slightly older age group
      than conventional types of melanoma and most often occurs in the head and neck region in
      individuals with chronic sun damage.

      The management of localised neurotropic melanoma has traditionally been with surgery.
      Recommendations are that surgical margins should be at least 2 cm.There are some patients
      where this margin is not achievable due to the location of the tumour close to important
      anatomical structures. Uncontrolled studies suggest that radiation therapy may reduce the
      risk of local recurrence in those patients although there are no randomised trials to confirm
      this hypothesis.

      Postoperative adjuvant radiation therapy has been shown in a randomised trial led from
      Australia, to reduce regional recurrence rates in nodal melanoma.There are no previously
      conducted randomised controlled trials addressing a similar question for neurotropic
      melanoma. The only reports are in relation to retrospective reviews that suggest a benefit
      for postoperative radiation therapy after surgery. It is unlikely that this trial will be
      done outside of Australia.

      Hypotheses

        1. Radiation therapy after surgery for neurotropic melanoma improves local control.

        2. This can be achieved without a significant increase in treatment morbidity or reduction
           in quality of life.

      Primary Objective

      • To determine, in patients who have undergone surgery with curative intent for neurotropic
      melanoma, whether there is a difference in the rate and timing of local (in field) recurrence
      between patients who are treated with post-operative radiation therapy and those that are
      initially observed.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To determine, in these patients, whether there is a difference in progression-free
           survival, patterns of relapse and overall survival between patients treated with surgery
           alone and those treated by surgery plus adjuvant radiation therapy.

        -  To determine, in these patients, whether there is a difference in morbidity and quality
           of life between patients treated with surgery alone and those treated with surgery plus
           adjuvant radiation therapy

      Methodology This is a 2-armed randomised controlled trial comparing surgery alone with
      surgery plus post-operative radiation therapy for patients with completely resected primary
      melanoma showing histological features of neurotropism. Patients who are eligible on the
      basis of the pathology of the completely excised melanoma will be offered the opportunity to
      take part in the trial. Those randomised to receive radiation therapy will be treated with a
      simple technique encompassing the surgical bed plus a margin within 3 months of surgery. The
      same regimen which was used in the nodal trial will be used in this study. Patients in the
      observation arm who subsequently recur in field may be offered further surgery followed by
      radiation therapy.

      Randomisation Methods Patients will be randomised in the ratio of 1:1 between the two arms,
      radiation therapy and no radiation therapy. Allocation to the treatment arm will be
      stratified by institution and tumour site (head or neck) using randomly permuted blocks.
      Patients who are eligible on the basis of their pathology of excised melanoma will be offered
      the opportunity to take part in the trial. While males and females will both be considered
      equally for participation on the trial, there is no way of knowing if the ratio will be 1:1.
    
  