
    
      240 women will be randomly divided into 3 groups, each containing 80 women. Randomisation
      will be performed using a computer generated random numbers and sealed envelopes.

      Full history will be taken followed by general and local examination. One hour before the
      procedure all women will receive diclofenac 100mg (Voltaren@ Novartis Switzerland). The
      procedure will be done in the lithotomy position. Hysteroscopy will be done using a 5mm outer
      diameter continuous flow hysteroscope with a French working channel and a 30 degrees
      direction of view provided by Techno GmbH and CO. The hysteroscope will be introduced using
      the vaginoscopy technique, in which no speculum will be used. The cervix will be detected and
      the external os will be identified using the hysteroscope. The hysteroscope will be
      introduced in the uterine cavity. Saline will be used as the distension medium and the
      pressure will be 80mm Hg in group1, 60mm Hg in group 2 and 40 mmHg in group 3. Randomisation
      will be double blind, neither the operator nor the patient will know the pressure during the
      procedure, a third party will set the pressure according to the computer generated random
      numbers. If the procedure cannot be completed, the operator will ask for the pressure to be
      adjusted to 80mm Hg, which is the usual pressure used in Cairo university hospitals, or more
      if needed. In this case the operator will document in the data collection form that the
      procedure could not be completed with the pre-set pressure.

      The anterior wall, posterior wall and tubal ostea will be visualised, any polyps, adhesions
      septa, congenital malformations or submucous fibroids will be noted. Endometrial biopsy will
      be taken using a semi-rigid, double action oval serrated biopsy forceps 40cm 50Charr Tecchno
      medical GmbH. The used scissor will be a single action semi-rigid rounded tip scissors
      Tecchno medical GmbH.
    
  