
    
      While the cause of MS in not known, there is an autoimmune component that destroys nerve
      cells. Autoimmunity is a condition where an individual's immune system attacks his/her own
      cells. Bone marrow stem cell transplantation has been shown to halt autoimmunity. Stem cell
      transplant can be performed using the patient's own cells, or donor cells. The general
      consensus in the field is that donor transplant is most likely to halt disease progression.
      This study is designed to evaluate the safety of a donor transplant procedure as a therapy
      for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).

      Two factors limit the widespread application of traditional donor stem cell transplant: 1)
      preparing the patient for transplant (conditioning); and 2) graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
      Traditional conditioning destroys the recipient's immune system and requires that the marrow
      transplant be successful because the patient is unable to fight off infection if the donor
      cells do not survive. GVHD occurs when donor immune cells recognize the recipient's cells as
      foreign tissue and attack them. Severe GVHD can result in death. This study utilizes a new
      approach to conditioning which leaves the patient's immune system intact. The transplant
      product is depleted of GVHD-producing cells but retains tolerance-promoting cells, called
      facilitating cells, which are intended to ensure the donor and recipient cells coexists
      peacefully. The toxicity of conditioning and transplantation is significantly reduced. The
      end result is a marrow system that contains recipient and donor cells, a state called mixed
      chimerism.

      In this study, we will determine the appropriate cell dose to safely establish mixed
      chimerism following partial conditioning in patients with RRMS. The study takes a gradual
      approach to increasing the cell dose to achieve mixed chimerism. Each patient will receive a
      cell dose one unit above the dose received by the most recent safely transplanted patient. We
      believe this study will provide a breakthrough in the treatment of MS. The goal of this study
      is to evaluate the potential of safely establishing mixed chimerism to interrupt the
      autoimmune process and end the devastating effects of MS.
    
  