
    
      Two EBC samples will be collected from each study participant; a baseline sample (at
      admission) and a sample at either hospital discharge or transfer to the ICU. In addition,
      blood samples will be collected in order to investigate the pathophysiology of COVID-19 using
      metabolomics analysis, and for standardization and validation of the putative markers from
      the EBC.

      The investigators will collect EBC from COVID-19 positive patients acutely admitted to
      Aalborg University Hospital due to COVID-19 symptoms and compare the protein and metabolite
      profiles in patients, who are treated at the ward with patients, who are transferred to the
      ICU for mechanical ventilation. The main-outcome (i.e. means of the relative amounts of
      specific proteins in the EBC samples) will be compared by unpaired t-tests after assessment
      of normality and standard deviations within the two groups in the following comparison: EBC
      collected at admission (baseline) from patients who did not need mechanical ventilation vs.
      EBC at admission from patients who did need mechanical ventilation. Paired t-tests will
      compare the proteins in baseline EBC samples and samples at either transfer to the ICU
      intubation or discharge to home in order to describe the pathophysiology in the two groups
      (no ICU need versus need of ICU admission). The investigators will not collect EBC from
      patients admitted to the ICU for open-circuit respiratory support, e.g. high-flow
      oxygenation; these patients will be asked to give an EBC sample before discharge, like the
      patients who did not need ICU care.

      A blood sample will be drawn at the two days of EBC collection (i.e. a 9 mL tube drawn along
      with routine work-up blood samples) from the study participants for two purposes: 1)
      Standardization of the putative markers and verification and supplementing analysis of the
      EBC markers. In order to qualify the most suitable markers and substrates for
      standardization, the analysis of the EBC samples must be completed before the blood samples
      can be analyzed. Conventional biochemical analysis will be used for this purpose. 2)
      Pathophysiological description of patients hospitalized with COVID-19 using metabolomics and
      proteomics analysis. No genetic analysis will be conducted on the stored blood samples.

      After collection of the EBC, the samples will be stored directly in the collection tube
      marked with study subject id at -80⁰C. The EBC samples will be used solely for the subsequent
      analysis of the protein composition (i.e. proteomics) and metabolites (i.e. metabolomics).

      The collection of EBC will not lead to deviations from standard diagnostic procedures or
      treatments. The patients will have routine blood samples drawn as a part of the diagnostic
      work-up and daily disease monitoring. The investigators will ask for consent to draw an extra
      9 mL blood sample along with the routine blood samples at the two days of EBC collection.
    
  