
    
      BACKGROUND: Genomic sequencing (GS) is a driver of precision oncology. Oncologists are
      increasingly using tumour GS for precision oncology care, which is often times accompanied by
      germline GS on normal control tissue. One complex feature of this technology is its capacity
      to generate incidental findings (IF). Guidelines recommend doctors inform patients of their
      incidental GS results. Yet there are limited tools to communicate the scope and implications
      of the thousands incidental results available to help guide patients' decisions about which
      results they wish to learn.

      RATIONALE: There are limited decision support tools in genetics. Despite the long-standing
      practice of medical genetics, there are relatively few decision support tools for genetic
      testing and very few that have been rigorously evaluated. Even fewer decision support tools
      exist on possible results from genomic sequencing; existing tools target pediatric contexts,
      focus on genomic sequencing education-only or on the return of results; they do not cover all
      possible results with decision support to simulate genetic counselling, limiting their use
      and applicability in clinical care. Thus, there are no decision support tools to guide
      patients about all results available from genomic sequencing.

      OBJECTIVES: Evaluate the effectiveness of the Genetics ADvISER vs standard genetic counseling
      (GC) with patients receiving incidental findings.

      HYPOTHESIS: Use of the Genetics ADvISER will reduce patients' decisional conflict & anxiety,
      improve patient knowledge, satisfaction with decisions and preparedness for decision-making
      when selecting IF compared to GC alone.

      PHASE 1: RCT to evaluate the Decision Aid

      Methods: This is a mixed method, non-blinded randomized controlled superiority trial. We will
      evaluate whether use of the Genetics ADvISER followed by Genetic Counsellor (GC) reduces
      decisional conflict compared to GC alone in a RCT. As a part of this trial, patients will
      receive results from exome sequencing.

      Study population: Adult cancer patients who have had GS for their cancer (but did not receive
      incidental findings) or adult patients who have had a negative genetic panel test and may
      eligible for GS.

      Sample: The primary outcome is decisional conflict; the study requires 64 patients/arm (128
      total) to detect the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) of 0.3 using the
      Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS), assuming a standard deviation of 0.6, an alpha of 0.05
      (two-sided) and power of 0.8. Participants will be consecutively randomized and allocated
      from an existing list of eligible subjects using a computer-generated randomization in a 1:1
      ratio with random permuted blocks of varying sizes. Patients from each clinic will be
      randomized separately to ensure we have an even distribution of this population in both arms
      of the study.

      Intervention: Participants in the intervention arm will use the Genetics ADviSER to learn
      about GS, select which results they would like to receive and to receive their GS results.

      Control: Participants in the control arm will speak with a genetic counsellor to learn about
      GS, select which results they would like to receive and to receive their GS results.

      Outcomes and measures: The primary outcome is decisional conflict, assessed via the validated
      Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS) consistent with the ODSF.

      Secondary outcomes: Knowledge, measured using an established questionnaire assessing benefits
      and limitations of genome sequencing and a set of internally developed knowledge questions on
      IF; Satisfaction with decision-making, measured using the Satisfaction with Decision scale
      and the Preparation for Decision Making scale; Anxiety, measured using the state subscale of
      the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. All sessions will be recorded to assess the length of GC
      sessions.

      Quantitative Analysis: The analysis of outcomes will follow the intention-to-treat approach.
      Mean scores for decisional conflict, satisfaction with and preparation for decision-making,
      knowledge of IF and GC session length will be compared using a t-test. Anxiety, knowledge of
      sequencing benefits and sequencing limitations scores will be assessed by summing the number
      of correct responses to the questions, and compared adjusting for baseline score using
      analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). The primary time points of comparison will be (T1) for the
      control versus (T2) for the intervention group. Secondary exploratory analyses will examine
      the impact that the decision aid had alone (T1), without the addition of follow-up GC at T2
      and at T3, after participants have received their IF on decision conflict, knowledge,
      anxiety, satisfaction and preparation with decision-making. Descriptive statistics will be
      used to describe participants' demographic characteristics (age, sex, education, etc.).

      PHASE 2: Qualitative study

      This study will explore the utility the of the Genetics ADvISER and incidental results via
      qualitative interviews with participants. After the study is completed, a subset set of
      participants (n = 40) will be selected to participate qualitative portion of the study.
      Participants approached to complete the qualitative portion of the study will determined by
      purposeful sampling, in order to get mix of participants across a range of experiences and
      demographic characteristics.

      Qualitative Analysis: The qualitative analyses will draw on grounded theory. Open coding,
      constant comparison and axial coding will be used to identify common and divergent themes to
      characterize the entire dataset. Interviews will consider participants' socio-demographic
      factors that may influence their informational and decisional needs as well as how they
      engage with genetic information and participate in shared decision making. Two researchers
      will code transcripts independently; consensus on codes will be reached through discussion.
      Validation methods may include triangulation and member checking. In keeping with qualitative
      methodology, data analysis will occur in conjunction with data collection. On-going analysis
      will inform the development of progressive iterations of the interview guides.
    
  