
    
      Different results have recently led to question the classical notion according to which the
      motor and cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease are tied to a thalamo-cortical inhibition
      due to the degeneration of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathways. Instead, Parkinsons's
      disease seems accompanied by an increase in motor cortical activity.

      A reaction time task, known as the "Simon task" in the literature, allows one to study the
      influence of irrelevant visual information on decision making. In the most common version of
      this task (used in the prosed study), the subjects have to choose between a left- and a
      right-hand keypress according to the color of a visual signal presented either to the left or
      to the right of a fixation. The to be established association is said "congruent" when the
      response is ipsilateral to the stimulus and "incongruent" when the response is contralateral
      to the stimulus. In healthy volunteers, EMG investigations have revealed that in a
      significant numbers of trials, the contraction of the response agonist is preceded by a
      infra-liminal contraction of the agonist involved in the non-required response. Such "partial
      errors" demonstrate that the nervous system is able to detect, abort and correct a part of
      its errors, thereby revealing the existence of an on-line executive control in simple
      decision tasks. Behavioral studies performed in Parkinson disease patients, suggest that
      these patients may experience a deficit in such a control.

      Aims

      The present study aims at testing this hypothesis by assessing the effect of subthalamic
      stimulation on the patients' performance in a Simon task.

      Methods

      Sixteen non-demented Parkinson disease patients treated by deep brain stimulation will be
      involved in the study. They will perform a Simon task in four conditions: Stimulator ON vs.
      OFF x Medication ON vs. OFF. The EMG activity of the response agonist will be recorded during
      task performance. Such recordings will allow the investigator to uncover partial errors. This
      index together with reaction time and overt errors will be subsequently analysed.

      Expected results

      Deep brain stimulation (as oral Dopaminergic medication) re-install the patient motor
      functions and it is thus predicted that both the stimulation and the medication improve the
      patients executive control by increasing the proportion of partial errors relative to overt
      errors. Such a result would demonstrate that the nigro-striatal pathways in directly involved
      in executive control during decision making.
    
  