
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection, and persistent
      infection with oncogenic HPV strains causes cancer. Commercially available 9-valent HPV
      vaccines offer the potential of immunity against seven oncogenic strains and the two low-risk
      strains that cause over 90% of genital warts. The majority of HPV-related cancers and genital
      warts can be prevented through the timely uptake and completion of the HPV vaccine series.
      However, in 2016 only 37.5% of boys and 49.5% of girls completed the HPV vaccine series, and
      racial/ethnic minority youth populations are least likely to complete the vaccine series.
      More specifically, Latino and African American populations have a higher rate of initiation
      of the vaccine; however, they have a significantly less likelihood of completing the vaccine
      series. Past research with Latino and African American populations determined the following
      patient-level barriers to vaccine completion: caregivers' lack of awareness to receive
      additional vaccine doses, lack of time to attend an additional vaccine-only primary care
      clinic appointment, and other structural barriers that prohibit caregivers and their children
      from returning to primary care clinics for additional vaccine doses. Pharmacists are licensed
      to vaccinate against the HPV virus. However, they are less likely to administer the vaccine.
      Although past research has recommended incorporating pharmacists to increase adolescent
      vaccination, no intervention studies, to our knowledge, have tested a healthcare delivery
      model that incorporates pharmacists to complete the HPV vaccine series. We propose a
      randomized controlled pilot study titled Community Pharmacists Vaccinate Against Cancer
      (CPVAC). In CPVAC, the PI will oversample for ethnic minority (particularly African American
      and Hispanic) HPV vaccine age-eligible children and their caregivers to take part in the
      study. Patients will be randomized to intervention or control group. After enrolling in the
      study, primary care providers of patients in the Intervention Group will contact the
      patients' community pharmacy and prescribe the remaining HPV vaccine dose(s). The pharmacy
      will electronically update patients' files and schedule the HPV vaccine "refill" (additional
      doses) at the appropriate dosing schedule. The pharmacy will contact patients' caregivers
      when it is time to complete additional HPV vaccine dose(s). Control group participants will
      receive usual care, returning to their PCPs to complete the additional HPV vaccine doses. The
      aims of this study are to 1) determine the preliminary efficacy of CPVAC to increase HPV
      vaccine series completion with the community pharmacist vs. with the primary care provider
      among racially/ethnically diverse participants; and 2) assess perceived intervention
      feasibility and acceptability of CPVAC among intervention participants and primary care
      clinic staff. Findings from this pilot study can be used to inform a larger randomized
      controlled trial to examine intervention effectiveness and analyze the cost-benefit of
      working with community pharmacies to enhance HPV vaccine completion among diverse children.
    
  