
    
      Acute kidney injury, or AKI, is a rapid decline in renal function characterized by a decrease
      in urine output and/or an increase in serum creatinine (Cr), and is associated with worsened
      clinical outcomes and increased healthcare costs. AKI may be caused by numerous factors
      including interruptions or perturbations of renal blood flow or toxins, and often these
      factors are extra-renal in origin. AKI diagnoses in hospitalized patients are over one
      million per year and are projected to continue to grow, due largely to the aging population
      and increasing numbers of medical and invasive procedures performed on the elderly and the
      ever-increasing prevalence of diabetes mellitus and its medical complications, as well as
      increasing awareness within the medical community.

      Treatment options for established acute kidney injury are limited and consist mainly of fluid
      and electrolyte balance (diuretics and/or IV fluids) supportive care up until the point that
      dialysis or other renal replacement therapy (RRT) is required. Despite the advent of newer
      drugs, more sophisticated RRT equipment, and increased awareness of the problem, little has
      changed relative to patient outcomes, which remain poor. Similarly, limited options exist in
      patients with known risk factors for AKI to prevent its development due to iatrogenic causes
      (e.g., major surgery, exposure to contrast media).

      Targeted Renal Therapy allows for direct delivery of therapeutically relevant doses of
      various pharmacological agents directly to the renal bed, potentially reducing dose limiting
      side effects of traditional IV therapy. With Targeted Renal Therapy, or TRT, the kidney can
      metabolize, conjugate, and/or clear a substantial portion of many agents immediately (known
      as the "renal first-pass" effect), reducing the amount that is returned to the systemic
      circulation via the renal veins, thus potentially reducing untoward side effects. While the
      existence of a renal first-pass effect has been hypothesized in the medical literature for
      some time, it has not been possible to take clinical advantage of this important
      physiological function prior to the advent of AngioDynamics' TRT. Thus, TRT has the potential
      to offer an additional preventative or treatment opportunity in those patients at risk for
      AKI, or with established AKI, respectively.
    
  