
    
      Infection of the pleural space is serious condition that requires hospitalization, invasive
      interventions and long courses of antibiotics. Treatment of pleural infection requires long
      hospital admission with a median of 19 days and medical treatments fails requiring surgical
      intervention in up to 30% of cases. The mortality from pleural infection is around 10% at 3
      months.

      Besides drainage of the infected fluid, antibiotics are a core component of management of
      pleural infection and are typically given intravenously in the first few days of treatment
      until the condition is stabilized at which stage patients are shifted to oral antibiotics of
      equivalent spectrum. In almost half of the cases of pleural infection, the choice of
      antibiotics is entirely empirical due to low yield of microbiological tests on pleural fluid
      in these cases. International guidelines cite a minimum length of antibiotic course of
      pleural infection of four weeks with antibiotic courses typically lasting six weeks[8].
      However, these recommendations are based on expert opinion with no robust evidence to support
      such durations. A recent trial compared a two-week versus a three-week antibiotic course for
      parapneumonic pleural infections. The trial that concluded prematurely due to inability to
      recruit to target sample size and found that the two regimens were equivalent in terms of
      risk of failure of medical treatment. Besides being an underpowered study, the results are
      only applicable to parapneumonic effusions but not primary pleural infections.

      The RAPID score has recently been validated as a robust tool to predict 3-month mortality of
      patients with pleural infection based on demographic and laboratory data. A low score (0-2)
      is associated with 2-3% mortality, medium score (3-4) 9% mortality and high score (5-7) 30%
      mortality at three months. The utility for this score in clinical management is yet to be
      determined and this study will attempt using this score to stratify lengths of antibiotic
      treatment based on proposed risk of adverse outcomes as stipulated by the RAPID score. A
      shorter antibiotic course that is as effective as the standard long course is desirable given
      the common occurrence of side effects with antibiotic treatment. The presence of a robust
      predictive score of outcome seems as an attractive tool to help stratify patients who can be
      safely treated with shorter antibiotic courses.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility and safety of prescribing shorter
      courses of antibiotics (2-3 weeks) versus the standard longer courses (4-6 weeks) in
      medically-treated patients with pleural infection at lower risk of mortality (RAPID score
      0-4) who can be safely discharged home within 14 days of hospitalization and how this impacts
      success of medical treatment.
    
  