
    
      CEA represents an attractive target antigen for immunotherapy since it is over expressed in
      nearly all colorectal cancers and pancreatic cancers, and is also expressed by some lung and
      breast cancers, and uncommon tumors such as medullary thyroid cancer, but is not expressed in
      other cells of the body except for low-level expression in gastrointestinal epithelium [1].
      That CEA is a potential target for T cell mediated immune responses in humans is demonstrated
      by the observation that CEA contains epitopes that may be recognized in an MHC restricted
      fashion by T cells [2-11]. Specifically, there is support for the existence of human
      cytolytic T cells (CTLs) that recognize CEA epitopes that bind to MHC molecules HLA- A2, A3,
      and A24. For the most part, these T cells have been generated by in vitro cultures using
      antigen-presenting cells pulsed with the epitope of interest to stimulate peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells. In addition, T cell lines have been generated after stimulation with CEA
      latex beads, CEA protein-pulsed plastic adherent peripheral blood mononuclear cells, or DCs
      sensitized with CEA RNA. T cells have also been generated from patients immunized with a
      vaccinia vector encoding CEA immunogen (discussed below). Using high-performance liquid
      chromatography mass-spectrometry-based approaches, HLA A2-presented peptides from CEA have
      been identified in primary gastrointestinal tumors [12]. Of the HLA A2 restricted epitopes of
      CEA, CAP-1, a nine amino acid sequence, has been shown to stimulate CTLs from cancer patients
      immunized with vaccinia-CEA. Cap-1(6D) is a peptide analog of CAP-1. Its sequence includes a
      heteroclitic (nonanchor position) mutation, resulting in an amino acid change from Asn to
      Asp, to enhance recognition by the T-cell receptor without any change in binding to HLA A2.
      Compared with the non mutated CAP-1 epitope, Cap-1(6D) has been shown to enhance the
      sensitization of CTLs by 100 to 1,000 times [3, 5, 13]. CTL lines could be elicited from
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells of healthy volunteers by in vitro sensitization to the
      Cap-1(6D) peptide but not to the CAP-1 peptide. These cell lines can lyse human tumor cells
      expressing endogenous CEA.
    
  