
    
      The edemato-fibrosclerotic panniculopathy is a segmental disease and lipodystrophy, this
      disease is localized in subcutaneous connective tissue which is influenced by venous and
      lymphatic system, when these systems are affected. The secondary vasomotor dysfunction to
      failure sympathetic nervous system influence on this disease too.

      Usually it affects women, influencing their physical and psychological well-being.

      The Aesthetic Physiotherapy, known as Aesthetics Plastic and Restorative Physiotherapy, is in
      their beginnings, there are little studies which present this pathology from the
      physiotherapy perspective. The investigators believe that their research could make some
      progress in this matter.

      The search found very few clinical trials of scientific rigor about radio frequency and
      cavitation, and The investigators didn't find studies that compare both. Both treatments show
      effectiveness in improving the appearance of cellulite, so it would be a good idea compare
      them and see the most effective.

      The investigators are trying to compare the effectiveness of both techniques and the
      investigators consider innovative and with added value to investigate something that we
      haven´t found in the reviewed literature.

      The investigators choose 20 women randomly, 40 sample subjects, between 18-40 years old.
      These women must keep the inclusion criteria.

      The participants attend a first date where the investigators collect the necessary data, and
      they are valued before and after the treatment (perimetry, photographic, Nürnberger and
      Müller scale, weight, height, BMI).

      Then each patient receive treatment, seven non-consecutive sessions Diathermy-Radiofrequency
      on one leg (gluteal zone, internal and lateral zone, posterior and anterior zone) and other 7
      sessions of Cavitation in the other leg, and Presotherapy in both legs.

      The investigators also advice the participants about their diet and exercise.
    
  