
    
      Cytoreductive surgery with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) is a procedure
      in which peritoneal surface tumors are removed followed by infusion of a heated
      chemotherapeutic solution into the abdominal cavity. This procedure is typically 6-10 hours
      in duration and is accompanied by significant fluid shifts and hemodynamic changes. Patients
      frequently receive between 10 and 20 liters of fluid during the procedure. Patients
      undergoing cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC also experience vasodilatation and a hyperdynamic
      cardiac state during the hyperthermic period. Classically, the need for volume replacement
      has been guided by following a patient's urine output (UOP) and the use of central venous
      pressure (CVP). However, several studies have shown that CVP is not a reliable measure of
      intravascular fluid status.

      We hypothesize that patients undergoing echocardiography guided anesthesia management (EGAM)
      will receive significantly less fluid during the operative period when compared to more
      traditional fluid therapy guided by monitoring of urine output and central venous pressure.
      In addition to the primary endpoint of a decrease in fluid administration, we would predict a
      decrease in time to extubation, intensive care unit length of stay, hospital length of stay,
      post operative oxygen requirements, post operative complications including tachyarrhythmias,
      heart failure and pulmonary edema, and length of time to recovery of bowel function.

      Patients presenting for cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC will be randomized into one of two
      groups, the echocardiography guided fluid management group or the traditional CVP/UOP fluid
      guided group. For patients in the echocardiography arm, this monitor will be used to optimize
      preload, contractility, heart rate and cardiac output. Patients in the CVP/UOP arm will
      receive the current standard of fluid administration to maintain adequate urine output. All
      patients presenting for the procedure will be offered an opportunity for admission into the
      study. Exclusion criteria include any absolute contraindications to transesophageal
      echocardiography, including cervical spine instability, esophageal strictures, webs or rings,
      patient refusal, esophageal perforation, obstructive esophageal neoplasms (Savage 2004).

      A follow-up evaluation will be completed during the remainder of the patient's
      hospitalization to evaluate the previously discussed endpoints. The goal is to determine the
      optimal fluid management strategy to decrease morbidity in the post-operative period in
      patients undergoing cytoreductive surgery with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy.
    
  