
    
      Context: Li-Fraumeni Syndrome (LFS) and Li-Fraumeni-like (LFL) Syndrome are cancer
      predisposition syndromes due to germline aberrations in the TP53 gene. Patients with
      classical LFS have a lifetime malignancy risk between 80-90%. There are guidelines for
      screening patients with LFS that have led to earlier detection and treatment of cancer in
      this population. There are a number of important issues facing patients identified to have
      germline TP53 variations, including study of genotype-phenotype correlations, enhanced cancer
      screening modalities, and novel treatment strategies for cancers that develop.

      Objectives: In order to study important clinical issues in LFS, the primary objective of this
      biobank is to gather and store ongoing clinical data and biospecimens from patients with LFS
      and other potential germline TP53-associated syndromes. The investigators plan to use this
      biobank to study genotype-phenotype correlations in patients with inherited TP53 mutations,
      mechanisms of tumor formation, and methods of cancer screening.

      Study Design: This study is a retrospective/prospective biobank containing clinical data and
      data and biospecimen. Patients for inclusion will be identified by query of our clinical
      electronic medical record from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) and Penn
      Medicine (PENN) for patients followed in our respective clinics. In addition, patients will
      be recruited by ongoing prospective collection in clinic. Data collection, data entry and
      biobank maintenance, will be conducted by the investigators listed on this protocol at CHOP
      and at PENN through the Master Reliance Agreement. Future investigators and collaborators at
      other institutions will have access to samples and limited data by executing a written Data
      User Agreement and/or Materials Transfer Agreement with the biobank.

      Setting/Participants: The biobank will be conducted at CHOP and PENN. Any infant, child, or
      adult with a germline TP53 mutation will be invited to participate. In addition, individuals
      with a diagnosis of LFS or LFL, who have been seen by a physician at Penn/CHOP or referred
      from outside physicians will be contacted for participation. To provide control group
      samples, unaffected family members and/or household members will also be recruited.
      Prospective enrollment into the biobank is planned to be an ongoing effort, without a fixed
      end date or target subject number. At minimum, however, the estimated number of recruitment
      is approximately 300 affected individuals and their family/household members along with their
      data and specimens.

      Data/Specimen Collection Procedures and Frequency: The only required study procedure is the
      review of medical records. Optional study procedures include collection of germline DNA (via
      blood, saliva, urine, or hair), plasma collection, stool collection, and skin biopsies.
      Clinical data will be updated every 6 months. Subjects can opt-out of this follow-up process.
    
  