
    
      In our hospital, about 150 patients are screened for HBV-DNA every day. Therefore, 54 million
      patients will be tested for HBV-DNA within one year, of which 30% are estimated to be HBV-DNA
      ≥10 IU. These patients will be informed to the Department of Infectious Diseases of the
      Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University for follow-up, and will be
      randomly divided into three groups according to 1:1. Patients in all three groups will be
      educated about hepatitis B virus infection and antiviral treatment, and the treatment regimen
      will be adjusted according to whether their HBV DNA is ≥10 IU/ml or not. Patients in group 1:
      patients with persistant low level HBV DNA (<10 IU/ml). Patients in group 2: HBV-DNA≥10
      IU/ml, receiving HBV-related education and being advised by the doctor to change or to add
      another NA. Patients in group 2: patients with persistant HBV DNA (>10 IU/ml) but refuse to
      change the regimen. Patients in group 3: patients with persistant HBV DNA (>10 IU/ml) and
      agree to change the regimen. Educational methods include videos, including an introduction to
      hepatitis B virus (disease profile, infection, outcome, HBV infection, vertical transmission
      and other risk factors) for 5 minutes, brochures with relevant information and consultations
      with physicians and nurses.

      All patients with chronic hepatitis B(CHB) receiving ETV or second-line NA(LAM/ADV/LdT)
      treatment for more than six months to one year will receive HBV-DNA detection, and patients
      with HBV-DNA≥10 IU/ml will be informed and recommended to adjust the treatment regimen so
      that the actual prevalence of HBV-DNA load < 10 IU/ml in Chongqing HBV cohort could be
      obtained . The investigators estimated that 30% of the patients had HBV-DNA≥ 10 IU/ml, so
      there were about 16,200 patients had HBV-DNA≥ 10 IU/ml among 54,000 patients a year. These
      patients will be diagnosed with LLV and will undergo a treatment regimen adjustment, with a
      recommendation to switch to or use a different type of nucleos(t)ide analogue (NA) for
      anti-viral treatment.
    
  