
    
      The application of scientific evidence on major depression in clinical practice is complex.
      Many studies show that over 50% of depressed patients in primary care do not receive proper
      attention, or are ineffective or potentially harmful treatments. In general, the process of
      dissemination and implementation of Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) in printed version
      induce a minor improvement in clinical practice. The adaptation of the CPG of Major
      Depression in Adults (CPG-DEPC) in Catalonia (Spain), as a computerized integrated version,
      offers an extraordinary opportunity to improve outcomes in Primary Care. The integrated
      design allows precise access to help in the visit itself, to improve diagnosis validation
      process, the recommended treatment and facilitate monitoring and evaluation of suicide risk
      in depressed patients.

      This study aims to evaluate the effects of an active multifactor implementation process of a
      Computerized Depression Guideline in Primary Care. The GPC-DEPc use, the key outcomes and its
      maintenance over time in patients and professionals will be analyzed.

      A cluster randomized trial, multicenter study in ten Primary Care Centers in Barcelona,
      coordinated by the same Mental Health Service, will be done. In five of the Centers will be
      actively implemented the CPG-DEPc and the other five will proceed as usual process, as a
      reference. The active process includes the establishment of local implementation teams,
      seminars, regular feedback and follow-up visits for four months. The main outcome will be the
      rate of patients with possible depression treated in the analyzed period in which at least
      were used any of the instruments that the Guide recommended (to rule out or confirm the
      diagnosis, choose the optimal treatment or follow-up the clinical maintenance best options).
      Other professionals and patients secondary outcome measures will be analyzed (incidence of
      major depression registers, referrals to mental health specialists, use of recommended
      antidepressants and rates of patients in clinical remission). At the end of the study, the
      suicide and suicide attempts rate and the data about the direct and indirect health cost will
      be analyzed.
    
  