
    
      The presented project will focus on the evaluation of a multimodal approach comparing human
      GBM to paired samples of orthotopic xenografts using high resolution MRI and MRS and
      multidimensional molecular profiling.

      20 patients with a high probability for newly diagnosed GBM based on MRI-scan ( 3 Tesla (3T)
      MRI, T1, T2, T1 gadolinium, DWI & MRI Spectroscopy) will be identified in the CHUV prior to
      undergoing neurosurgical resection. Patients will undergo extensive experimental radiological
      examination using specific MRI sequences on the 7 Tesla (7T) MRI to identify specific
      metabolic pathways (see below, section on imaging). Thereafter patients will undergo maximal
      safe neurosurgical resection of their tumors. The portion of the tumor that is not used for
      diagnostic purposes will be collected immediately for further use (see below, section on
      molecular evaluations). Following resection, patients will undergo standard of care treatment
      [usually combined radio-chemotherapy, or will be offered participation in a clinical trial.
      The clinical parameters will be collected, including histopathological features and the
      evolution and growth pattern of the residual tumor (if present), or the development of
      recurrences will thereafter be compared to the parameters and evolution of the xenograft
      models.

      At high magnet field strength (7T), high signal-to-noise ratio and increased spectral
      dispersion allow more reliable measurement of a large number of metabolites using Magnetic
      Resonance Spectroscopy in comparison to clinical available field strengths (3T and below). In
      addition, the authors have developed a full sensitivity short-echo-time single voxel
      spectroscopy (SVS) sequence "semi-adiabatic SPECIAL"(2) which was implemented, validated at
      7T and allows the quantification of 15 metabolites with high precision including
      N-acetylaspartate(NAA), glutamine(Gln), glutamate(Glu), myo-inositol(Ins),
      phosphorylethanolamine(PE), total choline(tCho), creatine, phosphocreatine,
      N-acetylaspartylglutamate(NAAG), lactate(Lac), glutathione(GSH), aspartate (Asp),
      taurine(Tau), scyllo-inositol and γ-aminobutyric acid(GABA). This localization technique was
      further extended to a MR Spectroscopic Imaging (MRSI) technique at 7T, which allows mapping
      of the spatial distributions of cerebral metabolites. Furthermore, glycine is a possible
      marker for tumor malignancy and its detection in vivo has been established in our previous
      study using TE=30ms with SPECIAL sequence at 7T. Therefore, in this study the aforementioned
      techniques will be used to obtain the neurochemical information and its spatial distribution
      in the glioblastoma of the patients. These data will be further compared with the
      neurochemical information obtained in the orthotopic xenografts in the mouse brain derived
      from the respective glioblastoma patient.

      All MRS measurements of glioblastoma patients will be performed on a 7T MR scanner with a CP
      Transmit / 32 channel receive array head coil. Based on the high resolution T1-weighted
      images obtained using the MP2RAGE sequence, Volume of Interest (VOI) for spectroscopy will be
      placed according to the location of the glioblastoma. Total acquisition time of MRS will be
      within 30 min. In vivo MRS spectra will be post-processed and metabolite concentrations will
      be quantified to create metabolite maps.

      Molecular and functional investigations of paired samples of primary glioblastoma and
      respective orthotopic xenografts in the mouse

      The aim of the present study is to determine the molecular, histopathological, and functional
      properties, including growth patterns such as invasiveness, of the original GBM and the
      respective derived orthotopic xenografts in the mouse, and link them to imaging/ metabolism
      parameters obtained by high resolution MRI.

      GBM samples from patients collected at surgery will be divided into 2 parts, (i) snap frozen
      for molecular analyses, and (ii) cultivated under stem cell conditions for subsequent
      stereotactic transplantation into male immune-compromised mice and establishment of sphere
      lines.
    
  