
    
      The REACH HCV study is an international, cluster-randomised non-clinical trial with two arms.
      The unit of randomisation is the community pharmacy, so all participants in a given pharmacy
      are allocated to one of two pathways for HCV testing and treatment. There are three
      participating hubs located in: Scotland, Wales and Australia respectively.

      The sample size is 140 participants, equally split between the three participating hubs, and
      the trial population is patients receiving opiate substitution therapy (OST) in community
      pharmacies.

      Arm 1 (REACH arm): The community pharmacist will take the opportunity to explain the risks of
      contracting HCV from current or historical intravenous drug use. The OST patients will then
      meet with an outreach hepatology nurse specialist who will consent the patients and perform a
      diagnostic point-of-care (PoC) HCV test along with venepuncture for safety laboratory blood
      tests and confirmatory HCV RNA. The outreach nurse will return for a subsequent visit to
      prescribe (in the UK; in Australia prescribing is undertaken by qualified medic) and deliver
      HCV medication for those patients who test positive, which will be dispensed to participants
      alongside their OST schedule by their community pharmacist. The outreach nurse will return
      after approximately 14 days to confirm negative results, dispense medication for new patients
      with positive results (PCR positive but below limit of detection of POC test) and confirm
      follow up appointments where required. The RNA and PoC test will also be administered for
      sustained viral response at 12 weeks post treatment (SVR12).

      Arm 2 (Education-only arm): The community pharmacist will discuss the risks of contracting
      HCV through current or historical intravenous drug use. The community pharmacist will then
      advise participants on the nearest centre for HCV testing and treatment, as is standard of
      care for the countries included in this study. If they are referred from a REACH pharmacy,
      they will present a reply slip and/or the Patient Information Sheet to the nurse who will
      then consent the participant, perform HCV and safety blood tests, and complete the study
      paperwork. The participant's medication will be delivered to, and dispensed from, their
      community pharmacy alongside their OST. Participants will return to the local BBV clinic for
      an SVR12 test after completing treatment.

      All eligible HCV-infected participants will receive treatment with 100mg glecaprevir/40mg
      pibrentasvir (Maviret) a pan-genotypic Direct Acting Antiviral (DAA) for between 8-16 weeks,
      depending on blood test results. The study is planned to run for a total of two years, with
      one year clinical phase and one year follow-up phase.
    
  