
    
      About 5% of children have DCD, a neurodevelopmental disorder that significantly affects their
      ability to learn motor skills, such as tying shoelaces, learning to print, or riding a
      bicycle (APA 2013). DCD interferes with school performance, vocational activities, leisure
      pursuits; it has a lifelong impact, and 75% of children with DCD will continue to experience
      motor difficulties as adults (Kirby 2014). DCD is highly comorbid with other
      neurodevelopmental disorders including Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) (Green 2009) and
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) (Piek 1999) which exacerbates children's
      motor and functional problems (Kirby 2014).

      Until recently, motor deficits in children with ASD have largely been ignored. Since the
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders-5th ed. (DSM-5) was published in 2013,
      a dual diagnosis of ASD and DCD is now permitted. Over 50% of children with ASD have been
      reported to have DCD (Green 2009), with the degree of motor impairment correlating with
      autism severity (Dzuik 2007).

      The overlap of DCD and ASD is not well-studied, but the high co-occurrence prompts one to
      wonder whether there are common and distinct neural markers that define these
      neurodevelopmental disorders. Neuroimaging studies have begun to unravel their neural
      underpinnings. Abnormalities in the cerebellum (D'Mello 2016; Foster 2015; Liu 2017; Zwicker
      2009, 2011) and corpus callosum (Langevin 2014; Frazier 2009) are common to both disorders,
      but few studies have compared children with DCD and those with co-occurring ASD. Preliminary
      evidence indicates alterations in network patterns that are unique to the DCD+ASD group when
      compared to either single diagnosis of DCD or ASD (Caeyenberghs 2016). As one of the first
      neuroimaging studies to touch upon a dual diagnosis of DCD+ASD, Caeyenberghs et al. found
      that paralimbic regions exhibit altered connectivity in singular disorders, which are
      disorder specific to ASD or DCD; however, children meeting criteria for both DCD and ASD
      exhibit more widespread over-connectivity, specifically in the left association area and
      medio-occipitotemporal gyrus when compared to DCD alone. While in its infancy, neuroimaging
      studies suggest that DCD and ASD may have common but also distinct neural underpinnings
      (Caeyenberghs 2016; Caçola 2017); further research is needed to better understand the neural
      correlates of each disorder and its co-occurrence.

      Current best-practice to improve motor function in children with DCD is Cognitive Orientation
      to Occupational Performance (CO-OP) (Smits-Engelsman 2013). CO-OP is a task-specific approach
      designed to improve motor-based skills that a child needs or wants to master; it is a
      cognitive-based, problem-solving approach that uses verbal mediation and identifies
      strategies to support skill acquisition (Polatajko 2001). It is largely unknown if children
      with co-occurring DCD and ASD benefit from CO-OP. Although motor impairment and functional
      problems are common in ASD, they are rarely the focus of therapy. The primary focus of
      therapy for children with ASD has always been on social and communication skills or managing
      sensory processing differences. Preliminary findings from a case study with two children
      diagnosed with ASD suggest that CO-OP is feasible and able to induce clinically significant
      improvements in self- and parent-rated performance on each of their motor goals (Rodger
      2009). However, a larger sample is needed to confirm these findings.

      The CO-OP approach has been effective in meeting child-chosen functional motor goals
      (Polatajko 2001; Miller 2001), but the neural basis for these improvements is still not
      known. The investigators are currently investigating brain changes in structure and function
      associated with CO-OP intervention for children with DCD+/-ADHD and would like to expand
      their study to include children with co-occurring ASD and DCD. This novel study will help to
      unravel the brain differences between these co-occurring conditions and explain if and why
      rehabilitation may benefit children with the dual diagnosis of DCD and ASD.

      This study will provide clinicians and researchers with a greater understanding of
      neurological underpinnings of motor difficulties in children with ASD, and whether
      interventions should include CO-OP therapy. This project is the first to integrate brain
      imaging and motor-based intervention in this population and may provide evidence to support
      new clinical practices to improve outcomes.

      RESEARCH DESIGN

      Specific Aims and Hypothesis: The proposed study is designed to test the hypotheses that,
      compared to children with DCD, children with ASD+DCD will exhibit overlapping but distinct
      differences in brain structure and function, and that rehabilitation associated with brain
      differences will lead to improvements of motor function. This study builds on the
      investigators' current CIHR-funded study comparing typically-developing children with
      children with DCD+/-ADHD and neuroplasticity associated with CO-OP intervention. The proposed
      study is designed to address the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Characterize brain structure and function in children DCD+ASD and compare results to
      previously collected data on children with DCD+/-ADHD. Hypotheses: Compared to children with
      DCD, brains of children with DCD+ASD will show smaller cerebellar volume; differences in
      microstructural development in motor, sensory, cerebellar, and frontal pathways; and lower
      correlation between signals from brain regions corresponding to resting-state networks
      including default-mode, sensorimotor, cerebellar, and frontal networks.

      Aim 2: Determine if CO-OP intervention induces neuroplastic changes in brain structure/
      function and improves motor skills in children with DCD+ASD. Hypotheses: Compared to a
      waitlist control group, children in the treatment group will show: (1) strengthened
      functional connectivity in sensorimotor and cerebellar, and frontal networks; (2) increased
      integrity of the frontal-cerebellar pathway; (3) increased gray matter volume in the
      dorsolateral prefrontal, motor, and cerebellar cortices; and (4) improved motor performance.
      A positive association between functional improvements and changes in brain
      structure/function is also expected.

      Aim 3: Determine if neuroplastic and functional changes are retained at 3-month follow-up.
      Hypothesis: Children who maintained their functional gains will show increased functional
      connectivity in brain networks, increased connectivity of the frontal-cerebellar pathway, and
      increased gray matter volume (as in Aim #2) compared to children who did not maintain their
      functional gains.

      Study Design and Sample Size Calculation: This study is a randomized waitlisted controlled
      trial. Children will be randomly assigned to either treatment or waitlist group. A
      statistician will randomize participants using computer-generated sequential blocks of 4 to
      6; randomization codes will be kept in sealed opaque envelopes until study enrollment. Added
      to the investigators' current study, a sample of 30 participants with DCD+ASD will provide >
      80% power to detect clinically significant improvement of 2 points on the Canadian
      Occupational Performance Measure (COPM; Law 2014) [26] (SD of 2.5 and a type-1 error of 0.05)
      and a 3% difference in axial diffusivity on diffusion tensor imaging, which was correlated
      with motor function in the investigators' pilot work (Zwicker 2012).

      Participants: Thirty children (8-12 years) who meet the diagnostic criteria for DCD and ASD
      as outlined in the DSM-5 (APA 2013) will be eligible to participate.

      Brain Imaging: Prior to MR imaging, children will undergo an MRI simulator session to become
      familiar with the sights and sounds of the MR environment. All imaging studies will be
      performed on a state-of-the-art 3-Tesla GE Discovery MR 750 scanner. Brain structure will be
      assessed using: (1) T1-weighted structural imaging to measure cerebral volume (white matter,
      cortical gray matter, and deep gray matter) and cerebellar volume, and (2) diffusion tensor
      imaging (DTI) to measure structural connectivity and white matter microstructure throughout
      the brain. Brain function will be measured indirectly using resting state MRI to examine
      functional connectivity at rest in various networks. Total scan time is ~30 min.

      Intervention: CO-OP is a cognitive approach to solving functional motor problems (Polatajko
      2001). Therapists teach children a global problem-solving strategy (Goal-Plan-Do-Check) as
      means to develop specific strategies for overcoming motor problems; the strategies are
      determined after a dynamic performance analysis by the therapist to determine where the
      "breakdown" is in performing the task. Occupational therapists trained in CO-OP will see
      children for one hour, once weekly for 10 weeks. Parents or caregivers will be encouraged to
      attend treatment sessions so therapists can instruct them how to facilitate strategy use
      between treatment sessions. Children will select 3 functional motor goals to be addressed
      during treatment, rating their performance and satisfaction of these goals pre- and
      post-intervention.

      Measures: The MABC-2 will be used to assess the degree of motor impairment; scores ≤ 16th
      percentile indicate DCD (Henderson 2007). This measure provides an overall total score
      compiled from eight subtests across 3 domains: manual dexterity (3), aiming and catching (2),
      and balance (3). A commonly used parent questionnaire, the DCDQ (Wilson 2007) will be used to
      confirm impact of motor skills on daily function. The Conners 3 AI-Parent form will be used
      to assess ADHD symptomology (Conners 2001). The Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ), a
      parent-report questionnaire, will be used to screen for autism-specific social and
      communication impairments (Rutter 2003).

      The primary outcome measure is the COPM (Law 2014), which is an individualized,
      client-centred measure designed to detect change in a client's self-perception of their
      performance and satisfaction over time on functional goals that are of importance to them. To
      supplement the COPM, investigators will video-tape the child performing their 3 motor goals
      before and after intervention. An occupational therapist blinded to the intervention and
      pre-test/post-test will score the motor performance using the Performance Quality Rating
      Scale (PQRS), an objective and observational measure of performance quality (Miller 2001).
      Fine and gross motor skills will be measured using the short form of the Bruninks-Oseretsky
      Test of Motor Proficiency 2nd ed. (BOT-2: Bruininks 2005).

      Neuroimaging Analysis: DTI: for analyzing diffusion tensor data, tract-based spatial
      statistics (TBSS) using FMRIB Software Library (FSL) will be conducted. TBSS is a fully
      automated approach that allows for whole-brain analysis without pre-specification of tracts
      of interest (Smith 2006). T1-weighted imaging will be analyzed using voxel-based morphometry
      to compare the local concentration of grey matter between sessions and groups using
      Statistical Parametric Map-99 package (Ashburner 2000). rs-MRI: FSL will be used to conduct
      an independent component analysis which allows a data-driven approach to explore resting
      state networks (Beckman 2005).

      Data Analysis:

      Aim 1: mean brain volumes will be compared between groups using ANOVAs, with regression-based
      adjustment for age and sex. Generalized Linear Model will compare DTI measures and functional
      connectivity timeseries in children with DCD, DCD+ADHD, DCD+ASD, and controls.

      Aims 2 & 3: Repeated Measures ANCOVA will be applied to the primary and secondary outcomes to
      detect changes over time, including effect of maturity in waitlist group, intervention effect
      in both waitlist and treatment groups, and late effect of intervention in treatment group.
      Age, MABC-2 scores, and Conners scores will be used as covariates.
    
  