
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation
      specifically targeting the central nervous system. 1 It is associated with destruction of the
      surrounding myelin sheaths leading to formation of plaques/lesions dispersed throughout the
      brain and spinal cord. 1 The prevalence of MS is nearly one million in the United States with
      the majority of diagnoses occurring between the ages of 20 and 50. 2 Though the precise
      etiology remains unknown, genetic and environmental factors have been linked to the cause and
      therefore MS is considered a multifactorial disease. 3 Hallmark signs of MS include
      progressive demyelination, oligodendrocyte damage, and ultimately axonal destruction. These
      adaptations occur due to an inflammatory response consisting of macrophages, microglia, T and
      B Cells, followed by an intense astrocyte reaction leading to glial scarring, a common
      characteristic of chronic MS lesions. 4 According to Lassmann 1, clinical deficits seen
      throughout the course of MS are more closely correlated to the degree of axonal loss as
      opposed to the amount of lesions or extent of demyelination. These include deficits in
      cognition, vision, bowel and bladder control, coordination, and loss of muscle strength. 5
      Multiple Sclerosis has various subtypes making the clinical course heterogeneous among
      patients. 6 Subtypes include: clinically isolated syndrome (CIS), relapsing remitting MS
      (RRMS), primary progressive MS (PPMS), and secondary progressive MS (SPMS). 6 The variability
      of disease course for each individual subtype is extremely important, and should be taken
      into consideration for prognosis and intervention options. 3

      Due to the aggressive, progressive, unpredictable nature of MS, lack of evidence for a cure,
      and the wide array of cognitive and physical symptoms, MS can detrimentally impact a
      patient's health and reduce overall quality of life. 7 Current research advocates for
      physical activity (PA) as an intervention to combat these effects. Physical activity is
      referred to here as low to moderate level exercise. 8 Some individuals with MS who
      incorporated long-term physical activity into their life demonstrated a decrease in the
      progression of the disease and a reduction in MS flare-ups. 9 In order to successfully
      implement PA based interventions for the management of MS one must first identify individual
      motivators for PA. 5 Motivators for physical activity include self-efficacy and internalized
      motivation which are derived from physical activity outcomes. 5Self-efficacy is "the belief
      that one can successfully cope with challenging conditions" 7 whereas self -determination
      refers to the origin of one's motivation. 8 Other researchers found that "those with MS who
      were more physically active had greater self-efficacy for function and control, and
      self-efficacy for function and control were associated with greater physical and
      psychological components of quality of life." 7 However, the vast majority of those diagnosed
      with MS avoid exerting themselves due to symptoms of muscle weakness and fatigue; this lack
      of PA is thought to exacerbate those symptoms which then leads to a perpetual cycle of
      inactivity and flare-ups. 8,9 Therefore, it has also been theorized that a program designed
      for MS patients which focuses on promoting self-efficacy could lead to long-term PA
      participation and thus result in increased quality of life. 8

      One such form of physical activity that could provide physiological and psychological
      benefits for individuals diagnosed with MS is yoga. "Yoga is an ancient Indian, non-religious
      mind- body approach that has components centering on meditation, mindfulness, breathing, and
      activity or postures." 10 Exercise programs which involve these components have been found to
      improve the quality of life by addressing the biopsychosocial (BPS) model. The BPS model is
      composed of biological, psychological and social components which has been found to have a
      positive impact on an individual's health. 11 Therefore, it is hypothesized that by
      increasing muscular strength and flexibility while decreasing affective factors such as
      depression, stress and anxiety and improving social factors will improve an individual's
      overall well-being and allow them to cope with the symptoms associated with MS. 11,12
      Numerous studies have found yoga to be beneficial in improving fatigue and other symptoms
      associated with MS. 13 For example, standing yoga poses can promote improved reactive balance
      through the use of stepping strategies. Yoga also has the potential to reduce cognitive and
      motor costs for individuals during dual tasks resulting in decreased interference and thus
      optimal functioning in more challenging conditions. 14 Previous research has demonstrated
      that yoga significantly improved "physical performance and mental function" and factors
      associated with quality of life in subjects with MS.15 Based on these findings, the
      investigators hypothesize that yoga will improve quality of life and self-efficacy for
      physical activity in people living with MS.
    
  