
    
      Patients surviving sABI resulting in a coma state, thanks to improvements in early
      intervention and intensive care technologies, in some cases begin to regain vigilance and
      consciousness within few weeks from the event. In other cases, however, while regaining
      vigilance, they may continue to present a DOC state. DOC patients, by definition, are unable
      to communicate and have severe motor, sensory and cognitive deficits. They can be in a
      Vegetative State (VS), characterized by wakefulness without consciousness, which can
      favorably evolve in a Minimally Conscious State (MCS).

      Although there are currently no evidence-based guidelines on the treatment of DOC patients to
      facilitate their recovery of consciousness, several studies published in recent years have
      focused on various pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions. Among these, there
      is a non-invasive stimulation technique, the Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS),
      which has long been known for other indications. tDCS affects the neuronal membrane rest
      potential and is able to neuromodulate cortical excitability. Protocols in the literature
      describing the use of tDCS in DOC patients envisage anodal stimulation (active electrode) on
      the L-DLPFC area, with the reference electrode placed on a homologous controlateral area or
      on the controlateral shoulder. tDCS variants have also been described, both by type of
      current delivered and by active electrode's positioning, but they are still experimental.

      The Montecatone Rehabilitation Institute (a 3rd level Italian hospital, specialized in
      intensive rehabilitation of sABI and spinal cord injured patients) has recently started
      adopting tDCS in clinical practice to stimulate recovery of consciousness of VS or MCS,
      post-sABI, patients. Since it was already known that a single tDCS applications is not
      sufficient to elicit detectable and durable responses, the Montecatone Institute's protocol
      envisages anode application on L-DLPFC area in a 20 minute daily session, possibly for 2
      consecutive weeks (5 consecutive days per week). For a gradual and safe approach, 1
      milliampere (mA) current intensity is applied during the first week, 2 mA during the second
      week.

      The post-sABI DOC patients treated with tDCS at the Montecatone Institute, compared with the
      known literature, are more homogeneous with regard to the distance of time from the lesional
      event, moreover tDCS is administered at an earlier stage. The present observational,
      longitudinal study is aimed therefore at reporting the outcomes of such DOC patients treated
      with tDCS by evaluating them with functional and cognitive impairment scales, at short-term
      (at the conclusion of the first and second week of tDCS treatment), medium-term (3 months
      after the end of the treatment) and long-term (6 months after the end of the treatment).
      Electroencephalographic (EEG) pattern data will also be collected. The outcome data obtained
      will be compared with those of a historical control cohort too, matched for demographic and
      clinical characteristics. The present study aims at covering the lack in the literature of
      long-term follow-up data too.

      It is expected that the results of the present study may be useful to provide concrete
      indications for planning further research studies aimed at evaluating the effectiveness of
      different techniques and/or protocols for application of tDCS in post-sABI DOC patients.
    
  