
    
      Rationale: A standard work-up of stroke patients to identify a cause of stroke consists of
      Computed Tomography (CT), CT angiography of head and neck arteries, transthoracic
      echocardiography, 12-lead 10-seconds electrocardiogram (ECG), blood tests and 24-hour ECG
      monitoring. A stroke is called "cryptogenic" if no cause can be determined after standard
      work-up. Current detection of atrial fibrillation (AF) after stroke is 2.0%. Recent studies
      revealed that prolonged monitoring yields higher percentages of detected AF (12.0%). Devices
      used in these trials suffer from drawbacks. The investigators' hypothesis is that a new,
      smartphone compatible device, producing a single lead ECG (single lead ECG device), can be
      used for prolonged ECG monitoring in cryptogenic stroke patients.

      Objective: The main objective of this study is to compare the incidence of detected AF in
      cryptogenic stroke patients by a single lead ECG device with the incidence of detected AF by
      a 7-Day Holter ECG.

      Study design: A multicenter randomized trial. Study population: Cryptogenic stroke patients
      admitted to a hospital participating in the study. The calculated sample size is 200 (100 per
      arm).

      Intervention: After inclusion, patients will be randomized to either a single lead ECG device
      or a 7-Day Holter Monitor.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main endpoint will be the percentage of detected atrial
      fibrillation in both the single lead ECG device group and the 7-Day Holter group after one
      year.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Both devices are battery powered and electrically safe. Patients face a 2-3%
      risk that AF is detected false-positively; this might lead to incorrect oral anticoagulation
      (OAC) prescription. However, a potential benefit of the investigators' study is that if AF is
      detected and treated with OAC, this significantly reduces the chance of recurrent stroke.
    
  