
    
      Among people with HIV, the severity of depressive symptoms has repeatedly been associated
      with the presence of self-reported cognitive difficulties, even in the absence of impairment
      on neuropsychological testing. There is uncertainty about the clinical importance of these
      self-reports, especially when neuropsychological testing is normal, as they are thought to be
      susceptible to patients' biases and insights into their illness.

      However, there is growing evidence that these self-reports are clinically important. Among
      patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), evidence suggests that functional impairments
      is mediated by self-reported cognitive dysfunction, rather than objective cognitive
      dysfunction. For example, Buist-Bouwman et al reported that more than one-quarter of the
      impact of MDD on work loss was directly attributable to self-reported cognitive difficulties
      and that cognition was a significant mediator of the association between MDD and work or role
      dysfunction.

      When depression is treated with antidepressant medication, some degree of improvement on
      neuropsychological tests has been documented. However, many studies have evaluated cognitive
      outcomes before and after treatment rather than comparing them with placebo, potentially
      biasing the results by learning effects, which limits the strength of the conclusions that
      can be drawn.

      Treatment of depression with Cognitive-Behaviour Therapy (CBT) has been shown to improve
      depressive symptoms and psychosocial functioning in patients with recurrent major depressive
      disorder, but there are few studies of the impact of psychotherapy on self-reported cognition
      and cognitive performance. In a group of patients with highly recurrent depression (≥4
      episodes) over 2 years of follow-up, Conradi et al showed that those randomized to receive
      psycho-education plus CBT reported the presence of cognitive symptoms significantly less of
      the time compared to those receiving psycho-education only (15% of the time or 3.6 months
      compared to 47% or 11.3 months).

      In the HIV population, a single study has examined the effect of treatment of depression on
      self-reported cognitive difficulties and performance on neuropsychological tests, as part of
      a randomized controlled trial of antidepressant efficacy. Following 12 weeks of
      antidepressant treatment, HIV+ individuals who reported a decrease in depressive symptoms
      also reported significantly fewer cognitive difficulties, despite an absence of improvement
      on neuropsychological testing.

      In the context where the use of questionnaires eliciting cognitive difficulties is suggested
      as a first-line screening for HIV-Associated Neurocognitive Disorder, it is important to
      document the clinical factors that influence these self-reports in order to inform their
      clinical interpretation and develop interventions for individuals reporting cognitive
      difficulties.

      Understanding and Optimizing Brain Health Now (BHN) cohort study: Cohort participants (N=840)
      are studied prospectively over a 27-month period with visits every 9 months. Patients
      complete questionnaires on mood (Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale-HADS), presence of
      cognitive symptoms (Patient Deficit Questionnaire-PDQ), and a computer-based evaluation of
      cognitive ability (B-CAM).

      Computerized Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (cCBT): A number of computerized treatment programs
      have been developed to address symptoms of depression and anxiety, and several meta-analyses
      of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have shown evidence for their effectiveness. One such
      program, Good Days Ahead, teaches the basic principles of CBT in nine therapy sessions, each
      typically taking 30 minutes to complete. Good Days Ahead has been found to be as effective as
      face-to-face CBT in decreasing symptoms of depression and anxiety. Patients receiving
      treatment delivered by a computer can be provided with different levels of guidance and
      support: self-guidance, guidance by a technician who sends reminders, or guidance by a
      clinician. A recent meta-analysis of cCBT for depression and anxiety has shown that the
      treatment delivered with no guidance or support yielded, on average, a smaller effect size
      (Cohen's d = 0.17) than cCBT delivered with at least one hour of knowledgeable assistance
      during the course of therapy (Cohen's d = 0.72). Offering some assistance thus appears to be
      necessary for achieving better therapy outcomes.

      Study Design : This study is part of a larger project based upon a cohort multiple randomized
      controlled design. Within a fully characterized cohort followed over time (n=840), people
      meeting the specific criteria for one or more interventions (here cCBT) are identified and a
      sample is randomly selected to receive the intervention. When the intervention is under
      investigation, the remaining eligible persons who do not receive the intervention serve as
      controls. In this study, we are not testing the effectiveness of cCBT as this has been
      demonstrated. Rather the researchers are focusing on changes in cognition in relation to
      depressive symptoms mediated by cCBT. This study is an exploration of a hypothesis using a
      single cohort design with two repeated measures. For exploratory studies, an N of 30
      optimizes an analysis based on means under the central limit theorem.

      Intervention: Participants who are eligible will receive online access to the Good Days Ahead
      cCBT program. Good Days Ahead is a learning module based on scientifically proven,
      evidence-based techniques. The program's content follows the teachings of the basic
      principles of CBT. The underlying platform generates customized learning experiences for each
      individual user with content including videos, text, quizzes and interactive exercises. The
      program comprises nine lessons of 30 minute each during which the user first learns the key
      concepts; then applies them to the program's main character who suffers from depression; and
      then applies those techniques to their own personal challenges
      (http://www.empower-interactive.com/solutions/good-days-ahead). Participants are expected to
      complete the nine sessions over 9-12 weeks.

      As patients complete the cCBT program, their progress will be monitored by the research
      coordinator through a secure web site, using the program's dashboard feature that includes
      tracking of mood ratings, exercises, comprehension and completion rates. Participants will
      receive guidance during regular contacts by a trained research coordinator knowledgeable
      about the program and the basics of CBT.
    
  