
    
      1. Introduction

           Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. It is
           estimated that in 2008, 1233,000 new cases were diagnosed and more than 600,000 people
           died for this reason throughout the world. Colonoscopy is the technique of choice for
           both diagnosis and prevention, since the identification and removal of colonic adenomas
           reduces the incidence of CRC by up to 76%.

           Different endoscopic techniques have been developed for the removal of adenomas; The
           choice of some over others is made according to the size, morphology and location of the
           lesion.

        2. Hypothesis

           Conceptual hypothesis:

           Cold snare polypectomy presents a proportion of incomplete polypectomies similar to
           polypectomy with hot snare.

           Operational hypothesis:

           Two endoscopic techniques will be compared from two groups created by a random
           assignment to one or another type of polypectomy, evaluating the proportion of
           non-excised polypoid tissue after it. This will be done from random biopsies of the
           edges of the lesion and possible macroscopic remnants

        3. Objectives.

           Primary objective:

           To compare the proportion of incomplete polypectomies in both types of polypectomy (cold
           snare vs. hot snare).

           Secondary objectives:

           Comparing the proportion of immediate and delayed bleeding complications, total and
           according to the severity that they present according to the American Society of
           Gastroenterology (ASGE) classification.

           Comparing the evolution of abdominal pain in the 5 hours postprocedure between both
           groups.

           Evaluating factors associated with an incomplete extirpation in each group. Evaluating
           factors associated with a failed cold polypectomy.

        4. Design

           Multicenter randomized clinical trial

        5. Methods

      Study population Patients scheduled to undergo a colonoscopy in a non-urgent setting.
      Patients will be invited to participate before performing the colonoscopy.

      Randomization It will be done once the patient agrees to participate in the work and the
      first candidate polyp has been identified. Each patient will be randomized (regardless of the
      number of lesions per patient) so all lesions of each patient will be removed in the same
      way. It will be stratified by center.

      Intervention Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and do not present any exclusion
      criteria (pre-endoscopic) will be invited to participate in the study. The informed consent
      will be completed according to the Spanish law 41/2002 of autonomy of the patient.

        1. Endoscopic procedure The interventions will be carried out in each of the participating
           centers. The examinations will be performed under sedation according to the protocols
           established in each center. Once the first lesion is identified, the method of
           extirpation of the lesion will be randomized.

             -  Cold Group: polypectomy with a cold snare will be carried out according to the
                usual standards recommended by international societies. The lesion should be placed
                if possible in the position equivalent to 5 o'clock on the dial, the end of the
                snare will be placed several millimeters from the lesion and the tip of the
                catheter will be angled downwards, without aspiration at any time to avoid
                entrapment of the submucosa.

             -  Hot Group: polypectomy with snare connected to the electrosurgical unit according
                to the standards recommended by international societies, using a mixed current
                (cut-coagulation). Once the lesion is captured, the snare is pulled up to slightly
                separate it from the surrounding mucosa before polypectomy. Elevation of the lesion
                prior to polypectomy will not be performed.

             -  Common evaluation: once the polypectomies are completed, the base of the
                polypectomies will be evaluated, taking biopsies from any suggestive area and also
                2 random biopsies at the base of the polypectomy.

        2. Postendoscopic follow-up After a minimum of 21 days and a maximum of 28 days from the
           endoscopic examination, the patient will be contacted by telephone to collect the form
           about the evolution of the abdominal symptoms and to collect data about the appearance
           of complications (questions will be asked about visits to the hospital and in a targeted
           manner about the most frequent symptoms of the usual complications (fever, hemorrhage,
           abdominal pain).

        3. Histological analysis The analysis of the specimens of the polypectomies will be carried
           out in each center according to their usual protocol. The analysis of the biopsies of
           the base of the polyp will be carried out centrally by a pathologist with more than 5
           years of experience in digestive pathology. Samples from the base of the polyp will be
           sent periodically from each center to the Salamanca university hospital through a
           messenger service. The pathologist will be blinded regarding the histological diagnosis
           of the excised polyp and the type of polypectomy (although it is true that it is
           difficult to blind this last point since the presence of heat artifacts in those removed
           with a hot handle is very frequent). The samples sent for centralized analysis will not
           be stored, but will be destroyed once the study is completed according to standard
           protocols.

      Sample size Assuming a proportion of incomplete polypectomies in both groups of 10% (using
      the taking of biopsies as a diagnostic pattern) and setting an equivalence limit of 7%, a
      total of 315 lesions per group are estimated to have an α risk of 5% and a power of 80%.
      Assuming a proportion of losses (polyps not recovered for histological study, polypectomies
      of the failed Cold group of 20%), an estimated 394 lesions per group are needed, with a total
      of 788 lesions in total.

      Data Collection All the variables concerning the characteristics of the endoscopist, the
      patient and the injuries included will be collected in each center. The variables related to
      the histological diagnosis will be collected in the same way in the respective center. The
      variables concerning the follow-up will be collected in a centralized manner, through a
      telephone call that will be made between 3 and 4 weeks from the procedure. The variable
      related to the histological study of the base of the polyp will be collected in a centralized
      manner by the pathologist in charge of the analysis of the samples.

      6. Data management

      Data from the data collection notebooks will be merged by the main researcher or
      collaborating researchers anonymously, encrypted and dissociated from the clinical
      information by means of a patient identification code (ID), in an online database. A copy of
      the database will be used in each participating center, which will be merged after completing
      the data collection. The responsible researcher will define an ID for each participant. The
      data entered in the database will be anonymous and the database will be protected with a
      password to which only the researchers will have access.

      The unified file will be kept at the Río Hortega University Hospital and will be maintained
      until the end of the study. Regarding the application of the Organic Law on Data Protection
      15/1999 and 1720/2007 that develops it, it should be noted that the protocol defined in the
      project oriented to epidemiological analysis, determines that the files will record
      information completely anonymized

      7. Statistical analysis

      The Access program (Microsoft Corporation, Edmond, USA) will be used for the realization of
      the database and the statistical analysis of them will be carried out through the STATA
      program (StataCorp, 2013. Stata Statistical Software: Release 13. College Station, StataCorp
      LP). In the quantitative variables, the arithmetic mean and the standard deviation will be
      calculated (variables that do not follow a normal distribution according to the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be described with median, minimum, maximum and interquartile
      range), and the qualitative ones will be expressed as percentages and your 95% confidence
      intervals.

      The analysis of the primary objective, the proportion of incomplete polypectomies in both
      groups will be compared by means of the z test of homogeneity without using the correction of
      Yates.

      The confidence interval of the difference between the two groups will also be estimated. The
      analysis will be carried out by intention to treat, regardless of the type of polypectomy
      performed and per protocol (assigning the lesions assigned to the group Cold that are
      extirpated with hot snare to the Hot group). To evaluate possible confounding factors
      (endoscopist, nurse, snare type, location ...), the STATA confound user command will be used,
      defining as a significant change that which conditions a change in the odds ratio greater
      than 10% with respect to the one obtained with the complete model. In case several models do
      not present differences greater than 10%, the most parsimonious will be chosen.

      Within the secondary objectives, the proportion of complications in both groups will be
      verified by the de2 test. To evaluate the factors associated with incomplete polypectomies
      and those associated with failed cold polypectomy, multivariate logistic regression
      techniques will be used.
    
  