
    
      This study is a phase II, open-label study to investigate the bioactivity and
      pharmacodynamics of intravitreous ranibizumab in subjects with macular edema due to central
      and branch retinal vein occlusion. This pilot study will enroll 40 patients, 20 with central
      vein occlusion and 20 with branch vein occlusion. Each patient will receive three (3)
      injections of 0.5 or 0.3 mg of ranibizumab. The study consists of a 2-week screening period
      (Days -14 to -1), a 3-month treatment period, and a 9-month follow-up period. Consented
      subjects will enter the 14-day screening period to determine eligibility, including serum
      chemistry and hematology testing, urinalysis, pregnancy testing, and macular thickness based
      on optical coherence tomography measurements and fluorescein angiography. Patients who have
      reduction of visual acuity to 20/40 or worse due to foveal thickening from macular edema
      secondary to central or branch retinal vein occlusion and who meet eligibility criteria will
      be invited to enroll in the study. Baseline foveal thickness by OCT must be at least 250 um,
      which is often associated with VA of 20/40 or worse and provides sufficient thickening so
      that a treatment effect is easily detectable (Nguyen et al. 2004). Every effort will be made
      to recruit and enroll eligible patients from men and women of all ethnic and social
      backgrounds. It is expected that the 40 study subjects will be recruited over a 4-month
      period. Patients who meet entry criteria will be able to enroll in the study until the quota
      of patients has been achieved. All enrolled patients will receive either 0.5 or 0.3 mg
      injections of ranibizumab. Forty eligible subjects who have provided informed consent from
      one site (Wilmer Eye Institute at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions) will be enrolled,
      20 with central vein occlusion and 20 with branch vein occlusion. In each of the 2 groups, 10
      patients will be randomized to 0.5 mg of the ranibizumab, and 10 will be randomized to 0.3 mg
      of ranibizumab. Subjects will be identified and recruited through the clinic population of
      the Wilmer Eye Institute, including that of the Vitreoretinal Service and the Retinal
      Vascular Center, as well as through referral from physicians in the community. Announcement
      of the study will be made throughout the Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University
      School of Medicine through newsletters, pamphlets, and the clinical trials web site on the
      internet and intranet systems. Information about the study will also be sent to the community
      physicians as well as the ophthalmologists who often refer patients to the Wilmer Eye
      Institute. Every effort will be made to enroll eligible patients from men and women of all
      ethnic and social backgrounds.
    
  