
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to determine whether carrageenan nasal and throat sprays reduce the
      risk of COVID-19 infection in healthcare professionals. The secondary objective is to
      determine whether carrageenan nasal sprays attenuate the severity and/or duration of symptoms
      in COVID-19 infection.

      To gain maximum value from this study, we will take the opportunity to address two additional
      objectives where new knowledge could provide important insights into predictive factors for
      infection and severity:

        -  To determine whether any investigations or questionnaire findings in this trial offer a
           predictive value for acquiring COVID-19 infection or determining severity and/or
           duration of resultant infection

        -  To determine any associations between symptom severity and/or duration and prognosis in
           healthcare professionals with COVID-19.

      Study Design:

      The study design consists of a double blind, randomised placebo-controlled trial. Of the 480
      healthcare professionals recruited, 240 participants will be randomly allocated to each of
      either the treatment arm (verum Coldamaris plus i.e. Iota-carrageenan 0.12% in 0.5% saline)
      or placebo (Coldamaris sine i.e. 0.5% saline) arms. Participants will use the spray
      prophylactically into each nostril and throat three times per day for 8 weeks, during which
      time the participants will be invited to complete a daily symptom tracker questionnaire.
      COVID-19 infection during the trial period will be confirmed using viral PCR swabs (if
      symptomatic), SARS-CoV-2 serology at 14 days following onset of symptoms as well as trial
      entry and exit serology to detect asymptomatic infection during the study period.

      Allocation to each group, treatment or placebo administration and data analysis will be
      blinded to both participant and investigator. The primary outcome measure will be acquisition
      of COVID-19 infection as confirmed by positive PCR swab taken at the time of symptoms or
      positive serology measured 2 weeks after symptom onset or seroconversion at the end of the
      trial (via trial entry and exit serology) to detect asymptomatic infection during the study
      period. COVID-19 Core Outcome Measures in Effectiveness Trials (COMET) core outcome sets
      (COS) will be adhered to. Secondary outcome measured will include symptom types, severity and
      duration (recorded by the daily symptom tracker questionnaire), hospital admission and length
      of stay, oxygen saturation and radiological lung changes on admission, need for ventilatory
      support (oxygen therapy, CPAP, intubation & ventilation), haematological changes, intensive
      care admission and length of stay, mortality, subsequent familial/household COVID-19
      infection and acquisition of non-COVID-19 upper respiratory tract infections.

      Deliverables:

      5. This trial will help us to determine whether carrageenan nasal sprays significantly affect
      the primary outcome measure of acquisition of COVID-19 infection as confirmed by positive PCR
      swab taken at the time of symptoms or positive serology measured 2 weeks after symptom onset
      or at the end of the study.

      6. It will also determine the effect of carrageenan nasal sprays on secondary outcome
      measures which include types, severity and duration of symptoms, hospital admission and
      length of stay, need for ventilatory support and intensive care admission, mortality as well
      as familial or household COVID-19 infection and acquisition of other respiratory tract
      infections.

      7. We will also investigate whether haematological changes (FBC, CRP, U&E, Ferritin, LFT,
      LDH, Clotting, D-dimer, FDP, Vitamin D level) and demographic questionnaire findings can
      offer a predictive value for acquiring COVID-19 infection or determining severity and/or
      duration of resultant infection.

      8. To determine any associations between symptom severity and/or duration and prognosis in
      healthcare professionals with COVID-19.
    
  