
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate durable overall response rate with atezolizumab plus cobimetinib in patients
      with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) resistant or refractory to prior PD-1 or
      PD-L1 therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate of atezolizumab plus cobimetinib in patients with
      metastatic NSCLC resistant or refractory to prior PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy.

      II. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of atezolizumab plus cobimetinib in
      patients with metastatic NSCLC resistant or refractory to prior PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy.

      III. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) of atezolizumab plus cobimetinib in patients with
      metastatic NSCLC resistant or refractory to prior PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy.

      IV. To evaluate the duration of response (DOR) of atezolizumab plus cobimetinib in patients
      with metastatic NSCLC resistant or refractory to prior PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy.

      V. To evaluate the grade 3 and 4 toxicity rate in patients with metastatic NSCLC resistant or
      refractory to prior PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy when treated with atezolizumab plus cobimetinib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the consequences of treatment with atezolizumab plus cobimetinib on the tumor
      microenvironment in patients with metastatic NSCLC resistant or refractory to prior PD-1 or
      PD-L1 therapy.

      II. To correlate genomic characteristics including tumor mutation burden to response to
      therapy with atezolizumab plus cobimetinib in patients with metastatic NSCLC resistant or
      refractory to prior PD-1 or PD-L1 therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, and
      cobimetinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90 days.
    
  