
    
      Stigma and fear of stigma are widespread among Veterans with PTSD and both have pernicious
      effects on Veterans' well-being and participation in mental health treatment. Internalized
      stigma is a harmful consequence of societal stigma, and has been associated with decreased
      hope, self-esteem, personal motivation, morale, self-regard, and persistence regarding
      illness management among individuals with a range of mental illnesses. Internalized stigma
      also has negative impacts on the recovery and well-being of Veterans with PTSD specifically,
      but no evidence-based interventions are currently available to assist Veterans with PTSD in
      combatting the impact of internalized stigma. Therefore, the purpose of this proposal is to
      develop and pilot-test an intervention to provide Veterans with PTSD the skills to cope
      effectively with stigma and to mitigate the internalization of stigmatizing beliefs and
      stereotypes. To that end, the investigators will modify Ending Self Stigma (ESS), an
      intervention composed of evidence-based strategies for combating internalized stigma for
      mental illness developed by the investigators' team, to specifically serve the needs of
      Veterans with PTSD.

      This proposed project is composed of two phases. In Phase I, the investigators will produce
      an intervention and accompanying manual for the PTSD version of ESS (ESS-P), based upon the
      strategies and structure of the existing ESS intervention. To this end, the investigators
      will interview Veterans with a PTSD diagnosis to learn more about their experience with
      societal and internalized stigma associated with PTSD, plus other considerations and issues
      in addressing internalized stigma with such Veterans. Information gleaned in these
      qualitative interviews will form the basis of the investigators' adaption of the ESS
      intervention to specifically address the needs of Veterans with PTSD. In Phase II, the
      investigators will pilot-test ESS-P with Veterans who have PTSD, to evaluate the feasibility
      and acceptability of the intervention. In addition, the investigators will preliminarily
      estimate the effects of ESS-P through comparison to a control group receiving only an
      informational brochure on internalized stigma associated with PTSD. These feasibility,
      implementation and pilot outcome data will be used to further refine the intervention,
      towards the goal of conducting a future larger scale study of ESS-P within the VA system.
    
  