
    
      Twin pregnancies carry higher risks of maternal, fetal and neonatal adverse outcomes compared
      to singleton pregnancy.They are associated with increased perinatal morbidity and mortality,
      anemia, pregnancy- induced hypertension, increased incidence of cesarean section (CS),
      postpartum hemorrhage, prematurity and low birth weight and Increased rate of perinatal
      death.

      This multicenter study aims at assessing the natural history of twin pregnancy, and
      developing a machine learning-based algorithm to predict clinical outcomes of twin pregnancy
      during pregnancy and delivery and to determine management strategies that are associated with
      best maternal and neonatal outcomes.

      Medical records of eligible women will be reviewed, and data abstraction will be performed
      using a standardized excel sheet designed for this study. Target data include baseline
      demographics and clinical data (e.g. age, parity, ethnicity, smoking, IVF pregnancy, history
      of gynecologic surgeries, type of twin pregnancy, current medical disorders, current
      obstetric complications, fetal anomalies, administration of antenatal steroids, Placental
      site, and twin-specific complications). Information from serial ultrasound reports including
      fetal growth and Doppler studies will be collected and data on fetal intervention will be
      abstracted. Peripartum data include node of delivery, Method of induction, CS indication, and
      type of cesarean incision. Clinical outcomes include postpartum hemorrhage, and perinatal
      death, admission to neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), neonatal need for respiratory
      support, neonatal intracranial hemorrhage, neonatal respiratory distress syndrome and
      neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy. Data will not include any identifiable information.

      Prediction model will be created using baseline demographic and obstetric features of
      pregnancy and individual maternal and perinatal complications will be set as outcomes
      (dependent variables). A composite outcome of major maternal and neonatal outcomes will be
      created separately.
    
  