
    
      Chronic refractory cough in adults is defined as a cough lasting more than 8 weeks that does
      not resolve with treatment for asthma/eosinophilic airway disease, gastroesophageal reflux
      disease (GERD), or rhinosinusitis/post-nasal drip; and is not caused by smoking,
      angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, or parenchymal lung disease. This is one of
      the most common conditions leading to specialty referral accounting for about 20% of new
      pulmonary consultations. Chronic refractory cough leads to severe impairment of quality of
      life and social isolation as well as sleep deprivation and chronic fatigue. The few available
      treatments have limited benefit and substantial side effects or abuse potential. While there
      are validated tools to measure the health-impact of chronic cough which can provide feasible
      clinical trial outcome measures, there have been no academic multi-center trials of chronic
      cough, and guidelines for treatment continue to rely largely on opinion rather than evidence.
      ZICO is a small scale randomized proof-of-concept clinical trial to establish the safety and
      tolerability of zinc in this population. The primary outcome measure will be the Cough
      Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire (CQLQ). Participants will be 18 years or older, with
      chronic cough lasting at least 3 months, which has been unresponsive to treatments for
      asthma, GERD or other upper airway disease. Individuals that are current smokers, use an ACE
      inhibitor, currently take zinc supplements (or multivitamins with zinc), or whose medical
      history includes primary parenchymal lung disease, congestive heart failure, chronic kidney
      disease, or another medical condition that could interfere with the study or are pregnant or
      breast-feeding will be excluded. Participants will be randomized to receive 6 weeks of
      treatment with either zinc acetate or placebo. Follow-up assessments will occur at 1, 3, 6
      and 8 weeks after randomization; the final assessment is after a two week washout to
      establish the duration of treatment effect. In addition to completing a daily cough diary,
      participants will complete cough specific and general quality of life measures, complete
      spirometry testing and have serum zinc and copper levels measured.
    
  