
    
      If you agree to participate in this study you will be asked to fill out a screening
      questionnaire to determine if you can participate. No additional screening tests or
      procedures will be necessary prior to your participation in this study.

      If the screening questionnaire shows that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study, you will be scheduled to undergo your PET/MRI in conjunction with your PET/CT. If you
      do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in this research
      study.

      After th screening procedures confirm that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study:

        1. You will schedule your PET/CT examination with the MGH radiology department according to
           the orders and instructions of your oncologist (cancer doctor)

        2. Study personnel will coordinate the scheduling of your PET/MRI examination to coincide
           with date and time of your PET/CT examination

        3. Following the performance of your PET/CT examination you will be transported (with your
           accompanying family member(s)) to the Charlestown Navy Yard MGH imaging facility where
           you will undergo your PET/MRI examination. No additional dose of radioactive tracer (a
           substance which is labeled with a radioactive molecule that can be tracked within your
           body based on the radiation it emits) will be given as part of your PET/MRI examination

        4. The PET/MRI will take up to 60 minutes to complete and after it is completed you will be
           free to go

        5. The PET/MRI images will be interpreted by physicians (trained radiologists) as part of
           the study analysis; however no report of the findings will be made available to you. You
           will have access to the results of the PET/CT examination as you would any other
           clinical imaging examination.

        6. If you are willing, with each subsequent PET/CT examination you undergo while enrolled
           in the study, you will also undergo a PET/MRI examination

        7. The study will last for 12 months, after which time you will no longer be enrolled
    
  