
    
      Patients

        -  This was a randomized controlled trial conducted at a single institute, which was
           Yokohama City University Medical Center (Japan).

        -  80 patients who had transverse colon or descending colon cancer were randomly allocated
           to receive laparoscopic surgery or conventional open surgery.

      Surgical procedures

        -  All surgical procedures were performed by one specialized colorectal treatment team. The
           laparoscopic surgeries were performed by a surgeon who passed the skill accreditation
           system for laparoscopic gastroenterological surgery was established by the Japanese
           Society for Endoscopic Surgery (JSES), and all open surgeries were performed under the
           supervision of these skillful surgeons.

        -  All operations were performed according to the standard radical cure procedure described
           in the seventh edition of the Japanese General Rules for Clinical and Pathological
           Studies on Cancer of the Colon, Rectum and Anus. That is, intestinal excision with lymph
           node dissection that separated the feeding blood vessel at its origin was performed in
           all surgical procedures. Patients who underwent palliative partial excision were not
           included.

        -  In the laparoscopic surgery, a medial-to-lateral approach was performed in all patients.

        -  In the conventional open surgery, the first procedure was done in lateral approach. The
           reconstruction techniques were the same as those used in laparoscopic surgery.

      Randomization - To balance the operative backgrounds between the laparoscopic and the
      conventional open surgery groups, the patients were stratified by the tumor location
      (transverse colon, descending colon).

      Adjuvant therapy

        -  When the pathological stage was diagnosed as stage 3 by histological examination of the
           resected specimen, adjuvant chemotherapy was done with oral fluoropyrimidine anti-cancer
           drug.

        -  Neither radiation therapy nor preoperative chemotherapy was given to any patient.
           Preoperative chemo-radiotherapy even for rectal cancer is not yet standard treatment in
           Japan.

      Assessment parameters

        -  The preoperative parameters

        -  Operative assessment parameters

        -  Postoperative assessment parameters An early postoperative complication was defined as a
           complication that occurred between the finish of the operation and postoperative day 30.
           A late postoperative complication was defined as a complication that occurred after
           postoperative day 30. The terminologies of complications were classified according to
           the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, and grading was
           done by Classification of Surgical Complication.

        -  The pathological results were recorded according to the 7th edition of the Japanese
           General Rules for Clinical and Pathological Studies on Cancer of the Colon, Rectum and
           Anus and 7th edition of primary tumor, regional nodes, metastasis (TNM) classification.
           Circumferential margin involvement was defined as exposure of a cancer cell at the
           vertical dissection surface on histological examination.

        -  Quality of life (QOL) scores. The QOL score was measured using the 36-item Short Form
           Health Survey (SF-36) version 2.0. It is a tool that measures health-related QOL (HRQOL)
           according to an inclusive standard and not a disease-specific standard. The SF-36 is
           composed of 36 questions. The score is expressed numerically by the provided scoring
           algorithm. SF-36 questionnaires were sent to the patients at one month, 6 months and one
           year after the surgery by postal mail. A return envelope was enclosed with the SF-36
           questionnaire, and the patient sent it back to the research secretariat by postal mail.
           A questionnaire on the defecation situation and wound pain besides the SF-36 was added
           all three times. The question of when complete rehabilitation occurred was added in the
           questionnaire at one year.

      Follow-up schedule

      - The follow-up schedule was as follows according to stage. Patients with stages 0 and I were
      followed up with outpatient examinations including tumor marker measurements, and chest,
      abdominal and pelvic computed tomography (CT) once a year for five years. Patients with stage
      2 and 3a were examined by CT and tumor marker measurements every six months for the first two
      years. These examinations were done once a year from the third year to the fifth year.
      Patients with stage 3b and 3c were examined by CT and tumor marker measurements every four
      months for the first two years, and every six months from the third year to the fifth year.

      Statistical analysis

        -  The primary endpoint was early complication rate.

        -  The secondary endpoints were 5-recurrence-free survival, 5-year overall survival, length
           of postoperative hospital stay, and HRQOL score. To evaluate whether a difference in the
           operative procedure influences survival including death due to another disease, a
           comparison of overall survival has meaning. Early complication rate, length of
           postoperative hospital stay and HRQOL score were added to the secondary endpoints
           because these parameters had a possibility of becoming grounds of selection of the
           operation method if there were no differences in overall survival and recurrence-free
           survival.

        -  A sample size of 74 patients was assured to achieve a power of more than 70% to detect a
           difference between the groups using a two-sided Chi-squared test with type I error rate
           equal to 0.2, when the true complication rates were 20% and 40% for the laparoscopic and
           open surgeries, respectively. The dropouts were considered and the number of
           accumulation targets was assumed to be 80 patients.

        -  For continuous variables, data are presented as means ± standard deviation (SD). For
           categorical variables, data are presented as frequencies and percentages (%). Comparison
           of the endpoints was based on intention-to-treat principle, that is, the patients who
           switched to another group during surgery were treated as members of the allocated group.
           The Chi-squared test was applied to evaluate the significance of differences in
           proportions, and t-test was used to evaluate the significance of differences in
           continuous variables. A p-value of less than 0.05 was considered to be statistically
           significant.
    
  