
    
      The research gap in the treatment of suicidality is considerable, particularly with military
      populations, including those returning from deployment in support of OIF/OEF. Only one
      randomized clinical trial targeting suicidality has been conducted with a military sample
      (Rudd et al., 1996). Although time-limited treatment of suicidality is the primary target of
      the project, additional elements will be explored including prospective investigation of
      suicide risk factors and warning signs, as well as development of a centralized software
      assessment/management tracking system for high-risk suicidal individuals. Reference to
      "active duty" refers to U.S. military service members that have been activated and deployed
      as a part of OIF/OEF in accordance with federal orders under Title 10 or 32, Unites States
      Code. This includes individuals on active duty from the National Guard and Reserve forces.

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of brief cognitive-behavioral therapy (B-CBT)
      for the treatment of suicidality, including suicidal ideation and attempts (regardless of
      Axis I or II diagnosis) among active duty military personnel. It is anticipated that a large
      percentage of those identified for treatment will include military personnel recently
      returned from OIF/OEF. The standard null hypothesis will involve tests conducted comparing
      improvement following B-CBT (treatment duration of 12 weeks) to treatment as usual (TAU). The
      primary outcome comparisons will include both direct markers of suicidality (i.e. suicide,
      suicide attempts) and indirect markers including associated symptomatology (i.e. suicidal
      ideation, intent, anxiety, depression, hopelessness, substance abuse, agitation, and sleep
      disturbance), along with remission of psychiatric diagnoses.

      Specific Aim 2: To engage in prospective investigation of suicide risk factors (i.e.
      psychiatric diagnosis and history, suicidal ideation, intent, anxiety, depression,
      hopelessness) and warning signs (i.e. agitation, sleep disturbance), exploring their ability
      to predict subsequent suicidal behavior following onset of suicidality.

      Specific Aim 3: To explore the effectiveness of B-CBT (versus TAU) for increasing appropriate
      utilization of and compliance with medical, mental health, and substance abuse treatment, as
      well as improving psychological and social functioning.

      Specific Aim 4: To develop a risk management software program for the initial risk
      assessment, ongoing monitoring and clinical management of high-risk suicidal patients. The
      software program would provide a mechanism for organizing and tracking clinical risk factors
      and warning signs for suicide, along with appropriate management and clinical intervention
      strategies during the treatment process.
    
  