
    
      There is a substantial need for new biomarkers in the study of cystic fibrosis (CF) lung
      disease. Conventional endpoints, such as rate of FEV1 decline, require prolonged trials and
      large sample sizes to demonstrate therapeutic efficacy. Ideally such biomarkers would provide
      a quantitative window to the most basic aspects of CF pathophysiology, allowing for the
      development and evaluation of therapies prior to large scale clinical trials. The basic
      defect of CF lung disease occurs in the airways where dysfunction of the cystic fibrosis
      transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) and epithelial sodium (ENaC) channels is thought
      to create an ionic gradient that causes excessive liquid absorption across the epithelium.
      This results in a dehydrated airway surface liquid (ASL) layer, defective mucociliary
      clearance, and an increased proclivity for infection and inflammation.

      Aerosol-based methods have been developed to measure mucociliary clearance in the lung and
      used to demonstrate the efficacy of inhaled osmotic therapies. We have developed an aerosol
      technique to measure both mucociliary clearance and the absorptive clearance of a hydrophilic
      small molecule (diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid or DTPA) in whole, central, and peripheral
      lung regions. We estimate DTPA absorption by delivering an aerosol containing both Indium 111
      DTPA (In-DTPA) and Technetium 99m sulfur colloid (Tc-SC) to the airways. The clearance of
      each radiopharmaceutical is imaged independently and two separate clearance curves are
      calculated. In-DTPA is cleared through both absorption and mucociliary clearance while Tc-SC
      is cleared only through the mucociliary route. The difference between the clearance rates of
      the radiopharmaceuticals provides an estimate of In-DTPA absorption rate.

      Our previous studies have demonstrated that absorption of In-DTPA occurs at a higher rate in
      central (airway dominated) lung zones of CF subjects compared to controls (42 vs. 32 %/hr, CF
      n= 9, control n=10, p=0.03). We believe that this increased In-DTPA absorption is being
      caused by the increased liquid absorption occurring in these airways, however there are other
      potential causes such as increase in tight junction permeability or epithelial denuding.

      In this study we propose to measure In-DTPA absorption after the delivery of interventions
      known to affect liquid absorption in the airways to see if changes in In-DTPA absorption
      mirror the changes in liquid absorption known to be caused by the interventions.
    
  