
    
      Observational studies and clinical trials have demonstrated that clinicians fail to intensify
      therapy in hypertensive management despite patients not meeting goal. For this reason,
      patient centered tools can help facilitate meeting goals with the provider. Web-based
      communication combined with provider care management successfully lowered blood pressure to
      <140/90 mm Hg in prior studies of patients with hypertension. Emerging technology now
      provides the ability for patients to upload self-measured home blood pressure information
      into their own medical record which may eliminate the need for additional health personnel.
      This study will investigate the feasibility of health informatics to facilitate better
      compliance and safety for both provider and patient for hypertension management. The home
      blood pressure readings along with patient reported symptoms will be recorded using the
      MyChart, a web-based tool available to all patients receiving care at Loyola University
      Medical Center. MyChart can be accessed with a hand-held device or home computer. After
      enrollment, patients will receive a notice every two weeks via MyChart to upload home blood
      pressure values and patient reported symptoms. This information entered into MyChart by
      patients will be placed into the electronic health record in a home vital signs flow sheet,
      which will be separate from the flow sheet of vital signs measured in the clinic. Physicians
      will receive an alert message when patients upload the blood pressure data. The alert message
      will provide physicians with the average blood pressure value over the two weeks and will
      provide simple guidance on whether actions, such as titrating existing medication should be
      taken (based on whether BP is ≥ 140/90 mmHg). Patients will also be able to track their own
      home blood pressure values using the MyChart application. As a first step, we are first
      examining the feasibility of this web-based application and determining the perceptions of
      both patients and physicians.
    
  