
    
      C.2 Subject Inclusion and Assessments Overall study design: Non-EC-naïve smokers or
      e-cigarette users (n=20) will abstain from tobacco smoking/nicotine products for 5 days prior
      to each PET scan. In a randomized order (counterbalanced), after baseline quantification of
      receptor availability, subjects will be scanned while using an EC: (1) "JUUL" 5%, a common
      commercially available unmodified nicotine salt EC, and (2) JUUL 3%, a lower nicotine
      strength product. A third optional scan where subjects smoke a cigarette may be conducted but
      is not required. During scanning, subjects will undergo arterial blood nicotine level
      measurements following EC use and measures of nicotine withdrawal, craving, and drug effects
      will be measured. 5-7 days of smoking abstinence will be required prior to each PET scan to
      ensure no residual nicotine occupies receptors. Subjects will go back to smoking as usual
      after first scan for 2-3 weeks prior to subsequent smoking abstinence/PET scanning. Subjects
      will be provided with smoking cessation resources upon request.

      C.2.b Subjects: Twenty non-EC-naïve tobacco dependent smokers or e-cigarette users will be
      recruited for the study. All research subjects will be recruited under guidelines of the Yale
      University Institutional Review Board (Human Investigation Committee). Smokers will be
      recruited from the community via IRB-approved advertising. After completing informed consent,
      subjects will have a psychiatric, physical and neurological examination, laboratory tests and
      an electrocardiogram (EKG) (see C.2.c Clinical Assessments below). This is considered the
      screening phase. Subjects will be excluded for major medical, neurological or psychiatric
      illness, abnormal laboratory tests, or contraindication to PET or MR imaging. A urine drug
      screen and pregnancy test are performed at screening and prior to each imaging session and
      participants are excluded for a positive test. Detailed inclusion/exclusion criteria can be
      found in Protection of Human Subjects section. All women will be required to have a negative
      urine pregnancy test and all subjects are required to have a negative urine drug toxicology
      test prior to radiotracer administration.

      C.2.c Clinical Assessments: A standardized battery will be administered to all subjects at
      intake including Health Questionnaire, the SCID, assessments of demographics, measures of
      tobacco use, alcohol and drug use, family history of smoking, mood (PROMIS short forms for
      depression, anxiety, and anger), Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale), anxiety
      (State Trait Anxiety Inventory), impulsivity (Brief - Barratt Impulsivity Scale, smoking
      dependence (PROMIS nicotine dependence scale), smoking craving (Tiffany QSU) and withdrawal
      (Minnesota Nicotine Withdrawal Scale). Mood and smoking assessments will be repeated on each
      scan day before and after challenge. Product liking, craving and the Drug Effects
      Questionnaire (DEQ) will be assessed on a subjective scale (0-100, low-high) immediately
      following product use. The DEQ will measure acute effects consisting of seven items: drug
      strength, high, feeling stimulated, good effects, bad effects, wanting more drugs, and drug
      liking.

      Baseline and after each PET scan/e-cig challenge:

        -  Health Questionnaire

        -  PROMIS Dyspnea Severity Item Pool

        -  PROMIS Dyspnea Characteristics

        -  PROMIS Fatigue Short Form

        -  Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) Cough item

        -  The health questionnaire titled 'assessment of health problems' (and provided as an
           attachment via a comment in IRES) will be added to the protocol and will be completed at
           intake and before each exposure. Note that potential subjects with chronic symptoms that
           would interfere with monitoring of vaping complications, will not be enrolled.

      Positive findings of a change in symptom or single severe symptom would trigger clinical
      referral to a treating physician or the emergency room.

      C.2.d Contingency Management: All smokers/e-cigarette users will be helped to remain
      abstinent for 5- 7 days prior to each PET scan with highly successful contingency management
      techniques that have been used extensively in the laboratory before. Subjects will return to
      smoking use as usual after the first PET scan and repeat smoking abstinence prior to the next
      PET scan. This technique has been successful in the past to study nicotine occupancy of
      receptors after multiple challenges by recruiting smokers who are non-treatment seeking.
      Subjects will be met daily over the course of abstinence provide support and obtain CO and
      urine cotinine levels to ensure smoking abstinence. Subjects who are not able to abstain from
      tobacco smoking (2 consecutive days without a decrease in urine cotinine levels or a sudden
      increase in urine cotinine or CO levels) will be withdrawn from the study.

      C.2.e - MRI/cognitive testing Subjects will be asked to go to the MRRC at The Anlyan Center
      for Medical Research & Education (TAC, 300 Cedar Street) to have an MRI (Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging) scan of their brain. The purpose of the MRI is to help us identify the different
      regions of their brain on the PET scans.

      The MRI scan is a routine way to get pictures of the inside of the body. Subjects will be
      asked if they are carrying any metallic objects before they move toward the MRI system. These
      objects will be held for them in a locked cabinet in the MRI Center to avoid having these
      objects fly toward the magnet when they approach it. They will also be asked to walk through
      a metal detector. They will be asked to lie still in the MRI scanner for about 30 minutes.
      The scanner looks like a deep tunnel. They will be inside the tunnel from head to knees. They
      will not be able to see out of it, but they will be able to hear us and be heard if they wish
      to say anything. They will hear a drumming noise when the camera is taking pictures of their
      brain. If they feel uncomfortable during the scan, the scan will be ended at any time they
      wish. However, if they cannot complete the MRI scan, they will not be able to participate in
      any more of these studies.

      Two sessions of testing of their memory, attention, and concentration may take place. This
      will take approximately 1hr total. They will be given a break between these sessions. This
      may take place on the same day as the MRI scan, or on another day prior to PET scans if that
      works better with their and staff schedule.

      During this visit, they may play a computer game called the Face Game. The goal of the Face
      Game is to win as much money as possible. They may earn money by quickly and correctly
      pressing one of two keys on the keyboard, each time they see a face on the screen. They will
      press one key if they think that the mouth on the face is long, and the other if they think
      it is short.

      Cold Pressor Task Subjects may also be asked to participate in the cold pressor task during
      the study to test the body's physiological response to cold water. They will be asked to
      immerse your hand in a bucket of ice cold water maintained at 0-4°C. They will be told to
      raise their other hand when they begin to feel pain and to remove their hand from the water
      when they can no longer tolerate the pain. While their hand is immersed in water, they will
      also be asked to rate their pain on a scale from 0-100 and their heart rate and blood
      pressure will be monitored.

      Impulsivity Subjects may be asked to play a game in which they will use a computer mouse to
      click a balloon pump that inflates a balloon on the screen. The objective of the task is to
      get the largest amount of the money possible while avoiding balloon explosions. This
      assessment tests their impulsivity. They may be asked to play this game on the day of their
      PET scan too.

      C.3. PET Imaging Procedures PET procedures will be conducted at the Yale University PET
      Center. Female subjects will be given a urine pregnancy test prior to the initiation of any
      imaging procedures. If the test is positive, the scans will be canceled. Subjects will
      receive a minimum of 2 and maximum of 3 PET scans. The 3rd scan is optional.

      PET scans: Prior to the PET scans, a T1-weighted MRI will be acquired for all subjects on a
      3.0 Tesla Siemens Trio camera to rule out any brain abnormalities and for anatomical
      reference in the image analysis.

      PET scans are acquired as subjects lie supine on the scanner bed. Venous catheters will be
      used for intravenous administration of the radiotracer, and possibly for additional venous
      blood sampling. A radial artery catheter will be inserted by an experienced physician before
      the PET scan to draw arterial blood samples for metabolite analysis and for determination of
      the fraction of plasma radioactivity unbound to protein.

      Infusion of the radiotracer takes 210 minutes (3.5 hours). Subjects will be scanned for 2
      hours (starting 90 minutes after initiation of radiotracer infusion).

      [18F]NCFHEB will be synthesized and administered on PET scan days as a bolus plus constant
      infusion with a Kbol of 360 minutes over 3.5 hours. PET data will be acquired on the MCT. A
      6-min transmission scan will be acquired at the beginning or end of each PET scan to correct
      for attenuation. Arterial blood samples will be taken to obtain a metabolite-corrected
      [18F]NCFHEB input function. Baseline receptor availability will be measured 90-120mins after
      radiotracer infusion. Then, subjects will start a challenge (NIDA EC or JUUL EC,
      counterbalanced order) at 125min for 5 minutes in the scanner. Thereafter, post nicotine
      scanning will continue until end of 4 hrs of infusion. Vital signs (blood pressure, pulse,
      respiration) and ECG's will be obtained before and after radiotracer administration. The same
      procedures will follow for the 2nd PET scan.

      Use of EC: Subjects will receive 2 different scans and will puff one of two EC products (in
      random order, counterbalanced): "JUUL" 5% (50 mg/ml), a common commercially available
      unmodified nicotine salt EC, and (2) JUUL 3% (30 mg/ml), a lower nicotine strength product.
      Only tobacco flavor will be used. A training session to familiarize smokers with the EC
      product used in the study will be conducted at an appointment prior to the PET scans.
      Subjects will be advised to take longer and slower puffs from the EC (at least 3-4 seconds)
      as compared with puffing a cigarette. During each scan, subjects will be instructed to puff
      on the EC for up to 5 minutes. All users will be directly observed during EC use to ensure
      they do not have any problems operating the device. If available, a mouthpiece to measure
      puff topography may be used as previously described.

      Use of Regular Cigarette: A third PET scan using a regular cigarette may be offered for
      cigarette smokers but is not required for study completion.

      Blood Samples: On PET scan days, arterial blood samples will be collected prior to
      radiotracer administration and at multiple time points (t = 0, 0.3, 1, 3, 5, 10, 20, 30, 60,
      90 minutes post challenge) after EC/cigarette use to determine nicotine concentrations in the
      blood, which will be assayed using liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry with
      deuterated internal standards.47 These data will be used to calculate pharmacokinetic
      patterns of nicotine delivery under each condition (Cmax, Tmax, and AUC for nicotine).

      Image Analysis and Outcome Measure: List-mode PET data will be reconstructed with OSEM with
      built-in corrections for attenuation, normalization, scatter, randoms, deadtime and subject
      motion.53,54 Following image reconstruction, a summed image will be registered to the
      subject's MRI. Regions of interest (ROIs) will be anatomically defined using a template
      [Anatomical Automatic Labeling (AAL)] coregistered to the subject's MRI image. ROIs used for
      calculation of receptor occupancy will be: cerebellum, frontal, parietal, temporal, and
      occipital cortices, caudate, putamen, hippocampus, and amygdala. These regions are chosen
      because they were previously examined in β2*-nAChR studies, have significant density in the
      human brain, and are relevant to the craving and withdrawal properties of nicotine. The
      thalamus will not be included because equilibrium is not reached in this region with the
      bolus-infusion paradigm. The volume of distribution VT will be estimated using the
      equilibrium ratio between total radioactivity concentration in tissue and parent
      concentration in arterial plasma. Baseline VT will be estimated from 90-120 min after
      infusion start, previously shown to establish good equilibrium in brain Post-ECig VT will be
      estimated from 180-210 minutes after infusion start (55-85 minutes post challenge). Prior
      preliminary data show that this is a sufficient amount of time for a new steady state to be
      achieved. Receptor occupancy and VND will be estimated using the Lassen plot approach.
    
  