
    
      Purpose Influenza is a disease of global importance, having caused three pandemics in the
      20th Century. Although concerns persist about a new pandemic, possibly from an avian
      influenza A strain, more people died during the 20th Century from seasonal epidemic influenza
      than from any single pandemic, thus global preparedness must address both epidemic and
      pandemic influenza. It is generally believed that if a pandemic emerges, an efficacious
      vaccine will either not be either generally available or broadly protective. Additional
      strategies are required for effective control. Neuraminidase inhibitors, including
      oseltamivir, have shown efficacy in limited controlled trials against both human influenza,
      and have been used in avian influenza cases. Numerous questions, however, persist about the
      extent of their efficacy. These include whether or not they are effective if given after 48
      hours post-symptom onset, whether they reduce the duration and titre of viral shedding, their
      effect on transmission to household contacts, and how quickly - or even if - resistance will
      emerge in a high endemic setting during seasonal use. Finally, clinical trials to date have
      used small samples sizes under controlled settings in industrialized countries. There are no
      data on the efficacy of neuraminidase inhibitors in over-crowded urban settings with rates of
      influenza and other respiratory infections, like Dhaka, Bangladesh. The findings from this
      study will enable better assessment of the performance of neuraminidase inhibitors under the
      conditions similar to those from which a global pandemic is likely to occur.

      This study will evaluate whether oseltamivir is effective at reducing illness and household
      transmission during the seasonal influenza epidemic in a crowded urban setting in Dhaka,
      Bangladesh.

      Design/Methods This will be a double-blind placebo randomised controlled clinical trial that
      will identify study subjects in clinic who present with signs/symptoms suggestive of
      influenza. Patients will be screened using a commercial rapid diagnostic test of high
      sensitivity and specificity (QuickVue A + B, Quidel, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA), and their
      status will be confirmed using RT-PCR. Rapid test-positive patients will be randomised to
      oseltamivir or placebo for the standard twice daily, five-day course. A total of 512
      PCR-confirmed patients will be recruited and treated. Patients will provide nasopharyngeal
      specimens on the day of presentation (day 0), and on days 2, 4 and 7 to determine duration of
      viral shedding. All patients will be followed up at home daily by field research assistants
      (FRAs), who will monitor their progress using standardised forms, and refer back to clinic
      anyone who meets criteria for treatment failure. Once a patient meets criteria for recovery,
      they will be referred back to clinic for an exit interview with the physician. At the end of
      the study, comparisons will be made between groups on duration of illness, duration of viral
      shedding and household and inter-household transmission rates, as well as whether there were
      differences between those who started oseltamivir < 48 hour or ≥ 48 hours from the onset of
      illness.

        1. Requirements for subject population, rationale for use: The influenza virus, once
           suspected to primarily attack older persons, is now recognised to cause more illness in
           children, particularly those < 5 years. Indeed, both hospitalisation rates, serious
           complications, and even mortality among healthy children < 5 years approach those of
           older persons with chronic conditions that place them at high risk [1]. Children are
           also the most potent spreaders of influenza infection in the community [2]. However, in
           order to model the impact of neuraminidase inhibitors on duration of illness, and
           especially on intra and inter-household transmission, the entire age spectrum must be
           examined, as in the early stages of an epidemic, adults may be among the first to show
           infection signs and seek treatment, even though children will be more important in the
           spread of the epidemic in its early stages [3].

        2. Potential risks, likelihood, seriousness and impact of methodology: The risk is greater
           than minimal, in that oseltamivir is not routinely prescribed for influenza infection in
           Bangladesh, and as with any licensed drug, there are potential side effects, the most
           common being gastrointestinal upset, nausea and vomiting - all of which are rare but
           reported, as well as sleep or behaviour disturbances, which are even less common and not
           causally linked to oseltamivir. Likewise, nasopharyngeal washes and swabs are not
           routinely collected in Bangladesh, and cause minor discomfort during the procedure,
           however complications, primarily from nasopharyngeal swabs, such as nosebleeds, are also
           uncommon. There are no alternatives to these procedures for these samples, which are
           needed to document whether a person had influenza and for how long.

        3. Procedures for minimising risks, effectiveness assessments: 1) All physicians have been
           trained on the procedures for specimen collection, as this has been ongoing in Kamalapur
           since 2004. A refresher course will be provided to all study physicians prior to the new
           study to ensure correct procedure. 2) All physicians will be trained about potential
           side effects, and will relate these to the patients and their caregivers, as they
           currently do with any medication. 3) FRAs will be trained to look for signs of illness
           as well as complications to the medication during their daily home visits, and will
           refer back to clinic any patient with signs suggestive of complication (e.g. skin rash,
           repeated vomiting).

        4. Confidentiality and anonymity: All patient information, which is recorded on a case
           report form, (CRF) will be kept in a locked cabinet. Only project staff will see it.
           Patients' name and other potential identifiers will be removed from data shared in
           public fora. Published data will be aggregated and anonymised.

        5. Description of consent procedures: One consent form will be for household consent for
           participation in weekly home visits for influenza surveillance, and collection of
           samples for rapid diagnostics (nasal swab) and nasopharyngeal wash or nasopharyngeal
           swab specimens for index cases, and for subsequent household suspected cases (Household
           consent, Appendix 1), This form will be obtained by the field research assistant (FRA),
           as are all surveillance forms used in Kamalapur. This is the same format as the current
           influenza surveillance for children < 5 years of age. The FRA will read the consent form
           in its entirety to any responsible adults (those with legal responsibility for the
           children in the home, or if there are no children, for home itself) in the home, and
           answer their questions using standardised responses (key points). The second consent
           form will obtain consent for the index case to receive antiviral or placebo
           administration, and to provide subsequent NPW or NPS specimens on days 2, 4 and 7
           (Oseltamivir Study, Appendix 2). A study physician will obtain this consent form in
           clinic. If the subject (index case) is an adult (age ≥ 18 years), consent will be
           obtained from the subject himself/herself; if the subject is a child, consent will be
           sought from his/her parents or legal guardian. The Oseltamivir study consent form
           readability score is Flesh-Kincaid Grade level = 7.8. An Assent form will be read to
           children aged 7-14 years. The Assent form readability score is Flesh-Kincaid Grade level
           = 5.6. The methodology of obtaining consent for both forms will be standardised. The FRA
           using the home visits consent form, or the study physician using the antiviral
           administration form, will read the entire consent form to the patient or parent if the
           patient is a minor, as this is an illiterate population. If parents have questions, the
           study physician will provide clarification of the consent form from a standardised set
           of key points that cover each section of the consent form. Patients, or parents if the
           patient is a minor, who indicate that they understand and agree to the terms of the
           study will be asked to provide written consent. If they cannot sign the form, a thumb
           impression will be taken.

        6. Interviews: The only interviews will be those conducted in the home by the FRA to either
           screen for illness or follow-up ill patients at home, and will focus on illness signs
           using standardised screening calendar questionnaires or follow-up questionnaires. The
           other interviews occur in clinic with the study physician, and again focus on history of
           present illness, past medical history, physical exam, follow-up and an exit interview,
           as described above. These physician-patient interviews are fundamentally the same as
           between any physician and patient, except that they are standardised.

        7. Potential benefit to individual and society, risk/benefit: Patients may receive direct
           benefit if they receive the treatment drug, including a mild reduction in the duration
           of influenza symptoms. In addition, household members of persons treated with
           oseltamivir may experience fewer influenza illnesses, if transmission is reduced.
           Patients will receive routine medical care regardless of treatment group, even if they
           refuse to participate in the study. The daily home follow-up by the trained FRA is
           another benefit, as she can help to identify any signs indicating the need for medical
           attention. The information collected will be valuable to inform future pandemic planning
           in Bangladesh and globally, as there is no information available for this regimen from
           the developing world. The potential and real benefits thus outweigh the potential and
           real risks.

        8. Drug status: Oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) is not an experimental drug, but is US Federal Drug
           Administration (FDA) approved, having passed Good Clinical Practices licensing trials,
           under the terms for use as in this trial. Furthermore, oseltamivir is manufactured by
           Roche Pharmaceuticals, which has a branch in Bangladesh, which currently supplies local
           pharmacies with the drug for sale.

        9. Experimental new drugs: N/A

       10. Placebo, indications for use in the study: In order to objectively demonstrate the
           efficacy of the drug on duration of illness specifically, but household transmission
           more generally, both patient and observer have to blinded to the intervention, as
           knowledge of intervention assignment can affect recorded outcome (observational bias).
           Although it is known that oseltamivir affects illness duration under controlled settings
           and in settings with lower disease burden than those documented in Dhaka, Bangladesh, it
           is not known how effective it will be under these conditions, nor is it known whether it
           will work for patients who present later in the illness (≥48 hours). For this reason,
           patients will be allocated to a study arm by pre-allotment using block randomisation,
           along with the blinding by use of a placebo. No patient will be denied standard of care,
           as any focal illness, such as pneumonia, bronchitis, bronchiolitis, otitis media,
           sinusitis, or other common complications of influenza and similar pathogens, will be
           treated with standard, WHO-recommended or approved regimens.

       11. Experimental 'new' drug sponsorship: N/A

       12. Use of records, organs, tissues, body fluids, and faetus/abortus: The study will acquire
           nasopharyngeal wash and/or swab specimens, the objective of which is to collect
           nasopharyngeal epithelial cells, which will be used in cell culture to isolate influenza
           virus. The purpose of isolating the influenza virus is to validate whether or not a
           patient actually had influenza, and if so, for how long was it shed.
    
  