
    
      Breast cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in women, which is a serious threat
      to women's health. Despite the continuous improvement of treatment, 30% of breast cancer
      eventually develops into advanced breast cancer. The median survival of advanced breast
      cancer after routine treatment is 2-3 years. The main treatments include chemotherapy,
      endocrine therapy, and targeted therapy. The treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC) aims
      to improve quality of life, reduce pain and prolong survival.

      Angiogenesis plays an important role in tumor cell proliferation and metastasis. Various
      anti-angiogenic drugs such as bevacizumab, sunitinib, sorafenib, etc. have been developed and
      widely used in various tumors. Treatments such as colon cancer, lung cancer, and renal cell
      carcinoma significantly improve PFS and OS in patients with advanced disease, and the adverse
      reactions are well tolerated. However, anti-angiogenic therapy has certain limitations in the
      treatment of advanced breast cancer.

      Anrotinib hydrochloride capsule is a new drug independently developed in China. It is a
      multi-target receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting angiogenesis-related kinases such
      as VEGFR1/2/3, FGFR1/2/3 and other kinases such as cell growth-related kinases such as
      PDGFRα/β, c-Kit, and Ret , and it was approved by China Food and Drug Administation for the
      treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who have
      progressed or relapsed after receiving at least 2 systemic chemotherapy. Basic research shows
      that anlotinib is effective in breast cancer cell lines, but lacks the results of clinical
      application of advanced breast cancer. This study is based on the results of phase I clinical
      trials of allerinib in a variety of advanced solid tumors, to explore its efficacy and safety
      in HER2-negative advanced breast cancer.
    
  