
    
      There is no data regarding success rates and incidence of carotid punctures during central
      venous cannulation (CVC) in pregnant patients. We hypothesize that because of the anatomical
      and physiological changes associated with pregnancy, these patients are at higher risk of
      procedure failure and carotid puncture than the general population. The purpose of our study
      is to determine the success rate and incidence of carotid punctures using an
      ultrasound-simulated procedure in pregnant and non-pregnant patients.

      Pregnant patients and adult female volunteers (controls) were recruited. Subjects were placed
      supine with wedge under the right hip, and head turned 35 degrees to the left. Two different
      approaches for CVC, the central landmark and the palpatory approach were used. The ease of
      identification of the landmarks was noted. CVC was simulated using an ultrasound probe, on
      pre-marked points. Ultrasound images were obtained, within the same parasagittal plane,
      directed 30 degrees caudad, in a manner simulating how a syringe and needle would be placed
      for central venous cannulation. The investigator placing the probe was blinded to the image
      being generated. The vertical cursor of the ultrasound, which serves to delineate the path of
      a needle, was placed in the image. If the cursor intersects the vein, the attempt is
      considered successful. If the first attempt is not successful, the investigator placing the
      probe was asked to redirect the probe to the second and if necessary to the third marked
      point. This was done for each approach. If the cursor intersects the carotid artery, the
      attempt is considered an accident and no further attempts were made. In addition to
      determining the success rate and the incidence of carotid punctures, the relative position of
      vein and artery was studied in each patient. For each approach, the best image was recorded,
      and three experienced anesthesiologist scored the images for vein and artery degree of
      overlapping.
    
  