
    
      Value of the study:

      There is a growing evidence-base for the use of music in healthcare settings, with music
      already demonstrated to reduce stress, distress and the perception of pain in some clinical
      contexts. Yet, there is a lack of studies examining the impact of live music in paediatric
      emergency contexts.

      A literature review revealed that there is a lack of studies examining the impact of live
      music in paediatric emergency contexts.

      Related studies either used recorded music in the place of live music, or, if live music was
      used, then it was within a non-emergency setting.

      The Music:ED study will therefore use a controlled experimental design to investigate the
      impact of using therapeutic live music in the Alder Hey Paediatric Emergency Department to
      reduce pain and distress during interventional procedures.

      The outcomes of the study will provide evidence for the use of live music in the PED to
      support and enhance patient experience. Distress is often particularly high within the
      emergency department. If a patient's experience whilst attending the Emergency Department can
      be less traumatic, this will be of benefit to all: patients, families and clinicians. A
      patient who is less distressed is more cooperative and may be easier and quicker to treat.

      Methodology and Methods

      Research Question:

      Does live music decrease the pain and distress of patients undergoing a procedure within the
      paediatric emergency department?

      Aims of the Study:

      The aims/objectives include:

        1. To explore whether live music helps to decrease pain and distress in patients in the
           Paediatric Emergency Department

        2. To explore whether procedures can be carried out with greater ease from a clinician's
           perspective and whether staff experience of the situation is impacted by the presence of
           live music.

        3. Exploring the overall impact on the ED experience from the patients, families and
           clinicians' perspectives.

      Methodological Approach:

      A mixed method design has been chosen to provide the investigators with different forms of
      data and insights from multiple practitioner, parent and patient perspectives throughout the
      experience.

      Quantitative data includes collecting information about the patient's pain levels using both
      self-assessed pain scores (Wong Baker scoring) and assessed pain scores (FLACC pain tool).

      Qualitative data will be collected from open response questionnaires to explore patient
      distress and the practitioner, parent and patient perspectives on the experience.

      Methods:

      There will be an experimental (live music) and a control (no live music) group. Research
      Nurses will identify appropriate patients using a screening tool that will outline the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. Participant Information Sheets (PIS) will be provided to
      patients and their families for their appropriate ages. They will be offered a copy of the
      results if they would like and will be told how the results will be reported when the study
      is completed.

      After gaining written consent from the parent and written or verbal assent from the child,
      Wong-Baker pain scoring methods will be explained in advance of the procedure.

      Necessary data will be collected for the Case Report Form (CRF).

      The participant's involvement in the study will be limited to the length of time of their
      Emergency Department visit, so will be just one day and one procedure.

      For the experimental (music) group, Cascade's musicians will spend eight weeks, twelve hours
      per week in the ED and will aim to recruit all eligible children during that period. As this
      is a pilot study recruitment targets need to remain flexible, but are estimated at 60-80
      participants (per group).

      The same number of participants will be recruited to the control (no live music) group as a
      comparison, on days that the musicians are not in the department. All patients in both groups
      will continue to receive standard care. Each child can only be in the study once and for one
      procedure. Patients will be free to withdraw from the study at any time.

      Following the procedure and interviews, patients involved will be offered a sticker and a CD
      of calming music recorded by Cascade Music as a thank you for their participation. For
      ethical reasons, this will not be mentioned in advance.

      Methods of data collection and analysis

      Three sets of data will be collected:

        1. Quantitative: Self-reported pain. A validated observational tool will be used: Wong
           Baker Faces. This is suitable for children age 3+. As children self-report, the Research
           Nurse will collect this data on a paper CRF. Wong Baker scores will be collected before,
           during and after the procedure. If mid-procedure collection of pain score is
           inappropriate, then participants can be asked about mid-procedure pain scores after the
           procedure.

           A self-reported pain score will also be taken in advance, during the recruitment
           process, to provide a baseline measure.

        2. Quantitative: Observed pain. Data will be collected on observed pain levels using a
           validated observational tool: Faces, Legs, Activity, Cry and Consolability (FLACC) pain
           assessment tool.

           This tool is suitable and validated for all ages of the recruited participants, from 6
           months until 16 years. References regarding justification of this scale for these age
           ranges are below.

           Scoring will take place before, during and after the procedure. The Research Nurse will
           carry out this scoring, and when available, an independent observer from the Emergency
           Department staff will also. The Research Nurse will collect this data on the paper CRF.

           Heart rate will also be monitored throughout, where a child is cooperative enough. HR
           will be noted approximately every two minutes before, during and after procedure,
           (cleaning marks the beginning of the procedure, final bandage/dressing marks the
           completion). The Research Nurse will note HR data on the CRF. There will be an option
           for the Research Nurse to record 'not available' for heart rate measurements either
           because child refuses or because of probe or monitor issues etc.

        3. Qualitative: Distress and experiences of patients, families and clinicians. Outcome
           measures will include collecting qualitative information on patient's distress, and
           patients', families' and clinician's Emergency Department experience. All recruited
           patients will receive a paper questionnaire with open text response options.

      Qualitative questions for Experimental AND Control Groups:

      The following two questions will be asked of both the experimental (live music) AND control
      (no live music) groups. The questions will be asked of each of these two people: patient and
      parent/legal guardian.

      'Please answer the following questions, in particular, in regard to distress levels/lack of
      distress':

        -  Qualitative question 1. What do you think helped you/your child during their procedure?

        -  Qualitative question 2. Did anything make the situation worse?

      Qualitative questions for Experimental Group Only:

      Within the experimental group only, the following three additional questions will be asked,
      via a paper questionnaire, of each of these three people: patient, parent/legal guardian and
      clinician. These questions directly link to the objectives of the study.

      These questions are in particular regard to music, which is why they would not be appropriate
      to be asked of the control (no live music) group.

        -  Qualitative Question 1. How did you feel the music affected the child's distress before,
           during and after the procedure?

        -  Qualitative Question 2. Can you tell me about how the live music helped or hindered the
           procedure?

        -  Qualitative Question 3. Can you tell me about your experience of the ED (Emergency
           Department) today, in particular in regard to the music?

      The qualitative questions will be included in a open ended questionnaire style sheet which
      the parent, child or practitioner if the parent wishes, can fill out between the end of the
      music intervention and when they are discharged from the ward. It will be collected by the RN
      and stored in a secure room in a locked filing cabinet.

      Target population and sampling This will be a single centre study. Study participants for
      both the control and experimental groups of the study will be recruited from AHCH Emergency
      Department. The study population will consist of children between the age of 6 months and 16
      years needing to undergo a painful procedure from a specified list. The Research Nurse will
      use a screening tool to assess eligibility within this age group.

      Necessary data will be collected for the CRF (Case Report Form) by the Research Nurse:

      CRF:

        -  Patient's name

        -  Patient's age

        -  Patient's gender

        -  Parent(s)/legal guardian in attendance during procedure (names)

        -  Whether or not the patient has had this procedure before

        -  How many times the child has visited the hospital in the last 12 months

        -  Have they had an upsetting hospital experience in the past? Yes or no

        -  Record a Wong-Baker pain score at this point (for children age 3+) as a baseline measure

        -  Record whether patient has had analgesia in advance, or during hospital visit

        -  Record use of local anaesthetics e.g EMLA/ametop, LAT gel, cold spray (ethyl chloride)

        -  Record use of Entonox during the procedure

        -  Record if other distraction methods were also used (Play
           Specialist/books/bubbles/IPad/TV/ IPhone/ staff dancing and singing, etc)

        -  Record whether the procedure was successful

        -  Record the duration of the procedure (cleaning marks the beginning of the procedure,
           final bandage/dressing marks the completion)

        -  Record how many attempts were required to carry out procedure

        -  Record the role and grade of the Clinician carrying out the procedure

        -  Record heart rate at 2-minute intervals if tolerated. Include option for the research
           nurse to record 'not available' for heart rate measurements either because child refuses
           or if probe or monitor issues etc

        -  Record whether there is an independent observer present. If so, who?
    
  