
    
      The goal of this study is to explore whether it is possible to add a drug called necitumumab
      to standard treatment for patients with squamous cell lung cancer that can be surgically
      removed. This study is important because it will determine whether there is added benefit to
      giving necitumumab with chemotherapy before surgery. It is currently already known that
      chemotherapy given before or after surgery has better outcomes compared to only receiving
      surgery. Results from this study may help to develop more effective treatments for patients
      with squamous cell lung cancer.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved necitumumab in combination with
      chemotherapy drugs called gemcitabine and cisplatin to treat stage IV or metastatic squamous
      cell lung cancer, but the FDA has not approved necitumumab to treat squamous cell lung cancer
      that can be surgically removed.

      Analyzing the tumor cells from many cases of squamous cell lung cancer has shown that this
      cancer often has a special protein called EGFR. Necitumumab is a drug that targets EGFR.

      Results from a recent medical study showed that patients with stage IV or metastatic squamous
      cell lung cancer who received necitumumab with gemcitabine and cisplatin showed a small, but
      significant, improvement in survival. We believe trying to gather more information about the
      way necitumumab interacts with cancer cells will help to learn how to use necitumumab more
      effectively.

      This study will allow to see the effects of treating an earlier stage of squamous cell lung
      cancer using necitumumab with gemcitabine and cisplatin. It will also allow us to better
      analyze tumor cells after they have been treated with necitumumab and chemotherapy that are
      obtained after surgical resection. Other blood samples that will be drawn during the
      treatment will also allow to see the effect of necitumumab on both the body and the tumor
      cells and to observe any side effects that may result from this treatment.
    
  