
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The incidence of acute kidney injury (AKI) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery can reach
      35% and between 2 and 5% require kidney replacement therapy during the AKI episode. The
      development of AKI n this context is independently associated with higher long-term mortality
      (5-10 years). In addition, there is strong evidence that an episode of AKI in the hospital
      increases the risk of developing chronic kidney disease in the medium-long term. That is why
      the prevention of AKI is essential to reduce the morbidity that these patients suffer in the
      hospital and out-of-hospital environment. On the other hand, once AKI has been recovered
      according to creatinine values, there are no established biomarkers to predict patients at
      risk of progression to chronic kidney disease, which will allow us to increase
      nephroprotection and surveillance measures in this group of patients.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Open-label randomized unicentric prospective study of patients undergoing valvular
      replacement heart surgery ± coronary bypass with acute kidney injury (AKI) risk >30%
      according to the Leicester Cardiosurgery scale. Patients will be randomized 1:1 in two
      groups: standard hemodynamic management or intensive hemodynamic management based on
      premorbid mean perfusion pressure (MPP). The interventional period will span from
      intra-operation until the first 24 hours postoperative. The incidence of AKI will be
      evaluated according to KDIGO criteria between 48 hours and 7 days after surgery. Patients
      will be followed for one year. Biomarkers of mitochondrial damage will be analyzed at various
      points during the follow-up to patients presenting AKI. Intention to treat population will be
      defined as patients who sign informed consent and undergo planned surgery.

      INTERVENTIONS-ANALYSIS:

      A) Group 1/Intensive management: Baseline mean blood pressure (MAP) and central venous
      pressure (CVP) will be measured to calculate baseline mean perfusion pressure (MPP).
      Intra-surgical values of ± 25% basal MAP will be maintained and once in the ICU an algorithm
      corresponding to group 1 based on cardiac index and ± 25% MPP will be followed for 24 hours.

      B) Group 2/Standard management: MAP during surgery will be maintained > 60 mmHg according to
      usual protocol. Once in ICU, during the first 24 hours an algorithm corresponding to group 2
      based on cardiac index, MAP and CVP will be followed. Biomarkers of mitochondrial damage will
      be determined in urine in patients in both groups only in patients developing AKI according
      to KDIGO guidelines between 48h and 7 days. The following variables will be assessed in both
      groups: accumulated fluid balance in first 24 hours, ICU /hospitalization length of stay,
      days with vasoactive support, MAKE (Major Adverse Kidney Events: mortality, need for renal
      replacement therapy, persistent renal dysfunction) at 30, 90 and 365 days and other AKI
      episodes at one year. In the patients who develop AKI, urinary markers of mitochondrial
      injury will also be measured at 30 days.

      EXPECTED RESULTS:

      A 50% reduction in the incidence of AKI in the intervention group compared to the control
      group is expected. At the same time, markers of mitochondrial damage are expected to be
      validated in our cohort as biomarkers of AKI progression and to investigate its usefulness as
      biomarkers of transition to Chronic kidney disease.
    
  