
    
      Although ALF is truly an orphan disease affecting only about 2,000 persons per year, its
      severity, its frequency among young adults, and its high resource utilization justifies the
      attention paid to it. In addition, ALF has captured the interest and attention of researchers
      because of its unique pathogenesis and extreme severity, encouraging us to understand the
      processes underlying all forms of liver injury, by focusing on this most lethal
      manifestation.

      The etiologies associated with ALF have continued to change further over the years with an
      apparent decline in viral hepatitis, and a remarkable increase in acetaminophen toxicity to
      its current level of ~44-50% of cases. A further problem in studying ALF is that the number
      of cases of a specific etiology observed at any one institution are vanishingly small. The
      earliest goals of the ALF Study then were to more carefully define the etiologies of ALF on a
      national scale, and to finally allow in-depth study of specific ALF causes such as autoimmune
      ALF, viral hepatitis and Wilson disease (WD).

      A second group of patients worthy of study are those with acute liver injury.It would be of
      value to study patients destined to possibly have ALF earlier in their illness for several
      reasons: first, we might be able to better predict who will progress to full liver failure;
      second, the current definition requiring encephalopathy limits the number of patients
      available for study at any site; finally, therapeutic trials might have greater efficacy if
      begun at earlier disease stages.

      Patients who are enrolled are referred to ALFSG clinical sites by
      gastroenterologist/hepatologist and fellows. Detailed clinical data and bio-specimen (sera,
      urine, plasma, DNA and tissue if available) are collected. Subjects are followed long-term at
      6 months and 12 months. Detailed clinical data and sera are collected.
    
  