
    
      This is a randomized multi-center study. Randomization will be stratified on two major
      prognostic factors:

        -  The BRCA mutation (germline or somatic)

        -  the serous high or low grade histological subtype of histological se topical (defined
           according to morphological-well-differentiated criteria, low to moderate atypia, <3-4
           mitoses/10 fields-and immunohistochemical-RO - strong p16/p53 low) At J0, after
           obtaining informed consent or within 7 days, patients will be randomized in one of the
           two arms (intervention group/standard group).

      In the intervention arm, patients will perform a ca125 dosing ,/he4 dosage, a thoraco
      abdomino pelvic CT scan after contrast product injection and a full-body MRI (T2, DW and T1
      sequences after fat saturation before and after gadolinium injection) with a maximum of 15
      days between the two examinations, and will complete the HAD and EQ5D self-tests. A senior
      radiologist from each center will perform a prospective reading of each of the imaging. For
      any suspicious anomaly identified, the following criteria will be analyzed: Size, location,
      number, scalability, contrast taking after injection, MRI signal (T2, Diffusion, Dynamic
      Enhancement Curve). The RECIST criteria (version 1.1) will be applied.

      In the standard arm, patients will perform a dosage of CA 125 (HE4 dosage), complete the HAD
      and EQ5D self-questionnaires, and the patient will be managed according to the INCa 2018
      recommendations.

      In the case of clinical abnormality (symptoms such as pain, transit changes, increased
      abdominal volume; or abnormality in clinical examination such as palpation of a mass,
      carcinosis nodule or suspicious adenopathy), marker elevation (CA125 >2N and/or 70 IU/L, HE4
      > 140 pmol/L) and/or imaging (read by a senior at the center), the patient will be referred
      to the Multidisciplinary Consultation Meeting (PCR) for management according to the INCa 2018
      recommendations.

      In the case of a biopsy or surgery recommendation, it will be performed within a maximum of 2
      months (according to the recommendations of good practice).

      In common practice, the diagnosis of recurrence is often based on obvious imaging elements
      (RECIST criteria) without histological evidence. It is only in uncertain cases that a biopsy
      will be performed or a diagnostic surgery, so in this study it will be placed as in current
      practice without adding procedures that are not performed in common practice to start a new
      treatment.

      In terms of the management of recidivism, this is the most complex element because it is
      difficult to homogenize all attitudes. Indeed, many studies are still underway to define the
      best ways to manage recurrences with contradictory results (such as DESKTOP III in favour of
      new complete secondary surgery and the study by Coleman et al published in the NEJM in
      11/2019 which does not find this advantage). The purpose of this study is not to be not to
      define (or impose) optimal support (which has yet to be defined). In addition, this study is
      in real life and the modalities of care can change over the duration of the study.

      We will therefore follow the main standard principles of the management of recidivism based
      on the characterization of platinosensitivity according to recurrence at less than 6 months,
      6 to 12 months or more than 12 months of recidivism. Surgery will be considered if it is a
      localized recurrence, accessible for complete resection and less than 6 months delay compared
      to the last platinum chemotherapy (use of the AGO score).

      Cost-utility analysis and AIB The economic assessment will be conducted in accordance with
      the recommendations of the HAS (updated) and the CHEERS collaboration, by measuring
      prospectively on the population study population the costs and outcomes at 24 months and
      extrapolating them over a lifetime.

      We will carry out a cost utility study, based on the measurement of survival and quality of
      life from the EQ 5D. We will estimate a cost-utility incremental ratio and conduct a
      probabilistic sensitivity analysis to locate the systematic imaging surveillance strategy at
      cost-effectiveness.

      For the economic assessment, we selected two perspectives, the collective perspective and the
      perspective of Medicare. The measurement of route efficiency will be based on an analysis of
      the different costs from a community perspective and an analysis of clinical effectiveness in
      real life and will be supplemented by a budgetary impact analysis from the perspective of
      Medicare. The time horizon for the main study ranges from inclusion to 2 years with secondary
      modelling over the whole life, with an annual discount of costs and benefits at 4% for the
      first 30 years, 1.5% then according to the latest recommendations of the HAS.

      The data will be analyzed for all patients included in the study, based on the principle of
      the intention-to-treat analysis. We plan to perform sub-analyses based on BRCA (germinal or
      somatic) stratification and histological serous subtype.

      The reference intervention is the usual management of patients with a dosage of CA 125 (OR/-
      dosage of HE4) and management according to the INCa 2018 recommendations according to the
      results. The procedure studied is also a dosage of CA125 (HE4 dosage), followed by a thoraco
      abdominopelvic CT scan after contrast product injection and a whole body MRI. Management will
      be decided on the basis of the results of the examinations
    
  