
    
      Background

      Chronic cold agglutinin disease (CAD) is mediated by monoclonal cold-reactive autoantibodies
      that bind to erythrocyte surface antigens, causing hemagglutination and complement-mediated
      hemolysis. Anemia is severe in one-third of patients (hemoglobin level 8.0 g/dL or lower).
      Cold-induced circulatory symptoms are present in more than 90% of patients and may be
      disabling. CAD not associated with overt lymphoma or other disease has traditionally been
      classified as primary or idiopathic. A monoclonal lymphoproliferative bone marrow disorder
      can, however, be demonstrated by flow cytometry in 90% and by histology in approximately 75%
      of these patients, characterized by clonal proliferation of CD20+, kappa+ B-cells.

      Approximately two-thirds of the patients experience exacerbation during febrile illnesses.
      During steady-state CAD, a majority of patients have low levels of complement proteins C3 and
      C4 because of a continuous consumption. These low levels, in particular low C4 availability,
      seem to be rate-limiting for hemolysis and prevent full-blown activation of the complement
      cascade with C5 cleavage and intravascular hemolysis. During acute phase reaction, C3 and C4
      levels increase due to an enhanced production, resulting in exacerbation of hemolysis.

      Counseling on cold avoidance has been recommended as the treatment of choice for most
      patients with primary CAD. A systematic review showed, however, that in more than 70% of
      cases, the physician and/or the patient did not perceive such measures as sufficient). Many
      standard therapies used in other autoimmune diseases or indolent lymphomas are inefficient,
      e.g. corticosteroids, alkylating agents, interferon-α and, probably, purine analogue single
      agent therapy. Treatment with the chimeric monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody rituximab has been
      shown in prospective studies to induce remission in more than half of patients. Almost all
      responses were partial, and the median response duration was less than one year. In a
      subsequent, prospective non-randomized trial of fludarabine and rituximab combination therapy
      in 29 patients, 22 patients (76%) responded, 6 (21%) achieving CR and 16 (55%) achieving PR.
      Among 10 patients non-responsive to rituximab monotherapy, CR was observed after the
      combination therapy in one patient and PR in six. Median increase in Hb level was 3.1 g/dL in
      the responders and 4.0 g/dL among those who achieved CR. Median time to response was 4.0
      months. Lower quartile of response duration was not reached after 33 months, and estimated
      median response duration was more than 66 months. Targeting the pathogenic B-cell clone
      efficiently seems important for the achievement of remission.

      Though the rituximab-based therapies have been a first major achievement in therapy for CAD,
      some problems remain to be solved. First, a considerable number of patients do not respond to
      rituximab monotherapy. Second, although the use of fludarabine and rituximab in combination
      has resulted in high response rates and prolonged response duration, toxicity is significant
      and there are still some non-responders. Third, the therapeutic approaches should probably be
      individualized; e.g., fludarabine therapy may bring about problems in the younger patients
      because of late-occurring adverse events and in the older ones because of short-term
      hematologic toxicity.

      The antineoplastic drug, bendamustine hydrochloride, combines the 2-chlorethylamine group of
      the nitrogen mustard derived alkylating agents with the benzimidazole ring structures of the
      purine analogue. Bendamustine has been shown to be highly active in a variety of
      lymphoproliferative disorders. The combination of bendamustine and rituximab has produced
      high overall and complete response rates and prolonged remissions with only moderate and
      manageable toxicity in Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, which is closely related to primary
      CAD. In an attempt to improve on the therapeutic efficacy achieved with the rituximab-based
      regimens and the toxicity profile of the fludarabine-rituximab combination, the investigators
      want to study the safety and efficacy of bendamustine and rituximab combination therapy in
      patients with primary CAD.

      Clinical study

      The study is a prospective, non-randomized multicenter trial designed to investigate the
      efficacy and safety of bendamustine and rituximab combination therapy in patients with CAD
      requiring treatment.

      Because of the low prevalence of CAD, it will be unrealistic to undertake a statistically
      robust randomized study. The investigators aim to include 50 patients during a study period
      of three years.

      2.1 Study objective

      The objective is to assess safety and efficacy of combination therapy with bendamustine and
      rituximab in patients with CAD.

      Primary endpoints: Rate of complete and partial responses, respectively. Secondary endpoints:
      Time to response; time to best response; hematological toxicity grade 4; frequency of dose
      reduction; response duration.

      2.2. Ethics

      The trial will be carried out in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and the current
      statutory requirements and legislation in the participating countries. The study has been
      approved by the relevant Medical Research Ethics Committees, the Norwegian Medicines Agency
      and the relevant regulatory authorities of each participating country. Data will be recorded
      anonymously, but a numeric code will be assigned in order to be able to track the data. All
      investigators as well as the ethics committees and relevant health authorities, however, will
      have access to the source data. The principal investigator in each country will establish
      monitoring of the study by an independent monitor as required.

      2.3 Study design

      Prospective, non-randomized international multicenter study.

      2.4 Study population

      In principle, individuals aged at least 18 years can be included, although enrollment of
      patients younger than 40 years is unlikely due to the age-specific prevalence of the disease.

      3 The drugs

      3.1 Rituximab

      Rituximab is a humanized, chimeric monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody. Treatment with rituximab is
      considered an established, not experimental therapy for CAD, and involved physicians and
      nurses should be familiar with its administration, therapeutic and adverse effects and safety
      issues. In particular, they should be able to identify and manage any infusion-related side
      effects.

      3.2 Bendamustine

      Bendamustine is the experimental drug of this trial, marketed by Mundipharma/Norpharma. The
      drug is approved in the participating countries for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma,
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma. It is a cytotoxic agent combining the
      2-chlorethylamine group of the nitrogen mustard derived alkylating agents with the
      benzimidazole ring structures of the purine nucleoside analogues. Precautions and warnings
      include the possibility of myelosuppression, infections, skin reactions, caution in patients
      with cardiac disorders, nausea, vomiting, tumor lysis syndrome (very unlikely in primary
      CAD), anaphylaxis and extravasation.

      4 Inclusion of patients.

      Examination at inclusion

      4.1 History.

      Clinical and radiological examination Year of first occurrence of clinical symptoms is
      registered along with data on hemolytic anemia, circulatory symptoms, cold- or fever-induced
      exacerbation, previous therapies, lymph node enlargement and spleen enlargement (clinical
      assessment). Chest radiograph and abdominal ultrasonography should be done if not already
      performed during the last four months.

      4.2 Blood tests

      Hemolysis is detected and quantified based on Hb, MCV, reticulocyte count (x 109/L), LDH,
      bilirubin and haptoglobin. These measurements should be done twice during the last two months
      before treatment.

      Hematological, biochemical and immunological assessments should be done once at inclusion + 2
      weeks:

        -  WBC, leukocyte differential count, platelet count

        -  Iron, transferrin (or TIBC), ferritin, cobalamine and folate

        -  CRP

        -  Quantification of IgM, IgG and IgA Serum electrophoresis for detection and
           identification of monoclonal immunoglobulins (including immunofixation when appropriate)

        -  Cold agglutinin titer

        -  Specific direct antiglobulin test (DAT, direct Coombs' test), i.e. using polyspecific
           antiserum, anti-C3d and anti-IgG)

        -  Complement assessments (C3 and C4)

        -  CMV and VZV antibodies

        -  Serological tests for hepatitis B and C

        -  Freezing of 5 ml EDTA-blood for possible later DNA-based studies

           5 Therapy

      Treatment schedule Day 1: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 1-2: Bendamustine; dosage: see Section 5.2
      Day 29: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 29-30: Bendamustine; dosage: see Section 5.2 and 5.4 Day 57:
      Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 57-58: Bendamustine; dosage: see Section 5.2 and 5.4 Day 85:
      Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 85-86: Bendamustine; dosage: see Section 5.2 and 5.4 5.2 Initial
      bendamustine dose Patients with no previous cytotoxic therapy and no history of
      myelosuppression receive bendamustin at an initial dose of 90 mg/m2 day 1 and 2 (dose level
      A).

      In patients who have been previously treated with a fludarabine-containing regimen, the
      initial bendamustine dose is 70 mg/m2 day 1 and 2 (dose level B).

      In patients who have previously received myelosuppressive agents other than purine analogues,
      the choice of initial dose level A or B is based on an individualized assessment.

      Bendamustine solution for infusion should be prepared according to the manufacturer's
      recommendations. The solution should be administered by intravenous infusion over 60 minutes.
      Antiemetic prophylaxis is given according to local routines or based on an individualized
      assessment.

      Rituximab should be administered according to the manufacturer's recommendations and the
      routines of the participating hospital. Rapid (90 minutes) infusion is allowed during cycle
      2-4 provided there has been no infusion-related adverse event during the preceding rituximab
      infusion.

      For drug stability reasons, an in-line blood warmer should not be used for the infusion of
      bendamustine or rituximab. The infusion solution should have room temperature; and the
      patient, in particular the extremity chosen for infusion, should be kept warm during the
      procedure.

      Dose adjustments

      In case of significant toxicity, the dose of bendamustine should be reduced as specified by
      protocol. Any adverse event should be recorded in the appropriate CRF. For reporting of SAEs
      and SUSARs, see Protocol

      6 Follow-up

      6.1 Follow-up first 6 months after therapy

      A) The following measurements must be done monthly during the first six months after the last
      cycle of any combination therapy:

      I) All measurements listed in Paragraph 6.1.B.

      II) In case of reduction of a previously elevated IgM level to the normal range, serum
      electrophoresis and immunofixation should be performed at the next visit.

      III) Number of blood transfusions after the previous monthly visit. B.) At the fourth monthly
      visit after completion of the last combination therapy cycle, bone marrow biopsy and flow
      cytometric immunophenotyping of bone marrow aspirate are performed.
    
  