
    
      Study Intervention

      Participants will be randomized to receive either 20 mcg or 60 mcg of dexmedetomidine
      sublingually. Participants will receive repeat dosing every 30 minutes for up to three
      additional doses, leading to maximum doses of 80 mcg and 240 mcg, respectively. Both
      investigators and clinicians will be blind to the participant's group, with only the study
      pharmacist aware of the dose of medication on the films.

      Baseline monitoring: Following enrollment, the study team will record baseline measures of
      heart rate, blood pressure, and oxygen saturation. An electrocardiogram (ECG) will be
      performed, and agitation and delirium severity will be measured.

      Medication administration: Dexmedetomidine sublingual film will be administered by the study
      physician or study nurse as per the manufacturer's instructions. Dexmedetomidine
      administration will be repeated every 30 minutes if the participant continues to have
      agitation and does not meet any cardiovascular stopping criteria.

      Monitoring for side effects: Heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, use of
      supplemental oxygen, and use of pressors will be monitored continuously and recorded every 30
      minutes for the 6 hours following the initial medication administration (baseline; Time 0).
      An ECG will be performed at 1.5, 3, 4.5, and 6 hours, and QTc will be calculated using the
      Fridericia formula. Study staff will also monitor the participant and speak with nursing
      staff at 6 hours to assess for any other side effects/complaints the patient may have had
      during the time since medication administration.

      Monitoring of agitation and delirium severity: Agitation will be measured every 30 minutes
      and delirium severity at hours 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6.

      Study Endpoints

      Safety and Tolerability (Aim #1) The investigators will examine changes in heart rate, blood
      pressure, oxygen saturation, and QTc interval from baseline to the follow-up timepoints, as
      well as the incidence of self-reported and clinician-reported side effects during the 6-hour
      post-medication interval. They also will record the total dosage of medication each
      participant received and examine whether medication dose was associated with the incidence of
      side effects.

      Preliminary Efficacy (Aim #2) The investigators will assess changes in agitation and delirium
      from baseline to the follow-up timepoints. One and two hours following medication
      administration will be considered the co-primary timepoints for these efficacy measures. They
      also will record the total dosage of medication each participant received and examine whether
      medication dose was associated with a reduction in agitation and delirium severity.

      Minimum Dose of Administration (Aim #3) The investigators will measure the amount of time
      from the initial dexmedetomidine administration until agitation resolves. Then, they will
      compare between-group differences in time to agitation resolution, changes in agitation and
      delirium severity, and the incidence of side effects. The optimal dose will be chosen based
      on the dose that leads to the quickest resolution of agitation without leading to clinically
      significant side effects.
    
  