
    
      Demographic characteristics of heart transplant recipients and organ donors were
      prospectively collected in a local database. All HTx successively performed in the Hospital
      Marie Lannelongue from 1990 to 2016 were included. From 1990 to 1997, both EMB and cardiac
      echo were routinely performed at each medical follow-up date. After 1997, only cardiac echo
      was used to detect early acute allograft rejection. The investigators collected the results
      of all EMB and synchronous cardiac echo in patients transplanted between 1990 and 1997 (group
      A, validation cohort), and clinical events and long-term survival in patients transplanted
      from 1998 to 2016 (group B, standardization cohort). For our purpose, the investigators
      graded the histological patterns of acute cardiac rejection according to the 1990
      international classification. Cardiac echo assessment included the isovolumic relaxation
      time, E-wave velocity and E/A ratio. Impaired left ventricular relaxation was consistent with
      acute cardiac rejection.

      The investigators therefore analyzed the rate of positive and negative EMB during the first
      post-transplant year and compared these results to the synchronous cardiac echo report in
      group A. Sensibility and specificity of cardiac echo to detect acute cardiac rejection were
      calculated. The rate of acute cardiac rejection during the first year was collected in group
      B and compared to group A. Finally, long-term survival was analyzed according to the
      Kaplan-Meier approach and compared between group A and B (log-rank test). The investigators
      hypothesize that the participant will not observe any differences between groups considering
      the rate of acute cardiac rejection during the first year. In addition, the investigators do
      not expect to find any significant difference in long-term survival between the two cohorts.
      These findings may have a major impact on HTx follow-up since systematic EMB could be
      replaced by a standardized cardiac echo protocol focusing on left ventricular wall
      relaxation. EMB should therefore only be indicated in case of acute allograft dysfunction
      without evidence of rejection on conventional cardiac echo.
    
  