
    
      This clinical trial examines the addition of adefovir dipivoxil to a lamivudine regimen for
      treating chronic hepatitis B infection. Two patient populations will be separately recruited:
      HIV-infected (40 subjects) and HIV-uninfected (20 subjects). HIV-infected patients will be
      enrolled in a randomized, placebo controlled study of the safety and efficacy of the addition
      of adefovir to lamivudine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in subjects with a
      hepatitis B virus (HBV) viral load of at least one million copies/mL despite at least one
      year of lamivudine therapy. A similar population of HIV-uninfected subjects will be treated
      with open-label adefovir 10 mg daily for one year. These HIV-negative subjects will serve as
      a control group for immunological comparisons to the HIV-positive group treated with
      adefovir. HIV-infected subjects will be randomly allocated to receive adefovir 10 mg daily
      for one year or matching placebo. At the end of one year, HIV-infected patients may choose to
      receive open-label adefovir, and HIV-uninfected patients will have the option of continuing
      open-label drug if they are responding to treatment. Patients may not have decompensated
      cirrhosis or other causes of liver disease such as hepatitis C. Liver biopsies are performed
      prior to study and at the end of one year. HIV-positive subjects whose liver biopsy
      demonstrates cirrhosis will not be randomized but will be treated with open-label adefovir 10
      mg daily. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of lamivudine plus
      adefovir as compared with continued lamivudine in HIV-infected patients, to compare responses
      between HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected subjects, and to obtain specimens for studies of
      immune responses to HBV. HIV-infected patients will receive lamivudine 150 mg bid plus
      adefovir 10 mg qd (or placebo) and HIV-uninfected subjects will receive lamivudine 100 mg qd
      plus adefovir 10 mg qd. L-carnitine supplementation will be used only if low serum carnitine
      levels are documented. Additionally, patients will have the option of enrolling in a
      sub-study assessing the kinetics of viral load response to study drug. Specimens will be
      stored for possible future determination of adefovir levels and use in evaluating HBV and HIV
      resistance to adefovir. Patients discontinuing study drug and not initiating a commerically
      available anti-HBV medication (including adefovir) will be monitored for safety for at least
      an additional 24 weeks. The primary study endpoint will be a comparison of the absolute HBV
      viral load at Week 48 between the placebo and adefovir HIV-positive patient groups, and for
      the HIV-negative population, the comparison of absolute HBV viral at Week 48 versus baseline.
      Secondary endpoints include safety, liver pathology, and transaminase level. Adefovir will be
      discontinued for toxicity; there will be no dose reduction. A DSMB will oversee the trial for
      toxicity.
    
  