
    
      Approximately 15-20% of the cancers recognize infectious agents as causal factors. Epstein
      Barr Virus (EBV) is considered carcinogenic to humans for haematological and solid neoplasms
      such as nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Oncogenic mechanisms linking EBV with NPC need to be
      better delineated. However, the well-defined patterns of EBV cancer cells infection, together
      with its encoded regulated genes in tumours offers an option for immunological therapeutic
      strategies.

      Distant metastases, especially of the bone, occurs in up to half of patients with NPC. This
      underlines the importance of improving systemic disease control.

      Intravenous bisphosphonates (BP) are effective treatments for skeletal-related events (SRE)
      in patients with bone metastases. BPs also showed antitumor properties in solid malignancies
      by inhibiting cancer cell proliferation, inducing apoptosis and affecting bone
      microenvironment, increasing progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

      In head and neck squamous cell cancer, RANKL expression has been observed and correlated with
      tumour differentiation and progression. RANKL expression is also found in tumour-infiltrating
      Tregs. Once expressed, RANKL regulates epidermal dendritic cells and increases the number of
      Tregs, thereby suppressing excessive response to environmental stimuli. In NPC, the role of
      Tregs has been described and implicated in EBV-associated carcinogenesis.

      Although no direct evidence of denosumab activity in NPC cells are available, its target's
      effect on Tregs is at the base of an indirect effect to tackle cancer immune evasion. In this
      scenario, treatment with RANK and RANKL inhibitors will supposedly act as positive
      immunoregulator reducing bone events but also improving treatment effects.

      RANK expression was confirmed on 17 metastatic relapses of NPC treated at Fondazione IRCCS
      Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milano.

      The recent introduction of denosumab, a new drug active on bone metastases, with a different
      mechanism of action compared to BPs, changed the scenario. Denosumab is a fully human
      monoclonal antibody preventing the binding of RANKL to its receptor on osteoclasts' membrane.
      Denosumab is formulated for SC injection and for oncology indications is administered at a
      dose of 120 mg Q4W. Denosumab (120 mg SC) is approved worldwide for the prevention of SREs in
      patients with bone metastases from solid tumors and for the treatment of adults and
      skeletally mature adolescents with GCTB.

      The above premises warrant the investigation of the activity of denosumab - an antibody
      competing with RANK, enhancing increasing tumour-specific immunity through the blockade of
      RANKL-regulated Tregs.
    
  