
    
      Dance is the language of expression in which artistic bodily movements are displayed
      depending on space or space depending on a certain rhythm. Folk dances are one of the most
      important elements in the promotion of a country and play a role in the emergence of cultural
      values by reflecting the customs and traditions of the country.

      Folk dance is a whole consisting of two elements, movement and music. Turkish folk dances
      have a very wide and smooth movement and have a feature that enhances and enhances the whole
      organism from toes to hand fingers. In this way, it provides aesthetic appearance by allowing
      body parts to move harmoniously.

      Although it has regional differences among the Turkish folk dances, it has common exercise
      characteristics. There are some differences in the organism, including legs, trunk, arms,
      shoulders and head, starting from the feet. Regional diversity in Turkish folk dances is
      differentiated in terms of nature and intensity of movement and this has different physical
      and physiological effects.

      Women's, men's, children's, young and elderly folk dances played by an individual who has a
      heartfelt enthusiasm by individuals of all ages have also been competing in sport activities
      in the investigator's country and in the world for many years. Choreographies are performed
      within 8-10 minutes according to the competition rules of folk dances. This period is
      prolonged in choreographies for demonstration purposes. The long-term choreographies of folk
      dances require the training to be carried out in a long time and at an intense pace. The
      ability to successfully complete long-term competitions and demonstrations by conducting a
      series of intensive exercises requires adequate physical fitness of the players. If the
      physical suitability is sufficient, it is only possible with regular studies.

      The aim of this study was to evaluate the proprioceptive sense and physical fitness
      parameters of professional folk dancers and compare the results with sedentary healthy
      individuals with the same age and physical characteristics.

      Hypothesis of research

      H01 : Professional folk dancers and sedentary healthy individuals have no difference between
      the results of the results of physical fitness measurements.

      H02: Professional folk dancers and sedentary healthy individuals have no difference between
      the results of knee joint proprioceptive sensation measurement.

      H03: Professional folk dancers and sedentary healthy individuals have no difference between
      the results of pulmonary function measurement.

      The unıverse and the samplıng of research

      The study will include volunteer dancers aged between 18-35 years who are under the roof of
      the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Turkish Folk Dance Federation and sedentary
      volunteers with the same age and physical characteristics. The study will be carried out in
      the cardiopulmonary unit associated with the Department of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation
      of Eastern Mediterranean University.

      According to the power analysis using G-Power program; a total of 128 participant will be
      included in the calculation of Cohen d = 0.8, α = 0.05, β = 0.20, assuming that the
      nonparametric Mann Whitney-U test is used for comparison between the two groups. Both groups
      will be evaluated for proprioceptive sense and physical fitness parameters. In order to
      determine the physical activity levels of sedentary individuals, UFAA-short form (IPAQ-short
      form) will be used. The questionnaire contains 7 questions about physical activities. The
      subjects will be asked about the number of days of severe physical activities, moderate
      physical activities and walking activities within the last week and how much time they spend
      on one of these days, how much time they spend sitting in a day. According to the calculation
      of MET value, sedentary individuals with less than 600 MET-min / week exercise participation
      will be classified in the low activity level group and will be accepted to the study.

      Evaluatıons ın the research

      Participants in the study who have signed a voluntary consent form will be informed about the
      study first.Then, the evaluation starts with the sociodemographic data of the participants
      (age, gender, height, dominant side, occupation, smoking), exercise habits (duration, day /
      week, type) and questioning of the dance background (daily and weekly training time,
      frequency, whether or not a break in workouts, how many min / hour breaks are given, warm-up
      exercise before and after a training session, whether or not cooling training).

        1. Physical Fitness Parameters

           1.1 Body composition:Body composition measurement will be made with Tanita brand body
           analysis monitor (MC-780 MA). After the individuals are removed on the platform and
           grasping the electrodes with their hands, the body analysis monitor with body weight,
           BMI, total body muscle mass (kg), total body muscle mass rate, total body fat mass (kg),
           total body fat percentage, total body fluid ( kg), total body fluid ratio, right and
           left arm, right and left leg and body muscle mass and fat mass (kg) analysis of various
           body composition parameters will be calculated automatically.

           1.2 Flexibility: It will be evaluated using the sit and reach test. The test will be
           repeated three times and the average distance will be taken.

           1.3 Muscle Strength: Humac Norm ® isokinetic dynamometer will be used to evaluate muscle
           strength. The evaluation of quadriceps and hamstring muscle strength in the lower
           extremity will be evaluated as concentric. Before the measurements are carried out, the
           bike will be heated for 5 minutes without resistance. At the same time the quadriceps
           and hamstring muscles of the participants will be stretched. The test will be performed
           at 60 ̊/sec and 180 ̊/sec at two different angular speeds. 60 sec rest time between
           measurements will be given. The peak torque values of the results will be recorded in 'N
           / m'.

           1.4 Aerobic Capacity: It will be evaluated by using 20 meter shuttle running test. After
           the participants have been informed about the test procedure, the person will be asked
           to run back and forth with the recorded signal at the same time by pressing the 20m
           signal line. If the participants did not complete the 20 m distance in three consecutive
           signal tones, the test will be terminated and the number of levels and shuttles will be
           recorded.

           1.5 Anaerobic Power: It will be evaluated using vertical jump test. The test will be
           repeated three times. The best result will be recorded.

           1.6 Balance: An electronic computerized balance device (PK200WL, Prokin TecnoBody) will
           be used for dynamic balance evaluation.Balance evaluation will be carried out in the
           Sleight Test program, which is a computerized system software.Each test will be 30
           seconds and 1 trying and 3 test. Individuals, 13 boxes in total, the balance board in
           the easy mode to move forward, backward and side by trying to coincide to work to bring,
           60 sec rest period will be given after each test. From the data obtained, how many boxes
           are captured, forward-backward and mediolateral deviation values will be recorded as
           absolute error and the total deviation value will be recorded as percentage and the best
           result from 3 results will be taken as the measurement result.

        2. Proprioception:The Humac Norm® isokinetic dynamometer will be used to evaluate
           proprioceptive sensation (position and kinesthesia). Measurements will be made in
           passive mode after the participants are properly positioned, taking into account that
           the temperature of the unit is 25 °. In order to reduce the noise from the isokinetic
           dynamometer, the participants will be wearing headphones and the evaluation environment
           will be quiet. By giving verbal warnings and standard commands, the motivation of
           individuals will be kept high.

           2.1 Joint Position Sense: The degrees determined to assess passive motion are 45 ° and
           60 ° of knee flexion. Initial position was determined as 90 ° knee flexion and angular
           velocity 4 ° / s. Individuals will be asked to wait for 5 seconds and focus on this
           position. The first test will be carried out with eyes open for trial purposes. Then,
           once the eyes are closed, passive movement will be ensured. Participants will be asked
           to press the warning button when they think that they have reached the target angle,
           then this movement angle will be recorded. For target angle, 3 repetitions will be made
           and 60 seconds of rest time will be given between tests. Statistically, these target
           angles will be averaged.

           2.2 Kinaesthesia: The knee for measurement will be adjusted at 15 ° position. The
           dynamometer angle will be adjusted to 1 ° / s angular velocity and the knee will be
           extended. The participants will be asked to press the dynamometer button as soon as they
           feel the movement in the knee joints and the angle of the knee at this point will be
           recorded. The average of three repetitions will be taken. A rest period of 60 seconds
           will be given between each repeat.

        3. Pulmonary Evaluation:Respiratory muscle strength will be evaluated by means of maximal
           intraoral pressure measurements. Maximal inspiratory intraoral pressure (MRP) will be
           used to measure inspiratory muscle strength. Maximal expiratory intraoral pressure
           measurement (MEP) will be used to measure expiratory muscle strength. The best of the
           three measurements will be recorded.The spirometry will be evaluated by using spirometry
           for respiratory muscle endurance.The participant will be asked to breathe deep and fast
           for 12 seconds.Then the measured maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV, L / min) will be
           recorded.
    
  