
    
      Target subject population

      There will be two cohorts for this study:

      Cohort A: Patients with refractory gastric cancer who have failed secondary chemotherapy
      treatments for advanced disease will be enrolled. Patients must have imaging confirmed
      progression on previous chemotherapy for gastric cancer treatment with at least one
      measurable lesion per modified RECIST 1.1. GC patients must not have received previous
      therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Prior exposure to AZD6738 is not allowed.

      Cohort B: Patients with metastatic melanoma patients who have failed prior anti-PD(L)1 will
      be enrolled. Anti-PD(L)1 therapy should be the immediate prior regimen before study entry.

      Duration of treatment Patients will continue to receive treatment with AZD6738 and durvalumab
      provided that the treatment is tolerable and there is evidence of clinical benefit (as judged
      by the investigator) and secure supply of medication. Upon confirmation of objective disease
      progression, or treatment disconiutation criteria are met, both durvalumab and AZD6738 must
      be discontinued. Patients may continue with AZD6738/durvalumab beyond objective disease
      progression (determined by RECIST 1.1) at the discretion of the investigator if they are
      clinically benefiting from the treatment and they do not meet any other discontinuation
      criteria.

      If either durvalumab and/or AZD6738 are deemed intolerable (as judged by the investigator) so
      that discontinuation of either agent is deemed in the patient's best interest despite dose
      interruptions, dose modification and initiation of supportive treatments, both durvalumab and
      AZD6738 must be discontinued and the patient withdrawn from the study. Pateints are not
      permitted to continue either AZD6738 or durvalumab as monotherapy. There is no maximum
      duration of treatment with AZD6738 and durvalumab.
    
  