
    
      This protocol will evaluate the activity of 5-Fluorouracil (FUra) given as a 1 hour infusion
      in combination with leucovorin (LV) and interferon IFN alpha-2a in patients with advanced,
      measurable colorectal cancer. IFN alpha-2a will be given at 5 million U/m(2) SC days 1-6; LV,
      200 mg/m(2), will be given as a short infusion over 30 minutes days 2-6, followed immediately
      by a 1 hour IV infusion of FUra days 2-6. The starting dose of FUra will be 425 mg/m(2)/d(1).
      Cycles will be repeated at three week intervals provided that the granulocyte count and
      platelet count have recovered to &gte; 1200/microL and &gte; 80,000/microL, respectively, and
      all non-hematologic toxicity has resolved. The dose of FUra will be adjusted according to
      individual tolerance. Preliminary experience with FUra given as a 1 hour infusion suggests
      that it is less toxic. The primary goal of this study is to determine if this less toxic
      regimen retains clinical antitumor activity. FUra plasma samples will be obtained the initial
      cycle at 50 and 55 minutes during the first 1 hour infusion of FUra to permit documentation
      of achieved plasma levels and to permit correlation between FUra pharmacokinetics and
      clinical toxicity and/or response. Pharmacokinetic sampling will be repeated if the dose of
      FUra is increased or decreased in subsequent cycles.

      Patients will be stratified according to whether or not they have received prior adjuvant
      chemotherapy. A two-stage design will be employed for patients with no prior chemotherapy: If
      less than or equal to 4 responses are seen among the initial 20 previously untreated
      patients, accrual will cease. If greater than or equal to 5 responses are seen in the initial
      20 patients, however, accrual will be expanded to 40 patients.

      Fourteen patients who have received prior adjuvant chemotherapy (completing it at least 6
      months prior to study entry) or have received prior FUra only as a radiation sensitizer will
      be entered. If no responses are seen, accrual to this cohort will cease. If greater than or
      equal to 1 response is seen, accrual may be expanded to 24 patients.
    
  