
    
      Background Urotherapy has been the standard nonsurgical, nonpharmacologic treatment for
      children with nonneurogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction (NLUTD) and dysfunctional
      elimination syndrome (DES) for over two decades (Hoebeke, 2006). Children with NLUTD/DES
      represent a heterogenous group whose physical and mental health are affected (Afshar et al.,
      2009). There is no widely accepted diagnostic criteria (Afshar et al.) and urotherapy
      modalities that have been studied vary by setting, curriculum, length of treatment, outcome
      measurements and study participants. It is challenging to determine what modality of
      urotherapy is the most effective by reviewing the current literature. Furthermore, quality of
      life as an outcome measurement of urotherapy has not been reported in the literature.

      Purpose The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility of a group urotherapy session
      and evaluate the preliminary effectiveness of the group urotherapy session by measuring
      NLUTD/DES symptoms and quality of life and compare the group urotherapy session to standard
      urotherapy that takes place in pediatric urology clinics.

      Methods Children aged 6-10 years old diagnosed with NLUTD/DES will be recruited from
      pediatric urology clinic at McMaster Children's Hospital over 12 to 15 weeks. The aim is to
      recruit at least 60 participants, 30 will be randomized to the control group and receive
      standard individual urotherapy in clinic and 30 will be randomized to the experimental group
      and receive a 1 hour group urotherapy session. Parents will be asked to complete a
      demographics questionnaire at the time of consent and children will be asked to complete 2
      questionnaires at time of consent and again 3 months after receiving either individual or
      group urotherapy. At the 3 month follow up, parents and participants will be asked to
      complete an evaluation form to provide feedback about the teaching session received.

      Outcome Measurements NLUTD/DES symptoms will be evaluated using the Vancouver NLUTD/DES
      questionnaire. This questionnaire assesses the following symptoms: incontinence, urgency,
      frequency, dysuria, hesitancy, straining and constipation. Quality of life (QOL) will be
      measured using the PinQ QOL measure. This questionnaire measures 6 domains of QOL: social,
      self-esteem, family, body image, independence and mental health. Both questionnaires have
      been deemed valid and reliable in children with the same diagnosis and age as the study
      population.

      Impact This pilot study will provide new knowledge as a controlled trial comparing standard
      individual and group urotherapy which has not been reported on in the literature. Urotherapy
      is effective, but the search for the most effective program continues. This pilot study will
      provide information on the feasibility of the group urotherapy session as well as preliminary
      effectiveness. Furthermore, quality of life as an outcome measure has not been used to
      evaluate urotherapy. Again, this will provide new and valuable knowledge on the child's
      perception of their condition and the effect of urotherapy on their QOL.

      References Afshar, K., Mirbagheri, A., Scott, H. & MacNeily, A.E. (2009). Development of a
      syndrome score for dysfunctional elimination syndrome. The Journal of Urology, 182,
      1939-1944.

      Bower, W.F., Sit, F.K.Y., Bluyssen, N., Wong, E.M.C. & Yeung, C.K. (2006). PinQ: A valid,
      reliable and reproducible quality-of-life measure in children with bladder dysfunction.
      Journal of Pediatric Urology, 2, 185-189.

      Hoebeke, P. (2006). Twenty years of urotherapy in children: what have we learned? European
      Urology,49, 426-428.
    
  