
    
      Children with complicated severe acute malnutrition (SAM) admitted to hospital in sub-Saharan
      Africa have an inpatient case fatality of 10 to 20%. Because children with SAM may not
      exhibit the usual signs of infection, World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines recommend
      routine antibiotics. However this is based on "low quality evidence". There is evidence from
      Centre for Geographic Medical Research - Coast (CGMR-C), Kilifi and from other centres in
      Africa that bacterial resistance to the currently recommended first-line antibiotics
      (gentamicin plus ampicillin or penicillin) may be a problem. It is possible that because of
      frequent illness and antibiotic exposure, malnourished children may be more likely to have
      resistant bacteria. Some hospitals in Africa are already increasing use of ceftriaxone as a
      first-line treatment. However, this is not based on any data that ceftriaxone actually
      improves outcomes. Of concern is that ceftriaxone use may also lead to further problems with
      antimicrobial resistance, including inducing extended spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) and
      other classes of resistance.

      A further area where evidence for policy is lacking is on the use of metronidazole in
      severely malnourished children. The WHO guidelines recommend "Metronidazole 7.5 mg/kg every 8
      h for 7 days may be given in addition to broad-spectrum antibiotics; however, the efficacy of
      this treatment has not been established in clinical trials." Metronidazole is effective
      against Giardia, which is common amongst children with SAM; and against other anaerobic
      infections, including small bowel bacterial overgrowth and Clostridium difficile colitis.
      Small cohort studies suggest there may be benefits for nutritional recovery. In Jamaica, half
      of the children admitted for nutritional rehabilitation had evidence of small bowel anaerobic
      bacterial overgrowth and this was improved by metronidazole. However, metronidazole can cause
      nausea and anorexia, potentially impairing recovery from malnutrition and may also cause
      liver and neurological toxicity. One small study of metronidazole in children with SAM
      conducted in in Mexico reported significantly prolonged clearance in SAM, without symptomatic
      toxicity, but suggesting a dosing frequency reduction. Overall, very few pharmacokinetic
      studies have been done in malnourished children. Changes in body composition as well as
      metabolic and drug elimination mechanisms may alter the potential toxicity or effective dose.

      The investigators are planning a large clinical trial to assess the efficacy of ceftriaxone
      and metronidazole on mortality, nutritional recovery and antimicrobial resistance in sick,
      severely malnourished children. This preparatory work aims to determine the pharmacokinetics
      of ceftriaxone and metronidazole in 80 severely malnourished children who are admitted to
      three hospitals in Kenya in order to ensure dosing for the main trial is safe and in the
      therapeutic range. The study will also determine the frequency of faecal carriage of
      antimicrobial resistant enteric bacteria at presentation to hospital and at discharge
      following exposure to antibiotics and the hospital environment, comparing 360 children with,
      and 360 children without severe malnutrition at three different hospitals. Clear data on the
      benefits, risks and pharmacokinetics of these antimicrobials will influence policy on case
      management and antimicrobial stewardship in this vulnerable population.
    
  