
    
      About 25% of HIV infected people do not know that they are infected. These people lack
      medical care that could prolong their lives and access to counseling services that could
      prevent further spread of HIV. With so many people unaware of their HIV status, there is a
      clear need for more readily available HIV counseling, testing, and referral services
      throughout the United States. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends
      routine HIV testing in U.S. hospitals in which HIV infected patients make up at least 1% of
      the total patient population for that hospital. In the original proposal, we chose oral rapid
      HIV testing as we felt that this technique is noninvasive, acceptable to both patients and
      health care workers (without body fluid risk), and would maximize rates of HIV testing. This
      study directly compares acceptance rates of HIV testing as a function of the test type
      offered (oral vs. fingerstick) in a randomized controlled fashion.

      Participants in this study will include adults who visit Brigham and Women's Hospital
      emergency department in Boston, Massachusetts. Participants will be randomly assigned to oral
      vs. fingerstick HIV testing by a designated HIV counselor and to fill out a questionnaire
      while waiting in the emergency room. The questionnaire will be anonymous. Participants will
      then be offered a rapid HIV test. Test results will be available in about 20 minutes and will
      be provided to participants by the HIV counselor. Participants who test positive for HIV will
      be offered a more definitive blood test to confirm HIV infection. The blood test results will
      be available 2 weeks from testing, and participants must return to the hospital to get their
      test results. Participants who test positive for HIV will be offered counseling support and
      referral services by either their assigned HIV counselor or emergency department staff
      member. Follow-up care appointments will also be initiated at this time. For participants who
      test positive for HIV, the study will last about 6 months. There will be no follow-up visits
      for participants who do not test positive for HIV during their emergency room visit.
    
  