
    
      Gastroschisis is a congenital malformation in which abdominal organs protrude through an
      abdominal wall defect, leading to considerable morbidity and mortality during infancy. In
      contrast to the second class of congenital abdominal wall defects, omphalocele, there is no
      association of gastroschisis with aneuploidy and there are no familial cohorts or
      heritability indices to suggest genetic etiology to gastroschisis. Although multiple
      population and cohort based-studies have implicated various environmental and maternal
      factors in the pathogenesis of gastroschisis (e.g. young age, smoking), the causes and
      mechanisms of this condition remain relatively unclear.

      The herniated bowel often accumulates a fibrinous covering possibly due to inflammation
      induced by the amniotic fluid. There is usually a 25% or greater risk of intrauterine growth
      restriction with gastroschisis. Although long term intact survival is excellent (exceeding
      95%), the associated morbidity is significant including gastrointestinal complications such
      as stricture, adhesions, and volvulus. Furthermore, there is a known association between
      fetal gastroschisis and late gestational intra-uterine fetal demise (IUFD). Late gestation
      IUFD is believed to result from acute volvulus of the small bowel and resultant bowel
      necrosis and death.

      Until recently, there were no indications for early delivery, however; now there is mounting
      evidence supporting delivery at an earlier gestational age. This is supported with the
      prevailing hypothesis that early delivery prevents further insult from the amniotic fluid to
      the small bowel. However, these hypotheses have yet to be examined in a well designed,
      adequately powered, randomized clinical trial. Consequently, it is our primary objective to
      test the hypothesis that elective early delivery will protect the fetal bowel from the
      deleterious intrauterine factors late in the pregnancy. Our secondary objective is to
      introduce a standardized protocol for diagnostic, antepartum, and post-natal surgical
      management of infants with gastroschisis.

      To date, four studies have attempted to evaluate the effect of delivery timing on neonatal
      outcomes. In a retrospective review of 57 cases, Huang was unable to demonstrate an
      association between earlier delivery and shorter time to surgical repair or oral feeds. Logge
      and colleagues performed a randomized controlled trial of delivery at 36 weeks (early) versus
      awaiting spontaneous labor (later). Although the study did demonstrate a trend toward
      improved outcomes in the earlier group, it was underpowered especially considering that the
      mean gestational age for delivery in the early versus later groups differed by only a week
      and were 35.8 and 36.7 weeks, respectively. In a recent report by Serra, 13 patients were
      delivered electively at 34 weeks and compared to historical controls. The early delivery
      group demonstrated shorter time to oral feeds and closure, along with decreased acute and
      late complications. This corroborated similar findings by Peiro where 6 patients were
      delivered at 34 weeks. In the latter, the morphology of the bowel demonstrated no evidence of
      inflammation or thickening, which was uniformly seen in those delivered at term.

      As mentioned earlier the hypothesis of improved benefit from early delivery has yet to be
      examined in a well designed, adequately powered, randomized clinical trial. The preliminary
      data underscore the need for 1) an adequately powered randomized controlled trial, 2) clearly
      defined objective outcome measures, and 3) a standardized evidence-based management protocol
      to attempt and control varying practices by obstetricians and pediatric surgeons, which may
      undoubtedly impact the results.

      Fetal gastroschisis is generally diagnosed after 14 weeks gestation via ultrasound. The
      subjects will be identified after referral has been made to the Texas Children's Pavilion for
      Women Ultrasound unit, Texas Children's Fetal Center, or the Ben Taub Hospital's Ultrasound
      unit. The subject population will consist of patients from the investigator or
      co-investigators practice.

      The patient will be approached by the principal or co-investigators. Informed consent will be
      obtained before any study related procedures are done. Risks, benefits, and alternatives to
      study participation will be discussed in their entirety and all questions answered.

      Standard care presently includes delivery at 38-39 weeks with cesarean delivery reserved for
      obstetrical indications. The care under this research protocol will include standard care (as
      mentioned above) for the "late" group, versus delivery at 34 weeks (research care) for the
      "early" group. Otherwise, the remainder of the care will not differ regardless of the
      allocation arm.

      The procedure will be as follows:

        1. All patients with a suspected diagnosis of fetal gastroschisis will undergo a
           comprehensive ultrasound examination to confirm the diagnosis. If confirmed, as part of
           routine clinical care, the patient will undergo a Maternal-Fetal Medicine consultation.
           After the visit, the patient will be approached regarding participation in this trial.

        2. If the patient agrees to participate and meets all inclusion criteria, the patient will
           be enrolled into the study and assigned into the "early" or "late" delivery arm. After
           informed consent, the patient will be assigned to a study arm using a concealed
           envelope, which will be created prior to the start of the study using a randomization
           scheme- prepared prior to start of study by non-participating statistician.

        3. Antepartum care will be similar for both groups except for timing of delivery. This will
           include ultrasound fetal growth evaluations every 3 weeks and a weekly fetal biophysical
           profile (antenatal fetal well-being testing) starting at 32 weeks.

        4. The early group will undergo induction of labor at 34 weeks with cesarean delivery
           reserved for obstetrical indications with two injections of celestone (12mg/kg) prior to
           induction.

        5. The late group will undergo induction of labor at 38-39 weeks with cesarean delivery
           reserved for obstetrical indications.

        6. The trial will be conducted in an intent-to-treat fashion. With regards to the postnatal
           management of the neonate, the neonate will be evaluated by a neonatologist and
           pediatric surgeon immediately after birth. All neonates, regardless of allocation arm,
           will undergo routine care including intubation and initiation of total parenteral
           nutrition immediately after birth.

           With respect to nutritional care, all neonates will be managed per the Texas Children's
           Hospital's neonatal intensive care (NICU) feeding protocol, which consists of exclusive
           human milk. This is also applicable at Ben Taub General Hospital. Total Parenteral
           Nutrition (TPN) will be continued until total oral intake exceeds 100 ml/kg/day.

        7. Two teaspoons (10mL) of maternal blood will be collected and will be stored
           appropriately.

      With respect to surgical care, the neonates will be grouped as simple gastroschisis or
      complicated gastroschisis. The latter will consist of cases complicated by perforation or
      intestinal atresia.

        1. In all cases of simple gastroschisis, where immediate closure is not possible, they will
           be placed in a silo with closure within 4 days (day of life 5).

        2. In complicated cases with intestinal atresia, a silo closure will be undertaken within 4
           days (day of life 5), and the neonates will be returned to the operating room at 6 weeks
           of life for resection.

        3. In complicated cases with perforation, the neonates will be taken immediately to the
           operating room for ostomy and/or bowel ligation with closure.

      The study will include the following neonatal and pediatric components: 1. In all cases,
      neonatal data will be collected during the initial post-delivery stay. This will include the
      following variables: a. INITIAL STAY AFTER DELIVERY - length at birth and discharge - weight
      at birth and discharge - head circumference at birth and discharge, - enteral feeding data
      and parenteral nutrition throughout admission - nutrition related labs - APGAR scores -
      medications- lasix, chlorothiazide, dopamine, hydrocortisone and dexamethasone - morbidities
      such as necrotizing enterocolitis, patent ductus arteriosus, spontaneous intestinal
      perforation, intraventricular hemorrhage, sepsis, and chronic lung disease b. 1 MONTH POST
      DELIVERY - length - weight - head circumference - demographic, socioeconomic, and nutritional
      information c. 6 MONTHS POST DELIVERY - length - weight - head circumference d. 12 MONTHS
      POST DELIVERY - length - weight - head circumference e. 18 MONTHS POST DELIVERY - length -
      weight - head circumference - the Bayley Scales of Infant Development II by a certified
      practitioner Subject participation will be approximately 1 1/2 years.
    
  