
    
      Secondary intention healing (SIH) is often underutilized and has several advantages compared
      to primary surgical repair. Wound care is minimal, bleeding and infection are rare, and risks
      associated with primary closure (e.g. hematoma, suture granuloma, graft or flap failure) are
      non-existent. Importantly, SIH facilitates surveillance of tumor recurrence, whereas flaps
      and grafts may bury residual tumor. When used in appropriate anatomical locations, SIH leads
      to high patient satisfaction. However, SIH requires regular wound care that can be cumbersome
      to patients.

      Prior studies utilizing biologic dressings have shown patients report better quality of life
      during the post-operative period related to less pain, decreased dressing changes, and faster
      healing times. Biologic dressings provide an alternative to surgical autografts and eliminate
      the risks associated with graft harvesting (e.g. pain, infection, and scarring). For many
      patients, the cosmetic outcome following healing is important. However, cosmetic outcome with
      SIH is variable and depends on many factors, namely location (e.g. concavities favorable),
      skin laxity, and underlying musculature. Exuberant granulation tissue, hypopigmented and
      telangiectatic scars are the most frequent adverse cosmetic outcomes with SIH.

      The novel biomaterial APIS® (SweetBio, Inc. Memphis, TN) is an advanced synthesis of gelatin,
      manuka honey, and hydroxyapatite bioengineered to protect wounds, manage exudate, and
      maintain a moist environment. It is FDA cleared (FDA number K1827250) for wound management
      across 9 indications including surgical wounds. It has been used successfully in a small case
      series of 8 patients for post-operative Mohs surgical wounds on the head and distal lower
      extremities. Time to complete re-epithelialization was 6 weeks (42 days), suggesting a
      reduction in healing time compared to standard SIH times for the leg and head of 127 and 57
      days, respectively. Use of this novel biomaterial to enhance SIH is hypothesized to reduce
      healing times when compared to standard SIH wound care. This provides a useful option to aid
      SIH in sites like the lower legs, where healing can be prolonged due to intrinsic factors
      (e.g., cardiovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, diabetes) or extrinsic factors
      (e.g., increased risk of surgical site infection following dermatologic surgery at sites
      below the knee).

      Randomized, comparative studies evaluating augmented SIH compared to conventional SIH in
      dermatologic surgery are limited. This study aims to evaluate whether use of a novel
      biomaterial enhances SIH, particularly in shortening time to complete re-epithelialization.
      Patients undergoing Mohs micrographic surgery amenable to SIH on the head and distal lower
      extremities will be randomized into one of four groups (standard SIH or biomaterial APIS®
      enhanced SIH on the head or distal lower extremities). Patients will have regularly scheduled
      follow-up with questionnaires at each visit. The investigators aim to evaluate whether use of
      this novel biomaterial decreases complete re-epithelialization times, reduces infection
      rates, and improves cosmetic outcomes.
    
  