
    
      The Registry conforms to the FDA Guidance for Industry: Establishing Pregnancy Exposure
      Registries, the Guidelines for Good Pharmacoepidemiology Practices, and the FDA Guidance on
      Pharmacovigilance.

      The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry collects data on use of the following GSK drugs:
      abacavir, amprenavir, delavirdine, fosamprenavir, lamivudine, maraviroc, zidovudine, and
      their combinations during pregnancy. The Registry requests information from medical providers
      about antiretroviral therapy, though there may be other drug exposures, which are not
      systematically collected.

      Registration is voluntary. Health professionals are strongly encouraged to enroll their
      antiretroviral-exposed pregnant patients into the Registry as early in the pregnancy as
      possible, preferably before prenatal testing is done. This is to maximize the data validity
      by minimizing potential biases introduced when a woman is enrolled after prenatal testing.

      Patients are followed through health care providers who provide information on maternal risk
      factors, pregnancy outcome, and neonatal health. In the month of expected delivery, a short
      follow-up form is sent to the health care provider to ascertain the pregnancy outcome and
      completion of the antiviral therapy information. Additional follow-up is not sought from
      health care providers.

      In an attempt to limit the bias in the analysis, the Registry assembled a group of providers
      who committed in writing to report every woman who receives antiretroviral therapy during
      pregnancy, but before the pregnancy outcome is known, that comes to their site. This allows
      the Registry to include every report from that site as an evaluable case. As the number of
      cases from these sites increases, the Registry will be able to analyze those cases
      separately. Providers are encouraged to participate in this group.

      ViiV Healthcare is the new sponsor of this study, and GlaxoSmithKline is in the process of
      updating systems to reflect the change in sponsorship.
    
  