
    
      The objective of the proposed research is test the feasibility of a brief computer-based
      personalized feedback intervention to reduce heavy alcohol use among HIV+ individuals. Rates
      of hazardous alcohol use among HIV+ individuals are approximately two times that found in the
      general population. Hazardous alcohol use contributes to problems with HIV medication
      adherence, risky sexual behavior, and psychological problems, as well as physical
      complications (rapid disease progression, medication toxicities, organ failure, and poor
      viremic control), which may lead to increased risk of transmission and premature death. Yet,
      HIV+ hazardous alcohol users remain a hard-to-reach and underserved group. There is therefore
      a critical need to test alternative approaches to the implementation of effective
      interventions to reduce HIV disease transmission and progression in HIV+ hazardous alcohol
      users. One novel and promising intervention approach is the use of personalized feedback,
      which has consistently been found to be efficacious for reducing hazardous alcohol use across
      a number of populations. Personalized feedback highlights discrepancies between one's own
      drinking and typical drinking; reframes use in terms of personal, social, financial, health,
      and other consequences; and offers strategies for reducing use and alcohol-related negative
      consequences. The proposed research will develop and evaluate the feasibility, acceptability,
      and potential efficacy of a novel evidence- and computer-based Personalized Feedback
      Intervention (PFI) among HIV+ hazardous alcohol users in a high volume Houston HIV clinic.
      The investigators will recruit 150 HIV+ hazardous alcohol users randomly assigned to receive
      either PFI or attention-control feedback (e.g., diet, exercise). The investigators expect to
      demonstrate feasibility and acceptability of the PFI. Outcomes include drinking change
      processes and behavior, alcohol-related risky sexual behavior, and HIV-related outcomes. An
      underlying premise, which will be evaluated through the aims, is that the difficulty in
      reaching hazardous alcohol users who are HIV+ can be addressed with an approach that will not
      be burdensome to the individuals or to clinic staff. All assessments and procedures will take
      place in the clinic on tablets or laptop computers. Follow-up assessments will occur at 3
      months post-baseline. This research builds on the collaborative work of an experienced team
      of investigators with complementary expertise supporting all aspects of the proposed
      research.
    
  