
    
      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) technique involves implanting electrodes using a stereotactic
      method and connecting them to a pulse generator to deliver a current in localized areas in
      the brain.

      The optimum location for DBS electrodes is determined by pre-operative brain imaging, often
      combined with an intraoperative microelectrode recording/stimulating (MER) sequence. Current
      MER practice involves inserting micro-recording/stimulating electrodes into guide tubes in
      the brain and lowering them towards the target, performing recordings at selected steps. The
      recordings differ based on the types of neuronal structures they are passing through.Based on
      the recordings, some promising locations are further discriminated by stimulation using
      macro-electrodes, and the target for final lead placement is chosen.

      The spiderSTN lead (Aleva Neurotherapeutics SA, Switzerland) is capable of recording and
      stimulating from both its inner and outer surface, allowing the user to steer the direction
      of stimulation during the target location phase. This will allow the neurosurgeon greater
      flexibility in investigating the balance between therapeutic benefits and stimulation-induced
      side effects at a given location.

      This feasibility study is designed to explore the effect of directional stimulation and the
      ability to differentiate between stimulation induced side effects at a given location, during
      the DBS surgery. It will be proposed to patients who suffer from Parkinson disease (PD) or
      essential tremor (ET) and for whom DBS is indicated according to standard criteria at the
      hospital. It will be restricted to a limited number of patients (10), sufficient to assess
      the recording and stimulating capacity of the spiderSTN device. The patient undergoes the
      normal DBS surgery until the position for the final lead has been chosen. Then the spiderSTN
      test phase takes place. Once test phase is completed, the conventional DBS surgery resumes.
    
  