
    
      Chronic poor health and impaired work ability entails both personal suffering and
      considerable social costs. Poverty, homelessness, difficulties to handle complex issues, and
      maltreatment may affect health outcomes in the long run. Both sense of coherence (SOC) and
      the ability to understand health-related information (health literacy) influences personal
      coping strategies and thus the motivation to participate in health care and rehabilitation,
      which is known to have a positive impact on health outcome. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate whether an intervention with patient education in study circles, aiming to empower
      patients to participate in health care and rehabilitation by increasing health literacy and
      sense of coherence, may have a causal effect on perceived health, ability and function as
      well as independence and quality of life for patients with long-term health-related
      disabilities and passive coping strategies. The study design is a cluster randomized
      controlled study comparing the intervention in addition to treatment as usual (TAU) with TAU.
      Follow-up is performed with validated questionnaires after 3, 6 and 12 months. Primary
      outcome is net inactivity days (net days without employment or rehabilitation) and secondary
      outcome variables are the number of net and gross days with sick leave during the follow-up
      period, sense of coherence, health literacy, health-related quality of life, confidence in
      own problem solving ability, work ability and work satisfaction, social function and health
      habits, symptoms of depression, anxiety, and exhaustion as well as pain and
      catastrophization. Randomization will be performed at Primary Care Center (PCC) level. Around
      30 Primary Care Centers and 400 patients will be included in the study. The intervention
      consists of patient education with study circles meeting half a day per week for eight
      following weeks. The study is expected to show whether patient education in study circles
      aiming to increase health literacy and sense of coherence has a causal effect on perceived
      health, ability and function, independence and quality of life for patients with long-term
      health-related disabilities and passive coping strategies compared to TAU.

      The research subjects will answer all questionnaires in a web based tool approved for storing
      research data, esMaker (Entergate AB) on their mobile phone, iPad or computer. Individual web
      links to the questionnaires will be distributed via e-mail. Research subject identity is
      replaced with individual codes in esMaker. The research assistant will be in charge of the
      CodeKey and responsible for distributing the web links and for reminding the research
      subjects to fill in the questionnaires.
    
  