
    
      In this study the first step is to collect blood from the patient to make the GINAKIT cells.
      Once the GINAKIT cells are made they will be administered to the patient.

      This is a dose escalation study. This means that at the beginning, patients will be started
      on the lowest dose (1 of 4 different levels) of GINAKIT cells. Once that dose schedule proves
      safe, the next group of patients will be started at a higher dose. This process will continue
      until all 4 dose levels are studied. If the side effects are too severe, the dose will be
      lowered or the infusions will be stopped.

      Before getting the GINAKIT cells, the patient will receive cyclophosphamide and fludarabine
      intravenously (through a needle inserted into a vein or the patient's port-a-cath) for 2 days
      and then fludarabine alone for one more day. The patient will then have one day of rest with
      no chemotherapy before receiving the GINAKIT cells.

      The patient will be given an injection of GINAKIT cells into the vein through an IV line at
      the assigned dose. Before the patient receives the injection, they may be given a dose of
      Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol (acetaminophen). The injection will take up to 10
      minutes. The patient will be monitored in the clinic after the injection for about 4 hours.
      The treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's
      Hospital.

      The patient will need to stay in Houston for 4 weeks after the infusion so investigators can
      monitor the patient for side effects. The patient will have follow-up visits (at weeks 1, 2,
      3, 4 and 8; months 3, 6, 9, and 12; twice a year for 4 years and then once a year for the
      next 10 years - for a total of 15 years) and scheduled disease evaluations after the GINAKIT
      cell infusion (at week 6 and then as clinically needed).

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests as follows:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of your tumor by routine imaging studies and bone marrow evaluation within
           4 weeks (preferably 2 weeks) before treatment study entry (no other cancer treatment
           should be given after these studies and the GINAKIT cell infusion). Imaging studies that
           have been used in the past to best assess your tumor will be used (Computer Tomogram
           (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT),
           and/or MIBG scan). A PET scan is an imaging test that uses radioactive material to look
           for disease in the body. A MIBG scan is an imaging test that uses radioactive material
           and a special scanner to find or confirm the presence of neuroblastoma.

      The patient will receive standard medical tests when they are getting the infusions and
      afterwards as follows:

        -  Physical exams

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells counts, kidney and liver function.

        -  Measurements of the patient's tumor by routine imaging studies 4-6 weeks after the
           infusion.

        -  Tumor biopsy at 2 weeks and between 4-6 weeks after the infusion and as clinically
           indicated thereafter. The evaluation at week 2 after the infusion is for research only
           and is done to see whether or not there are GINAKIT cells in the tumor. For all
           clinically indicated tumor biopsies a portion of the sample for research will be
           requested.

        -  If a tumor was in the bone marrow at the time of treatment, the procedure will be
           repeated at 2 weeks and between 4-6 weeks after the infusion and as clinically indicated
           thereafter. The evaluation at week 2 after the infusion is for research only and is done
           to see whether or not there are GINAKIT cells in the bone marrow. For all clinically
           indicated bone marrow collections a portion of the sample for research will be
           requested.

      To learn more about the way the GINAKIT cells are working and how long they last in the body,
      an extra amount of blood will be obtained before the chemotherapy, on the day of the GINAKIT
      cell infusion (before and at the end of the infusion), 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8 weeks after the
      GINAKIT cell infusion, every 3 months for the 1st year, every 6 months for the next 4 years
      and then once a year for the next 10 years (for a total of 15 years). The amount of blood
      taken will be based on the patient's weight with up to a maximum of 60 ml (12 teaspoons) of
      blood to be obtained at any one time. For children, the total amount of blood drawn will not
      be more than 3 ml (less than 1 teaspoon) per 1 kg of body weight on any given day. This
      volume is considered safe, but may be decreased if the patient is anemic (have a low red
      blood cell count).

      During the time points listed above, if the GINAKIT cells are found in the patient's blood at
      a certain amount, an extra 5ml of blood may need to be collected for additional testing.

      If the patient has a procedure where tumor samples are obtained, investigators will request a
      sample to be used for research purposes.

      If the patient develops a second abnormal growth, significant blood or nervous system
      disorder during the trial, a biopsy sample of the tissue will be tested (if a sample can be
      obtained).

      The patient will receive supportive care for any acute or chronic toxicities, including blood
      components or antibiotics, and other intervention as appropriate.

      Because the patient will receive cells with a new gene in them they will be followed for a
      total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer.
    
  