
    
      Subjects will be asked to complete the Substrate Metabolism Laboratory General Screening
      Questionnaire and American Heart Association Health/Fitness Questionnaire to determine if
      they are eligible to complete the preliminary testing procedures. If eligible, subjects will
      be asked to visit the Substrate Metabolism Laboratory to participate in the preliminary
      testing procedures (listed below) before participating in the experimental trial.

      PRELIMINARY TESTING PROCEDURES:

        -  Blood pressure, height and weight measurements

        -  Body Composition Assessment (~20 min)

        -  Exercise Fitness Test (~10 min)

        -  Resting Metabolic Rate (RMR) measurement (~30 min)

        -  3 hour Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)

      EXPERIMENTAL TRIAL:

      The evening before the experimental trial, subjects will eat a standardized dinner meal and
      snack. The meal and snack must be eaten at specific times as indicated by the research staff.
      After eating the snack, subjects will need to fast (no food or beverages - besides water)
      overnight.

      Participants who exercise regularly will be instructed to exercise exactly 3 days before the
      experimental trial, and then abstain from their exercise training program until after the
      study is complete.

      In the morning, subjects will return to the Substrate Metabolism Laboratory. The research
      team will collect a blood sample from the subject's hand or forearm and a small sample of fat
      tissue in the subject's abdomen with a needle. Next, subjects will exercise on a treadmill at
      a moderate intensity for about 1 hour. Immediately after exercising the research team will
      collect a second blood sample. Subjects will remain in the laboratory for 1 hour after
      exercising, and then the research team will collect another blood and fat tissue sample. Upon
      completion of the experimental trial, subjects will be provided a snack before leaving the
      laboratory.
    
  