
    
      A clinical protocol was developed in collaboration with the hospital's Emergency Department
      for the management of adult outpatients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Patients are
      assigned to 2 treatment categories according to the plasma procalcitonin (PCT) values.

      Treatment assignment:

        1. PCT<0.5 ng/ml: azithromycin, 500 mg/day orally for 5 days

        2. PCT≥0.5ng/ml: levofloxacin, 500 mg/day orally for 7 days

      Laboratory and microbiological studies:

      In the ED, patients with signs and symptoms of pneumonia have a blood sample collected for
      routine biochemical and hematological determinations, and PCT concentration measurement.

      Rapid testing for the determination of PCT are performed with BRAHMS PCT-Q, an
      immunochromatografic test for the semi-quantitative detection of PCT in serum (BRAHMS GmbH,
      16761 Hennigsdorf, Germany). PCT concentration ranges are the following: <0.5 ng/ml; ≥ 0.5
      ng/ml; ≥2 ng/ml; ≥10 ng/ml.

      The etiological diagnostic workup includes obtaining sputum samples from patients with
      productive cough, and a urine sample for detection of S. pneumoniae and Legionella
      pneumophila serogroup 1 antigens by immunochromatographic assays (Binax NOW, Alere Healthcare
      SLU, Spain). Only qualified sputum samples, as defined according to standard criteria
      (presence of >25 WBC and <10 squamous cells per low-power magnification field [x10]) are
      evaluated. Serum samples (obtained during the acute stage of illness and 4 weeks later) are
      collected and frozen at -80ºC for ulterior serological testing. An indirect chemiluminescent
      immunoassay (VirClia® Monotest, Vircell, S.L., Granada, Spain) is performed to detect IgG
      antibodies against Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila
      and Coxiella burnetii. Calculation of cutoff values and interpretation of the results are
      performed in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer. The diagnostic criteria
      are either a seroconversion (index value from negative to positive) or a significant increase
      in the index value (≥threefold) in paired samples. All assays are performed and analyzed
      blindly by the same person.

      Follow-up and outcome measures:

      After treatment has been assigned, patients are referred to the outpatients clinic, where
      they are seen within the following 24 hours (Visit 2). A phone visit (Visit 3) is scheduled
      on day 7, and the last programmed visit on day 30 at the clinic (Visit 4). Patients are
      instructed to visit the outpatients' clinic if their clinical status worsens or fever
      persists more than 48 hours after the first visit. Cure is defined as an improvement or lack
      of progression of baseline radiographic findings at the end of therapy (EOT) and resolution
      of signs, including chest X-Ray, and symptoms of pneumonia at visit 4. Failure is defined as
      persistence or progression of signs and symptoms or progression of radiological signs of
      pneumonia at EOT, persistent infiltrate on X-Ray at visit 4, and initiation within 2 calendar
      days of the initial antibiotic therapy of a different potentially effective antibiotic, death
      on or after day 3 attributable to primary infection, or relapsed infection at visit 4.
      Antibiotic change requirement due to toxicity, and need for hospital admission is also
      recorded.

      In addition to the short-term outcome, the long-term (3-year) outcome of the patients is
      assessed through a structured telephone interview.
    
  