
    
      Background Advanced gastric cancer has always been the focus and difficulty in the treatment
      of gastric cancer. at present, gastric cancer with clinical stage of T3 / T4a / N + and
      without distant metastasis is defined as advanced gastric cancer. The conventional treatment
      is radical surgery plus postoperative or preoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. The overall
      median survival time is 10-12 months. After surgery-based comprehensive treatment, the 5-year
      survival rate of advanced gastric cancer is about 30%, and about 30-40% of recurrence is
      peritoneal recurrence or local recurrence. Postoperative peritoneal recurrence is one of the
      key factors for poor prognosis of advanced gastric cancer.

      Previous peritoneal recurrence and metastasis was defined as the end stage of the disease.
      Since 1980s, Spratt et al found that chemotherapy combined with hyperthermia can improve the
      treat efficacy of peritoneal metastases. In the past 20 years, with the progress of accurate
      temperature control technology, hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) has been
      gradually applied to various advanced peritoneal metastases. HIPEC refers to the accurate
      constant temperature, circulatory perfusion, filling the abdominal cavity and maintaining for
      a certain period of time to prevent and treat peritoneal implant metastasis. HIPEC contains
      three new concepts of precise temperature control, precise positioning and precise removal:
      (1) accurate temperature control: the accuracy of temperature measurement is less than ±0.1C,
      the accuracy of temperature control is less than ±0.5C, and the accuracy of flow rate control
      is less than ±5%. (2) accurate positioning: "x" abdominal cavity cross-placed perfusion tube
      to the subdiaphragm and pelvic floor to fill the whole abdominal cavity, leaving no treatment
      blind area, giving full play to the best effect of HIPEC. (3) accurate clearance: volume
      removal of free cancer cells, subclinical lesions and microcancerous nodules. Intraperitoneal
      hyperthermic perfusion chemotherapy has been used in the treatment of advanced peritoneal
      metastases such as gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and ovarian cancer, and achieved
      remarkable results. The overall prognosis of patients with peritoneal metastases has been
      greatly improved without increasing adverse reactions.

      Research status Previous peritoneal recurrence and metastasis was defined as the end stage of
      the disease. Since 1980s, Spratt et al found that chemotherapy combined with hyperthermia can
      improve the treat efficacy of peritoneal metastases. In the past 20 years, with the progress
      of accurate temperature control technology, hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC)
      has been gradually applied to various advanced peritoneal metastases. HIPEC refers to the
      accurate constant temperature, circulatory perfusion, filling the abdominal cavity and
      maintaining for a certain period of time to prevent and treat peritoneal implant metastasis.
      HIPEC contains three new concepts of precise temperature control, precise positioning and
      precise removal: (1) accurate temperature control: the accuracy of temperature measurement is
      less than ±0.1C, the accuracy of temperature control is less than ±0.5C, and the accuracy of
      flow rate control is less than ±5%. (2) accurate positioning: "x" abdominal cavity
      cross-placed perfusion tube to the subdiaphragm and pelvic floor to fill the whole abdominal
      cavity, leaving no treatment blind area, giving full play to the best effect of HIPEC. (3)
      accurate clearance: volume removal of free cancer cells, subclinical lesions and
      microcancerous nodules. Intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion chemotherapy has been used in
      the treatment of advanced peritoneal metastases such as gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and
      ovarian cancer, and achieved remarkable results. The overall prognosis of patients with
      peritoneal metastases has been greatly improved without increasing adverse reactions.

      A French analysis of 1125 patients over the past 25 years shows that tumor cell reduction
      surgery (CRS) combined with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy(HIPEC) may benefit
      patients' survival regardless of the origin of peritoneal metastatic cancer. Foreign
      GASTRICHIP studies have shown that radical resection of advanced gastric cancer D1-2 gastric
      cancer plus postoperative hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy can reduce postoperative
      peritoneal recurrence of advanced gastric cancer to a certain extent. At present, the HIPEC
      study of advanced gastric cancer in China is mainly based on the mode of surgery combined
      with postoperative HIPEC treatment, including the ongoing NCT02381847 study led by Professor
      Guan Wenxian of Nanjing Gulou Hospital and the NCT03604614 study led by Professor Wang Wei of
      Guangdong Hospital of traditional Chinese Medicine. both of them are aimed at the safety and
      efficacy of postoperativehyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy for advanced gastric
      cancer. At present, there is no clinical study on hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy
      at home and abroad.
    
  