
    
      This is a prospective, non-randomized, unmasked pilot study.

        1. SETTING: Storm Eye Institute, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC and
           one additional site in USA.

        2. SUBJECTS A total of 40 eyes (20 per site) of 20 subjects of both sexes and any race
           undergoing routine phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation will be
           included.

           2.1. Patient Inclusion Criteria: Subjects MUST fulfill the following conditions to
           qualify for enrollment into the trial 2.1.1. Subject must have an age-related cataract
           in both eyes.

           2.1.2. 21 years of age or older. 2.1.3. Patient must desire cataract extraction. 2.1.4.
           Expected maximum of 2 weeks and minimum of 1-week interval between first and second eye
           surgeries. 2.1.5. Cross-cylinder value calculation from the Toric Calculator indicates a
           cross-cylinder correction from 0.75D to 1.0D in at least one eye and up to 1.75 in the
           fellow eye.

           2.1.6. Willing and able to comply with scheduled visits and other study procedures.

           2.2. Patient Exclusion Criteria: Subjects with ANY of the following conditions on the
           eligibility exam may NOT be enrolled into the trial.

           2.2.1. Preoperative ocular pathology: amblyopia, rubella cataract, proliferative
           diabetic retinopathy, shallow anterior chamber, macular edema, retinal detachment,
           aniridia or iris atrophy, uveitis, history of iritis, iris neovascularization, medically
           uncontrolled glaucoma, microphthalmus or macrophthalmus, optic nerve atrophy, macular
           degeneration (with anticipated best postoperative visual acuity less than 20/30),
           advanced glaucomatous damage, etc. 2.2.2. Planned postoperative refraction for
           mono-vision. 2.2.3. Uncontrolled diabetes. 2.2.4. Use of any systemic or topical drug
           known to interfere with visual performance.

           2.2.5. Contact lens use during the active treatment portion of the trial. 2.2.6. Any
           concurrent infectious/non infectious conjunctivitis, keratitis or uveitis.

           2.2.7. Pregnant or nursing mothers and females of childbearing potential not practicing
           a reliable and medically acceptable method of birth control. 2.2.8. Any clinically
           significant, serious or severe medical or psychiatric condition that may increase the
           risk associated with study participation or study device implantation or may interfere
           with the interpretation of study results. 2.2.9. Participation in (or current
           participation) any investigational drug or device trial within the previous 30 days
           prior to the start date of this trial. 2.2.10. Intraocular conventional surgery within
           the past three months or intraocular laser surgery within one month in the operated eye.
           2.2.11. Other ocular surgery at the time of the cataract extraction.

           The principal investigator reserves the right to declare a patient ineligible or
           non-evaluable based on medical evidence that indicates the patient is unsuitable for the
           trial.

           2.3. Surgical Exclusion Criteria

           The study lens should not be implanted and the patient should be excluded from the study
           if any of the following complications are encountered during surgery:

           2.3.1. Significant anterior chamber bleeding. 2.3.2. Detached Descemet's membrane 2.3.3.
           Iris damage 2.3.4. Inability to achieve secure, symmetric, "in the bag" position of the
           IOL: posterior capsule rupture, radial tear in capsulorhexis, vitreous loss, zonular
           rupture.

           2.3.5. Use of corneal sutures for more than 1 week.

           2.4. Post-implantation Exclusion Criteria 2.4.1. Haptic not in the capsular bag. 2.4.2.
           Decentration of the IOL of more than 1.0 mm 2.4.3. Ocular pathologies potentially
           affecting visual acuity that were not evident prior to surgery.

           The principal investigator reserves the right to declare a patient ineligible or
           nonevaluable based on medical evidence that indicates the patient is unsuitable for the
           trial.

        3. STUDY ENROLLMENT PROCEDURES Subjects will be recruited from the corneal and anterior
           segment clinic at Storm Eye Institute and satellite offices. Once identified as a study
           candidate, the patient will be asked if he/she would like to participate. A study
           coordinator or one of the investigators will answer any and all questions and will
           obtain informed consent. The patient will understand that participation in the study
           will not affect their quality of care.

        4. STUDY INTERVENTION The Acrysof toric SN60T3 IOL is approved by the Food and Drug
           Administration (FDA).

           The examinations and treatments used in this protocol are similar to those used in
           routine practice. Therefore, the additional risks involved in this study are extremely
           low. Patients will undergo routine cataract extraction and intraocular implantation of
           the Acrysof toric lens in both eyes.

        5. STUDY VISIT SCHEDULE AND ASSESSMENTS (Table 1) 5.1. Visit Schedule

      Patients will be examined at the following intervals:

        1. Visit 1: Preoperative evaluation completed not more than four weeks before surgery

        2. Visit 2: Date of Surgery

        3. Visit 3: 14 ± 2 days postoperative

        4. Visit 4: 30 ±5 days postoperative

        5. Visit 5: 90 ±7 days postoperative

        6. Visit 6: 180 ±10 days postoperative Additional office visits as required for medical
           safety. On such visits an unscheduled patient visit case report should be completed.

      6. MEASUREMENTS AND EVALUATIONS

      6.1. Visit 1: Preoperative assessment included a thorough medical history and a complete eye
      examination. The latter will include ETDRS uncorrected distance visual acuity (UCDVA),
      manifest refraction, ETDRS best corrected distance visual acuity (BCDVA), slit-lamp exam,
      manual keratometry, Orbscan, and a quality of vision questionnaire will be evaluated as well.
      Informed consent is to be obtained prior to performing the procedures in this study. Patient
      must review and sign the documentation. Women of childbearing potential will undergo a
      pregnancy test and will only be entered into the trial if this is negative.

      6.2. Visit 2: Surgery will be performed by the surgeon under topical anesthesia. A standard
      phacoemulsification and posterior chamber lens insertion will be performed according to the
      investigator's preferred technique. If a major complication occurs during surgery (e.g.
      expulsive hemorrhage or vitreous loss requiring vitrectomy), the patient will be excluded
      from the trial. Subjects will be implanted with the Acrysof Toric SN60T3 IOL.
      Postoperatively, patients will be instructed to follow the standard of care routinely used
      after cataract extraction.

      6.3. Visits 3, 4 and 5: On postoperative days 30 ±5, 90 ±7 and 180 ±10, ophthalmic
      examination to include: UCDVA, BCDVA, manifest refraction, slit lamp biomicroscopy, IOL
      position from slit lamp evaluation, manual keratometry and Orbscan. Absolute residual
      cylinder will be evaluated as well as change in axis orientation (determined by the
      postoperative manifest refraction), and distance spectacle independence.

      Table 1. Study Assessments

      Visit 1 Preop Visit 2 Date of surgery Visit 3 Day 30 ±5 Visit 4 Day 90 ± 7 Visit 5 Day 180 ±
      10 Inclusion & exclusion criteria X Signed informed consent X Demographics X Symptoms
      Assessment X X X X UCVA X X X X Manifest Refraction X X X X BCVA X X X X Manual keratometry X
      X X X Orbscan X X X X Intraocular pressure X Slit lamp examination X X X X Dilated fundus
      exam X Quality of vision and distance vision spectacle independence questionnaire X X X X
      Adverse events X X X X X

      7. STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      7.1. Sample size calculation: This is a pilot study.

      7.2. Statistical Method: All data will be collected by the study coordinators. Data will be
      entered into an Access database. The database will be password protected and access will be
      restricted to study personnel. Data analysis will be performed without patient
      identification. Comparisons and statistical analysis will be done to determine if any
      statistical differences exist between preoperative and postoperative visits. Statistical
      analysis will be done using standard descriptive statistics and other tests as deemed
      appropriate based on the distribution of the data. If data is normally distributed, test such
      as the t-test will be used, while non-normally distributed data will be analyzed using the
      Wilcoxon test for comparison between the groups. ANOVA and Kruskal-Wallis tests will be used
      for comparison between baseline and postoperative visits. A P less than 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  