
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The National Growth and Health Study, NGHS, was an epidemiologic study of 2,379 black and
      white girls, ages 9-10 years at entry, who were followed annually. The ancillary study had
      the potential for identifying those genes involved in determining Black/white differences in
      lipid metabolism and obesity. This was an exciting area in which there was virtually no
      available information. Finally, the study permitted an examination of the effects of gene
      variation on changes in quantitative levels of blood lipids as well as in body fat during
      different stages of pubescence since the NGHS protocol included annual anthropometric and
      maturation assessments and biannual blood lipid determinations along with extensive
      environmental measures which included dietary, household, and psychosocial information. The
      study was unique because of the rare opportunity to do genetic analyses in a large cohort of
      two ethnic groups of children on whom a very rich data base was available.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was an independent research project ancillary to the NGHS and utilized the
      extensive biological and environmental information available from the NGHS core data base.
      Blood samples were obtained from 1,133 girls seen at their followup examinations in Year 7 in
      order to determine genotypes at those loci known to be implicated in lipid metabolism and
      obesity. Both protein [apolipoproteins C-II, D, and E and LP(a)] and DNA [apolipoprotein B,
      lipoprotein lipase (LPL), and LDL receptor] were analyzed. The distribution of genetic
      variation within each ethnic group was determined. At each candidate gene locus, the genotype
      effects were estimated on quantitative level of apolipoproteins and lipoproteins, and also on
      the degree and distribution of body fat after adjusting for concomitant variables (such as
      age, biologic maturation stage adiposity) within each ethnic group. By comparing the
      frequencies of genotypes at candidate loci, their allelic effects were assessed as well as
      their impact on blood lipids and obesity development in Black and white females.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  