
    
      2.2 Rationale Presently used risk predictors in HCM for the clinical outcomes of SCD and HF
      are still insufficient and limit clinical trials and institution of novel therapies in this
      disease. This large scale, prospective clinical registry will systematically answer the
      important question whether, through addition of a combination of advanced CMR phenotyping,
      genetic and biomarker analysis, risk stratification in HCM could be substantially improved
      over presently used clinical risk predictors. Emerging novel blood, genetic, and CMR markers
      offer the paradigm-shifting promise of reliably identifying those at risk. In addition, this
      will be the largest genotyped population of HCM available to correlate with comprehensive CMR
      and biomarker evaluation. This will allow unique opportunities to evaluate genotype-phenotype
      correlations and compare specific genetic subsets in a manner that has not been possible in
      the past. This study will also establish a predictive model that can be used to assess risk
      given a patient's combination of risk factors. This will help to select patients for future
      clinical trials to prevent SCD and HF. In addition, it will identify surrogate endpoints to
      monitor treatment response in HCM. In this way, the evidence base will be established in HCM
      to enable clinical trial design to reduce morbidity and mortality in HCM in a cost-effective
      manner.

      3 OBJECTIVES The Specific Aim of this study is to develop a predictive model of
      cardiovascular outcomes in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy by: 1) using exploratory data mining
      methods to identify demographic, clinical, and novel CMR, genetic and biomarker variables
      associated with the outcomes and 2) develop a score from the predictive model that can be
      used to assess risk given a patient's combination of risk factors, thus establishing the
      evidence base to enable clinical trial design to reduce morbidity and mortality in HCM in a
      cost-effective manner.

      To understand the relationship between these novel risk markers in HCM and clinical outcome,
      the investigators propose a natural history study of 2750 patients with clinically diagnosed
      HCM studied at baseline with collection of demographic data, clinical risk factors, as well
      as novel markers from CMR, genotyping, and serum biomarkers of collagen turnover and
      myocardial injury, enrolled over a 2-year period and followed for 3-5 years (mean of 4
      years). The study will be powered to identify risk markers in a Cox model (imaging, serum,
      and genetic beyond standard clinical risk factors) with a hazard ratio of 1.5 or greater for
      the primary endpoint, which will be cardiac death (including SCD and HF death), aborted SCD
      (appropriate discharge of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator), and need for heart
      transplantation. Secondary endpoints include all-cause mortality, ventricular
      tachyarrhythmias, hospitalization for heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and stroke. This
      study will enable establishment of a predictive model that will help to identify patients at
      risk as well as patients for future clinical trials to prevent SCD and HF. In addition, it
      will identify surrogate endpoints to monitor treatment response in HCM.

      4 STUDY DESIGN 4.1 Selection of the Study Population

      Patient characteristics:

      2750 patients will be recruited and will include at least 51% females and 30% minorities.

      Recruiting locations:

      Inpatient or outpatient setting from 35-40 sites in North America and Europe

      Serum Biomarker and DNA Samples Blood will be collected by peripheral venipuncture at
      enrollment as a source of serum and plasma for biomarker analysis, as well as a source of DNA
      for genetic testing. Fasting samples are requested but if this is not possible logistically,
      non-fasting samples can be acquired and noted as such. The investigators will also ask
      subjects to refrain from strenuous exercise for 24 hours prior to blood draw to decrease the
      potential for spuriously elevated biomarkers that reflect the influence of vigorous physical
      activity.

      Cardiac MRI

      A cardiac MRI will be performed and will take approximately one hour. 0.15mM of gadolinium
      contrast will be infused through an intravenous line during the MRI.

      Full details of the protocol will be in the Study Manual. Laboratory Evaluations 5.1.1
      Specimen Collection, Preparation, Handling and Shipping Biomarker samples (Full details are
      provided in the separate Biomarkers Technical Manual) 1. Collect 3, 10 ml tubes each of serum
      and K3 EDTA plasma in the fasting state (or indicated non-fasting if fasting samples cannot
      be obtained) DNA samples

      1. Collect one 10ml EDTA tube. 6 STUDY SCHEDULE 6.1 Screening Patient's medical records will
      be reviewed to be certain of diagnosis and eligibility.

      Informed consent must be obtained by a member of the study team. 6.2 Baseline visit

      Initial visit will be scheduled for study procedures as listed in #5 above. 6.3 Follow-up
      Visits Yearly telephone follow-up will be obtained for up to 5 years and review of applicable
      hospital or death records. Health status will be assessed with the SF-12 at this time.

      10 STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS 10.1 Study Outcome Measures

      The primary endpoint of this prospective study is the composite of cardiac death (SCD and HF
      death), aborted SCD including appropriate ICD firing, and need for heart transplantation.

      Secondary endpoints include all-cause mortality, ventricular tachyarrhythmias,
      hospitalization for heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and stroke.

      10.2 Sample Size Considerations Assuming a 3-year event rate of 4.2% based on recently
      published literature10;11;26;27 and alpha error rate of 5%, 2500 patients provides over 90%
      power to detect a hazard ratio of 1.5 for at least one risk factor in the Cox model. An
      additional 250 (2750 total) patients will be enrolled to compensate for a projected dropout
      rate of 2% per year.

      10.3 Participant Enrollment and Follow-Up 2750 enrollees, will be followed up to 5 years.
      10.4 Analysis Plan Because the anticipated event rate is small (4-5%), and the number of
      potential predictive risk factors is large (20+), an exploratory, tree classification
      analysis will be used to identify the strongest predictors and eliminate any that are judged
      to have little or no predictive power. Based on the risk factors identified in the
      exploratory analysis, a regression prediction model will be developed from which a summary
      risk score for HCM can be calculated and easily used in clinical settings.

      Tree-based data mining methods will be used to identify key variables in the prediction of
      the primary outcome, a composite of cardiac death (SCD and HF death), aborted SCD including
      appropriate ICD firing, and need for heart transplantation. Secondary endpoints will include
      all-cause mortality, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, septal myectomy or alcohol ablation,
      hospitalization for heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and stroke. Tree-based modeling is an
      exploratory technique for uncovering structure in multivariate data28;29. It is particularly
      useful for deriving prediction rules from a large number of screening variables or risk
      factors. Tree models can be used for both classification (binary outcome) and regression
      (continuous outcome). In either case, the collection of prediction rules (from the predictor
      variables) is displayed in the form of a tree. The terminology mimics that of trees: the root
      is the top node of the tree that displays the mean (regression) or proportion
      (classification) of the outcome for the entire sample. A split is the rule for creating new
      branches, and a leaf is a terminal node. Each node is a binary split of the predictor
      variable that contains two sub-groups of the sample with the largest possible difference
      between the groups. The same variable can appear in more than one level of the tree
      (recursive partitioning).

      The advantage of tree-based models over linear and additive models is that they are more
      adept at capturing non-additive relationships and more easily uncover complex interactions
      between predictor variables. Continuous variables or categorical variables with more than two
      levels need not be dichotomized prior to the analysis - the tree algorithm determines the
      cutoff value that produces the most homogenous nodes. Missing data can be treated as a
      separate category. Initial tree models will include risk factors listed in the following
      table as well as demographic variables, age, sex, and race.

      Clinical CMR Genetic Biomarkers Family history of HCM-related SCD LV ejection fraction MYH7
      NT-pro BNP Unexplained recent syncope LV mass/mass index MYBPC3 Singulex cardiac troponin
      Massive LVH (wall thickness >30mm) Maximum diastolic wall thickness Thin filament mutations
      PICP Multiiple burst of nonsustained VT LGE extent (% of LV mass) Compound/double
      heterozygotes ST2 Hypotensive BP response to exercise Global extracellular volume fraction
      Sarcomere mutation negative The initial tree is reduced in size (pruned) by comparing
      misclassification error rates of smaller trees to larger trees to assess the reduction of the
      predictive ability of trees resulting from the pruning process. The goal is to identify the
      strongest predictors of HCM, any interactions of the predictors, and eliminate any factors
      that have little predictive power. While tree models give rapid identification of the
      strongest predictors and combinations of predictors, they do not usually result in clinically
      useful prediction models that generalize well to patients in other settings. Regression
      methods, using test-validation re-sampling procedures, will be used to develop the most valid
      model possible.

      Using the demographic, clinical, imaging, biomarker and genetic measures, plus any
      interactions, identified in the tree analysis, Cox proportional hazards regression will be
      used to develop a predictive model from which a summary risk score can be calculated and
      applied in clinical settings. Parametric regression methods may be used if the proportional
      hazards assumption is not met. The regression model will be developed using a 100-fold
      validation procedure whereby 50% of the observations will be randomly selected for model
      development (test sample) and the remaining 50% used to assess the model's predictive ability
      (validation sample). This procedure will be repeated 100 times with a different random
      selection of test-validation samples for each iteration. The c-index will be calculated to
      assess model discrimination for both test and validation samples30. The ensemble of
      test-validation models provides an estimate of the attenuation of the c-index when the model
      is applied to a different sample as well as consistency of specific risk factors appearing in
      the models. A final model will be constructed that includes the combination of the strongest
      (high c-index and frequency of appearance) predictors. This model will then be applied to the
      entire sample to estimate regression coefficients and hazard ratios and calculate a summary
      risk score30. Nomograms will be constructed from the final model to provide predicted
      probabilities of the risk scores. To increase the ease of use of a nomogram, variables which
      are statistically significant but have little effect on prediction may be excluded. The model
      will also be used to develop a prediction algorithm that rapidly calculates risk on a
      hand-held electronic device. This analysis may also inform the design of clinical trials to
      evaluate therapeutic efficacy by providing effect sizes (hazard ratios) to calculate sample
      size requirements.
    
  