
    
      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedure is the treatment of choice for cholelithiasis as it
      has several advantages like smaller and more cosmetic incision, reduced blood loss, less
      postoperative pain, reduced post-operative stay, low post-operative complications, and early
      mobilization. Although this type of surgery is minimally invasive in nature but creation of
      pneumoperitoneum and postural changes causes a number of physiological alterations. Carbon
      dioxide (CO2) is the most commonly used gas for this purpose because it does not support
      combustion, is cleared more rapidly than other gases, and is highly soluble in blood.
      However, the disadvantage of CO2 is that the absorption of CO2 can cause hypercapnia and
      respiratory acidosis. Hypercapnia activates the sympathetic nervous system leading to an
      increase in blood pressure, heart rate, arrhythmias and myocardial contractility as well as
      it also sensitizes myocardium to catecholamines. Increased IAP may compress venous vessels
      causing an initial increase in preload, followed by a sustained decrease in preload.

      Tobacco smoking is an internationally accepted health hazard. The United nation (UN) health
      agency reports that about 4.9 million people die each year across the globe due to cigarette
      smoking. Chronic smoking (more than 20 pack year at least for 10 year) causes a number of
      pathological changes in respiratory system which includes inflammatory changes in lung
      parenchyma, imbalance between protease and anti-protease, oxidative stress, cilliary
      dysfunction, mucosal hyper secretion, airflow limitation and pulmonary hypertension.

      Arterial blood gas analysis plays a very important role in assessing the acid-base status,
      adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation. It is very useful in management of critically ill
      patients and in patients with pulmonary disorders. It is also a standard part of work-up for
      the patients who present with unexplained hypoxemia and dyspnea. An ABG test uses blood drawn
      from an artery, where the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels can be measured before they enter
      body tissues.
    
  