
    
      BACKGROUND OF THE STUDY

      Ovarian cancer is a gynecological cancer with a high risk of mortality. This is because the
      diagnosis is often been made in an advanced cancer stage with metastases throughout the
      peritoneum. The standard treatment for this condition till now consisted of primary debulking
      surgery where the tumor, the uterus and both the ovaries were removed, followed by a minimum
      of six treatments with platinum-based chemotherapy. This operation is often accompanied by
      serious complications such as for example bleedings, embolic events, infections and in
      extreme cases, even mortality. An international study led by Prof. Dr. Ignace Vergote
      (Gynaecological Oncology) showed for the first time that patients in such an advanced stage
      of ovarian cancer who received first three neoadjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy regimens
      followed by interval debulking surgery, and in turn followed by at least 3 treatment with
      platinum-based chemotherapy, had fewer complications than patients treated with primary
      debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy. Moreover, the final survival rate in both groups
      seemed to be similar. The most important prognostic marker appeared to be whether patients
      with primary or interval surgery no longer had a visible residual tumor after the treatment.
      Patients who had only small metastases in the peritoneum, seemed to be better treated with
      primary surgery (neoadjuvant Vergote I, et al Chemotherapy or Primary Surgery in Stage IIIC
      or IV Ovarian Crystallising, N Engl J Med 363 (1910): 943 - 953).

      Each patient with suspected advanced ovarian cancer should undergo a preoperative evaluation
      where they assess which of the two treatments is the best option. This should of course, for
      each individual patient, take into account comorbidity, cancer stage, number and location of
      the metastases etc. Currently,[18F] FDG-PET/CT, CT and conventional MRI are being used for
      staging, detecting recurrence and metastasis and for evaluating therapy response. These
      techniques have some disadvantages. A PET study takes a long time to perform and makes use of
      radioactive material. The addition of CT also gives rise to additional radiation. [18F] FDG
      accumulates in inflammatory cells in the tumor. This can explain the difficulties concerning
      early evaluation of treatment response. Although CT allows high resolution images of the
      entire body, sometimes the technology lacks sufficient sensitivity or specificity. Although
      conventional MRI has the highest sensitivity for detection of liver metastases, the lack of
      efficient whole-body imaging for staging a disadvantage when assessing systemic tumor spread
      and metastasis. Small peritoneal metastases are therefore often missed with this technique.

      Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is an emerging technology that is currently being uses in
      cancer imaging. Here the difference in movement of water molecules provides information about
      the integrity of cellular membranes. DWI has the advantage that no contrast material is
      required and there is also no need for exposure to ionizing radiation. Further developments
      in technology allowed for an acceptable time in whole body conducting research, so we should
      be able to image gastrointestinal tumors with this whole body technique.

      AIM OF THE STUDY

      The aim of the study is to assess whole body diffusion weighted imaging (WB-DWI) as a
      non-invasive method, in patients with confirmed ovarian cancer in the presence of peritoneal
      metastases. This is to assess which of the two treatments (primary debulking surgery followed
      chemotherapy versus platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking
      surgery, followed in turn by chemotherapy) is the best option for a particular type of
      patient.
    
  