
    
      All patients will be medically checked in the preoperative assessment clinic {history,
      physical examination, investigations (e.g. complete blood picture, coagulation profile ,
      liver & kidney functions , ECG for patient above 40 years, chest x-ray for patients above 60
      years and any other necessary investigations required for risky patients. ) }.

      The patients will be randomly allocated into two equal groups(25 patients for each group)
      with a computer-generated list (www.Random.org).

      QLB group: will receive 0.3ml/Kg bupivacaine 0.25% ( keeping in mind not to exceed the
      maximum recommended toxic dose of plain bupivacaine which is 2.5 mg/Kg & 3mg/Kg with
      epinephrine).

      PVB group: will receive 0.25ml/Kg/side of 0.375% bupivacaine with epinephrine 5ug/ml,
      yielding the same dose of bupivacaine of 1.875mg/ml at the level of T10.

        -  In the recovery room, the patients will be continuous monitored for pulse, blood
           pressure, oxygen saturation.

        -  Humidified oxygen 3L/min. by nasal prong will be delivered to all patients.

        -  Portable ultrasound machine , nerve stimulator, pressure injector monitor ,resuscitation
           equipment &drugs (e.g. epinephrine, lipid emulsion ), sterile gloves and surgical towels
           should be available.

        -  Intravenous(IV) 18 gauge cannula will be inserted. Midazolam 0.02 mg/Kg will be
           administered.

      While the patients in the supine or lateral position, they will receive bilateral single
      injection ultrasound guided QLBs under complete sterilization of the abdomen with sterile
      solution (iodine povacryl & isopropyl alcohol solution). All patients will be monitored
      throughout the performance of the block & all data will be recorded. A linear ultrasound
      transducer probe (6-13MHZ), or curved probe (according to patients BMI). ( Sonosite M-turbo;
      Inc., Bothell, WA, USA) in a sterile cover will be placed at the level of the anterosuperior
      iliac spine and moved cranially until the three muscle layers of the abdomen will be
      identified: external oblique, internal oblique, and transversus abdominis muscles. The
      external oblique muscle will be followed posterolaterally until its posterior border
      visualize (hook sign) leaving underneath the internal oblique muscle, like a roof over the QL
      muscle. The probe will be tilted down to identify a bright hyperechoic line that corresponded
      with the intermediate layer of the thoracolumber fascia(Blanco et al.,2015).

      A 21 gauge blunt, insulated, echogenic needle will be inserted in plane . The optimal point
      of injection will be determined using hydrodissection (3-5 mL normal saline). The site of the
      needle will be confirmed in place by ultrasound guided, nerve stimulator (B- Braun) &
      pressure injector monitor.

      After negative aspiration, we will inject 0.3mL/Kg bupivacaine 0.25% in each side in QLB
      group. The patients will be monitored for about 20-30 minutes before induction of anesthesia.

      While the TPVB will be performed by single injections at the level of T10 vertebra. The
      patients will be placed in the sitting position, and the spinal process of T10 will be
      palpated. Then a linear ultrasound transducer probe (6-13 MHZ).

      ( Sonosite M-turbo; Inc., Bothell, WA, USA) in a sterile cover will be placed at the
      corresponding transverse process to be clearly visualized and the skin-transverse process
      distance will be measured on both sides. After infiltration of the skin and subcutaneous
      tissue with 1% lidocaine with epinephrine 5ug/ml, an 18G Touphy needle will be inserted
      perpendicular to the skin, approximately 2.5 cm from midline, until contact with the
      transverse process will be established ( It is important to visualize the pleura very clearly
      at all times ). The needle will then slightly withdrawal & reinserted 1-1.5 cm deeper either
      caudally or cranially for the transverse process (TP). The site of the needle will be
      confirmed in place by ultrasound guided, nerve stimulator (B- Braun) & pressure injector
      monitor.

      After careful aspiration, patients will be received a slow injection of 0.25mL/Kg/side of
      0.375% bupivacaine with epinephrine 5ug/ml at the level of T10. The patients will be
      monitored for about 30 minutes before induction of anesthesia. Induction of general
      anesthesia will be done.

      After full awakening from anesthesia, the patient will be transferred to the recovery room.
      In the recovery room, the patient will be continuous monitored & humidified oxygen will be
      applied for about 1 hour. Then a standardized analgesic regimen consisting of regular IV/oral
      paracetamol 1g every 6 hours combined with PCA morphine (on demand) will be initiated.
      Patients required additional analgesia will be received IV ketorolac(15-30mg).

      A trained anesthetist not involved in the study & blinded to the patient group will measure
      the VAS, morphine requirements & patient satisfaction.
    
  