
    
      The research project consists of two sub-projects, where data collection will take place
      independently of each other. For both projects, we will use a self-controlled study design
      with pre- and post-measurements of the participant. Through a mixed-method design combining
      both quantitative and qualitative data will be obtained from the following three target
      groups:

        1. Individuals with low physical mobility ('Handiathletes' TT and 'Passengers' CUA)

        2. Volunteers (Runners and Pilots)

        3. Relatives (to the Handiathletes) and employees at nursing homes (older people)

      I collaboration with the two initiatives: the Team Twin- & Cycling without Age-foundation,
      the study intend to recruit approximately 25 'Handiathletes' and 25 'Passengers' with low
      physical mobility and a non-defined number of volunteer-runners, pilots and relatives from
      most recent established local departments of TT and nursing homes who offers the CUA-concepts
      to the nursing home residents. Prior to the enrollment, all participants will be given oral
      and written participant information and give their written consent to participate. Depending
      on the target group, each group will undergo different data collection methods (described
      under outcome).

      Team Twin description:

      Primo 2021, the Handiathletes (TT) who meet eligibility criteria will undergo two clinical
      pre-test days within a two weeks interval. Starting from approximately ultimo February, a
      training period of minimum 3 months will start. All the participant target groups train and
      participate in prescheduled races in their respective departments of TT. During the 3 months
      of training, data will be collected from the different target groups (see outcome measure).
      After the 3 months of training, the 'Handiathletes' will undergo one clinical post-test.

      The Cycling Without Age description:

      Primo 2021, the Pilots (CUA) who meet eligibility criteria will be enrolled in the project -
      a trial period of minimum 3 months. We will conduct pre- and post measures regarding the
      research questions (described under outcome)
    
  