
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is associated with severe adverse outcomes for mother and
      newborn. Recently introduced Swedish guidelines on GDM diagnosis will at least double the
      prevalence of diagnosed women. The first line of treatment in GDM is diet and exercise
      treatment. Even so, there is a recognized knowledge gap as to what diet treatment is optimal.
      In routine care today, diagnosed women are provided by midwife with the same diet advice as
      patients with diabetes type 2 and these are broad and general. Only rarely are the diet
      advice provided by a dietician. In nutrition research, most evidence for health benefits of a
      diet has been demonstrated for the Mediterranean diet. Further, the New Nordic Diet (NND) was
      recently developed to mimic the Mediterranean diet yet builds on foods grown in the Nordic
      climate. Interestingly, a diet intake in line with NND among Norwegian mothers was associated
      with lower risk for excessive pregnancy weight gain. In addition, associations have been
      shown between NND and lower risk for cardiovascular disease, obesity, inflammatory risk
      markers, serum lipids, colorectal cancer and total mortality. Hence, it seems likely that
      diet treatment with NND to women with GDM would be superior to routine care, but this has
      never been investigated. The main aim of the planned study is to investigate among women with
      GDM if a diet intervention during pregnancy according to NND, compared to routine care, will
      reduce complications for woman and newborn. Main outcome is glycosylated haemoglobin A
      (HbA1c) at gestational age 37 weeks. HbA1c captures recent average blood glucose levels, with
      the last 30 days accounting for 50% of the value. High glucose levels during pregnancy
      involve severe health risks for mother and neonate. The hypothesis is that women receiving
      qualified counseling on NND will experience less adverse health outcomes for herself and her
      newborn, than will women treated in routine care.
    
  