
    
      Subepithelial lesions of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract are commonly identified during
      routine endoscopy. Most of these lesions are benign. However because there is the potential
      for malignant transformation it is important to correctly identify the lesion in order to
      determine if any further therapy and/or surveillance is necessary for the patient.

      Leiomyoma, neural origin tumors, lipoma, duplication cyst, pancreatic rest, inflammatory
      fibroid polyp, granular cell tumor are considered benign SELs. Gastrointestinal stromal
      tumor, lymphoma, carcinoid, metastatic carcinoma, glomus tumor are malignant or potentially
      malignant lesions. Obtaining a diagnosis for SELs is often difficult since biopsies of the
      normal overlying surface mucosal layer are typically normal. Jumbo forceps biopsy,
      bite-on-bite technique with conventional biopsy forceps, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) guided
      fine needle aspiration (FNA), fine needle biopsy (FNB), single incision needle-knife biopsy
      (SINK), and endoscopic resection allow sampling of deeper tissue layers and may provide a
      histologic diagnosis. However there are no standard biopsy methods to diagnose SELs.

      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a helpful imaging diagnostic tool for the evaluation of SELs
      as it is capable of assessing its size, layer of origin, and echo patterns. However, it is
      not reliable enough to differentiate between benign and malignant SELs. The combination of
      EUS and fine needle aspiration (FNA) allows for cytologic diagnostic accuracy of about 80%.
      If a malignant tumor is suspected, tissue acquisition is important because the management may
      vary based on the type of SEL.

      EUS-FNA enables a small needle to be passed into the lesion of interest under ultrasound
      guidance, obtaining cellular material for cytology analysis. Although previous reports show
      accuracy rates for EUS-FNA for SEL that range between 72% and 90% there often is a problem of
      inadequate cellular aspirates for additional immunocytochemical examination. This problem
      causes a miss rate of approximately 40% for additional immunocytochemical analyses that may
      be needed to reach a definitive diagnosis for GISTs, although the macroscopic appearance
      alone is often sufficient. Using a larger FNA needle to perform the biopsy seems to be a
      logical solution to this limitation. However, doing so has thus far not been shown to improve
      the adequacy of biopsy aspirates.

      For this reason, core biopsy needles (EUS-FNB) have been developed in the hopes of obtaining
      core tissue for histology. The advantages of a biopsy core specimen are well known because
      the evaluation of tissue architecture increase the diagnostic yield compared to cytology
      obtained from FNA. In addition, a tissue core biopsy is critical to diagnose and characterize
      SELs by providing higher rates of immunohistological evaluation. Recently, a novel design
      core biopsy needle (Sharkcore, Medtronic) has been introduced with preliminary data
      suggesting superior diagnostic performance compared to previous versions of core biopsy
      needles. How this new needle performs in the diagnostic evaluation of SELs remains unclear.

      Single-incision needle-knife (SINK) biopsy is an alternative diagnostic method to acquire
      tissue samples. By using a conventional needle knife sphincterotome, the overlying mucosa of
      SELs is opened with a single linear incision of 10 mm and tissue samples are obtained by
      passing conventional biopsy forceps through the opening and deep into the tumor. According to
      a preliminary study by de la Serna Higuera et al, this technique provides sufficient tissue
      samples with high diagnostic yield of 92.8%. However, this biopsy method is only possible
      when a visible bulge from the SEL is apparent within the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract.

      The investigators believe this technique offers the potential to obtain more substantial
      tissue samples that will be much more likely to provide a definitive diagnosis for
      subepithelial tumors. In addition, it is hoped that biopsy samples obtained via SINK will be
      better able to provide adequate tissue for determination of the mitotic rate of GIST tumors,
      which is a major predictor of malignant risk for these lesions. However, how the SINK method
      compares to the latest EUS-FNB core needles is unclear, both in terms of the diagnostic
      efficacy in obtaining the diagnosis and in terms of the safety profile of doing so.

      The purpose of this study is to prospectively compare the efficacy and safety of EUS-FNB
      using the new SharkCore needle with SINK biopsy in patients with upper GI SELs. The results
      of the study will determine which method should be performed to confirm the diagnosis for
      SELs.
    
  