
    
      The term intermittent fasting, when used for health reasons or weight loss, has been used to
      describe various types of caloric restriction. Some authors use it when a patient withholds
      caloric intake for several consecutive hours during the day (often 16 h with all energy
      intake during the other 8 h of the day, others for a full day once or twice a week , and
      others three or four days per week Some protocols allow protein intake but no carbohydrates
      and still label it intermittent fasting.

      Others allow carbohydrates or macro/micro-nutrients up to a limit that will still promote
      ketosis and, although it is simply a low-calorie diet, due to the popularity of fasting this
      has been labeled a diet that mimics fasting.

      In this protocol we use 16hour fasting in 24hour with the same caloric intake in 8hour and
      can drink water ,coffee , and other noncaloric beverages during the fast, which can help
      reduce feelings of hunger .

      In all instances, non-caloric fluid intake is permitted (which is one of the main differences
      when compared to religious fasting) and therefore significantly reduces the risk of
      dehydration and hypotension, a prominent consideration in religious fasting.

      During the fasting hours and after breaking the fast, metabolic condition of the body could
      be influenced as a consequence of change in the pattern and amount of activity, meals and
      fluid intake, and even sleeping hours.

      Intermittent fasting and low caloric intake have been shown to improve various metabolic and
      inflammatory pathways. Insulin resistance, the most prominent feature of type 2 diabetes
      during pregnancy, has long been known to improve with intermittent fasting. After a period of
      fasting, insulin sensitivity rises and insulin levels fall. These result in improved fasting
      and postprandial glucose levels. In addition, as insulin induces adipose tissue growth, there
      is less propensity to weight gain and potentially even weight loss which leading to decrease
      neonatal adverse effects of gestational DM and improved fetal outcome.

      On the other hand, many other studies found that fasting has no effect on intrauterine
      growth, birth weight, birth-time indices, gestational diabetes, preterm birth, and
      preeclampsia. Predominantly, results of the studies examining the effects of fasting on
      mothers and newborns are not homogenous; therefore, further research should be conducted to
      attain valid findings.
    
  