
    
      There are up to 2 study visits in this study.

      During the first visit, the investigators will obtain non-contrast MRI (carotid, coronary,
      and femoral) in 20 subjects with known coronary atherosclerosis but varying degrees of CVD
      risk.

        1. 5 asymptomatic subjects with lower CVD risk (recent coronary artery calcium score [CACS]
           10-299)

        2. 5 asymptomatic subjects with higher CVD risk (CACS 300-1000)

        3. 5 subjects with known coronary atherosclerosis and stable angina

        4. 5 subjects with known atherosclerosis and recent acute myocardial infarction

      The investigators will measure plaque volume and assess adverse plaque features (intra-plaque
      hemorrhage, positive remodeling, lesion eccentricity) in the three vascular beds.

      Eight of these subjects with evidence of large plaque burden by MRI will be asked to return
      for a simultaneous positron emission tomography (PET)-MRI imaging with 18F-sodium fluoride
      (18F-NaF) of their carotid, coronary, and femoral arteries, in which 18F-NaF uptake in plaque
      will represent micro-calcifications, which is associated with high-risk plaque.

      In all 20 subjects, the investigators will also measure the following biomarkers which have
      been shown to be useful for CVD risk assessment of atherosclerosis: LDL, HDL, lipoprotein(a),
      apolipoprotein B/A-1 ratio, hemoglobin A1c, adiponectin, and highly sensitive C-reactive
      protein. The investigators will also calculate their estimated 10-year and lifetime
      atherosclerotic CVD risk (American Heart Association), Framingham 10-year CVD risk, and
      Reynolds 10-year CVD risk scores.

      We aim to obtain the second scan within 3 months of the first visit; thus, the subjects will
      participate in the study for approximately 3 months.

      All the procedures are research-related. The research visit will take approximately 3 hours,
      and there will be maximum two visits. There are no collaborations with other sites.
    
  