
    
      Group 1 - ACL without BFR : 30 athletes with ACL tears and will NOT do blood flow restriction
      (BFR). Random group allocation will be determined using envelopes for allocation concealment.
      The control group will be tested with a Dexascan immediately post appointment confirming MRI
      findings of ACL tear and scheduling surgery. They will be then Scanned again at first therapy
      appointment within 24-48 hours of surgery. Then Dexascans will be done every 4 weeks until 28
      weeks with a maximum of 9 scans. The scans will be completed on a normally scheduled
      rehabilitation session at the convenience of the radiology techs availability. The
      investigators will collect force plate measurements for squat symmetry at first 4-week
      assessment period, and then for landing symmetry every 4 weeks after that until 28 weeks.

      Group 2 - ACL with BFR: 30 athletes with ACL tear that will receive BFR. This group will be
      selected in the same manner as the control group. They will be tested with a dexasan
      immediately post appointment confirming MRI findings of ACL tear and scheduling surgery. At
      the initial dexascan they will also be instructed in Blood flow restriction and do exercises
      with blood flow restriction to prepare for initial post-surgical visit. They will be then
      scanned again at first therapy appointment within 24-48 hours of surgery. Then Dexascans will
      be done every 4 weeks until 28 weeks with a maximum of 9 scans. The investigators will
      collect force plate measurements for squat symmetry at first 4-week assessment and then for
      landing symmetry every 4 weeks after that until 28 weeks.

      The standard of care following ACL tear does not include Dexascan, force plate measurements,
      or blood flow restriction.

      Independent Variable

      1. Blood Flow Restrictions (BFR) Dependent Variable

        1. Landing mechanics / force distribution

        2. Bone Mineral Density /Bone mass

        3. Lean Muscle Mass (LM)

        4. Pain via Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)

        5. Quad Strength using microFET速2 Digital Handheld Dynamometer

        6. Hamstring strength using microFET速2 Digital Handheld Dynamometer

        7. SL Hop Distance

        8. Triple Hop Distance

        9. Crossover hop Distance

       10. Keiser leg press max power at 5 reps at body weight

      Procedures: Once a participant has been identified as meeting the inclusion criteria with a
      positive MRI finding and have agreed to schedule surgery, they will be allocated to either
      the control or experimental group. Random group allocation will be determined using envelopes
      for allocation concealment. Prior to initiation of the study, a research assistant not
      involved in data collection will use a random number generator to create the randomization
      sequence allocating an equal number of participants to each of the 2 groups, the control non
      BFR group and the experimental BFR group. The randomization will be concealed by having the
      group assignment placed inside a sealed opaque envelope within potential participant folders.
      This process will be documented and signed by the randomizer. Once selected and enrolled, the
      group assignment will be revealed and will not be blinded to either the participant or the
      researchers. The pre-op therapy session will be completed 48-72 hours following MRI
      confirmation of ACL tear if they have opted for surgical intervention. The initial post-op
      therapy session will be completed within 24-48 hours of surgery.

      All participants will undergo bone mineral density (BMD), bone mass, and lean muscle mass
      (LM) measurements using Dexascan at pre-op visit, and again at initial post op visit ad then
      every 4 weeks from week 4-16.

      Participants will also complete a total of 9 landing/jumping trials as part of testing, with
      rest as needed. Following the warm-up, subjects will complete 3 drop landings, 3 drop
      vertical jumps, and 3 countermovement jumps. The participant must demonstrate safe landing
      mechanics on the drop landings as determined by testing PT in order to attempt the drop
      vertical jumps and the countermovement jumps.

      Landing assessment will be collected at initial landing session at weeks 8, 12,16,20, 24, and
      28 weeks post op.

      The exercises selection and progression will be standardized for BFR intervention across all
      subjects. The BFR group will exercise with 80% arterial limb occlusion using the Delphi
      automated tourniquet around the proximal thigh outfitted with Doppler (Delfi速). If 80%
      arterial limb occlusion is not tolerated by the participant, the pressure will be decreased
      to tolerance. However, the pressure will not be lowered below 60% as there is a floor effect
      at 60% LOP where BFR is no longer beneficial.

      Exercises will be performed for 4 sets of 30-15-15-15 repetitions separated by 30s of rest
      and 1 BFR exercise will be performed. SL hop, Triple hop, Crossover hop, and Keiser leg press
      power will be measured at 12, 16, 20 and 24 weeks. Strength testing will be done with
      microFET速2 Digital Handheld Dynamometer every 2 weeks of the rehab process in accordance with
      standard rehab protocol.
    
  