
    
      Patients with basal cell carcinomas in the head and neck area, being considered for Mohs
      surgery with frozen sections will be invited to participate in this trial by the
      investigators when they attend for their pre-surgical consultation. They will be given
      sufficient time to review the information sheet and ask questions. When they attend for their
      Mohs surgery, they will be recruited if they wish to participate in this trial, at which
      point, the investigator, or an authorized member of their team, will obtain written informed
      consent for patients. The patient will then undergo Mohs surgery. The processing and
      interpretation with frozen sections will be conducted in the same way, the only difference
      being immediately after the BCC is excised with a Mohs bevelled edge (45o incision), the
      tissue is immersed in acridine orange (nuclear DNA stain) and placed upside down with the
      deep margin of the tissue face up. With a glass slide placed on top, we would place the FCM
      (Vivascope 2500) over this, scan the tissue and obtain mosaic images of the tissue which
      would be stitched together. The penetration of the FCM scan is approximately 0.25mm. This is
      approximately the distance between 2-3 Mohs wafers. The investigators would usually consider
      a margin of 3 Mohs wafers (300 microns) clear. When the scanning is completed (5 minutes),
      the Mohs layer would be sent for frozen section (stained with haematoxylin and eosin) for
      confirmation in the usual way. The Mohs surgeon can interpret the FCM mosaic images later.
      Acridine orange does not interfere with frozen sections or paraffin histopathological
      quality. No medicines will be used in this study. The information is collected on only 1
      patient visit. There is no follow up period. The main objectives would (1) compare the
      accuracy in detection of BCC margins with FCM compared with FSM and (2) evaluate the time
      taken for processing and interpretation of FCM (acridine orange inking and rinsing, image
      acquisition and mosaic stitching, and image interpretation) compared with the time taken for
      processing and interpretation of FSM (sample flattening, freezing and cutting with the
      cryostat, H&E staining, slide cover slipping and slide interpretation).
    
  