
    
      Participants Participants (n = 110; 55 e-CBT participants, 55 e-CBT + stepped care
      participants) aged 18-65 years will be recruited at Queen's University from outpatient
      psychiatry clinic at both Kingston Health Sciences Centre sites (Hotel Dieu Hospital and
      Kingston General Hospital) as well as Providence Care hospital, family doctors, physicians,
      clinicians, and self-referrals in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Once informed consent is
      provided, participants will be evaluated by a psychiatrist on the research team through
      secure video appointment to make or confirm a diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD)
      using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-5).

      The inclusion criteria for the study include the following: at least 18 years of age at the
      start of the study, diagnosed with major depressive disorder according to DSM-5 by an
      attending psychiatrist on the research team, competence to consent to participate, ability to
      speak and read English, and consistent and reliable access to the internet. Exclusion
      criteria include active psychosis, acute mania, severe alcohol or substance use disorder,
      and/or active suicidal or homicidal ideation. If a participant is receiving another form of
      psychotherapy, they will also be excluded from the study, to avoid any confounding effect on
      the efficacy of this e-CBT program. If eligible for the study, participants will choose
      between the e-CBT program (n = 55) or the in-person CBT offered individually through this
      program at Hotel Dieu Hospital (n = 55).

      During the informed consent process, it is explained to all participants that this program is
      not a crisis resource and that they will not have access to their therapist at all times. In
      the case of an emergency, participants are directed to the proper resources (e.g., emergency
      department, crisis lines, etc.) and this event will be reported to the principal investigator
      of the study.

      Online Module Content Both e-CBT modules and in-person CBT sessions are designed to instill
      constructive and balanced coping strategies in participants. During the program, we focus on
      essential thinking and behavioural skills to help the patients become more engaged in
      day-to-day activities. The focus of the sessions is placed on the connection between
      thoughts, behaviours, emotions, physical reactions, and the environment. We work on
      evaluating negative beliefs and thought processes and their relationship with depression. Our
      goal is to adjust the negative thinking so that participants can think about and adapt to the
      things that are happening to them. This allows them to adjust the way they behave and think
      about their problems in a way that is not as negative and replaces those thoughts and
      behaviours with potentially more realistic and productive ones.

      e-CBT Procedures The e-CBT care plan consists of 12 weekly sessions of approximately 30
      slides and interactive content, delivered through OPTT. The e-CBT module content mirrors
      in-person standard CBT content, including different weekly topics, general information, skill
      overviews, and homework. Participants are instructed to go through the content and complete
      homework at the end of the session which helps them practice skills they learned through that
      session. Homework is submitted through OPTT and reviewed by the therapist assigned to the
      participant, who will provide personalized feedback within three days of submission.
      Therapists have access to pre-designed session-specific feedback templates to use as a basic
      structure to write their feedback. By doing so, the time needed to respond to each patient is
      reduced and therefore the number of patients each therapist can handle increases. At the same
      time, by using a structured format in responding to patients, a more standardized quality of
      care can be assured. The general structure of the feedback template is as follows:
      -validating the participant's time and effort, -reviewing the event they have used in their
      homework, -summarizing the previous module's content, and -discussing the participant's
      homework submission and how they could improve it. In addition to these points, the feedback
      will have an emphasis on specific content from the participant's submission, reassuring them
      that their therapist is reading and understanding their challenges. All feedback submissions
      are finished with a personalized signature from the therapist, helping to develop a rapport
      between the therapist and the participant. On average, developing this feedback takes a
      therapist 15-20 minutes per patient. In addition to the weekly feedback, participants have
      the option to message their therapist through the platform throughout the week regarding any
      questions or concerns they may have. All technical issues are handled directly through OPTT's
      technical support team.

      Stepped Care Procedure For the stepped care e-CBT group, the decision of whether to add in
      the additional care will be made starting at the end of week 3. This decision will be made by
      the principal investigator using the questionnaire and wearable tracker data (Fitbit). The
      wearable will record heart rate, sleep patterns, and physical activity information. Five
      possible interventions (see below) may be implemented on a step-by-step basis. If the
      participant does not show signs of improvement, they will advance to the next step with a
      total of five steps. Once the participant advances to the next step, they can revert to a
      previous step if they show signs of improvement or once again advance to the next step if
      they do not show signs of improvement.

      Step 1 (Message from Therapist): The participant will receive a message from their assigned
      care provider on OPTT who check in with them about some of the strategies and techniques they
      will have discussed and remind them of their weekly homework due date.

      Step 2 (Phone Call): The participant will receive a phone call from their therapist who will
      check in on them, remind them of some therapy strategies and techniques, and verbally and
      remind them of their weekly homework due date.

      Step 3 (Enhanced Telephone Call): The participant will receive a telephone call from their
      assigned care provider who will check in on them, remind them of some therapy strategies and
      techniques and their weekly session due date, and provide a CBT summary of previously
      reviewed CBT concepts.

      Step 4 (Video Call): The participant will receive a video call (via Microsoft Teams) from
      their therapist who will check in on them, remind them of their weekly session due to date,
      and provide CBT content support to the participant.

      Step 5 (Video Call Sessions): The final stage involves the participant receiving their CBT
      sessions in a live video call format (via Microsoft Teams) with the research psychiatrist
      involved in their care.

      Training All therapists are research assistants hired by the principal investigator. They all
      undergo training in psychotherapy and additional training from a psychiatrist on the research
      team before any interaction with participants. During this training, therapists complete
      feedback on practice homework, which is reviewed by a psychiatrist on the research team to
      ensure adequate quality of work. All therapists are supervised by the lead psychiatrist, who
      is an expert in the area of electronically delivered psychotherapy. Feedback is always
      reviewed by the lead psychiatrist, before submission to the participants.
    
  