
    
      Tuberculosis Tuberculosis (TB) is a global emergency. In 2004, there were an estimated 8.9
      million new cases and 1.7 million deaths due to the disease1. In Pakistan, pulmonary
      tuberculosis (TB) is a major public health problem. The population of Pakistan is 160,943,000
      with an estimated prevalence of all cases of tuberculosis at 263/100,000, an incidence of
      smear positive pulmonary TB of 181/100,000, and a mortality of 34/100,0002.

      The management of TB remains a complicated issue even with the availability of effective
      anti-tuberculous drugs. One important aspect of this issue has been the difficulty
      clinicians' face in measuring clinical response in these patients, especially in
      smear-negative pulmonary and extra-pulmonary disease. Christian et al 3. have recently
      developed and validated a simple clinical score for the evaluation of TB patients. The score
      is based on eleven clinical variables, which were obtained from the WHO clinical manual for
      TB. These included self-reported parameters (e.g., cough, hemoptysis, dyspnoea, chest pain
      and night sweats), and signs comprising of anemic conjunctivae, tachycardia, positive
      findings at lung auscultation, axillary temperature >37.0˚C, body mass index (BMI) and middle
      upper arm circumference (MUAC). Each variable contributes 1 point, except for BMI and MUAC
      which contribute 2 points each, giving a maximum score of 13. Using this, score patients can
      be divided into 3 severity classes, providing an easy tool for clinical follow up and
      prognosis.

      Vitamin D Vitamin D is normally synthesized in the skin under the influence of sunlight or
      ingested, It is readily metabo-lized in the liver to form 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D), the
      accepted measure of vitamin D status. 25(OH)D is then further metabolized by the 1
      hydroxylase enzyme to its biologically active metabolite, 1 , 25 dihy-droxyvitamin D (1
      ,25[OH]2D) 4,5 . Activated vitamin D circulates with a binding protein and enters the target
      cell to interact with its nuclear receptor. This complex then combines with the retinoic acid
      X receptor to form a heterodimer, which in turn interacts with the Vitamin D response element
      on the target gene. By increasing in-testinal calcium and phosphate absorption6, increasing
      renal calcium reabsorption, and enhancing PTH-mediated bone resorption (via its effect on
      RANKL), vitamin D has the net effect of increasing the serum cal-cium and phosphate
      concentrations. Additionally, the vitamin D receptor element is present on multiple genes,
      the vitamin D receptor in many organs, and 1-alpha hydroxylase activity occurs in extrarenal
      tissues7. These local tissue effects are responsible for the non-mineral-related effects of
      vitamin D; such as cell differentiation and proliferation and immune regulation8.

      Vitamin D deficiency The two most common causes of vitamin D deficiency remains decreased
      intake of vitamin D containing food and reduced sun exposure. The major source of vitamin D
      is exposure to sunlight, anything that diminishes the transmission or penetration of solar
      UVB into the skin will affect the cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D3. Vita-min D deficiency
      can therefore occur in people who live without sun exposure (including those whose skin is
      constantly protected from the sun by protective clothing, indoor life styles and sunscreen
      use.). In addition, very few foods naturally contain vitamin D and foods that are fortified
      with with vitamin D are often inadequate to satisfy the vitamin D requirements. Serum levels
      of less than 20 ng/mL (50 nmol/L) of 25-OH vitamin D are a commonly accepted cutoff for
      vitamin D deficiency , whereas levels between 20 and 30 ng/mL (50 to 75 nmol/L), are
      considered insufficiency9,10.

      Asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic vitamin D deficiency is increasingly being recognized
      around the world. In Pakistan, a number of small studies have identified a high prevalence of
      vitamin D deficiency in pa-tient populations that include those presenting with hip
      fractures, obstetric cases and those attending ambulatory care clinics. Risk factors include
      a history of poor nutrition, lack of exposure to sunlight, and a low socioeco-nomic status.
      Zuberi LM et al11 reported that 92% of outpatients presenting to the AKUH, were vitamin D
      defi-cient; 62% had severe, 24% moderate and 8% had mild deficiency. Almost half of all these
      patients (including those with severe deficiency) were asymptomatic. Two separate studies
      from our center involving healthy, as-ymptomatic volunteers have identified a high prevalence
      of vitamin D deficiency (unpublished data). Baig MA et al12, in a study on outpatients from
      two public hospitals in Karachi, identified that 92% patients were vitamin D deficient and
      that the most severe form of D deficiency was seen in patients with tuberculosis.

      Vitamin D Replacement Nutritional deficiency (25OHD <20 ng/ml [50 nmol/L]) requires treatment
      with 600,000 IU/month or 50,000 IU/week) 13. In this study we plan to give 600,000 IU/month
      for 2 months. Repeat testing for vitamin D will be performed at 8 weeks. If the levels are
      <30ng/ml then treatment will be repeated for further 2 months.

      Vitamin D replacement is generally very safe. Toxicity, with the development of
      hypercalciuria and hypercal-cemia occurs only at 25OHD levels above 88 ng/ml (220 nmol/L)
      14,15 . In 1997, the National Academy of Sci-ences defined the Safe Upper Limit for vitamin D
      as 2000 U/day14 but newer data however indicate that higher doses are safe at least over a
      several-month period16.

      The benefits of vitamin D replacement occur gradually; in one study, skeletal effects were
      seen upto 10 months after a 5 week course of therapy17.

      Vitamin D and Tuberculosis Clinical studies suggest that vitamin D enhances antimycobacterial
      immunity, and that deficiency is associated with susceptibility to active disease18,19. High
      doses of vitamin D were widely used to treat active TB in the pre-antibiotic era. More
      recently, case-control studies have demonstrated that a vegetarian diet (low in vitamin D) is
      an independent risk factor for active TB in South Asians18 and that patients with TB who are
      of Gujarati Hindu ethnic origin have significantly higher rates of vitamin D deficiency than
      ethnically matched tuberculin-positive TB contacts. Similarly, Gibney et al, documented a
      gradation of vitamin D levels in African immigrants to Aus-tralia, with patients with latent
      TB having lower levels as compared to controls, while patients with active or past history of
      active TB had levels lower than those with latent infection20. A recent systematic review and
      meta-analysis 21explored the association between low serum vitamin D and risk of active
      tuberculosis and con-cluded that patients with tuberculosis have lower serum levels of
      vitamin D than healthy controls when matched for sex, age, ethnicity, diet and geographical
      location.

      1 ,25(OH)2D has no direct antimycobacterial action, but it does induce antituberculous
      activity in vitro in both monocytes and macrophages22.Several mechanisms of action have been
      proposed. Exogenous 1 ,25(OH)2D in-duces a superoxide burst23 and enhances phagolysosome
      fusion in Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected macrophages; both phenomena are mediated by
      phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, suggesting that this response is initiated by binding membrane
      vitamin D receptor (VDR) 24.1 ,25(OH)2D also modulates immune responses by binding nuclear
      VDR, where it up-regulates protective innate host responses, including induction of nitric
      oxide synthase25.Recently, 25(OH)D has also been shown to support messenger RNA induction of
      the antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin LL-37, which possesses antituberculous activity26.

      Although the association of vitamin D deficiency and tuberculosis has been documented in
      epidemiological and clinical studies, a causal role is yet to be verified. Interestingly
      isoniazid and rifampicin therapy has been shown to decrease vitamin D levels, raising the
      question of whether low vitamin D levels could be a consequence of disease27. Additionally,
      the affect of replacing vitamin D in the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis has not
      been studied in a systematic manner. There is, therefore, a need for a randomized controlled
      trial to evaluate the effect of vitamin D supplementation on antimycobacterial host response
      and clinical recovery.

      Immune responses to Mycobacterium tuberculosis Restriction of infection by M. tuberculosis is
      dependent on effective macrophage activation which is facilitated by the recruitment of
      leucocytes to the site of infection. The protective role of CD4+, IFN-γ producing T cells has
      been confirmed in both acute and chronic mycobacterial infections28. Macrophage TNFα plays a
      critical role in granuloma formation and in restriction of disease related pathology29. TNF-α
      and IFN-γ activate granu-loma formation by C-C family of chemokines, CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CCL5
      and the C-X-C chemokine family; CXCL8, CXCL9, CXCL10 and CXCL1230 .

      Chemokines play a critical role in determining both activation and migration patterns of
      circulating monocytes in the blood. CXCL9 is an early predictive marker for IFNγ secreting
      cells, and is found to be increased in re-sponse to M. tuberculosis antigen stimulation. CCL5
      and IFNγ-induced CXCL10 also contribute to the granu-lomatous response31.

      Previous studies have shown the utility of mycobacterial antigens such as, from RD1 antigens
      early secreted and activated T cell (ESAT)6 in investigating specific immune responses in
      individuals infected with M. tuber-culosis. Specific immune profiles have been shown to be
      present in TB patients which are coordinate with their disease status32,33.

      A study of household contacts of TB patients showed that the dynamics of cytokine response to
      mycobacterial antigens driven by IL10 was central to protection against, and the development
      of M. tuberculosis infection, and that a peak inflammatory cytokine response at 6 months was
      present in those individuals who did not develop disease34 .

      We have shown that circulating CXCL9 levels in TB patients differ according to severity of
      disease35. In addi-tion, mycobacterial antigen induced CXCL9 responses correlate with IFNγ,
      and that these are greater in local-ised as compared with disseminated disease36. A recent
      study has also shown the relevance of using both CCL2 (MCP-2) and CXCL10 (IP-10) as
      biomarkers for tuberculosis37,38 . In this study we hope to determine immune parameters in
      patients prior to and post-vitamin D treatment.
    
  