
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive daratumumab by
      vein over about 1 hour 1 time a week during Weeks 1- 4.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive up to 4 doses of daratumumab. You will no longer be able to take the study
      drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the Week 18 visit.

      Study Visits:

      Daratumumab treatment will interfere with blood type testing which is needed before blood
      transfusions can be given. For this reason, a test to find out your blood type will be
      performed before you receive daratumumab. You should carry the blood type card with you.

      During Weeks 1 and 4:

        -  You will have a physical exam

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine and blood typing.

      During Weeks 2 and 3:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and for blood type testing.

      During Week 6 (the week of your surgery):

        -  You will have a physical exam

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, including measurements of
           your PSA and testosterone levels. Part of this sample will also be used for blood type
           testing.

        -  You will have surgery to remove your prostate. You will sign a separate consent form
           explaining the procedure and its risks in more detail.

      During Week 12, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, including
      measurements of your PSA and testosterone levels.

      Follow-Up:

      At Week 18, you will come to the clinic and asked about any side effects and how you are
      doing.

      This is an investigational study. Daratumumab is FDA approved and commercially available to
      treat multiple myeloma (MM). It is considered investigational to use daratumumab in patients
      with prostate cancer.

      The study doctor can explain how the study drug is designed to work.

      Up to 15 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  