
    
      Stroke survivors living in the community are at high risk for falling. Falls are considered
      to be one of the most prevalent post-stroke complications. Fall history in this population
      has been associated with developing activity limitation, decreased independence and increased
      fear of falling.

      The ability to step in response to an equilibrium disturbance is considered to be critical to
      prevent a fall. Stroke survivors tend not to step with their paretic limb when their standing
      equilibrium is perturbed. Training the paretic limb to step in response to perturbations has
      had limited success in stroke survivors. In response to sagittal plane perturbation training,
      stroke survivors continued tend to step with their non-paretic leg even when cued or induced
      to step with paretic leg. This tendency decreases their flexibility to respond to
      perturbations and also makes it difficult to train the paretic limb.

      In contrast, coronal plane perturbations may be a useful way to induce paretic limb stepping.
      Acceleration and deceleration of a treadmill has been used to train reactive stepping in all
      directions persons with Parkinson's Disease. Coronal plane perturbations may elicit greater
      responses from the paretic limb but this has never been investigated in the stroke
      population.

      In this study participants will engage in 6 training sessions over 2-3 weeks. They will stand
      sideways on the treadmill with their paretic leg towards the front of the treadmill belt,
      which will be suddenly accelerated for 3 seconds to a predetermined velocity. Participants
      will perform 80 trials each session under one or more of the following four training
      conditions.

      NON-ENCOURAGED TREADMILL ONLY: These trials are defined as trials when the subject is
      instructed to respond as necessary to remain on the front half of the treadmill while
      maintaining their balance without using external supports, but are not given any specific
      instructions about which limb to use to initiate stepping when the treadmill begins to move.

      NON-ENCOURAGED USE TREADMILL PLUS SECONDARY TASK: All the same procedures for non-encouraged
      use treadmill only trials will be used with the following addition. Just after the subject
      attains equal weight bearing, the subject will be engaged in a cognitive task to name as many
      items in a category as they are able. During this time period, the treadmill will be started
      randomly.

      ENCOURAGED USE TREADMILL ONLY TRIALS: These trials are defined as trials where subjects will
      be instructed to respond as necessary to remain on the front half of the treadmill while
      maintaining their balance without using external supports AND to initiate stepping with his
      or her paretic leg when the treadmill begins to move.

      ENCOURAGED USE TREADMILL PLUS SECONDARY TASK: All the same procedures for encouraged use
      treadmill only trials will be used with the following addition. Just after the subject
      attains equal weight bearing, the subject will be engaged in a cognitive task to name as many
      items in a category as they are able. During this time period, the treadmill will be started
      at randomly.

      In pilot testing, this protocol has been tolerated by most community dwelling stroke
      survivors and the encouraged use trials with feedback consistently elicited paretic leg
      reactive steps.
    
  