
    
      The study uses 2-condition (control and intervention) randomized controlled trial design.

      Participants will be recruited through advertising on social media, distributing notices
      throughout networks, and snowball sampling. The aim is to obtain complete data on 206
      participants, thus the investigators will try to recruit at least 324 ECEs and administrators
      at baseline to account for attrition. The investigators considered 75% and 85% retention rate
      at 1-week post-intervention and 3-months post-intervention, respectively. Interested
      participants will complete a questionnaire in REDCap electronic data capture tool hosted at
      British Columbia Children's Hospital Research Institute to answer eligibility questions and
      provide informed consent. Enrolled participants will be sent a link to the baseline
      questionnaire package to be completed in REDcap. Demographic questions are asked to
      understand the general background of participants (e.g., sex, age) and their ECE center
      (e.g., approximately how many staff are at their center).

      They will then be randomly assigned to one of the two conditions: 1) Control condition, or,
      2) Intervention condition. Neither the researchers nor participants will know in advance
      which condition participants will be assigned to. There is a 50% chance that they are
      assigned to either condition. The randomization schedule will be generated beforehand in
      sealedenvelop.com using blocks of size 2, 4, 6. The list will be then transferred to REDCap.
      Participants will not be blinded to allocation, because the nature of the intervention does
      not allow it. Allocation will be concealed to the researchers at participant assignment as
      well as data analysis.

      Participants who are assigned to Control condition will be provided with a PDF version of the
      position statement on active outdoor play, which can take up 20 minutes to read. Then, they
      will be invited to set a goal that could help them give children at their center more
      opportunities for outdoor play.

      Participants who are assigned to Intervention condition will be automatically taken to the
      online tool, https://outsideplay.ca. The online tool is to reframe participants' perceptions
      of outdoor play and change their service delivery. It includes a series of interactive video
      scenarios where participants can make choices, which will result in different endings for
      each scenario. This can take up to 100 minutes to complete. Then participants will be invited
      to set a goal that could help them give children at their center more opportunities for
      outdoor play.

      Participants who are assigned to Control condition will have access to the online tool upon
      completion of their participation in the current study.

      After 1-week, all participants who completed the baseline survey and the intervention (e.g.,
      the Position Statement on Active Outdoor Play or the RR tool) will receive an email inviting
      them to complete a follow-up survey questionnaire. The investigators will also follow up on
      whether they had accomplished their goal.

      After 3-months, all participants who completed the 1-week post-intervention survey will
      receive another email to complete the same follow-up survey questionnaire for the final time.
      The investigators will also follow up on whether they had accomplished their goal.

      The study hypotheses are:

        1. Participants in Intervention condition will have a significantly greater increase of
           tolerance for risk in play than participants in Control condition.

        2. A greater proportion of participants in Intervention condition will attain their
           behavior change goal, than participants in Control condition.
    
  