
    
      STUDY SUMMARY

      TITLE Left Cardiac Sympathetic Denervation (LCSD) for Cardiomyopathy Study DESIGN Phase II
      feasibility parallel randomised controlled trial (RCT) AIMS Assess the feasibility and safety
      of LCSD in patients with cardiomyopathy and heart failure OUTCOME MEASURES Recruitment rates,
      retention, follow-up and safety POPULATION 30 patients with heart failure secondary to
      cardiomyopathy ELIGIBILITY Adult participants with ischemic and non-ischemic cardiomyopathy
      DURATION 18 months follow up

      METHODS:

      Participants will be randomized to receive LCSD in addition to optimal medical therapy in the
      intervention arm (15 patients) and optimal medical therapy in the active control arm (15
      patients). Participants would be recruited from both inpatient and outpatient general medical
      and cardiology wards and clinics at Groote Schuur Hospital where patients with the syndrome
      of heart failure are frequently referred for subspecialty evaluation and management. Eligible
      patients who meet the inclusion criteria would be randomized to undergo LCSD in addition to
      optimal medical therapy (intervention arm) or receive standard optimal medical therapy
      (active placebo). Optimal therapy for patients with cardiomyopathy and heart failure
      currently consists of an ace-inhibitor or angiotensinogen receptor blocker, beta-blocker,
      mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist with or without a loop diuretic, and digoxin. All
      patients in the study would receive an implantable loop recorder to allow for the accurate
      determination of episodes of symptomatic and asymptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias. In
      order not to lose all of the clinical outcome information obtained in the pilot phase of the
      study, we would propose only assessing the pre-specified feasibility and safety aspects of
      the study and keeping the data on efficacy outcomes blinded for inclusion in the fully
      powered main study.

      The LCSD procedure The procedure involves the surgical removal of the lower half of the left
      stellate ganglion (T1) and thoracic ganglia (T2-T4), thereby removing the pro-arrhythmic
      noradrenergic input to the ventricles (3). LCSD raises the ventricular fibrillation threshold
      without impairing cardiac contractility or reducing heart rate. LCSD results in
      pre-ganglionic denervation, thus preventing re-innervation and producing permanent
      antifibrillatory effects. This procedure can be performed by video-assisted thoracoscopic
      surgery (VATS) usually in less than 45 minutes and will be conducted by thoracic surgeons at
      Groote Schuur Hospital. The lead thoracic surgeon (J.R.) has a large experience in performing
      this procedure for the indication of hyperhidrosis in over 200 patients (personal
      communication). This experienced thoracic surgeon will lead a team of thoracic surgeons
      (T.P., L.M.) to perform the procedure.

      Implantable loop recorder (ILR) insertion The implantable loop recorder is a small device
      that will be inserted at the end of the LCSD procedure by the thoracic surgeon or after
      enrolment in the optimal medical therapy arm by a cardiologist. This loop recorder is
      inserted under sterile conditions in the catheter laboratory or operating theatre. In the
      catheter laboratory, the device is inserted under local anaesthetic, subcutaneously over the
      left precordium and usually takes less than 15 minutes. The implantable loop recorder is a
      well-established device to quantify and detect atrial and ventricular tachyarrhythmias with
      an excellent safety record. The device has a battery life of up to 3 years and can be removed
      via a small skin incision at the end of the study. Implantable loop recorder insertion does
      not carry risk of known major complications. There is a minimal risk (<1%) of complications
      (infection, bleeding) as the device is implanted subcutaneously. Potential complications
      include superficial skin infections that readily responds to antibiotics. Device removal is
      easy to perform and is seldom required.

      Optimal Medical Therapy

      All eligible patients with heart failure and depressed left ventricular systolic function
      will receive guideline and evidence based optimal tolerated medical therapy. The level of
      risk associated with optimal medical therapy is considered very low. For the majority of
      patients with heart failure and depressed left ventricular systolic function this will
      include:

        1. A renin angiotensin system blocker at highest tolerated doses (e.g., enalapril 10mg
           twice daily or equivalent)

        2. A mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (e.g., Spironolactone 25-50mg daily or
           equivalent)

        3. A Beta-blocker (e.g., Carvedilol 25mg twice daily or equivalent)

        4. The use of a loop diuretic and digitalis will be clinically driven and used at the
           discretion of the attending clinician
    
  