
    
      This is a six-week, multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, triple-dummy, parallel group
      pilot study to compare the bronchodilator efficacy and safety of the long-acting
      bronchodilator tiotropium (Spiriva, 18 µg q.d.) to the free combination of fluticasone
      (Flixotide, 250 µg b.i.d.) and salmeterol (Serevent, 50 µg b.i.d.) in patients with COPD.

      Following an initial screening at Visit 1, subjects will enter a two-week run-in period
      during which they will record daily rescue salbutamol use in the Patient Daily Diary Card. At
      Visit 1, pre-dose and post-bronchodilator pulmonary function tests (PFT) will be measured.
      Four inhalations of ipratropium (20 µg per puff) and four inhalations of salbutamol (100 µg
      per puff) will be administered 60 minutes prior to obtaining post-bronchodilator PFT
      measurement.

      At Visit 2, a pre-dose PFT will be performed prior to first administration of trial
      medication. Treatment with blinded study medication (tiotropium or fluticasone + salmeterol)
      will start in the morning of Visit 2 (Day 1). After three weeks of treatment, at Visit 3 (Day
      22), pre-dose FEV1 and FVC will be measured, patient compliance checked and a re-supply of
      study medication dispensed. After six weeks of treatment, at Visit 4 (Day 43), a 12 hour
      profile of PFTs will be obtained.

      Study Hypothesis:

      As this is a pilot trial to investigate the efficacy and safety of tiotropium (18 µg q.d.) as
      compared to the free combination of fluticasone (250 µg b.i.d.) and salmeterol (50 µg
      b.i.d.), no formal hypothesis testing will be performed. However, the underlying hypothesis
      for this trial is that tiotropium is superior to the free combination with respect to the
      primary efficacy endpoint FEV1AUC0-12 (area under the curve for the time period 0 to 12
      hours).

      Comparison(s):

      At least 100 male or female outpatients with clinical and spirometric evidence of chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) will be entered in this study. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to receive either tiotropium inhalation capsules 18 µg q.d., or salmeterol 50 µg
      oral inhalation b.i.d. in free combination with fluticasone 250 µg oral inhalation b.i.d. in
      a double-blind triple-dummy fashion.
    
  