
    
      Ocular inflammatory diseases, including uveitis, cause significant visual loss. Previous
      non-human investigations have identified several cell types, receptor systems and metabolic
      intermediates that have led to treatment approaches for human patients. However, information
      on the human genetic expression of these steps in defined inflammatory disease states is
      lacking. This non-intervention study proposes to obtain peripheral blood and tissue specimens
      from patients enrolled in other intramural trials for ocular inflammatory diseases and to
      apply contemporary cDNA microarray technologies for the analysis of differential gene
      expression. Test results will not be reported to participants or used for diagnostic or
      therapeutic purposes.

      The study's primary objective is to identify unique gene expression profiles as well as
      disease relevant genes for patients with ocular inflammatory disease at defined clinical
      stages using cDNA microarray analysis. This will help provide further insight to understand
      the pathological mechanisms and potential targets for treatment. Some 3,000-5,000 genes will
      be examined starting with a selected set associated with interleukin (IL) proteins and their
      receptors, and with tumor necrosis factors (TNF). Purified peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (or whole blood lysates using RNA isolation procedures) will be used to isolate total RNA
      from these samples. Samples will be taken during periods of active or recurring inflammatory
      disease and again during periods of quiescence after treatment. The microarray tools and
      methods for genetic analysis are now available both at NEI and the collaborating NIA
      laboratories.

      A secondary objective is to analyze the circulating protein profiles in serum or other
      available tissue or fluid specimens from patients with ocular inflammatory disease at the
      same time points as described above. These samples will be analyzed using 2-dimensional
      SDS-PAGE for profiling proteomic differences in patients at defined clinical stages. In-gel
      digestion and subsequent sequence analysis by mass spectroscopy will be performed if
      differentially expressed protein(s) of interest are to be identified. Other methods such as
      flow cytometry analysis and proliferation assays using purified PBMCs will be used to examine
      expression status of cell surface markers of interest (e.g., CD25) as well as responses to
      antigen and mitogens at the peak and trough serum concentrations of daclizumab therapy.
    
  