
    
      Hypothesis:

      An intensive and active physiotherapy delivered as soon as D2 post stroke could induce faster
      motor control recovery and autonomy than could do an usual conservative treatment aiming at
      preventing complications. The benefits could be a shortened inpatient stay (both in stroke
      unit and rehabilitation centre), a reduction of the secondary complications with a cut in of
      the total cost of care.

      Primary objective:

      To compare two strategies of physiotherapy on the evolution of motor control recovery during
      the first 3 months post stroke.

      Secondary objectives :

      To compare two strategies of physiotherapy on:

        -  Motor control deficiency on D15, D30, D45, M3

        -  Total length of stay as inpatient

        -  Autonomy on D15, D30, D45, M3

        -  Frequency of unexpected events

        -  Quality of life on M3

        -  Living place on M3

      Assessment criteria:

      -First criterion : Evolution of the motor control deficiency assessed by the Fugl Meyer (FM)
      scale modified by LINDMARK between day 0 and month 3.-Secondary criteria :

        -  Motor control deficiency assessed by the FM scale on D15, D30, D45, M3 and by the time
           requested before being able to walk 10 meters without human assistance.

        -  Total length of stay as inpatient

        -  Autonomy assessed by the Functional Independence Measure (motor subscale) on D30 and M3
           and by the Rankin scale on D15, D30, D45, M3.

        -  Unexpected events recorded on D30 and M3

        -  Quality of life assessed by the Stroke Impact Scale on M3

        -  Residency

      Method:

      This is a "Zelen", single-blinded, randomised, controlled, multicentric trial aiming at
      comparing intensive physiotherapy after a stroke with the usually more conservative
      physiotherapy provided. Treatment is applied from the inclusion to the end of the stroke unit
      stay or until D15 post stroke.

        -  Group 1: daily physiotherapy aiming at preventing complications, going with the patient
           progress capacities, passive mobilisation, sitting as soon as possible, walking when
           possible, respiratory physiotherapy. 15-20 minutes total per day.

        -  Group 2: physiotherapy as described above added to verticalisation as soon as possible;
           active, intense and repeated motor exercises for limbs and trunk with all the available
           techniques. 60 minutes total per day.
    
  