
    
      Due to continuous improvements in acute medical care, the number of patients surviving severe
      brain damage has increased over the past decades. While some patients improve significantly
      during the first days after the injury, other patients remain in altered states of
      consciousness (i.e. coma, unresponsive wakefulness syndrome or minimally conscious state). In
      patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC), the auditory modality is preferably examined
      because the responsiveness within the motor and visual modality is often difficult to assess
      or impaired. Music is a special type of auditory stimulation that can be of particular
      benefit in DOC patients. The positive effects of music are attributed to the restoration of
      specific brain networks that are necessary for processing sensory inputs, as well as the
      emotional aspects of music, which can increase arousal and activate the reward system.
      Previous studies have shown that music, including passive listening to music, is associated
      with psychological and physical changes in both healthy and clinical populations. For
      example, listening to preferred music can reduce pain and anxiety and the need for sedation
      in different patient groups.

      Music therapy has a long tradition in neurological rehabilitation. In DOC patients, passive
      listening to music is used (in contrast to active therapies used in fully conscious
      patients). Efficacy results are inconsistent, however, since only a few studies have
      systematically investigated the effects of music therapy. In previous investigations, either
      the sample size is very small or no control conditions have been used. A study that met both
      quality criteria was published by Sun & Chen in 2015. The authors compared two groups: while
      the music group (n = 20) listened to their favorite music for 15 to 30 minutes three times a
      day for a period of four weeks, the control group received no stimulation. Although the GCS
      values increased significantly in both groups, the music group showed a significantly
      stronger improvement in the level of consciousness. Based on this study, the present study
      wants to compare the effectiveness of passive listening to music with two control conditions
      (alternative auditory stimulation and no auditory stimulation) in early neurological
      rehabilitation patients.

      It is a prospective, double-blind, controlled and randomized intervention study that is
      carried out monocentrically. Over a period of 24 months, 66 patients undergoing early
      neurological and neurosurgical rehabilitation after severe brain damage are included. For the
      individual patient, the study duration is a maximum of 38 days (preliminary phase: 3-7 days;
      intervention phase: 28 days; follow-up phase: 1-3 days). Patients are randomly assigned to
      one of three study arms (1. Musical stimulation; 2. Alternative auditory stimulation, 3. No
      auditory stimulation). In the preliminary phase (days 1 to 7), a native MRI (without contrast
      agent) and a CRS-R assessment are performed. In addition, there is a neurophysiological
      examination in which evoked potentials are recorded. In the subsequent main phase, the
      intervention takes place: Over a period of 28 days, the study participants wear headphones
      for 30 minutes a day, through which they are presented with preferred music (experimental
      arm), an audio book (comparative arm) or silence (control arm). In the main phase, a CRS-R
      test is carried out weekly to record the current state of consciousness. In the follow-up
      phase (1 to 3 days), the (native) MRI examination, the CRS-R assessment and the
      neurophysiological examination are repeated. The primary outcome measure is an improvement of
      the level of consciousness, measured with the Coma-Recovery-Scale-Revised (CRS-R).
    
  