
    
      Depression is the most common mental health problem among older people, both in Portugal and
      around the world. Due to the fast aging of the world population, depression is a significant
      problem, with an estimated prevalence between 8% and 16%, which is more common in
      institutionalized elderly. Several studies have shown the negative consequences of depression
      in the elderly, which has been associated with higher morbidity and mortality rates,
      increased use of health services and increased costs. In addition, older people's depression
      is associated with major disability, chronic health problems, higher suicide rates, dementia
      and a lower quality of life. However, it is often an unrecognized, and therefore untreated,
      problem.

      Under these circumstances, screening people at risk of depression (people with chronic
      illness, stroke, dementia, institutionalized or attending social responses, etc.) is a
      strategy with potential to reduce the impact of depression among the elderly.

      One of the most commonly used screening scales for depressive symptoms in elderly is the
      Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), a widely known and widely used scale designed specifically
      for older people. For this reason, it does not include questions related to somatic symptoms,
      as they lack discriminatory value in older people, because they can be attributed to other
      physical conditions or the aging process. The original version of the scale is composed by 30
      items with a dichotomous response (yes/no) assessing motivation, energy, past and future
      orientation, mood, cognitive complaints, anxiety and irritability. The GDS scale has good
      psychometric properties and has been evaluated in a wide range of geriatric populations,
      institutionalized patients, elderly with chronic health problems, people with dementia, etc.
      In order to achieve better time efficiency in its administration, the original 30-item scale
      was abbreviated to a 15-item version. Posteriorly, multiple shorter versions of this scale
      were developed, composed by one, four, five, ten or twelve items.

      The GDS scale has been widely translated and validated worldwide. In Portugal, the GDS-30 was
      adapted and validated by Pocinho, Farate, Dias, Lee and Yesavage. The versions of GDS-15,
      GDS-10 and GDS-5 were adapted and validated by Apóstolo and colleagues having demonstrated
      good psychometric properties and, therefore, potential as a screening tool for depressive
      symptoms in older people.

      The aim of this study is to compare the screening ability of the several validated versions
      for the Portuguese population of the GDS scale (GDS-30, GDS-15, GDS-10 and GDS-5), as well as
      to establish their psychometric properties, using a large sample of elderly patients
      attending social responses addressed to the elderly. This study will allow recommendations on
      which is the most sensitive GDS version for detecting depressive symptoms by comparing them
      with other depression screening scales.

      To achieve this, the results of the several GDS versions will be compared with the
      application of a gold standard, the Beck-II Depression Inventory [BDI-II].

      Regarding the BDI-II, it is important to mention its good psychometric characteristics when
      used in the elderly population, which were evident in studies that compared the psychometric
      characteristics of different scales used to assess depression in the elderly. I was concluded
      that this instrument obtained a test-retest value of 0.93, Cronbach's α ranged from 0.76 to
      0.91 in elderly Americans, in a community-dwelling elderly, in Puerto Rican residents, in
      elderly with heart problems, and in women living in institutions for the elderly. In elderly
      clinical samples, Cronbach's α ranged from 0.89 to 0.92. BDI is significantly and positively
      correlated with CES-D (r = 0.69, p <0.001) and with GDS (r = 0.71, p <0.001). The clinical
      utility of BDI-II is proven and high because of its clinical sensitivity and consistency with
      the DSM-IV criteria. In addition, it identifies many depressive symptoms and is one of the
      most commonly used instruments in the elderly without cognitive decline and also in
      non-clinical samples, as it is brief and easily administered and scored.

      On the other hand, in another study where BDI-II was applied to elderly people with cognitive
      deficits, it was found that this population has symptoms similar to those of young people and
      adults, supporting the validity of this instrument in this population.

      In order to reinforce the assessment of the screening ability of the several GDS versions
      validated for the Portuguese population, as well as to establish their psychometric
      properties, a sample (estimated at about 25%) will be defined, in which the GDS will be
      compared with a gold standard, that will consist of a semi-structured interview guide based
      on the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th ed.) for
      depressive disorders. For this sample, a questionnaire will be answered by the professionals
      who perform the evaluation, regarding their opinion about which GDS version is more easily
      understandable by the participants and the participants' preference regarding the different
      versions of GDS, as a means of assessing which version is more discernible for the
      participants. All the GDS versions validated for the Portuguese population (GDS-30, GDS-15,
      GDS-10 and GDS-5) will be administered to these participants.
    
  