
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1977, the selective coronary catheter which was developed and introduced by Dr. Andreas
      Gruentzig and his colleagues in Zurich, was first proposed as a therapeutic tool for the
      dilatation of obstructions in the coronary arteries. Initial reports on the technique were
      enthusiastic and many teams began to evaluate the procedure. In March 1979, the National
      Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute initiated an interim registry on PTCA to expedite the
      evaluation of the technique and in December 1979 released a Request for Proposals to
      established a formal registry. A contract was awarded in August 1980 to the University of
      Pittsburgh.

      The 1979 registry collected cases prospectively beginning in 1979 as well as retrospectively
      back to the introduction of the procedure in 1977. To participate in the registry, centers
      were required to submit data on all patients who had a guide catheter introduced as the first
      step in the angioplasty procedure. From 1979 to 1982 3,248 patients were entered from 105
      clinical sites and in 1982, the registry stopped entering new cases and shifted its effort to
      follow-up. Sixteen of the largest centers participated in the five year follow-up. During the
      follow-up period, the range of patients expanded greatly with technologic advances and
      clinical experience. The registry was reopened in 1985 to confirm and document changes in
      angioplasty techniques and results. Methods of data collection in the new registry were the
      same as in the old. Within ten months, 2,094 new patients were enrolled.

      The PTCA III or NACI Registry was established in 1990 to follow revascularization devices or
      methods other than PTCA. Utilization of PTCA experienced an explosive growth since it was
      first introduced. However, despite this rapid growth in technological improvements and
      techniques, balloon angioplasty is not universally successful. Problems relate to failure to
      cross chronic total occlusions, failure to successfully dilate elastic lesions, intimal
      dissection and abrupt closure which leads to emergency surgery, and most particularly,
      restenosis of the dilated segment. In the late 1970s, diverse technologies were developed in
      an attempt to counter the problems plaguing coronary angioplasty. These technologies include:
      mechanical devices for crossing total occlusions; atherectomy catheters; abrasive
      athero-dispersion devices; intracoronary stents; ablative lasers; hot-tip lasers, and laser
      balloon dilation techniques. Each of the above device categories entered clinical testing.
      However, these devices were in a state of flux. Moreover, these devices were utilized in
      different clinical settings, with different definitions of success and complication rates and
      different follow-up regimens. Therefore, it was difficult to judge the relative efficacy of
      any single device in comparison to standard PTCA. The need to establish a mechanism capable
      of evaluating each device was, therefore, of practical importance from a clinical and
      investigational standpoint. The primary purpose of the registry was not to compare devices
      but to follow simultaneously the progress of multiple devices in a parallel fashion, using
      common methodologies and definitions in their early clinical usage.

      The NHLBI "Dynamic Registry," which for years has provided objective, "real world" assessment
      of the changing practice of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was extended through
      June 2007. In just 25 years, the practice of PCI has evolved from balloon angioplasty-to
      directional and rotational coronary atherectomy-to bare-metal stents-to new interventional
      devices including lasers and therapeutic ultrasound-to intracoronary radiation-to distal
      protection devices-and most recently to the widely anticipated introduction of drug-eluting
      stents. These evolutions, which have been accompanied by a 150% increase in PCI procedures in
      the U.S. in the past 8 years alone, necessitate ongoing evaluation in diverse clinical
      practices across all patient subgroups, as many promising results observed initially in
      clinical trials are not realized, or are only marginally realized, in clinical practice. The
      multi-center Dynamic Registry fulfills this mission, and is the only formal registry of
      consecutive PCI-treated cases that captures both in-hospital and long-term patient outcomes,
      while characterizing initial procedural strategy and outcome in great detail on the patient
      and lesion level.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The second registry established five year mortality and morbidity rates for the 1985-1986
      cohort as well as determined functional status and subsequent revascularization. Secondary
      goals included estimating rates of clinically apparent restenosis for all patients and for
      important subgroups, determining recurrence of symptoms, seeking predictors of long-term
      response to PTCA overall and in subgroups, determining PTCA success angiographically, and
      providing background information for the NHLBI clinical trial, Bypass Angioplasty
      Revascularization Investigation (BARI). Sixteen center participated in the second registry.
      Patient follow-up was performed independently of medical care visits. The National Death
      Index was searched for patients who were judged lost to follow-up. Each center determined
      angiographically the results of angioplasty but also sent all cineangiograms to a central
      laboratory.

      The third registry, NACI, was designed to gather information on the use of three types of
      intervention technologies other than PTCA. The interventional techniques were loosely grouped
      into several categories such as atherectomy, stents, and laster methods. Patients were
      contacted by telephone at six weeks, six months, and a year. The centers performed a
      treadmill test and a repeat angiogram at six months. To be investigated, a technique must
      have been used at two or more centers and a center must have used the intervention in at
      least five patients. Following acceptance into the registry for a technique, the clinical
      site admitted alll subsequent patients consecutively. Results were analyzed in batches of
      fifty, examining both patients and lesions as analytic units. The primary endpoint was
      reduction of a target lesion by at least 20 percent and to less than 50 percent final
      diameter stenosis without major complications. Secondary endpoints common to all devices
      included major events and additional events, health status at follow-up, and patency status
      at six months. In addition, there were secondary endpoints specific to the device under
      study. In 1993, an independent Angiographic Core Laboratory was established for the NACI
      under R01HL49527.

      Beginning in July 1997, the PTCA Registry and the NACI registry were renewed through June
      2002 under U01HL33292. The purpose of what could be considered a fourth registry was to
      conduct a dynamic evaluation of new device usage patterns, as well as intermediate and
      follow-up outcomes in patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary
      revascularization. Three waves of 2,000 consecutive patients each, 18 months apart, were
      entered from 13 participating clinical sites and followed for one year. The design was such
      that women and minority patients were oversampled. The clinical and angiographic
      characteristics of patients undergoing a coronary intervention procedure were described.
      There was a registration of frequency of different procedures used, such as conventional
      balloon, new devices and combinations of devices to provide information about the value of
      added new devices. Initial success rates and complications were evaluated. There was one year
      follow-up of clinical events and subsequent procedures and assessment of one year symptom
      status including clinical re-stenosis and durability of these interventions. Clinical and
      anatomic criteria influencing choice of angioplasty strategies were identified. Procedural
      outcomes were examined in subgroups, including women, African Americans, diabetics, patients
      with prior revascularization, and those over 75 years of age. Sub-studies of cost and
      cost-effectiveness of coronary interventional procedures were developed.

      The Dynamic Registry was extended through June 2007 to a) continue annual patient follow-up
      from 3 to 5 years for the 2020 Wave 2 Registry patients who underwent PCI in 1999
      (characterized by frequent stent use of varying types); b) perform one-year follow-up on the
      2124 Wave 3 Registry patients, and annual follow-up to 5 years on the approximately 150 Wave
      3 patients who underwent PCI in 2001/2002 and received the then novel intracoronary radiation
      therapy; c) enroll and follow annually for 4 years a Wave 4 of 2000 Registry patients who
      will undergo PCI following the introduction of the much awaited drug-eluting stents into
      clinical practice; d) enroll and follow for at least one year a Wave 5 of 2000 Registry
      patients who will undergo PCI at a time when subsequent generations of drug-eluting stents
      have penetrated clinical practice. As successfully accomplished with all previous waves of
      patient enrollment, women and minorities will continue to be oversampled in the Registry, as
      an important study aim is to investigate potential health disparities in clinical practice
      and outcome by gender, and race/ethnicity, while controlling for socioeconomic status.
      Finally, the investigators will coordinate a cost effectiveness analysis on the use of
      drug-eluting stents in a same of Wave 4 registry patients supported through a separate source
      of funding, and pilot test new data collection forms in the setting of peripheral arterial
      disease catheter-based interventions.

      Another extension was received in 2007 with funding concluding in 2012. This study involves
      the long-term follow-up of participants recruited in 2004 (Wave 4) and 2006 (Wave 5) across
      16 medical centers. All subjects will be followed for a total of 5 years and participants
      from Waves 4 and 5 have already been followed for 3 and 1 years, respectively. Follow-up will
      be conducted via annual telephone interviews and these data will be used to track the
      incidence of long-term outcomes. All identified deaths and myocardial infarctions will be
      reviewed by an adjudication committee to (1) classify cause of death and (2) determine
      whether or not the myocardial infarction is related to stent thrombosis. The research aims
      are to: (1) Compare 5-year mortality and myocardial infarction between participants treated
      with drug eluting stents (DES) versus bare metal stents (BMS) overall, within "high-risk"
      subgroups, and by "off-label" stent use; (2) Evaluate cardiac and non-cardiac causes of
      mortality among participants treated with DES versus BMS; (3) Compare 5-year mortality and
      repeat revascularization by the sirolimus-eluting versus paclitaxel-eluting stent overall,
      within "high-risk" subgroups, and by "off-label" stent use; and (4) Investigate mechanisms
      that contribute to stent thrombosis, myocardial infarction, death, and repeat
      revascularization in participants treated with BMS and DES. In summary, by extending the
      active NHLBI Dynamic Registry, we will analyze long-term outcome data on several thousand PCI
      participants treated with BMS and DES.
    
  