
    
      1. Study name: A prospective study of the incidence and outcomes of Primary aldosteronism
           in Chinese hypertensive patients

        2. Rationale: Hypertension is the most common cardiovascular disease, a serious
           cardiovascular disease state, and the most important risk factor for serious
           cardiovascular and cerebrovascular complications such as stroke, myocardial infarction,
           heart failure, and renal insufficiency. The China Cardiovascular Disease Report 2018
           pointed out that the total number of people suffering from hypertension in China reached
           245 million, which has become a major public health problem affecting people's health
           and restricting economic development.

           Unlike essential hypertension, secondary hypertension is caused by certain defined
           diseases or causes. For this reason, secondary hypertension can often be cured or
           effectively controlled with the appropriate treatment. As one of the most common types
           of secondary hypertension, it is estimated that primary aldosteronism (PA) accounts for
           5%-10% of all hypertensive patients, accounting for about 20% of patients with
           refractory hypertension. Therefore, how to find out patients with PA in hypertensive
           population in time and carry out targeted treatment is a challenge that cardiovascular
           professional clinicians must face.

           Diagnostic PA begins with screening. With the advancement of detection technology,
           especially the clinical popularity of chemiluminescence detection of plasma aldosterone
           and renin concentration, the detection of suspected PA patients by plasma aldosterone
           renin ratio (ARR) in medium-sized hospitals has become a reality. Due to the limitations
           of clinical examination, there are only a few hospitals that can actually perform the
           etiological diagnosis of PA. As long as we can screen out suspected PA patients, it is a
           major advancement in the diagnosis and treatment of secondary hypertension. In order to
           popularize the clinical application of PA screening and diagnosis technology,
           systematically collect clinical data of PA patients in China, it is necessary to carry
           out PA screening registration research in hypertensive patients.

        3. Objective: 1) Collect and analyze the population and disease characteristics of Chinese
           PA patients; 2) Strengthen the awareness of screening for PA in people with high blood
           pressure.

        4. Study design: Prospective, multi-center observational study.

        5. Study population: Hypertensive patients with high suspected or confirmed of primary
           aldosteronism. High suspected of primary aldosteronism include 6 types of hypertensive
           patients: 1) persistent blood pressure > 160/100 mmHg, refractory hypertension (
           combined with 3 antihypertensive drugs, including diuretics, blood pressure > 140/90
           mmHg), Combined use of 4 or more antihypertensive drugs, blood pressure <140/90 mmHg; 2)
           hypertension combined with spontaneous or diuretic hypokalemia; 3) hypertension with
           adrenalaccidental tumor; 4) family history of early onset hypertension Or hypertensive
           patients with a family history of cerebrovascular accidents (<40 years old); 5)
           first-degree relatives with hypertension in patients with primary aldosteronism; 6)
           hypertension with obstructive respiratory sleep apnea. The other study population is the
           PA patients confirmed.

        6. Treatment: Standardized diagnosis and treatment procedure as recommended in the
           international guidelines of PA. Hypertensive Patients should adjust antihypertensive
           medication before ARR testing to ensure accurate ARR measurements. Patients with
           positive ARR results (more than 40) are suspected PA and need confirmation test, such as
           Saline infusion test or Captopril test. PA patients should undergo a sub-type diagnosis,
           such as adrenal CT, AVS. Patients with PA confirmed are treated with drugs or surgery
           after diagnosis.

        7. Follow up: 6, 12 and 24 months after diagnosis.

        8. Sample size estimation: About 10 thousand.

        9. Timeline: Start of subjects enrollment: July 2019; End of subjects enrollment: December
           2022; End of study: December 2024.

       10. Organization: The Centre for Epidemiological Studies and Clinical Trials, Ruijin
           Hospital, Shanghai, China.
    
  