
    
      Social cognitive impairments, particularly deficits and distortions in recognition and
      interpretation of social cues and representations of thoughts, intentions, and feelings of
      others-termed mentalization-are a key contributor to the pathology and morbidity of a number
      of psychiatric disorders, including the schizophrenia spectrum, the autism spectrum and
      personality disorders. Individuals with schizophrenia spectrum disorders have deficits in
      social cognition (hypomentalization), while individuals with borderline personality disorder
      seem to have exaggerated and distorted social cognition (hypermentalization). However, the
      specificity and mechanisms of these impairments remain unclear. Therefore, a better
      understanding of the modulation of social cognition is a priority for developing
      interventions both pharmacologic and psychosocial. We propose here to examine the effects of
      oxytocin, known to be a key regulator of social cognition through modulating frontolimbic
      neural circuitry, on social cognition in schizotypal and borderline patients. In doing so, we
      aim to characterize a model of optimum social cognitive activity to direct the development of
      treatments, including dosing and target population-specific effects.

      To this end, we propose to perform a 2-year study in which 105 patients, (45 with
      schizophrenia spectrum disorders, 30 with borderline personality disorder, and 30 with autism
      spectrum disorders) will perform 3 rounds of social cognition testing after three acute
      single-dose treatment conditions (intranasal oxytocin dose of 24IU or 40IU or placebo)
      separated by a washout period, in a repeated-measures, within-subjects, randomized,
      placebo-controlled, double-blind, counterbalanced cross-over proof-of concept design. 30
      healthy controls will not receive oxytocin/placebo and will perform 3 rounds of social
      cognition tests separated by approximately 4 weeks, serving as a benchmark for normal
      performance and a control for practice effects. Social cognitive testing will be performed 45
      minutes after drug/placebo administration in an identical protocol each time. The social
      cognitive test serving as primary outcome measure will be the Movie for the Assessment of
      Social Cognition (MASC). We will also include other tests of social cognition and symptom
      measures, to evaluate scope of effects. We will compare outcome measures at baseline (placebo
      day) in schizotypal and borderline patients and healthy controls, and in schizotypal and
      borderline patients across drug doses and placebo administration.

      Furthermore, 60 subjects (15 HC, 15 with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, 15 BPD, and 15
      with autism spectrum disorders, either new subjects or already enrolled subjects) will be
      expected to complete an add-on MRI component of the study, after signing an additional
      consent form. For the MRI portion of the study, these subjects will perform 2 more rounds of
      social cognition testing after receiving double-blind intranasal oxytocin (40 IU) or placebo
      in randomized order, in a cross-over, within-subjects design, separated by approximately a
      1-week washout. The subjects will receive the study medication directly prior to beginning an
      fMRI scan that will last approximately two hours. Oxytocin levels will be measured before
      oxytocin administration and every 10-15 minutes until about 2 hours and 30 minutes
      post-administration. The remainder of the protocol will remain the same.
    
  