
    
      The participant will be asked to make a total of two (2) visits, approximately 90 days apart.
      Each visit will involve: neuro-performance testing, and self-report questionnaires. Each
      study visit is expected to take approximately 1-2 hours. Between the two visits, the
      participant will be asked to complete a 12 week, computer-based cognitive training program.
      This includes 1 hour of training each day for 5 days each week.

      On Visit 1, the participants will undergo a full battery of neuro-performance tasks including
      tests and questionnaires that will measure their memory, thinking speed, fatigue, and
      personality. This visit is expected to take approximately 1-2 hours. The participants will be
      also asked to have a close friend or family member to complete similar surveys. A
      self-addressed envelope containing these questionnaires will be provided to take home with
      them. The participant will need to pass it onto a close friend or family member to be
      completed and mailed back.

      In addition, the participant will be asked to take part in the 12 week computerized cognitive
      training program. This can be done at home, or anywhere the participant has access to a
      computer and internet. This cognitive training has been shown to improve cognitive
      performance in people with multiple sclerosis. The training involves a variety of interactive
      exercises which adapt to their abilities. The participants will need complete 1 hour of
      training each day, for 5 days each week.

      At 90 days, the participant will return for the 1-2 hours' follow-up visit where they will
      complete the same cognitive testing and questionnaires which they had completed during visit
      1.

      All study visits will take place at Buffalo General Hospital. All of the procedures described
      above will be performed by a trained member of the research team as part of the research
      study.

      If an individual is ineligible for participation, their screening information will be
      discarded (i.e., shredded). If participants are deemed eligible (either in person or over the
      phone), they will be scheduled to come in to the hospital for neuropsychological testing.
      Written consent will be obtained prior to administration of tests. As part of the consent
      process, participants will be asked for permission to use any data collected as part of the
      screening process as well.
    
  