
    
      Specific Aim: To determine the effect of various doses of vitamin D supplementation on serum
      concentration of 25 hydroxy vitamin D (25OHD) and urinary calcium excretion in adults and
      children with TM.

      Hypothesis: Vitamin D supplementation at doses that result in serum 25OHD levels >30 ng/ml
      result in high rates of hypercalciuria (i.e. increased urinary calcium excretion) in children
      and adults with TM.

      The pilot study will be performed at Weill Cornell Medical College, Payson 695.

        -  Children and adults with TM, will be divided into 4 groups: "standard" vitamin D dose
           (equivalent to 400 IU/day), "intermediate" vitamin D dose (equivalent to 1000 IU/day),
           "high" vitamin D dose (equivalent to 2,000 IU/day) and a "placebo" group that will
           receive an inactive ingredient. 10 subjects will be assigned to each group. The duration
           of the study will be 3 months.

        -  While some studies found no difference between vitamin D2 and D3, others suggest that
           vitamin D3 may be more advantageous in restoring 25 OHD concentrations. For these
           reasons, vitamin D3 will be used in this protocol.

        -  Study schedule with study interventions and frequencies is set out below (see table).
           All 4 groups will adhere to the same schedule. After obtaining consent, subjects will
           have a "Baseline Visit", which will include: 1) a complete physical examination; 2)
           laboratory evaluation that includes measurement of 25OHD, which is the major circulating
           form of vitamin D and reflects the body's vitamin D stores. Additional blood and urine
           samples will be obtained for measurement of urinary calcium excretion and serum Calcium
           and parathyroid hormone (PTH); and 3) Dietary calcium intake questionnaire. 4) Start of
           study medication.

        -  Subjects will then return every 2-4 weeks for routine blood transfusions and as required
           for the management of Thalassemia. To ensure compliance, study medications will be
           administered by study personnel during these routine visits. Vitamin D supplies will be
           packaged according to one week worth requirement, i.e. as 1,000 IU/day x 7days=7,000 IU
           for the "intermediate" vitamin D group. The dose that will be administered during these
           visits will depend on the interval between transfusions, i.e. 7,000 IU x 2weeks, for a
           subject of the "intermediate" dose who is transfused every two weeks.

        -  At the end of 3 month treatment, subjects will have a final visit, that is also
           scheduled to coincide with a routine transfusion visit. Subjects will have the same
           evaluation and procedures as in "Baseline Visit" : 1) a complete physical examination;
           2) fasting laboratory evaluation that includes measurement of 25OHD, urinary calcium
           excretion and serum Calcium and PTH; and 3) Dietary calcium intake questionnaire.

        -  Subjects will be asked to take calcium supplementation at the dose of 500 mg daily for
           the 6-8 year old and 1,000 mg daily for the 9-18 year old subjects. This intervention
           will ensure adequate calcium intake in both groups.

      All labs will be processed at the CTSC Core Lab. Study meds will be distributed by the
      central pharmacy. Investigational drug will be administered by study personnel during the
      transfusion visits to ensure compliance.

      Eligible subjects will be assigned to a study group following a block type of enrollment. To
      ensure an equal, or near equal sex and age distribution, study groups will be matched
      according to sex and age. Half of the subjects in each group will be composed of pediatric
      subjects and the other half will be composed of adult subjects.

      Study Schedule and Procedures:

        -  Baseline visit: Physical Exam, 25OHD, Intact PTH & Serum Calcium, 24 hr & spot urine
           collection for Ca/Crea, Calcium intake questionnaire, Vitamin D Supplementation/Placebo.

        -  Every 2-4 weeks: Administration of Vitamin D/Placebo

        -  3 Month Visit: Physical Exam, 25OHD, Intact PTH & Serum Calcium, 24 hr & spot urine
           collection for Ca/Crea, Calcium intake questionnaire, and Vitamin D Supplementation/
           Placebo.

      Primary study endpoint:

      Changes in 25OHD concentrations and calcium excretion with the various vitamin D3 doses will
      be determined at the end of the study and constitute the primary endpoints.
    
  