
    
      As early as a century ago, Investigators proved that diet restriction can prevent the
      occurrence of transplanted tumors in mice. Following this milestone, many animal studies
      (from mice to primates) have confirmed that diet restriction can slow the development of
      spontaneous tumors and transplanted tumors. A study of macaque monkeys for more than 20 years
      revealed that restricting diet by 30% can reduce the incidence of tumors by 50%, which makes
      people see the potential value of restricting diet to humans. However, whether diet
      restriction can also reduce the incidence of human tumors is not entirely clear. The growth
      of tumor cells requires a nutrient-rich environment, and the lack of glucose and amino acids
      caused by diet restrictions is very detrimental to tumor cells. Unlike normal cells, tumor
      cells mainly rely on glycolysis (Warburg effect) rather than energy and biosynthetic
      precursors provided by oxidative phosphorylation for proliferation. These characteristics
      make tumor cells extremely sensitive to changes in the surrounding environment, which is
      called differential stress sensitization (DSS).Investigators found that the use of low sugar
      and low serum in a cell model to simulate periodic fasting can enhance the sensitivity of
      human or animal tumor cells to doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, and also found that they
      were transplanted subcutaneously in mice Melanoma or breast cancer, diet combined with
      chemotherapy is better than chemotherapy alone; in the mouse metastatic neuroblastoma model,
      fasting before high-dose chemotherapy can successfully reduce the toxic side effects of
      chemotherapy drugs and reduce metastasis and prolong the tumor-free survival. Surgery and
      stress are twin brothers. Surgical resection, blood flow blockage, ischemia-reperfusion
      injury, tissue damage, local inflammatory factor release, and changes in systemic
      neuroendocrine and metabolism all affect blood flow, blood coagulation, and immune function.
      Investgators found restricted diet can reduce the inflammatory response after myocardial
      ischemia-reperfusion injury in mice. Many animal experiments have confirmed that
      perioperative fasting can effectively protect the liver, kidneys, and brain from organ
      damage. The specific mechanism may be related to fasting increasing antioxidant enzyme
      activity, reducing insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and activating the autophagy
      pathway. Similar to chemotherapy, there is currently no randomized clinical controlled study
      to evaluate the impact of individualized perioperative dietary regimens (such as restricted
      diet) on the prognosis of tumor surgery.

      In 2018, colorectal cancer is the third most common malignant tumor in terms of morbidity and
      second mortality in the world. Surgical resection is still the main treatment for colorectal
      cancer.With the introduction of the ERAS, the latest international and domestic guidelines
      for fasting before surgery all advocate shortening the fasting time. For example, 2 hours
      before surgery, oral take cleared fluids, including water, sugar water, fruit juice, tea and
      black coffee (without milk) is allowed.Solid food can be consumed 6 hours before surgery, and
      oral diet should be resumed as soon as possible after surgery. Changes in diet, nutritional
      status, and physical activity are closely related to the incidence of colorectal cancer.
      Therefore, we believe that the intestine may be very sensitive to different fasting times
      during the perioperative period. Prolonging the fasting time may improve the prognosis by
      improving postoperative insulin resistance, reducing inflammation and protecting anti-tumor
      immune function in patients with colorectal cancer.Prolonged fasting time seems to be
      contrary to the results of some studies, and whether it is applicable to patients with tumor
      surgery is unclear. Therefore, there is an urgent need to conduct large-scale, prospective,
      randomized controlled clinical studies to clarify the most suitable perioperative fasting
      strategy (including composition, interval, and amount) for cancer patients, which can not
      only reduce surgical stress and speed up postoperative rehabilitation,reduce postoperative
      metastasis and recurrence and improve mid- and long-term prognosis.
    
  