
    
      1. Research plan Specific aim 1A: To investigate the prevalence of non-strabismic and
           strabismic binocular vision anomalies after cataract surgery. Specific aim 1B: To
           investigate the prevalence accommodative and binocular vision disorders after refractive
           surgery. Specific aim 2: To determine if increase in the prevalence of binocular
           anomalies is different for cataract surgery compared to refractive surgery. Specific aim
           3: To develop an efficient examination protocol that would enable eye care professionals
           to determine if a patient is at risk for binocular vision anomalies after cataract
           surgery and accommodative and binocular vision disorders after refractive surgery.

           The proposed study will address the weaknesses in the current literature. The study will
           be prospective and will use explicit and well-defined eligibility and exclusion
           criteria. A comprehensive battery of accommodative (pre-presbyopes only) and binocular
           vision tests will be administered on all the patients before the surgery of the first
           eye and 12 weeks after the surgery of the second eye.

           A pre-defined classification protocol will be used to determine if a binocular vision
           disorder is present before surgery, after surgery, or whether there has been a change in
           the condition after surgery.

           A total prevalence of postoperative strabismic and non-strabismic binocular vision
           anomalies will be determined for the cataract population and the refractive error group.

        2. Statistical analysis plan 2.1 Specific aim 1A Hypothesis: There will be a statistically
           significant increase in the prevalence of binocular vision anomalies after cataract
           surgery

      A sample size calculation based on a McNemar's test to compare the prevalence of binocular
      vision anomalies before and after cataract surgery was performed using the Power and Sample
      Size Program (PS version 3.1.2). Base on a previous literature, the overall prevalence of
      accommodative and binocular vision anomalies in adult population (18-35 years) is 13.15%.
      However, no existing literature reported the prevalence of binocular vision anomalies after
      cataract surgery.

      We propose that 15% increase in prevalence is clinically meaningful. The correlation between
      paired observations is 0.2, as recommended by Dupont. Although this is a large effect, the
      effect of cataract surgery on prevalence of binocular vision anomalies may be this large
      (presumed by an experienced binocular vision specialist). If the effect is smaller and the
      difference not statistically significant, the study will provide valuable data to plan
      another study. Therefore, a sample size calculation suggests that a total of 44 participants
      will yield a power of 80% with a significant level of 5%. To account for potential loss to
      follow-up, a sample size of 50 will be selected for the cataract group. All analyses will be
      performed using SPSS Statistics 24.0 with an alpha level of 0.05 to determine the statistical
      significance. A calculation for the prevalence of binocular vision anomalies before and after
      surgery will be performed. A two-tailed McNemar's Chi-Square Test will be used to test the
      statistical significance of the change in the proportion of binocular vision anomalies before
      and after surgery.

      2.2 Specific aim 1B Hypothesis: There will be a statistically significant increase in the
      prevalence of binocular vision and accommodative anomalies after refractive surgery.

      The sample size calculation process for specific aim 1B was the same as for specific aim 1A.
      Therefore, a sample size of 50 will also be selected for the refractive error group. A
      calculation for the prevalence of accommodative and binocular vision anomalies before and
      after surgery will be performed. A two-tailed McNemar's Chi-Square Test will be used to test
      the statistical significance of the changes in the proportions of binocular vision anomalies
      before and after surgery.

      2.3 Specific aim 2 Hypothesis: The increase in prevalence of binocular vision anomalies will
      be greater after cataract surgery than refractive surgery.

      A calculation for the prevalence of binocular vision anomalies will be performed respectively
      in the cataract group and the refractive error group. A two-tailed Contingency Chi-Square
      Test will be used to test the statistical significance of difference of changes in the
      proportion of binocular vision anomalies before and after surgery in both groups.

      2.4 Specific aim 3 Hypothesis: A short screening protocol will be of equal effectiveness to a
      comprehensive assessment of binocular vision and accommodation to determine which patients
      may be at risk for post-surgical binocular vision and accommodative anomalies.

      A two-tailed MacNemar's Chi-Square Test will be used to test the statistical significance of
      difference in the effectiveness of a short screening protocol and a comprehensive assessment
      for determining the risk for post-surgical binocular vision and accommodative anomalies.
      Sensitivity and specificity for the short screening protocol will be calculated.
    
  