
    
      This study will build on existing relationships to conduct the proposed study, using
      expertise in epidemiologic, behavioral and genetic research in an effort to promote a
      coordinated, comprehensive, interdisciplinary and focused research effort to improve the care
      being delivered to indigent Latinos at-risk for and with cardiovascular disease (CVD). This
      study consists of three study visits:

      Study Visit 1 (Sv1):

      During Sv1, which lasts about 2 hours, potential participants are recruited and the
      consenting process is completed with those who wish to take part in the study. Participants
      then have their blood pressure taken and blood draw takes place. After the blood draw
      participants will be given a snack before completing the battery of psychosocial, health
      history and risk factor questionnaires. Lastly, standing height, weight and bioelectric
      impedance (Tanita scale) will be measured to determine BMI/obesity as a risk factor. At the
      end of Sv1 participants will be given the GT3X actigraph to objectively monitor their
      physical activity. Participants will be asked to wear the activity monitor for seven days and
      asked to return the monitor at the Sv3 appointment.

      Chart Audit:

      A chart audit will be performed by a research assistant (RA) before Sv3 in order to confirm
      eligibility and confirm medical history. Information from the chart may also lead to exclude
      individuals with deteriorated health status. If such a condition is detected the
      investigators will consult with the primary care provider for confirmation and adjudication
      before notifying the patient.

      Study Visit 2 (Sv2):

      The second study visit will take place in the form of a telephone call. After Sv1 a member of
      the research team will call participants to confirm eligibility and continued interest in the
      randomized controlled trial. If participants are still interested and eligible, they will
      continue with Sv3.

      Study Visit 3 (Sv3):

      The final study visit and randomization will take place at the LUNA field site, where the
      B-mode ultrasound machine will be stationed. During this time participants will have 1) the
      Carotid Intimal Medial Thickness (CIMT), the primary outcome, measured using non-invasive
      ultrasonography, 2) the difference in blood pressure between legs and arms, called Ankle
      Brachial Index (ABI), and 3) complete any outstanding/incomplete questionnaires from Sv1.
      During SV-3 the informed consent will be reviewed one more time. The physical measures of
      CIMT and ABI will be performed by trained technicians.

      Also during Sv3, participants will be provided with Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS)
      tracking caps. These caps will be used to objectively monitor participant adherence to their
      recommended chronic disease medications, either their lipid lowering, hypertensive or
      diabetes medication. In both groups it will provide the study with objective information on
      medication use behavior and for the intervention group the information serve as feedback to
      improve adherence to pill taking behavior.

      Both control and experimental conditions will be asked to participate in the medication
      adherence study component, which will begin immediately after study group randomization.
      Participants' medication adherence will be monitored for one year including four prescription
      refill time points.

      In addition to completing the comprehensive baseline assessments during SV-1 through SV-3,
      the extended screening period allows the participant time to consider and discuss their
      participation in the study. If participants have less than one defined CVD risk factors or
      refuse to participate in the RCT, they will be offered participation in the observational
      study (i.e. study in which only base-line measures and subsequent routine measures obtained
      during usual care will be analyzed). The observational group will serve as another comparison
      group for the overall chronic disease study.
    
  