
    
      BACKGROUND

      Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) was first introduced in early 1980's for the
      management of urolithiasis. The advantage of being minimally invasive, when compared to other
      procedures for stone treatment, made SWL remain one of the treatment options for renal stones
      less than 2 cm in the latest guidelines.

      Despite considered as the most non-invasive treatment for urinary calculi, there are still
      many concerns about the long-term consequence of SWL. In particular, the effect of SWL on
      blood pressure is still a controversy topic. In the recent study, investigator has observed
      approximately 20% of subjects experienced worsened blood pressure control during the 2-year
      follow-up period, including 20/202 (9.95%) previously non-hypertensive subjects who developed
      new onset hypertension. The observed incidence of new-onset hypertension was quite similar
      those in some reported series. In the literature, there were multiple reports, including case
      series and hospital data analyses, 7-9 of development of new-onset hypertension after SWL.
      Unfortunately, most of those studies were retrospective and used different definitions of
      hypertension.

      But the high incidence of worsening blood pressure control, including 43 (36.4%) of 118
      hypertensive subjects who required add-on antihypertensive therapies, observed in our study
      was alarming. Because most studies in the literature were just focused on development of
      new-onset hypertension, investigator's observation provides supplementary information about
      potential effects of SWL on pre-existing hypertension. In general, the average annual
      incidence of add-on pharmacotherapy among local hypertensive patients was 4.71-6.41%. 10
      Therefore, the add-on therapy rate of 36.4% during the 2-year follow-up was much higher than
      that in the general population. Unfortunately, investigator did not include a
      non-interventional arm for comparison in the previous study and could not conclude that this
      outcome was solely attributable to SWL.

      Therefore, investigator would like to propose a prospective study to assess the effect SWL on
      the blood pressure control in patients with known hypertension. Investigator hope the study
      results will provide additional information on the long-term effect of SWL on patients.

      OJECTIVES

      To investigate the effect of extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy on the effect of change in
      blood pressure in patients with known hypertension.

      STUDY PROTOCOL:

      Patients fulfilled the inclusion and exclusion criteria specific to this study will be
      prospectively recruited. After obtaining informed consent, patients will be randomized to
      either treatment group or control group.

      Baseline information, including age, years of diagnosed to have hypertension, current medical
      usage, other comorbidities, BMI etc. will be collected from patients. All SWL would be
      performed in the Lithotripsy and Uro-investigation Centre of the Prince of Wales Hospital,
      and treated by Modulith SLX-F2 Connect (Storz Medical, Switzerland), an electromagnetic
      lithotriptor. The treatment would be performed as standard care in our hospital. After SWL,
      the patient would be follow-up in clinic as usual. During the 6 months study period, patients
      are strongly advised to avoid change in hypertensive medication.

      Blood pressure assessment:

      During each blood pressure assessment, the following procedure will be performed:

        1. 24-hour blood pressure monitoring - 24-h non-invasive ambulatory BP and HR monitoring
           was performed using a validated device and followed the recommended approached. 11 The
           blood pressure measurement would be programmed to measure BP every 15 min. Each
           recording will be started in the morning and performed throughout a full 24-h period,
           during which subjects are allowed to follow their normal daily routine. The analysis of
           24-h BP recordings are preceded by removal of artifacts, according to previously
           described editing criteria. 12 Recordings are excluded from the analysis when > 10% of
           all readings or more than one reading per hour is missed. Computed analysis of the
           individual recordings provided 24-h, night-time (23.00-07.00 h), morning-time
           (0.7.00-12.00 h), and afternoon/evening-time (12.00- 23.00 h) mean values of SBP, DBP,
           and HR.

        2. Clinic blood pressure measurement At each visit, blood pressure will be measured after
           patient rested for more than 10 minutes, with repeated measurement 5 minutes apart. The
           mean blood pressure will be recorded.

        3. Any changes in antihypertensive drugs and reasons

        4. Any adverse events.

      The result collected will be used for further analysis
    
  