
    
      STUDY DESIGN This is a randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Subjects

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. History of acute watery diarrhoea of <72 hrs.

        2. Either sex.

        3. Age - 6m to 60 months

        4. Some or severe dehydration.

        5. Wt for Ht <70% of NCHS median: with or without edema.

        6. Dark field examination positive for Vibrio cholerae.

        7. Consent given by the patient or legal guardian.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Bloody diarrhoea.

        2. Severe infection (e.g. severe pneumonia, clinical sepsis, meningitis).

        3. Those who received antibiotics/antimicrobial for the current illness Sample Size Sample
           size is calculated on the basis of duration of diarrhoea of recently completed study
           with WHO-ORS vs. ReSoMaL in severely malnourished children with diarrhoea (65±46 vs.
           61±45). Expecting 35% reduction of duration of diarrhoea with the proposed new treatment
           considering 5% level of significance and 80% power, the sample size in each group is 70.
           Considering the stool weight, with reference of (stool wt. 158±95 when treated with WHO
           ORS) in severely malnourished children with cholera, the sample size was estimated to be
           65 in each group, expecting 30% reduction in stool weight during the first 24 hours with
           the new treatment and considering 5% level of significance and 80% power. Finally we
           consider to study 70 patients in each treatment group.

      Randomization

      After enrollment into the study the patients will be randomized to receive one of the
      following three solutions:

        1. Modified glucose based WHO ORS

        2. Modified glucose WHO ORS plus 50 g/L amylase resistant starch.

        3. Modified rice based ORS

      Since a significant proportion of children might present with ALRI, randomization will be
      stratified into two strata:

        1. Children with ALRI

        2. Children without ALRI Accordingly, two randomization list will be prepared. The
           randomization list will be prepared using random table of permuted block of variable
           length.

           Baseline information

           A baseline history and examination will be obtained in order to:

           4determine the subject's eligibility for inclusion in the study; 4collect the relevant
           data prior to beginning the study.

           The baseline history and examination will include:

           4identification of the patient; 4a description of the symptoms prior to admission and
           their duration; 4detail of any treatment given for the illness before admission;
           4results of physical examination including the state of hydration.

           Assessment of dehydration This will be done according to the modified WHO guideline used
           in ICDDR,B. (Appendix-III).

           Laboratory tests After admission blood for Hct, total protein, glucose, and serum
           electrolytes will be sent before initiation of the assigned ORS. Serum electrolytes will
           be repeated after 24 and 48 hours after initiation of ORS therapy. Stool sample will be
           sent for microscopy (including cryptosporidium and giardia) and culture for shigella,
           salmonella, Vibrio cholerae and ELISA for rotavirus will be done. Other relevant
           investigations like Total WBC count, Differential count and urine microscopy will be
           done routinely. Chest X-ray and/or Blood culture will be done, if necessary.

           For all blood tests 3 ml of blood will be drawn from a suitable vein in the hand.

           Estimation of fecal Starch and SCFAs Feces from 50 patients will be collected in
           buckets. The first 24 h collected feces will be weighed and aliquot will be taken and
           stored at -20o C until the analysis of SCFAs by HPLC. The second and third stool samples
           will be collected from 24-48 h and 48-72 h respectively. The feces will be weighed and
           aliquot will be stored at -20oC for the determination of SCFAs.

           Fecal starch will be measured enzymatically with a starch-assay kit (Total Starch Assay
           Procedure, Megazyme, Warriewood, Australia).

           Case Management (Acute Phase) After randomization the children will be treated following
           the standardized protocol for management of severely malnourished children used at
           ICDDR,B hospital (2,12).

           Fluid Therapy (oral) Dehydration assessment will be done according to the WHO guideline
           modified for in our last multicentre clinical trial of reduced osmolarity ORS in adult
           cholera and children with watery diarrhoea (17). In children with some dehydration, the
           fluid deficit will be corrected with the assigned ORS @ 10 ml/kg/hour for the first two
           hours, then 5 ml/kg/hour until the deficit will be corrected. In addition, on going
           stool losses will be corrected @ 5-10 ml/kg/ after each watery stool. For high purging
           patient, the ORS intake will be adjusted according to the on going stool loss. ORS
           therapy will be continued until diarrhoea ceased. Randomization of patient, taking
           consent and darkfield report collection will not take more than 20 minutes. If delayed
           more than 20 minutes the children will be offered glucose based ORS and subsequently
           switched over to the assigned ORS. Children with severe dehydration, initial rehydration
           will be done with IV fluid (cholera saline; Na 133 mmol/L, Cl 98 mmol/L, K 13 mmol/L and
           Acetate equivalent to HCO3 48 mmol/ L) until the patient is out of shock or
           disappearance of signs of severe dehydration then the rest of rehydration will be done
           as for rehydration in patients with some dehydration as described above.

           Infection Control

           As a routine practice in ICDDR,B hospital the antibiotic treatments for the study
           children are as follows:

           Children without apparent extraintestinal infection will receive Inj ampicillin @ 100
           mg/kg/24 h in 4 divided doses and Inj. gentamicin @ 5mg/kg/24h in 2 divided doses for 5
           days. Patients with lower respiratory tract infection will receive Inj: ceftriaxone 75
           mg/kg/24 h I/M or I.V one daily doses and Inj. gentamicin 5 mg/kg/24 h in 2 divided
           doses for 5 days. All patients will receive erythromycin 50 mg/kg/24 h in 4 divided
           doses for 3 days. Patients with oral thrush will be treated with oral nystacin
           suspension 100,000 units (1ml) 6 hourly until cured.

           Diet Mother's will be advised to continue breast feeding. Supplementary feeding with
           F100 diet will be given @ 10 ml/Kg/ Feed two hourly for day 1 and increased slowly up to
           150 Kcal/ Kg/Day over 7 days according to the patient's demand. If the child has a poor
           appetite, or is weak, or has painful stomatitis/glossitis, the food will be introduced
           through nasogastric tube until the patient will take normal oral feeding. In addition to
           F100, semisolid food (Rice, lentil, vegetable etc.) will be given to older children
           during convalescent and rehabilitation phase.

           Vitamin and Mineral Supplements ( As a routine hospital practice in ICDDRB) Children
           without xeropthalmia and above 1yr of age, will be given vit A 200,000 units and 6-12
           months age children will be given 100,000unit on admission. Children with xeropthalmia
           the same dose will be given on admission, 2nd day and on discharge. Folic acid 1.25 mg
           and elemental zinc 2 mg/kg will be given for 15 days. In addition children will be given
           multivitamin supplements (1 ml contains it A palmitate 5000 IU, vitamin D 1000 IU,
           thiamine hydrochloride 1.6 mg, riboflavin 1 mg, pyridoxine hydrochloride 1 mg,
           nicotinamide 10 mg, calcium D-pantothenate 5 mg, ascorbic acid 50 mg). 1 ml twice daily
           for 15 days for 1 yr. and above and half the dose will be given to infants less than <1
           yr. of age.

           Hypoglycemia (blood glucose <3 mmol/L) will be managed with 50 ml 10% glucose orally or
           by nasogastric tube. Hyponatraemia (serum sodium, <115mmol/L with or without symptoms
           will be managed with Inj. 3% Nacl 12 ml/kg I/V slowly over 4 hrs. Children with serum
           sodium between 115 - 125 with symptoms will be treated with 3% NaCl in addition to
           adjunct therapy, if needed.

           Measurements All intakes ( ORS, water, and food) and outputs (stool, urine and vomit)
           will be measured every 6 hours until diarrhoea stops or upto 7 days . Body weight and
           vital signs will also be measured 6 hourly.

           Study withdrawal

           Reasons for withdrawal

             1. Any patient developing severe complication such as severe pneumonia, clinical
                sepsis, meningitis requiring intensive care.

             2. Parents/legal guardian withdraws consent.

             3. Patients who will continue diarrhoea more than 7 days

           Management of withdrawal cases The withdrawal cases will be transferred to general ward
           or ICU and appropriate management will be provided according to routine hospital
           practice. Regular follow-up will be done and final outcome of the children will be
           recorded.

           Data collected up to the time of withdrawal will be included for analysis.

           Management after cessation of diarrhoea ( Convalescent / Rehabilitation Phase) All
           patients after cessation of diarrhoea and control of other associated infection will be
           transferred to nutrition rehabilitation unit(NRU) They will be managed with F100 diet
           according to their requirements. Older children will get semisolid food in addition to
           F100. During the stay at NRU Vital signs and body weight will be measured once in the
           morning daily. Food intake will be measured in every feed until the children stay at
           NRU. After seven days the patients will be discharged from the nutrition rehabilitation
           unit and will be followed up for next fifteen days at home. They will be supplied with
           standard diet according to the protocol. The health workers will visit every alternate
           day and will interview the mother about any illness and approximate amount of diet the
           child consumed. The health worker will carry a portable electronic balance with a
           precision of 1 g and record the body weight of the child.

           Definition End of study ( acute phage)- The study end point will be considered when
           diarrhoea stops or 7 days of initiation of the ORS whichever comes first.

           Cessation of diarrhoea - Diarrhoea will be considered to have stopped when the last
           watery stool is passed followed by soft or formed stool and/or no stool for 12 hours.

           Hypokalaemia- Hypokalaemia is defined as serum potassium level <3.5 mmol/l. Persistence
           of hypokalaemia - If the serum potassium level is <3.5 mmol/l on admission and it
           remains at the level even after 48 hours of therapy with ORS, it will be considered as
           persistence of hypokalaemia.

           Over hydration - As there are no standard criteria for defining over hydration, we have
           developed a working definition of over hydration for this protocol based on previous
           study reports and our clinical experience. Over hydration will be considered in a child
           who has more than a 5% weight gain than expected after correction of dehydration and /
           or at least any one of the following signs:

           Development of periorbital oedema; Increased heart rate (>160/min); Increased
           respiration rate (>60/min); {in the absence of signs suggestive of pneumonia(fever, CXR
           abnormalities etc.)} Hypoglycaemia - will be defined as blood glucose £ 3 mmol/l

           Hyponatraemia - will be defined as serum sodium < 130 mmol/l

           Severe pneumonia:

           Patient aged 6 m - 12 m

           - respiratory rate > 50/minute with chest in drawing

           Patient aged 13 m - 60 m

           - respiratory rate > 40/minute with chest indrawing (WHO guideline)

           - 'ORS failure' - If after randomization any patient needs I/V rehydration therapy will
           be labelled as ORS failure.

           Organization of the trial

           Study site - The study will be done in the study ward of the Clinical Service Centre of
           ICDDR,B.

           Study schedule - The study period will be 2 years from starting.

           Recruiting and training of study personnel - First one month.

           Data collection - 23 months ( Estimated on the basis of bed allotment per protocol and
           patient availability)

           Data analysis and reporting - 3 months

           OUTCOME VARIABLES

           Primary Duration of diarrhoeal course and stool output.

           Secondary

             1. Calorie intake per day

             2. Daily weight gain

             3. Time to attain 80% weight for height SIGNIFICANCE If the ORS containing amylase
                resistant starch is found to reduce the severity diarrhoea and increase the
                recovery in patients with acute diarrhoeal illness in severely malnourished
                children, it will have a major public health significance as regard to better case
                management for malnourished children with diarrhoea.
    
  