
    
      Physical training has been recommended to prevent or attenuation cachexia and sarcopenia in
      older people with or without cancer. The American College of Sports Medicine recommends 150
      min of moderate intensity exercise combining aerobic exercise with resistance exercises,
      termed as combined training (CT). However, it has been reported that very low proportion
      (<10%) of older adults meet the physical activity recommendation. Lack of time has been
      reported as a common reason to people not to do exercise. Thus, identifying effective
      physical training dosages and modalities which may be feasible are necessary for this
      population.

      Repeated brief bouts of fast and intense exercise interspersed with low intensity exercise
      termed as high intensity interval training (HIIT) has shown to be a time-effective strategy
      to improve cardiorespiratory fitness in young and older. Moreover, HIIT has shown to improve
      glycemic control in patients at high risk for TDM2, muscle mass, body fat and physical
      function. However, there were many pending issues involving the HIIT for sarcopenia and
      cachexia in older people. For instance, the lack of access to physical activity facilities,
      such as the need for specific equipment (i.e. fitness equipment: treadmill, bike or
      resistance exercise equipment) and the need for high motor skill levels to performance the
      high-intensity exercise (i.e. run at high speed) have been reported as another reason to
      older people not to do HIIT.

      Different HIIT programs performed outside of laboratory has been proposed, especially with
      body-weight exercises. The high-intensity interval body weight training (HIBWT) is performed
      without equipment and with low motor skill levels. HIBWT has been shown to improve fat mass,
      muscle mass, cardiorespiratory capacity and physical performance in young adults with or
      without overweight. Despite this, no previous studies have evaluated HIBWT efficacy and safe
      in older people with sarcopenia and cachexia. The study aim was to compare the effectiveness
      of CT and HIITBW on body composition, metabolic and inflammatory profile, physical function
      and quality of life in older women with gynecological and breast cancer and their
      pair-matched controls (older women with no cancer). The hypothesis of the present clinical
      trial is that HIITBW is effective as well as CT for improvements on body composition,
      metabolic and inflammatory profile, physical function and quality of life in older women with
      gynecological and breast cancer.
    
  