
    
      Psychological distress in cancer patients is higher than in the average population and is
      associated with a lower health-related quality of life. In the course of the disease and its
      treatment, a psychological distress reaction can lead to a psychosocial crisis and a mental
      disorder that requires treatment. On average, 25% of all cancer patients suffer from
      depression, anxiety or adjustment disorders at any point in the course of their disease, and
      an average of 32% of all cancer patients express the need for psychosocial support. With an
      increasing reduction in inpatient length of stay times, outpatient care gains growing
      importance in the context of psycho-oncological diagnostics and aftercare. The overlap
      between physical symptoms due to cancer diagnosis and treatment and physical symptoms that
      are related to psychological burdens requires sensitive psycho-oncological diagnostics. This
      should be carried out as early as possible in the course of the disease so that existing
      psychological distress can be recognized early and thus a progression of the symptoms can be
      prevented.

      The study aims to assess psychological distress and co-morbidity as well as relevant
      sociodemographic, anthropometric, medical and functional data in patients treated at the
      Outpatient Clinic for Oncological Rehabilitation at the Department of Physical Medicine,
      Rehabilitation and Occupational Medicine at the Medical University of Vienna.

      Results should serve as a basis for further individual treatment recommendations.

      By ascertaining the psychological distress, appropriate support and treatment measures can be
      recommended to the patients at an early stage, which help to improve the symptoms, enable
      participation and thus improve the quality of life of the patients. The assessment of the
      current individual need for psychological care also helps to refer patients to an inpatient
      oncological rehabilitation setting that provides the care that is needed more appropriately.

      Results should also improve the psychological care of oncologic patients in general. Based on
      the findings, the psychological care offered within the framework of the current outpatient
      and inpatient oncological rehabilitation setting could be adapted and expanded as necessary.
      The results of the study should serve to integrate psycho-oncological care into the overall
      outpatient oncological rehabilitation concept.

      A monocentric cross-sectional study is to be carried out on 165 patients with malignant
      tumour diseases as well as benign central nervous system tumours over a period of
      approximately 2 years.

      Medical assessment of sociodemographic, anthropometric, medical and functional data will be
      performed. The gained information is also relevant for physical therapy prescription and
      treatment recommendations given by the physiatrist at the outpatient clinic for oncological
      rehabilitation.

      Psychological distress and the need for psycho-oncological care for outpatients is determined
      through standardized screening and suitable assessment procedures. Patients will receive an
      immediate therapy recommendation regarding their psychological complaints by the clinical
      psychologist and psychotherapist who performs the assessment.
    
  