
    
      This study seeks to assess how beliefs about health risks, specifically the risk of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD), affect health lifestyles and the demand for preventive care in
      a low-income setting. It also aims to establish the effectiveness of the Package of Essential
      Noncommunicable Disease Interventions in the Philippines (PhilPEN) in delivering primary
      prevention of CVD.To realize the first objective, the investigators will measure the accuracy
      of beliefs about exposure to CVD risk and, subsequently, randomly provide information on
      personal CVD risk based on measured risk factors. This will allow assessment of the extent to
      which biased beliefs constrain demand for primary prevention and sustain unhealthy
      lifestyles. In addition, the investigators will test whether beliefs about susceptibility to
      CVD are responsive to the receipt of information on personal risk, and whether health
      behaviors and the demand for CVD screening and medication are affected by any revision of
      beliefs.

      To meet the second objective the investigators will randomly encourage uptake of the PhilPEN
      program's risk screening by offering entry to a money prize lottery conditional on attending
      a health clinic where the program operates. The induced random variation in clinic attendance
      will be used to estimate the program's impact on exposure to risk factors, medication of
      hypertension, the predicted risk of CVD and awareness of this risk.

      Meeting both objectives will allow the investigators to distinguish between scenarios. One is
      that PhilPEN is effective in preventing CVD of patients who access the program but its impact
      on population health is muted because poor information on susceptibility to CVD reduces the
      demand for primary prevention. Another is that even if improved information is effective in
      raising this demand, this will have little impact on population health through PhilPEN
      because of deficiencies in the operation of the program in health facilities.

      Within the Nueva Ecija province, the investigators will randomly sample barangays (N=304),
      subsequently households (n=5019) and, finally, one person aged 40-70 within each household.
      At the barangay level, the investigators will randomly allocate to a treatment group
      receiving the lottery incentive to attend a health clinic (n=2261), another treatment group
      receiving information on personal CVD risk (n=497) and a control group (n=2261). A baseline
      survey (January-April 2018) will record data on initial health, health behavior, health
      knowledge, risk perceptions, risk attitudes, time preferences, health care utilization and
      expenditure and socioeconomic characteristics, and deliver the treatments. A follow-up survey
      9-12 months later will record outcomes.
    
  