
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Test whether the experimental combination of ABT-888 (veliparib) combined with TMZ
      (temozolomide), compared to the control of placebo combined with TMZ, significantly extends
      overall survival in newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients with tumor MGMT
      promoter hypermethylation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Test whether the experimental treatment significantly extends progression-free survival.

      II. Test whether the experimental treatment improves objective tumor response. III. Test
      whether the experimental treatment is associated with significantly greater rates of grade 3
      or higher adverse events.

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the utility of dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) and diffusion weighted
      imaging (DWI) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques in defining time to progression in
      the setting of a large multi-institutional clinical trial.

      II. Test the concordance between site-determined MGMT methylation status and central
      laboratory determination of MGMT status in cases with local testing.

      III. Evaluate whether genetic or epigenetic alterations in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair
      or replication genes are associated with overall survival, progression-free survival, and
      objective tumor response.

      IV. Test whether polymorphisms in MGMT, PARP1, or other DNA repair proteins, are associated
      with overall survival, progression-free survival, objective tumor response, or rates of grade
      3 or higher adverse events.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and veliparib PO
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression (confirmed progression) or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive temozolomide as in Arm I and placebo PO BID on days 1-7. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression (confirmed
      progression) or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years,
      every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  