
    
      Study Rationale:

      Developmental theories underscore the reciprocal nature of parent-child interactions and the
      importance of adult teaching and modeling to enable the development of children's emotion
      regulation, frustration tolerance and behavioural regulation skills. Similarly, these models
      are bidirectional in that children's skills develop along with, and influence parental
      cognitions, emotional functioning and the manner in which parent's impose expectations and
      respond to children's behaviour. Indeed, adult-child transactions can serve to increase or
      decrease a child and parent's frustration and arousal, fuel response biases in the child and
      parent, and lead to adaptive or maladaptive parent and child behaviour. Much literature has
      documented the close association between parental depression and the emergence and
      maintenance of childhood EBD. From transactional and biopsychosocial perspectives, it has
      been suggested that depression negatively impacts a parent's ability to regulate their own
      emotions and cognitions, and subsequently positively attend to their child. As such, parental
      depression may indirectly contribute to a cycle of behavioural escalation on the part of the
      child to get their needs met. This is not to suggest that parental depression causes
      childhood EBD; however, shared genetic and environmental factors may contribute to challenges
      with parent and child co-regulation of emotion, elevated irritability, unhelpful thinking
      patterns, and perpetuation of a problematic cycle of interactions. Transactional theory
      suggests that the "fit" between parental emotional functioning, cognition and behaviour with
      child emotional and behavioural functioning may be of primary importance, rather than
      indicating any one ideal parenting approach as is suggested by standard BPT. The
      transactional model suggests that compatibility between adult and child characteristics and
      behaviour will produce optimal outcomes. Indeed, the goal of BPT is to help parents develop
      skills that meet the needs of children with EBD. Current programs may not have sufficient
      therapeutic components that match the emotional, cognitive and behavioural needs of parents
      with depression suggesting that alternative and targeted models may be indicated for these
      parents.

      Research Questions:

      The aim of the research is to determine the feasibility of novel assessment and treatment for
      parents with depression that builds parent's functional cognitions, emotion regulation,
      parenting competencies and skills (Addressing Depression and Positive Parenting Techniques
      (ADAPT)).

        1. To determine the feasibility of recruitment

             1. What is the rate of eligible parents in each of the pilot recruitment sites and
                overall?

             2. What is parents' level of readiness to engage in parenting treatment?

             3. What is the recruitment rate in each setting and what are reasons for
                non-participation?

        2. To determine feasibility and acceptability of a novel treatment.

             1. What are participant (and clinician) views of the intervention?

             2. What is the rate of completion of the intervention and reasons for discontinuation?

             3. What is the average number of groups attended?

        3. Adherence to study protocol

             1. What is the level of clinician adherence to the ADAPT protocol?

             2. What is the follow-up rate for outcome data collection, including measures of
                parental depression, parenting stress, parenting skills, parent-child interactions
                and child EBD?

      The investigators hypothesize that recruitment will be feasible, that the intervention will
      be acceptable, and that there will be a high rate of adherence to the study protocol.

      Significance of the Study:

      Although parents are clearly critically important to the success of BPT, very little research
      has focused on understanding key parental factors that may be important to assess or on the
      effectiveness of BPT tailored to parents with depression. Existing research has primarily
      focused on logistical barriers to treatment such as socioeconomic status or child-factors,
      such as the severity or type of EBD, that may moderate or mediate BPT outcomes. Important
      parental factors associated with depression, such as parental cognitions, and parental
      emotional and behavioural regulation skills, have largely been ignored when designing novel
      interventions. Systematically understanding differences between parents with and without
      depression on these key factors and the feasibility of novel treatment will identify avenues
      for treatment innovation.

      Study Design

      Clinic-referred parents with depression who have children with EBD will be recruited from the
      Mood and Anxiety Service (MAAS) Clinic at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH)
      and the Women's Mental Health Program at Women's College Hospital (WCH). Non-depressed
      parents of children with EBD will be recruited from the Child, Youth and Emerging Adult
      Program (CYEAP) at CAMH. The target sample size is 80 parents (40 depressed, 40
      non-depressed) and their children with EBD. Participants will be recruited over two years. A
      multi-modal measurement approach incorporating subjective and objective measures and tasks
      will be used.

      Parent and child psychopathology and treatment outcome will be measured by widely used and
      validated parent and child-completed interviews, questionnaires and recorded tasks. Measures
      were chosen based on their sound psychometric properties. Additionally, many of the
      child-based measures have been used by the PI in ongoing clinical research projects and
      parent measures used in the MAAS. As such, the feasibility of completing these measures in
      the clinical setting has been confirmed.
    
  