
    
      Common Bile duct stones is one of the most common diseases of which the present incidence is
      0.5% -3% in China. Endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST) is the most frequently used endoscopic
      technique for clearance of stones since the first description in 1974. Although EST is
      minimally invasive, it brings postoperative complications such as bleeding, perforation and
      acute pancreatitis. The overall complication and mortality is about 11.7-23% and 0.5%,
      respectively. Moreover, most believe EST can cause permanent sphincter of Oddi（SO）
      dysfunction which can result in biliary infection, stone recurrence and malignancies.

      As an alternative method to EST, Endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD) was described
      by Staritz et al for the management of CBD stones. EPBD can preserve SO function and avoid
      undesirable effects due to an incompetent sphincter. It is reported that the basic SO
      function can be restored in one month after EPBD. Nonetheless, EPBD is indicated for the
      stones smaller than 12mm in diameters because the biliary orifice is enlarged to a lesser
      extent compared with EST. Furthermore, the incidence of postoperative pancreatitis reaches up
      to 15-30%. These disadvantages limit the application of EPBD.

      As a result, Ersoz et al started a combined technique in 2003, which is called Endoscopic
      sphincterotomy with balloon dilation（ESBD）. ESBD can preserve SO function, reduce the adverse
      events, increase the stone removal rate. Especially, it can be applied for the stones larger
      than 12mm in diameters with large balloon dilatation. When ESBD is being performed, the
      duration of dilation is one of the most important factors affecting the postoperative
      complications. Whereas, there are issues regarding this technique that need further
      evaluation, such as the optimal duration of EPBD after EST. Some believe that short-term
      dilation can achieve the desired results and the duration of balloon dilation is not
      significantly correlated with postoperative pancreatitis, while opponents believe that
      although the small sphincterotomy is performed, short-term dilation has not been able to
      fully relax the residual sphincter. For long-term complications of ESBD, including the
      incidence of cholangitis, biliary stones recurrence rate, the incidence of biliary stenosis,
      there is no relative report either.

      This prospective, randomized, controlled trial is designed to compare the difference of
      efficacy and morbidity among three different duration of balloon dilation（30s，60s，180s） after
      endoscopic sphincterotomy in the treatment of common bile duct stones. We hope that it will
      be helpful to establish the reasonable operation guidelines of ESBD.
    
  