
    
      The procedures implemented to register patients data will include the following steps:

        -  The quality assurance plan will provide: - to verify that all clinical fields, necessary
           to include and select patients, are available in the registry (e.g. type of cerebral
           palsy; MRI documentation, age); - to monitor that patients' contact information are
           available as well as testing materials and software; - to set team meetings to uniform
           recruitment procedure, data collection and registration.

        -  Data checks will be conducted by two or more researches from the team;

        -  Source data verification: both paper and electronic case report forms will be used and
           mutually checked.

        -  Data dictionary: Pre-post measures will be chosen by the team and described in a report
           form together with references and normative data.

        -  Procedure Standardization to address registry operations: Researches will co-work in
           patient recruitment and will attribute an identification number to each patient enrolled
           according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria evaluated by the neuropsychiatric team
           and described below. All researchers will be trained to register data in an internal
           database and to note the presence of adverse events. The researcher providing the
           training will assure comprehension and subscription of the written consent. Consent form
           will be discussed by the team in order to provide explicit and clear instructions on the
           training protocol to parents and patients.

        -  Calculation of sample size: Sample size, to specify the number of participants necessary
           to demonstrate the training effect, will be calculated from the training effect size
           between the Start index and the Max index provided by CogMed training. Based on a
           previous pilot study in our institute (effect size =.54) and on findings by Lundqvist
           and collaborators (2010) (effect size=.95), the effect size estimates for this study
           will be .60 and the sample size 20 children.

        -  Design: A stepped randomized clinical trial design will be chose to split the
           participants in two groups, matching for age and sex, in order to control test-retest
           effects. Both groups will receive neuropsychological and electrophysiological
           assessments at the same initial time point (T1). One group (Cluster B) will be start
           Cogmed training at home immediately after T1, while the second group (Cluster A) will
           start the training in the following time point (T2). When the training will be
           completed, both groups will be retested with neuropsychological and electrophysiological
           assessments (T2). After this time point, the Cluster A will start Cogmed training and
           will be re-tested with the same neuropsychological and the electrophysiological
           assessments at the finally time points (T3).

        -  The following time points will be provided:

      Initial time point (T1) will correspond to pre-training assessment for both Clusters; Second
      time point (T2) will be provided after 6 or 7 weeks from T1 and will coincide with
      post-training assessment for the Cluster B and an other pre-training assessment for the
      Cluster A; Finally time point (T3), after 6 or 7 weeks from T2, will constitute the
      post-training assessment for Cluster A.

        -  Intervention program: Cogmed Working MemoryTraining (RoboMemo®, CogMed-Cognitive Medical
           Systems, Stockholm, Sweden) is an online treatment comprising a number of visuo-spatial
           and verbal exercises that vary automatically depending on the individual child's
           performance in any given task. The training period is intensive and includes 25 home
           session for five weeks, 30-45 minutes each day. A Cogmed-trained coach monitors training
           progress and participants' commitment daily for all the training period, corresponding
           to time period T1-T2 for Cluster B and T2-T3 for Cluster A.

        -  Plan for Missing data: Unavailable or not interpretable (significantly out of range)
           pre-post training data (behavioural or neurophysiological) will be considered as
           missing. The patients who will not complete the training will be excluded from the
           analysis.

        -  Plan for Statistical analysis: Univariate and Multivariate statistical analysis will be
           performed to compare neuropsychological performance and electrophysiological patterns at
           the different time points . Correlational analysis will be also performed to study the
           association between neuropsychological and electrophysiological data.
    
  