
    
      One hundred forty male and female opioid-dependent cocaine abusers will be stratified by sex
      and randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups according to a 2 x 2 experimental
      design: low-dose LAAM (99 mg/wk) with adjunct contingency management procedures; low-dose
      LAAM (99 mg/wk) without adjunct contingency management procedures; high-dose LAAM (330 mg/wk)
      with adjunct contingency management procedures; and high-dose LAAM (330 mg/wk) without
      adjunct contingency management procedures. The duration of the study will be 24 weeks, with
      LAAM being administered on a thrice-weekly (MWF) basis.

      Subjects are inducted onto LAAM during weeks 1-3 and then maintained on their assigned
      maintenance dose (99 mg/wk or 330 mg/wk) through week 24. During maintenance, the Friday dose
      will be 1.3 times greater than the Monday and Wednesday dose. At the conclusion of the study,
      subjects undergo detoxification from LAAM over a 4-week period. For those in the contingency
      management procedure group, each drug-free urine submitted will result in a voucher worth a
      certain monetary value that increases for consecutively drug-free urines (weeks 1-12) or a
      monetary voucher with a fixed value (weeks 13-24). Subjects not assigned to the contingency
      management procedure will receive monetary vouchers (weeks 1-24) according to a yoked-control
      schedule (that is, not contingent upon illicit drug abstinence). Vouchers can be exchanged
      for mutually agreed upon goods and services at any time during the study. Outcome measures
      will include: 1) treatment retention, 2) illicit drug use, 3) self-reported adverse and
      opioid withdrawal symptoms, and 4) psychosocial functioning. Follow-up interviews at nine
      months and/or one year post-study entry will be conducted to determine status post-treatment.
      Prognostic factors (i.e., sex, post-traumatic stress disorder, and depression), will also be
      examined in relation to treatment outcome and post-treatment status.
    
  