
    
      Background: Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan wars often confront unemployment as
      they reintegrate into civilian life. Over the past two decades, studies of Individual
      Placement and Support (IPS) supported employment have yielded remarkably robust and
      consistent vocational rehabilitation outcomes. However, IPS has predominantly only been
      studied in mental health settings and in the seriously mentally ill populations. Access to a
      mental health setting for recently deployed Veterans is often delayed by months or years, and
      thus, result in substantial delay of referrals to vocational rehabilitation programs which
      leave many Veterans vulnerable to continued unemployment and a deteriorating trajectory.

      Methods: This single site, prospective, randomized, controlled study evaluated the efficacy
      of IPS when delivered within primary care Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACT). Participants
      were U.S. military Veterans who served in the Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi
      Freedom, and Operation New Dawn (OEF/OIF/OND) and/or any other Southwest Asia operations
      (i.e. since 1990) who were receiving care in a primary care PACT, currently unemployed and
      diagnosed with any mental disorder other than a serious mental illness. Eligible participants
      were randomized 1:1 to either IPS or VHA treatment as usual vocational rehabilitation
      (TAU-VR) which included prevocational counseling, community based supported employment, or
      most commonly Transitional Work assignment. Compared to TAU-VR (control condition), IPS
      delivered within a PACT was hypothesized to result in a higher rate of steady workers, as
      defined by working >/=50% of the weeks in the 12-month follow-up period in a competitive job
      (primary outcome), more weeks worked in a competitive job, and more income earned.

      Significance: In an innovative approach, this study breaks from the diagnostic categorical
      approach and the mental health treatment setting and evaluates the efficacy of IPS when
      delivered in a primary care setting, specifically a PACT that serves Veterans who have
      returned from the Iraq, Afghanistan, and other Southwest Asia conflicts. Making a substantial
      paradigm shift, this study integrates IPS within a PACT for the first time ever. The research
      is directly linked to the RR&D priority areas of improving vocational outcomes and promoting
      recovery in Veterans.
    
  