
    
      Background and study aims In primary care between 20 and 40% of patients have medically
      unexplained physical symptoms. The term medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) is commonly used
      by health care professionals. However a survey of a healthy population and a separate survey
      of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) suggested that the term persistent physical
      symptoms (PPS) was the preferred term. The term PPS may have its drawbacks, but it will be
      used in the rest of this document to cover MUS as well as any other terms that may be used in
      the literature and clinical settings to refer to these symptoms. In secondary care, about 50%
      of patients have PPS, in many specialties. PPS are associated with profound disability and
      high health care costs. Around 50% of sufferers have co-morbid anxiety and depression and
      sleep problems. Left untreated, the prognosis of these patients is poor.

      This study is a pragmatic RCT that will evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of
      cognitive behavioural therapy + standard medical care (CBT+SMC), which involves 8 sessions of
      CBT, versus standard medical care (SMC) in the treatment of patients with PPS.

      Who can participate? Patients with various PPS, such as fibromyalgia, non-cardiac chest pain,
      irritable bowel syndrome and a range of neurological symptoms e.g., weakness will be
      recruited. Participants will be recruited from clinics in secondary care (e.g., neurology,
      cardiology, rheumatology) at various hospitals in London.

      What does the study involve? Potential participants will be identified by clinical staff who
      will refer them to the research team. Patients who give their consent to take part in the
      study will complete a number of questionnaires asking about their symptoms and use of health
      care services, and about their thoughts, feelings, and beliefs related to their PPS (i.e.,
      baseline). This will take approximately 1.5 hours. After this research assessment, half of
      participants will be randomly assigned to the treatment arm (CBT+SMC), or to the control
      (SMC) arm. Participants in the treatment arm will receive 8 individual sessions of CBT
      (weekly or fortnightly sessions). The therapy aims to help the patient develop an
      understanding of the relationship between cognitive, physiological and behavioural aspects of
      their problem; to understand factors that may be maintaining the problem and to learn how to
      modify their behavioural and cognitive responses in order to improve their quality of life.
      Participants in the SMC group will receive usual medical care within the clinic.

      Participants in both arms will also be asked to complete questionnaires at 9, 20, 40, and 52
      weeks after randomisation. The assessment will be independent of the health care
      professionals delivering care.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? By taking part in the study
      patients may get helpful information about their condition. If assigned to the CBT+SMC arm,
      patients will receive 8 sessions of CBT focused on helping them manage their symptoms, which
      may improve their symptoms and increase their psychosocial functioning. It is unclear whether
      CBT for patients with PPS is effective; this trial will assess whether there are benefits to
      receiving it. Patients may benefit from being followed up closely and completing measures. It
      is not expected that participation in the study is associated with risks. The therapists
      involved in the trial are highly qualified specialists with extensive experience in treating
      patients with PPS. The trial team also includes a psychiatrist who will further ensure
      patient safety in complex cases. Participants will be free to take a break at any point
      during the meetings and are free to withdraw from the study at any point. Participants will
      also be informed that they can raise any concerns they may have with the research team and
      will be provided with the Patient Advice & Liaison Service contact information.

      Where is the study run from? The study has been set up by the Institute of Psychiatry,
      Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN) at King's College London and the South London and
      Maudsley National Health Service (NHS) Foundation Trust, and will be conducted at several
      hospitals in London/Greater London, including Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals, King's College
      Hospital, Princess Royal University Hospital, Royal Free Hospital, University Hospital
      Lewisham and Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

      When is the study starting and how long is it expected to run for? The study has started in
      July 2015 and the end date for the project is March 2019.

      Who is funding the study? The study is funded by the Guy's and St. Thomas' Charity.

      Who is the main contact? Prof Trudie Chalder trudie.chalder@kcl.ac.uk
    
  