
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is associated with multiple risk factors including, obesity, low
      fiber diets, and diets high in animal protein and saturated fat (SFat). African Americans
      (AAs) have a higher prevalence of these risk factors and they have the highest incidence of
      CRC and related mortality. These multiple risk factors are also linked to higher circulating
      and fecal bile acids (BA) and a shift in BA amino acid conjugation from glycine to taurine.
      These BA-related changes can alter the composition, structure, and metabolic activity of the
      gut microbiota, fostering conditions for gut bacteria to expand and metabolize
      taurine-conjugated BAs to genotoxic hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and the tumor promoter,
      deoxycholic acid (DCA); a colonic milieu conducive to the formation of CRC. The investigators
      have shown that the abundance of H2S-producing bacteria is significantly higher in the colon
      of AAs compared to non-Hispanic whites (NHWs) and is a defining feature among AA CRC cases
      implicating these bacteria as contributors to CRC development in a race-dependent manner.
      Moreover, the microbial difference is associated with higher intake of SFat and animal
      protein in AAs, providing a pivotal intervention target. The investigators hypothesize that
      targeting the BA-gut microbiome axis to suppress abundance, growth and metabolic activity of
      H2S and DCA producing bacteria through diet and weight loss (WL) may reduce CRC risk,
      especially among AAs. A Mediterranean Diet (MedDiet), a largely plant-based dietary pattern,
      is relevant to CRC prevention and microbial production of anti-cancer metabolites in
      observational studies. A MedDiet can shift BA metabolism as shown in primates and when
      combined with calorie restriction, shows superior adherence and weight control in humans,
      given its palatability. To date, no studies have tested in an RCT the effects of a MedDiet
      alone (MedA), WL through lifestyle intervention (WL-A) or a calorie-restricted MedDiet for WL
      (WL-Med) on the BA-gut microbiome axis and its relevance to CRC prevention among AAs. Our
      multidisciplinary team combining expertise in psychology, nutrition, microbiology, molecular
      cell biology, computational biology, medicine and biostatistics, propose to conduct a
      four-arm RCT in which 200 obese AAs, 45-75 years old complete one of the following 8-month
      interventions: Med-A, weight stable; WL-A, calorie restriction with no diet pattern change;
      WLMed; or Control. The investigators will use samples and data collected at baseline,
      mid-study (month-4) and post-intervention to compare the effects of the interventions on 1)
      Concentration and composition of circulating and fecal BAs; 2) Gut microbiota and metabolic
      function; and 3) Gene expression profiles of exfoliated intestinal epithelial cells. The
      investigators approach is strong given the multidisciplinary team, use of evidence-based
      lifestyle interventions, and sophisticated -omics analyses to examine crosstalk between
      diet/WL, gut microbiome, and host intestinal physiology. If successful, this study could have
      profound public health impact on CRC risk among AAs and other high-risk populations, that
      would translate into timely dissemination opportunities.
    
  