
    
      Individuals identified to be at clinical high risk of psychosis (CHR) of psychosis already
      evidence cognitive deficits, which increase around the time of conversion. Much less is known
      about individuals that may be at risk of other serious mental disorders (SMI). However, early
      reports are suggesting that young people at risk of SMI who are deemed to have "attenuated
      syndromes" according to the clinical staging model of mental health disorders already
      evidence cognitive deficits. Therefore, cognition is an excellent treatment target.
      Furthermore, there is clear evidence, in both established psychiatric disorders such as
      schizophrenia, depression and bipolar disorder, and in CHR samples, that deficits in
      cognition are associated to poor functional outcome. Thus, treatments targeting cognition may
      consequently improve functional outcome. This is a pilot project to determine feasibility and
      sample size for a large randomized controlled trial of cognitive remediation therapy (CRT) in
      people at risk of SMI with CIHR and AIHS funding targets. The primary aim of the project is
      to test the effectiveness of a novel computerized CRT program in improving cognition in youth
      at risk of SMI following the addition of a counseling intervention, MI, to improve adherence
      to CRT. One group will receive CRT and the other CRT plus MI. Hypotheses: 1. Both study
      groups will have improvement in cognition at the end of treatment; 2. CRT+MI group will have
      increased treatment adherence and superior improvements in cognition at the end of treatment
      and 12 months post baseline compared to the CRT only group; Secondary Hypothesis: 3. Improved
      cognition will be associated with improved functional outcome. This is a longitudinal, single
      blind, controlled pilot trial of CRT in persons at risk of SMI. Twenty-eight participants
      will be recruited from the Adolescent Mental Health: Canadian Psychiatric Risk and Outcome
      Study (PROCAN) study at the Calgary site led by Dr. J. Addington. Participants in the PROCAN
      project who meet operationally defined criteria as being at risk of SMI by meeting attenuated
      syndromes criteria will be included. Participants will be randomized to either the CRT
      condition consisting of a novel program called My Brain Fitness (MBS) and motivational
      interviewing (MI) or a control condition consisting of CRT alone, and will receive training
      that will be administered over a period of 10 weeks. Assessments will occur at baseline, post
      treatment (3 months) and at 12 months after baseline. Half of all participants will receive
      individual 1 hr MI once every 2 weeks for the duration of the cognitive remediation component
      of the study. The study clinicians who are master level psychologists, will deliver MI
      ensuring engagement of study participants. Time spent in therapy will be monitored and
      recorded. All of the data necessary for this study will be collected as part of the PROCAN
      assessment at baseline and 12 months. The one exception is that we will do an assessment of
      cognitive function, clinical symptoms and functional outcome at 10 weeks or immediately post
      treatment, which will take approximately 2.5 hours.
    
  