
    
      Congenital heart disease (CHD) is an abnormal formation that occurs during the development of
      a baby's heart, heart valves and/or large vessels such as the aorta artery. CHD is the most
      common cause of major congenital defects accounting for almost 30% of all defects. While the
      statistics vary among studies, the best birth prevalence estimate is 8 per 1000 live births.
      In the USA, CHD affects 1% of all births per year, with an estimated 40,000 babies born with
      any type of heart defect every year.

      The important improvements in CHD diagnosis and surgical treatment in the last decades has
      led to an increased survival of newborns affected with heart defects. A large number of CHD
      can be diagnosed during pregnancy, and the patients can present a broad range of symptoms.
      Forms of CHD are usually classified based on their severity, from mild to severe. One of the
      mildest forms of CHD is atrial septal defect, which can be undetectable until adulthood and
      VSD. On the other hand, severe CHD that requires multiple palliative surgeries includes
      single ventricle defects, such as hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), and tricuspid
      atresia.

      The survival of infants with CHD will depend on the severity of the defect and the time of
      diagnosis and treatment received. The one-year survival of newborns with severe or critical
      CHD (generally any type of surgery/procedures in their first year of life) is estimated to be
      75%.

      Stem cell therapy has emerged as a new paradigm of treatment in the field of CHD with
      promising results. Cardiac regeneration has been the focus of acquired, adult heart disease
      for many years. However, congenital heart disease with structural abnormalities may also be a
      good target for other research studies. In fact, the pediatric heart is naturally growing and
      may be amendable to regenerative strategies. Furthermore, the initial pre-clinical and
      clinical studies have demonstrated that the delivery of stem cells into the heart of patients
      with CHD is feasible and safe. Moreover, the cell therapy approach, along with the standard
      surgical palliation, seems to offer benefits over surgical treatment alone. Even though the
      number of cell therapy clinical trials for CHD has increased in the last decade, more
      long-term follow-up studies are needed in this population setting in order to define the role
      of stem cell therapy in the clinical practice. Therefore, confirming our ability to produce
      autologous cells (cells from the patient's own body) from patients with severe CHD is an
      important step towards the long-term goal of being able to discover innovative cell-based
      protocols.
    
  