
    
      This project aims to develop performance ethnography approaches to reduce stigma towards
      lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) persons in Swaziland and Lesotho by holding
      performance ethnography at community roundtables in Swaziland and Lesotho.

      This project involved a critical ethnography with in-depth individual interviews conducted
      with LGBT communities in Swaziland and Lesotho. Following this, the investigators conducted a
      performance ethnography that involved: a) presenting theatre specialists and PRAs with the
      qualitative data; b) working together to highlight narratives, themes and visual images from
      this data; c) developing scripts for participatory theatre performances; d) implementing the
      theatre performances at community roundtables, with participants completing a pre and
      post-test and 6 week follow up.

      The investigators will implement 2 interconnected KTE strategies in each location (Swaziland,
      Lesotho): (1) participatory theatre (PT) training/development and (2) community roundtables.
      (1) Participatory theatre (PT) training with SGM: The investigators will engage 6 SGMY (2
      MSM, 2 WSW, 2 transgender) as PRA in each location. PRA will work with a theatre specialist
      to develop 3 short plays to highlight lived experiences of a) stigma and discrimination and
      b) resilience among MSM, WSW and trans persons. PRA will undertake a 4-week PT training
      program, including: PT processes; assessing. Phase 1 data; developing scenes; and production.
      PRA will work with community animators who will perform the scenarios to protect the privacy
      of the PR.

      The investigators will implement community roundtables are to: a) raise awareness of SGM
      issues and b) reduce stigma. Purposive sampling will be employed to engage diverse
      stakeholders. Roundtables, 2 hours in duration, will be cofacilitated by PRA. The aim is to
      conduct 2 meetings in Swaziland and 2 in Lesotho, each with 20-25 participants, including
      groups identified as key to SGM wellbeing in Phase 1 (e.g. educators; law enforcement; civil
      society; LGBTQ groups). Community animators will enact the 3 plays developed by SGM using PT
      techniques. Plays will address narratives of stigma and discrimination that emerge in Phase 1
      among SGM participants. Community animators will perform each play once to illustrate the
      situation and problem; the story will culminate in a crisis with no solution offered. Each
      play will be performed a second time, and roundtable participants can 'stop' the action at
      any point where there is a challenge. The participant that 'stops' the play will come up and
      replace the character and depict a possible solution or 'intervention.

      To evaluate the project's outcomes the investigators will conduct cross-sectional surveys
      with roundtable participants (n=100) who will complete a pre/post-test evaluation and 6 week
      follow up. The primary outcome will be measured using the 'Attitudes Towards Lesbians and Gay
      Men Scale' (ATLG-R) to assess changes in phobia, stigma and knowledge regarding SGM issues
      following the participatory theatre event. The survey will also include questions about
      attitudes towards HIV related stigma. Socio-demographic information will be collected from
      all survey participants including age, gender, highest level of education, nationality,
      marital status, current household income, type of work, number of children, and religion.
      MANOVA will be used to assess pre/post-test differences across variables.
    
  