
    
      Natural Killer cells, a type of white blood cell, circulate around the body and kill abnormal
      cells (cells that are malignant, damaged or infected with virus). Sometimes cancer cells
      adapt to the body's own NK cells and are able to avoid being killed by them. This clinical
      trial uses two strategies to overcome the cancer cells' ability to avoid NK cell-mediated
      death.

      The first strategy involves giving NK cells from another individual to the patient (in other
      words, donor- or haploidentical-NK cells). This is done because NK cells from an individual
      who is haploidentical (half-matched genetic make-up) are still able to effectively kill the
      cancer cells. Unfortunately, only a limited number of NK cells can be obtained from a donor.
      So, to increase the number of cancer-killing NK cells that will be given to the patient, the
      donor NK cells will first be grown in a sterile laboratory environment and allowed to
      multiply many-fold before they are infused into the patient. This growing process also
      activates the donor NK cells, which increases their ability to kill cancer cells.

      The second strategy to overcome the cancer cells' ability to avoid NK cell-mediated death is
      to administer the immunocytokine, hu14.18-IL2, every day for seven days after infusion of the
      donor NK cells. The antibody portion (hu14.18) of the immunocytokine molecule "flags" the
      neuroblastoma cells for destruction by NK cells and the cytokine portion (IL2) further
      activates the NK cells (as well as other anti-tumor immune effector cells).

      Since the donor NK cells are from a haploidentical individual, they are different enough to
      be recognized as foreign cells and will be killed immediately ("rejected") by the patients
      own immune system unless the immune system is restrained. So, to allow the donor NK cells
      time to kill neuroblastoma cells before they are "rejected", a chemotherapy regimen is first
      given to the patient to temporarily restrain the patient's own immune system. This also
      allows "room" for the donor NK cells to live, multiply and function.

      Four courses of treatment are planned for each subject. Each course of treatment will be
      approximately one month long and involves a week of chemotherapy followed by infusion of
      donor NK cells. Beginning the day after the donor NK cell infusion, hu14.18-IL2 is infused
      over four hours for seven consecutive days.
    
  