
    
      Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) and Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV), has played a
      decisive role in the treatment of Acute Respiratory Failure (ARF) secondary to Cardiogenic
      Pulmonary Edema (CPE). The use of either CPAP or NIV has resulted in greater clinical
      improvements than the ones that have been previously obtained by using a standard medical
      therapy. Although there is a strong indication for NIV in hypercapnic patients, the situation
      whether NIV is superior to CPAP remains unclear, and hence, both have been recommended.

      NIV and CPAP have both been successfully used in patients admitted to an Intensive Care Unit
      (ICU) suffering from CPE. However, few trials have been published on the ICU scenario. In
      addition, Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) has been considered to be an exclusion criterion in
      several trials.

      At the time of the onset of CPE, either in the Emergency Department (ED) or in the ward, all
      participants received a standard medical therapy (oxygen through a Venturi mask, morphine,
      intravenous nitroglycerin if their systolic blood pressure >160 mmHg, together with loop
      diuretics), all at the discretion of the attending physician. In the absence of a clinical
      improvement [dyspnea, respiratory rate >25rpm, transcutaneous arterial oxygen saturation
      (SaO2) <90%], the participant was admitted to the ICU and assigned to the NIV group or the
      CPAP group, regardless of the treatment that they had received in the ED. The participants
      that were admitted to the ICU at the onset of CPE were randomised without a trial of medical
      treatment. The assignment of each group was performed by opening a sealed envelope following
      a prior randomisation by using a computerised system.

      Statistical. A comparative analysis was conducted by using the Student's t-test or the
      Mann-Whitney test for a comparison of the quantitative variables for the parametric and
      non-parametric characteristics, respectively. For the qualitative variables, the
      investigators used the Chi-Square statistic or Fisher's exact test. A statistical
      significance was reached if P<0.05. The cumulative probability of survival was compared by
      using a Kaplan-Meier estimation of survival and a Log-Rank Test to compare both of the
      groups.
    
  