
    
      Aim of the thesis

      The aim of this PhD thesis is to use population-based registry data to:

      1) Estimate the occurrence of psychiatric comorbidity in a Danish nationwide population of
      patients with back pain disorders (BPD) diagnosed in 2010-2014; 2) Investigate whether
      presence of psychiatric comorbidity affects utilization of pharmacological, surgical and
      other types of treatment for patients with back BPD; 3) Investigate whether presence of
      psychiatric comorbidity affects utilization and dosages of pharmacological treatment for
      patients with BPD.

      Clinical contributions of this PhD: This PhD study will contribute with new knowledge on the
      association between different types of back pain disorders (BPD) and psychiatric comorbidity.
      As BPD affects a large part of the population, this is a very important area of research from
      a public health and clinical perspective. Access to nationwide registries facilitates a
      comprehensive and population-based dataset, ensuring the ideal circumstances for
      investigating the association between BPD and potential psychiatric comorbidity. Furthermore,
      the results can be used to increase clinical awareness of vulnerable patients in the
      intersection between rheumatology and psychiatry and subsequently improve prevention and
      clinical management for a complex and resource-demanding patient population.

      Materials and methods

      Setting and study population: This PhD project includes a population-based nationwide cohort
      based on data from Danish health registries. Danish health registries, including The Danish
      National Patient Registry (DNPR), a subdivision of the DNPR, the National Patient Registry -
      Psychiatry (NPD-Psych), The Danish National Prescription Database and The Danish National
      Health Service Register, contains complete data on hospital contacts, prescription drug use
      and services provided by health contractors. By using the Danish Civil Registry and the
      unique personal identification number assigned to all Danish citizens at birth, data across
      registries can be linked on an individual level.

      The study population will be defined as all adult patients (18+) identified in the DNPR,
      covering all inpatient and outpatient services in Denmark, in the time period 1th of January
      2010 to 31th of December 2014 with a diagnosis of BPD according to the ICD-10 Classification
      of Disease (DM*).

      Psychiatric comorbidity will be defined as the presence of any of the following diagnosis,
      according to ICD-10 classification, obtained from the National Patient Registry - Psychiatry
      (NPD-Psych), covering all inpatient and outpatient psychiatric services in Denmark in the
      time period 1th January 2007 to 31th December 2017: Organic, including symptomatic, mental
      disorders (F00-DF09), Mental and behavioral disorders due to psychoactive substance use
      (F10-F19), Schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders (F20-F29), Mood [affective]
      disorders (F30-F39), Neurotic, stress-related and somatoform disorders (F40-F48), Behavioral
      syndromes associated with physiological disturbances and physical factors (F50-F59),
      Disorders of adult personality and behavior (F60-F69), Mental retardation (F70-F79),
      Disorders of psychological development (F80-F89), Behavioral and emotional disorders with
      onset usually occurring in childhood and adolescence (F90-F98) and, Unspecified mental
      disorder (F99). To qualify as a psychiatric comorbidity to back pain disorder, we define that
      the psychiatric diagnosis must be given no earlier than three years prior to back pain
      disorder diagnosis and no later than three years after.

      Study 1) Occurrence of Psychiatric comorbidity in back pain disorders

      Aim: 1) To estimate occurrence of psychiatric comorbidity in patients with BPD compared to
      the background population and 2) occurrence of psychiatric comorbidity in patients with
      unspecific BPD compared to patients with specific BPD in a Danish nationwide cohort from
      2010-2014.

      Hypothesis: 1) There is a higher occurrence of psychiatric comorbidity in BPD patients
      compared to the background population and 2) patients with unspecific BPD have a higher
      occurrence of psychiatric comorbidity compared to patients with specific BPD.

      Design: The study will be a nationwide register-based matched cohort study.

      Procedure: Selected BPD patients with the following diagnosis will be identified via the
      DNPR: Spondylopathies DM45-49, Other dorsopathies DM 50-54 and Segmental and somatic
      dysfunction DM99. Each patient will be matched 1:5 on age and sex with patients without back
      disorders by random at Statistics Denmark. The selection of diagnosis is to be able to match
      the population with non-BPD patients in the Danish registries.

      Information on somatic comorbidity for calculation of Charlson Comorbidity index (CCI) at
      time of BPD diagnosis, will be retrieved from the DNPR. Data on psychiatric comorbidity will
      be identified using NPD-Psych. Information on marital status, vital status, and immigration
      status will be retrieved from the Civil Registration System (CPR). Patients that are not
      alive or have emigrated within three years after BPD diagnosis are considered lost to
      follow-up and excluded from the cohort. Descriptive data on the socioeconomic status,
      education level and equivalent available income will be retrieved from Statistics Denmark.
      All data comprising each variable will be retrieved from 1th of January 2007 to 31th of
      December 2017 (three years before and after study period).

      Statistics: We will use Fisher's exact test and t-test to compare baseline characteristics
      with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and p-values. Crude risks of psychiatric comorbidity will
      be calculated and logistic regression model will be used, to investigate differences between
      the distribution of risk in BPD patients and the background population. A logistic regression
      model will also be used to investigate differences between the distribution of psychiatric
      comorbidity in the unspecific and specific BPD group compared to the background population.
      The logistic regressions will be reported using 95% CI and adjusted for the following
      confounders: age, sex, equivalent available income, educational level, CCI, marital status.

      Study 2) The effect of psychiatric comorbidity on type of treatment for BPD

      Aim: 1) To investigate whether treatment of BPD in patients with psychiatric comorbidity
      differ from treatment of patients with BPD without psychiatric comorbidity; 2)To investigate
      whether treatment of BPD differs in the following subgroups: a) specific BPD and no
      psychiatric comorbidity; b) specific BPD with psychiatric comorbidity; c) unspecific BPD with
      no psychiatric comorbidity; d) unspecific BPD with psychiatric comorbidity. Investigation
      will be performed in a nationwide Danish cohort in 2010-2014.

      Hypothesis: 1) Psychiatric comorbidity affects type of treatment in BPD patients and 2)
      psychiatric comorbidity affects type of treatment in subgroups of BPD.

      Design and study population: The study will be a nationwide register-based cohort study. The
      study population consists of patients with BPD and in the sub-analysis the study population
      consists of patients with BPD and psychiatric comorbidity.

      Procedure: BPD patients with any BPD diagnosis (DM*) will be identified via the DNPR.
      Surgical treatment will be defined as the presence of any procedure code for back surgery
      retrieved from DNPR (NOMESCO: KNA-W). Pharmacological treatment of BPD will be defined as any
      treatment with the following drugs: NSAID (ATC: N01A*), acetominophen (ATC: N02BE01), opioids
      (N02A*), antiepileptica (ATC: N03A) and tricyclic antidepressants (ATC: N06AA)13 identified
      using the Register of Medicinal Products Statistics. Data on other types of treatment
      (defined as any treatment not surgical or pharmacological) such as physiotherapist,
      psychologist, chiropractor or occupational therapist (covered via tax-funded health
      insurance) will be obtained via The Danish National Health Insurance Service Register (SSR).
      All BPD treatment-related information will be retrieved up to three years after the date of
      BPD diagnosis.

      Information on somatic comorbidity for calculation of Charlson Comorbidity index(CCI) at time
      of BPD diagnosis, will be retrieved from the DNPR. Data on psychiatric comorbidity will be
      identified using NPD-Psych. Information on psychiatric comorbidity will be used to define
      whether each patient had a psychiatric diagnosis prior to BPD diagnosis, after BPD diagnosis
      or no psychiatric diagnosis. If a psychiatric diagnosis occurs both prior to and after BPD
      diagnosis, the patient will be defines as having a psychiatric comorbidity prior to BPD
      diagnosis.

      Information on marital status, vital status, and immigration status will be retrieved from
      the Civil Registration System (CPR). Patients that are not alive or have emigrated within
      three years after BPD diagnosis are considered lost to follow-up and excluded from the
      cohort. Descriptive data on the socioeconomic status, education level and equivalent
      available income will be retrieved from Statistics Denmark. All data comprising each variable
      will be retrieved from 1th of January 2007 to 31th of December 2017 (three years before and
      after study period).

      Statistics: We will use Fisher's exact test and t-test to compare patients' baseline
      characteristics with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and p-values. For each treatment type we
      will use logistic regression model to investigate differences in outcome distribution between
      patients with and without psychiatric comorbidity.The logistic regressions will be performed
      with 95% CI adjusted for the following confounders: age, sex, CCI, level of education,
      equivalent available income, type of BPD (IBD, DBD or UBP) and marital status.

      Study 3) Effect of psychiatric comorbidity in pharmacological treatment of BPD.

      Aim: 1) To compare dosages of pharmacological treatment in BPD patients with and without the
      presence of psychiatric comorbidity in a nationwide Danish cohort study in 2010-2014. 2) To
      compare high vs. low dosages of pharmacological treatment for BPD in patients with BPD and
      psychiatric comorbidity.

      Hypothesis: 1) Patients with BPD and psychiatric comorbidity are prescribed a higher dosage
      of pain medication for BPD compared with BPD patients without psychiatric comorbidity. 2) BPD
      patients with a psychiatric comorbidity with a high (defined as above the 50th percentile)
      vs. low (defined as below the 50th percentile) dosage of pain medication are also prescribed
      higher dosages of psychiatric medication.

      Design and study population: The study will be a nationwide register-based cohort study. The
      study population consists of patients with BPD that received pharmacological treatment for
      BPD. In the secondary analysis the study population consists of patients with BPD and a
      psychiatric comorbidity, who received pharmacological treatment for BPD.

      Procedure: BPD patients with any BPD diagnosis (DM*) will be identified via the DNPR.
      Pharmacological treatment of BPD will be defined as any treatment with the following drugs:
      NSAID (ATC: N01A*), Acetominophen (ATC: N02BE01), Opioids (N02A*). Pharmacological treatment
      for psychiatric comorbidity will be defined as any treatment with the following drugs:
      Antipsychotics (ATC:N05A), Antidepressants (ATC: N06A), Selective Serotonin Reuptake
      Inhibitors (SSRI) (ATC: N06AB), and anxiolytics (ATC: N5B*) Pharmacological treatment that
      can be used in the treatment of both BPD and psychiatric disorders will be defined as any
      treatment with the following drugs: Antiepileptica (ATC: N03A) and Tricyclic antidepressants
      (ATC: N06AA). All data on pharmacological treatment will be identified using the Register of
      Medicinal Products Statistics. From time of BPD diagnosis and the following three years,
      pharmacological treatment for both somatic illness and psychiatric comorbidity in Daily
      Defined Dosage (DDD) per year will be calculated.

      Information on somatic comorbidity for calculation of Charlson Comorbidity index (CCI) at
      time of BPD diagnosis, will be retrieved from the DNPR. Data on psychiatric comorbidity will
      be identified using NPD-Psych. Information on marital status, vital status, and immigration
      status will be retrieved from the Civil Registration System (CPR). Patients that are not
      alive or have emigrated within three years after BPD diagnosis are considered lost to
      follow-up and excluded from the cohort. Descriptive data on the socioeconomic status,
      education level and equivalent available income will be retrieved from Statistics Denmark.
      All data comprising each variable will be retrieved from 1th of January 2007 to 31th of
      December 2017 (three years before and after study period).

      Statistics: We will use Fisher's exact test and t-test to compare patients' baseline
      characteristics with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and p-values. Time dependent Cox
      regression will be performed separately for patients with specific and unspecific BPD to
      examine dosage of pharmacological treatment over time comparing patients with and without
      psychiatric comorbidity. The analysis will be performed with 95% CI and adjusted for the
      following confounders: age, sex, CCI, level of education, equivalent available income,
      marital status and the presence of psychopharmacological treatment.

      To examine dosage of psychopharmacological treatment over time comparing patients with
      psychiatric comorbidity and low vs high dose of pharmacological treatment of BPD, time
      dependent Cox regression will be performed reporting 95% CI and adjusting for the following
      confounders: age, sex, CCI, level of education, equivalent available income and marital
      status.
    
  