
    
      This preliminary descriptive study is aimed at providing the first data that will evaluate
      differences and similarities in genotype between isolates of H. pylori obtained from children
      and adults living in The Gambia, West Africa, and to assess the likely magnitude of these
      differences. This protocol describes the application of minimally invasive techniques for H.
      pylori isolation (developed in the first part of this project and described in a separate
      protocol, DMID protocol 06-0053) in a population study. Study subjects will be residents of
      The Gambia, West Africa. Ninety children, aged less than 2 years, requiring therapeutic
      nasogastric intubation and 30 healthy mothers of these children will be studied. Subjects
      will be studied at the Medical Research Council (MRC) of Great Britain Research Laboratories
      and Clinical Facility in Fajara, The Gambia, West Africa. Investigators propose that the
      transition from childhood colonization to adult disease state is affected by multiple factors
      including evolution of genotypes of colonizing H. pylori strains themselves, driven in part
      by the host response to infection. Researchers hypothesize that H. pylori strains from
      Gambian children will differ genetically from the strains of chronically colonized adults
      from the same community. The investigators' genetic and phenotypic characterization of
      pediatric and adult isolates will test for fundamental differences between strains
      circulating in these 2 age groups, which may help to evaluate the importance of strain
      selection and/or genome evolution in such high risk societies. The specific aim of this study
      is to assess the relatedness of child strains and those from close adult relatives. Study
      procedures will include aspirating gastric juice through a nasogastric tube used for infant
      feeding purposes in children who are undergoing intensive in-patient re-nutrition, and
      culturing H. pylori from these aspirates, and also from parents who accept the invitation to
      donate a sample of gastric juice for culture through a nasogastric tube inserted temporarily
      for this purpose. Most genotyping will entail arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction
      DNA fingerprinting, limited (focused) DNA sequencing, especially in cases of isolates with
      closely related but non-identical fingerprints, and metronidazole susceptibility tests.
      Genetic and phenotypic characterization of pediatric and adult isolates will test for
      fundamental differences between strains circulating in these two age groups, and thereby help
      evaluate the importance of strain selection and/or genome evolution in such high risk
      societies. Subjects will be studied only once during this 2-year project. If H. pylori are
      isolated from gastric aspirates, the mother of that child will be asked if they would agree
      to have a nasogastric tube passed on one occasion to obtain an aspirate of gastric juice for
      H. pylori culture. The isolates obtained will be subject to DNA analysis and genotyping.
      Specific points to be addressed by these comparative studies will include direct comparison
      of strains isolated from children and adults from within the same family or village. This
      will be the first study to be performed in a society with a high early incidence of naturally
      acquired H. pylori colonization, and will allow direct comparison between isolates from
      children and adults from within the same families or village environment, which will provide
      information about intra-familial and intra-community transmission of infection. The main
      outcome measure is the degree of relatedness between the bacterial isolates. This will be
      assessed by visual comparison between random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) results,
      by comparison of genotype for alleles of interest, and definitively by sequencing of
      housekeeping genes to construct phylogenetic trees of relatedness using the STAR program and
      multiple locus sequence typing (MLST) database. There are no outcome measures for human
      subjects.
    
  