
    
      Sample size estimation Sample size estimation was based on the primary outcome of interest
      The final sample size was 41 children per group (total sample size = 82 children)

      Patients will be recruited randomly from outpatient clinic of the Department of Pediatric
      Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Faculty of Dentistry, Ain Shams University. A signed
      informed consent to the parents' and also an insent to child,outlined by the Ethical
      Committee, Faculty of Dentistry, Ain Shams University will be obtained before the conduction
      of the study.

      All examination procedures will be done by the same operator to ensure standardization.

      Moreover, all patients will receive oral health education in regard to dietary and oral
      hygiene habits.

      Excluded carious primary molars will be scheduled to receive the appropriate treatment.

      Before applying any procedures medical history for any silver products allergy (SDF allergy)
      will be assessed by asking the child's parent.

      Materials:

      38%SDF

      Conditioner 3M ESPE

      High strength hand mix chemical cure glass ionomer

      Patient withdrawal

      Patient who don't comply to the oral hygiene given will be excluded from the study.

      Patients who are not willing to continue in the study will have the right to quit at any time
      without loss of any benefits.

      Data Management

      Patient information will be gathered and stored in the patient examination chart of the
      outpatient clinic, Department of Pediatric Dentistry, faculty of Dentistry, Ain Shams
      University.

      All information will be kept as a hard copy and as an electronic one as well. Patient
      information will be guarded as confidential information that should never be revealed at all
      times.

      Adverse Event Reporting

      SDF is not expected to have any adverse effects on healthy subjects, yet failure of
      treatment, recurrent caries, abcess formation or pulpal affection may be an issue of concern,
      that will be avoided by the continuous follow up sessions.

      Statistical Analysis

      Sample size estimation was based on the primary outcome of interest, which is to test whether
      there's a significant difference in parent satisfaction between the parents of children
      receiving SDF and those receiving SDF followed by ART restorations. The predicted sample size
      for comparing parent satisfaction score was found to be 34 children per group (total sample
      size = 68 children), by assuming an α level of 0.05 and β level of 0.2 (power = 80%). The
      effect size d was calculated based on the findings of M. Jiang, et al., and the allocation
      ratio was set at 1. After adjusting for 20% dropout, the final sample size was 41 children
      per group (total sample size = 82 children). Sample size calculation was performed using
      G*Power software version 3.1.4 for MS Windows.
    
  