
    
      Substance use (SU) and substance use disorders (SUD) pose devastating health, financial, and
      societal costs. The incidence of SU and SUDs increases across adolescence, making this
      sensitive developmental period one of both heightened risk-and heightened opportunity for
      prevention and intervention. However, to develop effective interventions investigators need
      to identify novel and modifiable risk factors and mechanisms for SUD. Sleep and circadian
      rhythm disturbances are such risk factors, and the reward system, with its increasing
      sensitivity during adolescence, provides a plausible mechanistic substrate. The focus on
      sleep, circadian rhythms, and reward system function is particularly salient given the
      extensive, parallel development of these systems during adolescence, and the plausible
      linkages between sleep and circadian rhythms, reward function, and SUD risk.

      Late sleep timing, short sleep duration and circadian misalignment are associated with
      increased substance use in teenagers and young adults. The central hypothesis of the Center
      for Adolescent Reward, Rhythms and Sleep (CARRS) is that adolescent development acts on
      underlying sleep and circadian traits to modify homeostatic sleep drive, circadian phase, and
      circadian alignment, which in turn impact cortico-limbic functions critical to SU risk (e.g.,
      reward and cognitive control). Investigators further hypothesize that specific manipulations
      of sleep and circadian rhythms during adolescence will affect reward responsivity and
      cognitive control in either positive or negative directions. These manipulations will provide
      experimental support for our model, and proof of concept for novel clinical interventions to
      reduce the risk of SU and SUDs.

      Most previous studies have examined individual components of circadian rhythms, sleep, and
      reward function in adolescence. Project 2 (P2) of CARRS will test an innovative and
      mechanistic model of brain circuitry that uses multi-method approaches, takes a developmental
      perspective, and incorporates key sleep and reward constructs. Most notably, P2 improves upon
      past observational work by testing an experimental intervention that manipulates sleep and
      circadian rhythms to directly examine its impact on reward function and cognitive control.

      P2 will study 150 adolescents (age 13-15, 50% female) across two key sleep phenotypes: early
      sleep timing (low risk, n=50) and late sleep timing (high risk, n=100). All participants will
      complete the observational study: 1 week of home sleep monitoring (actigraphy), followed by
      an overnight laboratory visit to assess self-report, behavioral, and neuroimaging (fMRI)
      tasks tapping cognitive control and reward function, as well as circadian phase via salivary
      melatonin and molecular rhythms via hair follicles. The Late group will continue to the
      experimental study, each participant randomized to manipulation or attentional control
      conditions (n=50 each). Investigators will probe whether advancing sleep/circadian timing and
      extending sleep duration via sleep scheduling and chronotherapeutic approaches (reducing PM
      light exposure; administering AM bright light) improves sleep, circadian, and neurobehavioral
      function relevant to SUD risk. Finally, repeated 6-month follow-up assessments of sleep and
      SU for all participants are included to examine longitudinal associations.
    
  