
    
      Molecular heterogeneity in cancer tumours make it a complex disease to manage and treat.
      However, there have been significant advancements made in the detection of molecular
      alterations and we are able to now define distinct disease subtypes which permit targeted
      selection of therapies, thus optimizing treatment responses for patients and improving their
      survival.

      With CARMA-BROS we will address the objectives that follow.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To create a cohort of patients through which to better understand the natural history of
           disease in Canadian cancer patients with tumours that have been molecularly subtyped and
           identified to have rare molecular alterations.

        2. To compare the natural history, stage distribution, treatment outcomes such as treatment
           effectiveness (composite of disease progression or death) and treatment toxicities
           across different patients with different molecular alterations, receiving different
           lines and types of therapy.

           Secondary Objectives:

        3. To determine the incidence, time to development, prevalence, and outcomes of patients
           with specific patterns of spread, such as brain metastases compared to those without, by
           different therapies and by molecular alterations.

        4. To better understand real-world treatment patterns of rare molecular alterations in the
           Canadian context, across geographic or other factors, and how treatment patterns evolve
           over time and as new therapies become available, how patients are investigated and how
           targeted and other biomarkers are used as part of clinical practice in these patients.

        5. To assess quality of life in patients with rare molecular alterations across different
           stages, lines and types of therapy.

        6. To perform exploratory health economic evaluations focused on the costs and benefits of
           managing patients with rare molecular alterations.

        7. To perform biomarker analyses, where appropriate, to improve our understanding of these
           rare molecular alterations.
    
  