
    
      The Jönköping Health Care managers for Child Health Care, Habilitation Center, Child and
      Adolescent Psychiatry and Rehabilitation Center (Speech Therapist) searched at 2018
      government funding during this collaborative PLUSS-project. They have since money was awarded
      to the project in 2019, been formatted as a steering group for these clinical research
      project. An operational interprofessional working group appointed by the managers to conduct
      clinical and research work under the guidance of a disputed project manager of 40%.
      Information about the PLUSS-project and collaboration with the municipalities' activities
      (preschool and social services) started in 2019.

      Ethics approval has been granted by the National Ethics Board (#2019-04839). Informed consent
      is obtained from all actors: both parents, managers, preschool educators, CHP and CHN. All
      data is registered with fp-number and is encoded directly at the time of collection
      considering the protection of privacy. Code template for translation between fp-no and the
      test subject can be found in a logbook that is kept inaccessible to unauthorized persons. The
      results are reported only at the group level, where no personal data will be recognizable.
      All data processing takes place following Swedish data law. The parents have been informed
      that they receive the same care whether they participate in the study or not. The project
      could cause concern for the parents as they answer the questionnaire and become aware of the
      child's possible problem. Here it is an advantage that the CHP uses the questionnaire in the
      assessment interview so that the parent has the opportunity to ask questions or talk about
      his child's needs and strengths. Recruitment of the control group is done through the county
      parts that have not yet been included in the clinical trial of new methods. This means that
      children/families are not withheld from treatment they would otherwise receive.

      After the assessment interview and with the parents' consent, the Child Health psychologist
      contacts the child's preschool. The preschool manager and preschool teacher may consent to
      participate in the study and the preschool teacher answers questionnaires. The behavior of
      the children in the preschool will be paid extra attention to the teachers as they are asked
      to assess the behavior of the individual child. This could lead to children's problem
      behavior being highlighted in a way that can change how teacher's behaved towards individual
      children. However, an exaggerated emphasis on the negative is counteracted by the teacher
      being also asked to estimate the child's mental health in the form of commitment and social
      interaction. The project focuses on efforts in the child's environment that are helpful to
      all children, not just those with special needs.
    
  