
    
      The project used a self-management approach grounded in self-efficacy theory to increase
      parenting self-efficacy among persons with spinal cord injury/disease (SCI/D). Program
      content focused on skill building through opportunities to master techniques and strategies;
      role modeling, problem solving, decision making, goal setting, and provision of reliable
      information. The use of a self-management program may also place parents with SCI/D at ease
      in sharing needs, as it is not an expert model by which a professional is passing judgment on
      their ability to care for their children. Many parents with disabilities are hesitant to seek
      professional services for fear of negative consequences such as losing custody of their
      children. Developing a program that is conducted as a partnership whereby parents direct much
      of the pace and content may be considered less threatening and more beneficial to those who
      have experienced distrust of the healthcare system.

      There are no other self-management programs that specifically address the needs of parents
      with SCI/D. The project created a self-management program that was piloted in the St. Louis
      region and can be replicated across the country among other communities. While the national
      coordination center for families with disabilities, Through the Looking Glass, provides
      resource materials to parents across the country, they do not provide a structure for
      individual problem solving and to meet the needs of parents SCI/D on an individualized level.
      Providing a format for parents with SCI/D to successfully fulfill their parenting roles has a
      highly significant social implication; parents will be equipped to meet potential challenges
      and enjoy participation in their families. Limiting discrimination in the courts, seeking
      school accessibility, or simply decreasing pain while holding an infant are all worthy goals
      that could be achieved through a self-management parenting program.

      Project Aims

        1. To develop a four-week self-management program for parents with SCI/D to meet their
           needs in the parenting role and the needs of their families

        2. To aid parents with SCI/D in building the skills and resources needed to continue or
           begin parenting in a successful manner

        3. To disseminate the PSMP content to other regions, disability organizations, Paralyzed
           Veterans of America (PVA) chapters, healthcare organizations, and parenting groups to be
           replicated

        4. To build a sustainable format for meeting the needs of parents with SCI/D that can be
           replicated and continued across the U.S.
    
  