
    
      Repetitive upper extremity use in athletes may be associated with the development of
      neurogenic and vascular thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS) which typically presents as upper
      extremity symptoms caused by compression of the neurovascular structures in the area of the
      neck above the first rib. Clinical manifestations can include upper extremity pain,
      paresthesias, numbness, weakness, fatigability, swelling, discoloration, and Raynaud
      phenomenon. Vascular TOS can involve the subclavian artery or vein.

      Most patients who suffer TOSs have an anatomical predisposition and sport activities of upper
      limbs may contribute to TOS onset. Disability and postintervention recovery related to TOS
      treatment and possible surgery can have a significant effect in the overall performance
      abilities of affected patients, and little has been published specifically about the risk of
      TOS athletes. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) analysis is one of the key analysis methods
      used in bioengineering applications in studying the cardiovascular system. In this context a
      typical fluid dynamics analysis involves evaluation of basic fluid properties like flow
      velocity, and pressure, in relation to time and space.

      This study aims to study CFD factors in thoracic outlet region (cervicothoracobrachial
      region) in order to evaluate the fluid - structure interactions between muscles, bones and
      vessels in this region in sporty subjects that participate in the following sports: baseball,
      tennis, swimming, rowing, volleyball, rugby football, weightlifting.

      A cohort of healthy sporty subjects will be recruited and will undergo to diagnostic tests in
      order to assess the thoracic outlet region. For this reason, a Magnetic Resonance scan of the
      cervicothoracobrachial region and a duplex ultrasound of the upper limbs will be performed.

      COMSOL Multiphysics ® cross-platform will be used for elements analysis, in the simulation
      study. The simulation will be implemented with FreeCAD 3d modeling in order to 3D geometry of
      studied elements.

      The primary endpoint of this study is to calculate the risk of TOS onset in sporty subjects
      in order to prevent a disabling disease in this kind of subjects.
    
  