
    
      1. Objective: To determine the extent of and reasons for relapse and re-infection in
           incident cases of tuberculosis (TB) in Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-infected
           patients on Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART)

        2. Design: A prospective cohort study of patients with HIV previously treated for pulmonary
           TB and initiated on HAART in the SAPIT (Starting AIDS treatment at three Points in TB
           treatment) and START (Starting Tuberculosis and Anti-Retroviral Therapy) trials. Each
           incident case of TB recurrence in this cohort of adult patients on HAART will be
           investigated to assess whether the infecting mycobacterium is similar to that from the
           previous infection and whether the immune responses differ in cases of relapse and
           re-infection.

        3. Population: Men and women 18 years of age with documented HIV infection and past TB
           therapy as part of the SAPIT and START trial will be enrolled.

        4. Study Procedures: This study will involve 3 years of follow-up of patients who had been
           initiated on a course of TB therapy as part of the SAPIT and START trials. Upon exit
           from the SAPIT trial (i.e. 18 months post-TB diagnosis), study patients will be
           consented and enrolled in this cohort study. Study participants will be seen monthly for
           the first 3 months and thereafter 3 monthly, for routine clinic visits and ART services.
           At every visit patients will be screened for TB recurrence clinically, with chest
           radiograph and, whenever possible, with available TB diagnostics or new diagnostics that
           are being developed and/or tested.

        5. Study Outcome The primary endpoint of this study will be the development of recurrent
           TB. TB recurrence as a result of relapse will be defined as isolates of M. tuberculosis
           from the first and second episodes of TB which cluster in Restriction Fragment Length
           Polymerization (RFLP) analysis. TB recurrence as a result of re-infection will be
           defined as isolates from the first and second episode of TB which differ on RFLP
           analysis. Each study participant who has recurrent TB will be assessed by Interferon
           (IFN) gamma ELISPOT assay to compare cytotoxic lymphocyte (CTL)immune responses in TB
           relapse and re-infection.
    
  