
    
      This will be a double blind cross over study. There will be two treatments involved:
      Superstarch and glucose (placebo). Participants and investigators will be blinded as an
      individual not involved in the project will prepare and distribute the treatment (drinks)
      according to a coding system that is kept confidential until the study is completed.
      Participants will complete each treatment once and the treatment order will be systematically
      rotated to avoid any order effect. Healthy men and women soccer players aged 18-35 yr will be
      recruited. Participants will come to the lab on five different occasions to complete two
      familiarization sessions, a baseline testing session, and two main trials. During the first
      visit, the participants will be asked to complete a physical activity readiness questionnaire
      (as approved previously; Par Q and a participant information form for personal and familial
      health history to rule out any pathologies or health issues that may preclude them from
      participating in the present study. Subsequently, the investigators will collect data for
      VO2max, body composition and sprinting speed. In the second visit, participants will be
      familiarized with the high intensity intermittent exercise protocol to be used during the
      study days and will also be allowed to practice the cognitive and skill tests to be used (up
      to 8 times in order to remove any learning effect that may influence the results). During the
      third visit, baseline scores for the skill tests will be collected. Participants will perform
      4 attempts (the first two will be for re-acclimation) and the last two will be recorded. The
      remaining two visits will be the study days and will be separated by at least 1 week. The
      order of treatments will be randomized to avoid any order effect. The night before study day,
      participants will arrive at the laboratory at 19:00 h and will be fed a standardized meal
      containing 2g/kg of carbohydrate (pasta and tomato sauce) and will not be allowed any food or
      drink except water thereafter. On the study day, participants will arrive to the lab at 07:30
      h following an overnight 12h fast and will have refrained from exercise, caffeine or alcohol
      within the prior 24 hours. Baseline capillary blood lactate and blood glucose will be
      obtained by fingerprick by a trained phlebotomist. In order to ensure the prevention of
      infection and or contamination during sampling, standard sterile blood handling techniques
      will be used including the use of new medical examination gloves, alcohol swabs, and
      disposable sterile lancets. All blood-contaminated materials will be disposed of in a
      hazardous material labeled disposal (or sharps) container, promptly after analysis.
      Subsequently, baseline data for the cognitive tests will be collected. After collecting
      baseline data, the corresponding treatment will be given and 30 minutes after, participants
      will perform a standardized 10-minute warm-up, followed by the exercise session. The exercise
      session consists of a 60- minute simulated soccer game divided into 4 x 15-minute blocks
      exercising (running) at varying intensities that replicate the activity pattern of soccer
      such as sprinting, jogging, cruising, walking etc. The proportion of time spent at each speed
      will be allocated based on a time-motion analysis of professional soccer players observed by
      Reilly and Thomas (1976) as indicated by Clarke et al (2008). During each 15-minute block,
      cognitive function will be tested using the serial seven subtraction test and the Flanker
      test. Also, expired gas samples will be collected during the last 4 min of each standardized
      15-minute block to estimate carbohydrate and fat oxidation. A fingerprick blood lactate and
      blood glucose sample will be collected at the end of each 15-minute block. Ratings of
      perceived exertion will also be taken at the end of each block. Water will be available
      ad-libitum during the first test day and will be quantified. The same amount of water will be
      provided for the remaining trial. After completion of the 60-minute simulated soccer game, we
      will test physical performance using a repeated sprint ability test comprised of twelve, 30m
      sprints with 35sec of walking recovery between each sprint. Subsequently, technical skills
      will be assessed using a battery test comprised of the Slalom Dribble test and the
      Loughborough Soccer Passing Test (LSPT). The Slalom Dribble test is a skill test that
      requires participants to dribble a soccer ball around a set obstacle course taking the least
      amount of time possible whereas the LSPT is a test that requires participants to accurately
      pass a soccer ball a set number of times towards coloured targets while negotiating a coned
      area, as quickly as possible.
    
  