
    
      The escalating opioid overdose epidemic is one of the most serious public health problems
      confronting the U.S. In 2014, a record 47,055 people died from a drug overdose in the U.S.,
      which outnumbered deaths from motor vehicle crashes by approximately one and a half times.
      Heroin and misuse of prescription opioids contributed to a majority of drug overdoses in
      2014. Death due to drug overdose is a significant and rising cause of mortality and morbidity
      in Philadelphia. In 2015, almost 700 drug overdose deaths were reported in Philadelphia -
      twice as many as deaths from homicide. In response, health policy, legislation, and research
      funding are increasingly converging in support of the distribution of naloxone, an opioid
      antagonist, and community-based opioid overdose prevention programs (OPP). The success of OPP
      is contingent upon the willingness and effectiveness of bystanders to respond to an overdose
      event and administer naloxone. Emergency Response Communities (ERC) are specialized
      smartphone-based social networks in which members are approved carriers and/or potential
      users of a specific medication, such as naloxone. The ERC approach is ideally suited to
      support, facilitate, and encourage naloxone administration in opioid overdose emergencies,
      but is untested to date. The model combines GPS and IP-location tracking to identify
      potential opioid overdose through a smartphone application or app. Towards this end, we are
      proposing the development and pilot testing of a smartphone app-based naxolone intervention
      (ERC-NAX) in an ERC in Philadelphia. Research is needed to understand the needs and barriers
      in communities at high-risk for opioid overdose that will enable effective design, adaption,
      and implementation of an ERC-NAX app. Guided by preliminary data from study investigators,
      the proposed pilot project will pursue three specific aims: 1) Identify barriers and
      facilitators of acceptance and use of a smartphone-based ERC naloxone intervention; 2) Pilot
      test the implementation of ERC-NAX in an ERC consisting of 55 non-medical opioid users and 55
      community members; 3) Synthesize knowledge acquired in Aims 1 and 2 to be used in a
      subsequent R01 study to conduct a large-scale, multi-site implementation trial. This 3-year
      study will provide actionable evidence regarding the viability and acceptance of an app-based
      naloxone intervention following the ERC model. It will be developed and tested in partnership
      with two community partners in Philadelphia with extensive experience in overdose prevention.
      This proposed intervention is significant since it leverages the growing success of OPP and
      will empower communities at high-risk for opioid overdose to provide rapid, secure, and
      effective emergency response in the event of overdose. This novel intervention, which is
      designed to augment emergency medical services in the rapid delivery of naloxone to overdose
      victims, may be effective at deescalating the epidemic of opioid overdose fatalities in
      Philadelphia and communities elsewhere.
    
  