
    
      A sample of 140 subjects will be recruited from the remedial physical training population of
      the Corps of Cadets. This will be achieved through regular communication with company level
      Tactical Officers (TAC) and Physical Development Officers (PDO). Upon consent, unit integrity
      will be maintained as the teams of Cadets will be randomized to either the Army standard PRT
      group or the KB group. Once groups are assigned, PDO's will be provided with their training
      calendars for the upcoming eight week period and a kettlebell safety/familiarization session
      will be arranged for all units in the KB group.

      Prior to the start of training, all subjects will undergo a pre-assessment on the following
      performance measures: broad jump, vertical jump, 40 yard sprint and 60 yard shuttle. Current
      APFT scores will be collected from the West Point Academy Management System (AMS). After the
      assessment, those assigned to the PRT group will conduct training in accordance with Army
      Field Manual 7-22 (sustainment phase activity). The KB group will conduct the same training
      with the exception of kettlebell exercise in place of strength training circuits (this occurs
      on alternating days). KB exercise will initially be instructed by the principal investigator
      (certified kettlebell instructor through Crossfit®), but once independence with exercise is
      noted, the principal investigator's role will become supervisory and continued KB exercise
      will be executed under the leadership of unit PDO's. Upon conclusion of the eight week
      training program, all subjects will undergo a post-assessment consisting of the same measures
      noted previously. Follow on APFT scores will be collected either from West Point AMS for
      graded tests or from the TACs/PDOs for diagnostic tests.

      Once data collection is complete, analysis will be performed using SPSS version 19. A 2x2
      mixed-model analysis of variance will be performed with application of Sidak's multiple
      comparison test to determine if statistical significance has been reached.
    
  