
    
      This study will be a single-institutional randomized, single-blinded prospectively controlled
      clinical trial of a single dose of Ciprofloxicin 500mg antibiotic tablet as prophylaxis at
      the time of office flexible cystoscopy with ureteral stent removal. The control group will be
      no prophylaxis oral antibiotics. The study will be conducted at UCSD Urology outpatient
      clinic and Genesis Healthcare Partners Urology outpatient clinic. UCSD will be the
      coordinating institution.

      Treatment Assignment:

      Patients will be assigned to control or intervention arm based on a predetermined allocation
      sequence that will be generated by a computerized random number generator. Study staff not
      participating in patient recruitment or procedure will manage the allocation sequence.
      Physicians involved in urologic patient care will be blinded from the participants'
      allocation. Only study staff at the coordinating institution (UCSD) will have access to the
      full allocation sequence. i.e. no clinical staff involved in recruiting and consenting
      patients for the study at UCSD or other participating institutions will have knowledge of the
      allocation sequence at their institution prior to enrollment of each patient. To further aid
      allocation concealment, the block size will be varied.

      Standard of care procedures:

      Patients will be identified at the time of clinic visit for cystoscopic stent removal. All
      patients will be counseled on the American Urological Association's clinical guidelines for
      prophylactic antibiotic use, and the varied standardization of practice patterns. We will not
      deviate from routine care standards. Patients undergoing routine ureteral stent removal
      within two weeks following stone treatment procedure (ie. Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy,
      Ureteroscopy, Retrograde Intrarenal Surgery, or Extracorporal Shockwave Lithotripsy).
      Patients that agree to participate and provide consent will be enrolled into the study,
      receiving a randomized allocation, and specific data points will be collected prospectively.
      Patients will be consented prior to determination of prophylaxis for collection of
      demographic, disease, perioperative, and postoperative data. If the patient does not consent
      to the study the use of antibiotics will be based on the routine clinical practice of the
      treating urologist.

      Investigational portion of treatment:

      Patients randomized to the intervention arm will be provided a single oral dose of
      Ciprofloxacin 500mg at the time of stent removal. Ciprofloxacin is currently indicated for
      the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Patients with fluoroquinalone
      allergy will receive Bactrim (trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 160/800mg) single dose instead of
      Ciprofloxacin. Those patients that do develop infectious complications after stent removal
      will be treated empirically based on the preference of the treating physician followed by
      culture specific antibiotics. Centeral prophylaxis randomization will take place at UCSD, as
      the lead site, using staff members not involved in patient management. Randomization will
      occur in block randomization in block sizes of 10.

      Standard of care procedures Patients will have cystoscopy and stent removal performed in
      standard fashion, without deviation from standard of care. The time frame of stent removal
      after initial stone procedure is consistent with current standard of care. If the treating
      physician's preference is to maintain the patient's indwelling stent for longer than two
      weeks, then the patient would not be considered for this study. No patient's management
      course will be altered for inclusion into this study.

      All female patients are screened with a urinary pregnancy test during the preoperative
      screening visit, which occurs before the kidney stone surgery. Any pregnant female patients
      will be excluded from participation in this study. Post-operative instructions include
      refraining from sexual activity. Cystoscopic stent removal is performed within 14 days of
      surgery.

      Demographic fields that will be obtained preoperatively include age, race, gender, body mass
      index (BMI), and comorbidities including history of diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression,
      prior urinary tract infection(s), neurogenic bladder, incomplete bladder emptying.
      Pre-operative clinical data points will include kidney stone size (largest diameter as
      measured on coronal imaging for either kidney-ureter-bladder plain x-ray or computerized
      tomography) and pre-operative urine culture results.

      Post-procedure fields will include post-void residual urine volume per bladder scan (to
      assess emptying capability), culture of urine collected during stent removal (only to be
      treated with antibiotics if patient becomes symptomatic - per standard of care), stone
      culture results, stone analysis, and stone-free status. Phone call interview will occur
      between 7-14 days post-operatively to determine if any post-operative infectious events have
      occurred. Any infectious symptoms (see below) will prompt mid-stream clean catch specimen for
      urinalysis and urine culture. During this period, patients will be closely observed for
      infectious complication--ie. symptomatic urinary tract infection, defined as presence of
      bacteruria (>5k colony forming units) with any of the following: fever >38 C, malodorous
      urine, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, lower abdominal discomfort, back pain,
      gross hematuria. . Patients will be evaluated at 8 weeks for re-assessment in the clinic with
      a renal bladder ultrasound performed at 6 weeks, which is the routine post-operative care.
    
  