
    
      Patients will receive androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for a minimum of 1 year. After this,
      an intermittent hormone therapy approach will be taken, where ADT will not be restarted until
      the prostate specific antigen (PSA) reaches a minimum of 10-15 ng/mL. Lupron 30 mg IM will be
      delivered every 4 months when on ADT.

      The prostate (if not previously treated) will be treated to a dose of 35-40 Gy in 5
      fractions. All visible nodal metastases will be treated to a dose of 30-35 Gy in 5 fractions.
      It is very likely that nodal metastases will shrink significantly (often completely) with
      ADT. In this scenario, the involved nodal regions will be treated to a more modest dose of 25
      Gy in 5 fractions (roughly equivalent to a dose of 46 Gy in 23 fractions assuming an α/β
      value of 1.4). Non-spine bone metastases will be treated to a dose of 30-40 Gy in 5
      fractions. Metastases in the brain, spine, lung, liver, and adrenal will be treated according
      to established stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT) policies at Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre.
      Comprehensive SRT should be delivered within 3 months of starting ADT.

      During any "off" period of ADT (before the PSA rises above 10-15 ng/mL), comprehensive SRT
      can be repeated if there are new oligometastases that become visible. One month after
      initiation comprehensive SRT, patients will be contacted to assess for acute toxicities.

      After completion of radiotherapy to all disease sites, patients will be followed every 3-4
      months with PSA testing until the development of castrate resistant prostate cancer. At the
      same time points, late toxicity and quality of life will be collected for a minimum of 2
      years. Computed tomography (CT) of the chest/abdo/pelvis +/- magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      of previously irradiated body sites and bone scan will be performed whenever the PSA reaches
      ≥ 10 ng/mL (prior to re-starting androgen deprivation therapy during intermittent hormone
      therapy approach), or at a minimum frequency of once per year.
    
  