
    
      Anomalous coronary arteries (CAA) represent a congenital disorder hallmarked by an anomalous
      location of the coronary ostium and/or vessel course. Based on the largest study assessing
      the prevalence and characteristics of CAA detected by coronary computer tomography
      angiography (CCTA) in Switzerland, the overall prevalence of CAA is 2.6%. However, depending
      of the type of CAA and its course in relation to the big vessels (aorta and pulmonary
      artery), not every CAA is accompanied by an increased cardiovascular risk.

      Of particular interests are anomalous coronary arteries from the opposite sinus of Valsalva
      with an interarterial course (ACAOS-IC). Those CAAs represents a congenital disorder with an
      anomalous location of the coronary ostium and a course of the anomalous vessel between the
      aorta and the pulmonary artery. The prevalence of ACAOS-IC in the general population is
      around 1 % and even they are mostly clinically insignificant and remain often undetected.

      However, some variants of ACAOS-IC are associated with adverse cardiac events (e.g. sudden
      cardiac death in young athletes). The possible presence of an intramural course, a course
      within the aortic wall is the primary cause for an oval proximal vessel shape and proximal
      vessel narrowing and is suggested to be the primary cause for ischemia. These features may
      lead under stress conditions to a "dynamic compression" of the vessel (compared to "fixed"
      stenosis in coronary artery disease). Therefore, to mimic these conditions, dobutamine and
      volume challenge is used to invasively measure fractional flow reserve (FFRDobutamine) during
      coronary angiography and is seen as the gold standard in assessing the hemodynamic relevance
      of ACAOS-IC. Presence of an abnormal FFRDobutamine is one of the most important factors in
      the decision-making towards surgical repair in ACAOS-IC.

      With the frequent use of invasive and non-invasive imaging to rule out coronary artery
      disease, an increase in absolute numbers of ACAOS-IC is seen and physicians are more
      confronted with the dilemma of how to manage these patients. Usually the question is whether
      the ACAOS-IC is a coincidental finding or if the anomaly is causative for the patients'
      symptoms. Thus, systematic acquisition of all available diagnostic methods (invasive and
      non-invasive) is required to assess the optimal diagnostic procedure for this patients.

      The presented project will help to understand the pathophysiology of CAAs with particular
      focus on ACAOS-IC and improve risk stratification based on non-invasive imaging.
    
  