
    
      The primary study objectives will be assessed in terms of improvement of the subject's CD at
      a pre-defined time point after treatment. The primary study objectives are to demonstrate the
      superiority of Dysport NG to placebo in terms of efficacy and to test the non-inferior
      efficacy of Dysport NG, when compared to Dysport, in CD subjects. In addition to testing for
      the primary study objectives, the superiority in terms of efficacy of Dysport versus placebo,
      will be assessed.

      This clinical study was designed and implemented and reported in accordance with the
      International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Harmonized Tripartite Guidelines for Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP), with applicable local regulations (including European Directive
      2001/20/EC, US Code of Federal Regulations Title 21, and with the ethical principles laid
      down in the Declaration of Helsinki.

      A large body of evidence demonstrates the safety and efficacy of Dysport across several
      clinical indications. This study was the first use of Dysport NG in humans with CD. The
      active substance (BTX-A-HAC) in Dysport NG was the same as in the currently marketed Dysport
      product and had the same mechanism of action. Dysport NG was, therefore, expected to have the
      same efficacy and safety profile in humans as Dysport, with the advantage of eliminating the
      potential risk of transmission of infective agents, by the substitution of plant and
      synthetic products for human and animal-derived products. However, due to the change of
      excipient, thorough assessment of the safety and efficacy of Dysport NG is necessary.
      Previous clinical studies indicate that the maximum effect of Dysport and maximum
      improvements in CD are observed approximately 4 weeks post treatment, after which there is a
      gradual return to baseline disease status. The Week 4 follow up visit after the first
      treatment cycle was therefore, chosen as the primary time point of interest. Retreatment is
      necessary in order to maintain the beneficial effect and the long term treatment of CD.
      Previously conducted long term studies demonstrate the maintenance of the therapeutic effect
      of Dysport following repeated treatments, with a favourable short and long term safety and
      immunogenicity profile.
    
  