
    
      Human studies have shown that immunization by the bite PfSPZ-infected mosquitoes under drug
      coverage with chloroquine, an approach called chemoprophylaxis with sporozoites (CPS),
      infection treatment vaccination (ITV), or chemoprophylaxis vaccination (CVac) can provide
      high level, long term protection against homologous controlled human malaria infection
      (CHMI). The Sanaria PfSPZ-CVac approach duplicates this with an injectable sporozoite (SPZ)
      regimen (aseptic, purified, cryopreserved SPZ). In both approaches, whether mosquitoes or a
      syringe are used for SPZ administration, when chloroquine is used as the chemoprophylactic
      agent, transient, limited, asexual erythrocytic stage (AES) parasitemia develops. However,
      exposure to liver stage parasites only, without having any parasites completing liver stage
      development and entering the blood, thereby reducing the potential to induce blood stage
      immunity, likewise has been shown in animal studies to induce protective immunity upon
      subsequent challenge with homologous parasites, indicating that the transient parasitemia is
      not integral to inducing protection. To achieve this requires a different partner drug
      regimen that includes activity against liver stage parasites.

      Our approach, using PfSPZ-CVac with pyrimethamine (PYR), will assess this in humans. This
      phase 1 study will investigate the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity, and protective
      efficacy following liver stage only parasite exposure of direct venous inoculation (DVI) with
      aseptic, purified, cryopreserved Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) sporozoites (Sanaria PfSPZ
      Challenge), under chloroquine and pyrimethamine chemoprophylaxis, to induce stage specific
      sterile protection. By adding pyrimethamine chemoprophylaxis to chloroquine, liver stages
      will develop but should be killed before merozoites are released into the blood stream. The
      subjects will thus be exposed only to liver stage parasites (qPCR and blood smear negative).
      With this strategy, we will determine if protective immunity can develop without exposure to
      AES parasites and additionally whether it will minimize clinical symptoms associated with
      blood stage exposure. The timing of the pyrimethamine dose is critical to ensure the efficacy
      of pyrimethamine as causal prophylaxis, yet still allow for maximal antigenic exposure of
      liver-stage parasites to the host. An additional potential benefit of preventing AES
      parasitemia is the elimination of the immunosuppression associated with AES parasitemia.

      This trial will be the first step in establishing a new regimen for the PfSPZ-CVac approach,
      exposure to liver stage parasites without subsequent blood stage parasites, assessing
      protection against homologous CHMI. In future trials, the two-drug regimen can be assessed
      for protection against heterologous Pf infection and longevity of protection. The results of
      the study will contribute to understanding the targets and mechanisms of immunity against Pf
      malaria infection.
    
  