
    
      Graft re-rupture is one of the major complications and causes of reoperation after anterior
      cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. This is more common in younger athletes. Based on the
      recent literature the rate of graft re-rupture is about 6-11%. Even with newer techniques and
      different types of grafts the re-rupture rates and return to play have not improved
      significantly. Athletes younger than 25 years old have been found to have a 23% risk of
      secondary ACL injury either on the contralateral or ipsilateral side after an ACL
      reconstruction. Therefore, there is a direct need to improve the outcomes of ACL
      reconstruction especially in younger athletes. This could be accomplished with earlier
      biologic incorporation of the graft and further protecting the graft during the early
      postoperative period. Quad tendon all-inside reconstruction is a reproducible technique for
      younger athletes receiving surgery. For patients over the age of 22, allograft is commonly
      used. Recently autogenous bone marrow aspirate has shown superior radiographic incorporation
      when used for osteochondral allograft transplantation in the knee. The bone marrow aspirate
      has also shown the presence of similar mesenchymal stem cell concentrations when harvested
      from the proximal tibia compared to when harvested from the iliac crest; providing a useful
      and safe alternative during knee surgery. This bone marrow aspirate can be combined with
      demineralized bone matrix (DBM) as a medium for incorporation into a femoral and tibial
      tunnel during reconstruction of an ACL. Recently, as an augment to the procedure, an
      ultrahigh-molecular-weight polyethylene/polyester suture tape was used as an InternalBrace
      for an ACL allograft reconstruction and found to be safe and effective. The hypothesis of
      this study is that the combination of the InternalBrace and biologic addition of autogenous
      bone marrow aspirate may provide improved functional outcomes, and reduced failure rates
      after ACL reconstruction.
    
  