
    
      This is a prospective randomized, controlled, unblinded interventional feasibility trial
      evaluating the post-operative outcomes of surgical patients undergoing breast reduction or
      panniculectomy procedures. Approximately 100 eligible subjects will undergo their surgical
      procedure according to standard clinical guidelines. Unless clinically contraindicated, study
      surgeons will maintain consistent use of 10 Flat drains for all study participants to prevent
      any sampling bias.

      Immediately after surgery is completed, the study investigator will randomize the subject
      into one of the 2 study arms. The randomization scheme will control for procedure type.

      The study will not be blinded. The randomization assignment will be communicated to the care
      team and documented in the subject's electronic medical record to ensure that appropriate
      post-operative instruction is provided to the subject. Subjects will be notified of their
      study arm assignment at the time they receive their post-operative discharge instruction.

      Subjects in both arms will complete a questionnaire related to quality of life
      post-operatively, as well as daily bathing specifics.

      The following statistical methods will be used for the aims:

      Aim 1: Collect and describe information related to outcome measures in addition to study data
      including number eligible, response rates, adherence/compliance rates.

      Descriptive statistics will be provided for all study enrollment data, compliance information
      as well as data collected throughout the study including outcome measures and responses from
      the satisfaction survey.

      Aim 2: To compare the surgical site complication rate of post-operative patients with drains
      who shower versus those who do not shower.

      Complication rates between the two study arms will be compared using chi-squared tests,
      although these comparisons will not be conclusive since the study isn't powered to assess
      equivalence.

      Aim 3: To compare patient post-operative satisfaction for those who shower versus those who
      do not shower.

      Patient post-operative satisfaction between the two study arms will be compared using
      chi-squared tests, although these comparisons will not be conclusive since the study isn't
      powered to assess differences.
    
  