
    
      The outcomes of care for obstructive airways disease in the UK and other countries fail to
      meet guideline targets, with high levels of avoidable morbidity and avoidable mortality.
      Obstructive lung disease is an encompassing term for a condition that includes patients with
      a reversible (asthma) or non reversible (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) component to
      their lung function.

      AKL1 is a novel pharmaceutical agent derived from a combination of botanical products
      developed as a treatment for obstructive lung disease (asthma and COPD). The botanical
      product contains a synthetically-derived phytochemical component of Picrorrhiza kurroa,
      apocynin, together with standardized extracts of Picrorrhiza kurroa, Zingiber officinale and
      Ginkgo biloba that have previously been marketed as a health food supplements. Recent
      evidence suggests that Ginkgo biloba reduces inflammatory (protein kinase C positive ie
      eosinophils and neutrophils) cells in induced sputum which given in addition to inhaled
      corticosteroids to asthmatic patients. Anecdotal clinical evidence suggests that the
      botanical product has significant activity in respiratory conditions, with patients diagnosed
      as having obstructive lung disease (asthma and COPD) reporting reduced symptoms including
      breathlessness and cough, reduced frequency of attacks, reduced dependence on bronchodilators
      and ability to reduce inhaled corticosteroids dose.

      We have completed a pilot study investigating the efficacy and safety of AKL1 as 'add-on'
      therapy for adult patients diagnosed as having obstructive lung disease whose symptoms
      remained uncontrolled on standard medication. Whilst there was no significant differences in
      lung function, there were trends to clinical improvements in the patient-centered outcomes
      e.g. cough, health status and exacerbation frequency. Hence a larger adequately powered study
      is needed to investigate these outcomes further.
    
  