
    
      For many men with metastatic prostate cancer, the cancer develops resistance to successive
      systemic therapies and eventually all treatment options are exhausted and the patient
      succumbs to their disease. It is therefore vital to find ways of evading prostate cancer
      resistance. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) has the advantage that it destroys
      cancerous tissue irrespective of the underlying genetic deficit within the progressing
      metastasis. If the resistant clones are localized to 1-2 metastases and can be destroyed or
      ablated, the patient can continue to receive the benefit of their systemic (androgen
      deprivation) treatment (Abiraterone or Enzalutamide) which may continue to control the
      remainder of their disease for many months, possibly even years.

      SBRT is a recognised technique for the elimination of isolated metastases in other tumour
      sites achieving local control of metastasis in 80-90% of cases. This is achieved with very
      few side effects. In the TRAP trial, the investigators wish to establish whether it is
      beneficial to target 1 or 2 metastatic sites with SBRT or whether patients will develop
      polymetastatic progression. Patients enrolled on the trial will receive 30 Gy in 5 fractions
      on alternate days over 10 days. They will continue their androgen deprivation treatment
      throughout and following SBRT. Side effects will be closely monitored throughout and patients
      will be seen at the end of radiotherapy and then 4 weeks after treatment. Thereafter patients
      will undergo trial follow up three monthly which will includes Prostate Specific Antigen
      (PSA) monitoring.

      In addition to the above procedures, the investigators will use a combination of whole body
      (WB) diffusion weighted (DW) magnetic resonance imaging (WB DW MRI) and circulating tumour
      (ct) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), 'ct DNA' biomarker analysis with the aim of identifying
      those patients which benefit most from the combination of SBRT and androgen deprivation
      treatment. WB DW MRI is a novel MRI technique which shows improved sensitivity compared to
      standard MRI. The marker ctDNA enables the investigators to explore genomic characterisation
      and variation of metastases and compare findings with previously explored genome mutations in
      prostate cancer patients.
    
  