
    
      Asthma is a common condition in the older population and associated with worse morbidity and
      mortality compared to younger individuals. Various self-management behaviors (SMB),
      medication adherence in particular, are key for achieving good asthma control. Unfortunately,
      less than half of older asthmatics regularly adhere to their controller medications and to
      other SMB. Several observations suggest that symptom perception may be a major determinant of
      asthma SMB and outcomes in older adults. First, experimental studies consistently demonstrate
      that many older adults are substantially less aware of their level of airway obstruction.
      Second, under-perception of asthma symptoms is linked to elevated risk of near-fatal and
      fatal asthma attacks and increased morbidity among younger adults. Third, cognitive
      impairment, commonly associated with aging, has been identified as a key determinant of
      under-perception of symptoms in younger asthmatics. Fourth, interventions to correct symptom
      under-perception in children have been shown to improve asthma medication adherence. Despite
      the greater vulnerability of older asthmatics to poor asthma outcomes and their diminished
      ability to perceive the severity of their airway obstruction, the association of symptom
      perception with asthma SMB and outcomes has not been studied in this population. The goal of
      this project is to determine how symptom perception influences the management and outcomes of
      older asthmatics and to pilot test an intervention to correct under-perception. The Specific
      Aims are: 1) Prospectively assess the association between symptom perception and asthma
      morbidity among older adults; 2) Examine the association between symptom perception and
      asthma SMB among older adults and identify the pathways (via illness and medication beliefs)
      linking them; 3) Determine the influence of cognition on symptom perception among older
      adults with asthma; 4) Pilot test an intervention to correct under-perceptions of asthma
      symptoms in older adults. The investigators will conduct a prospective cohort study of 400
      asthmatics ≥60 years of age recruited from East Harlem and the Bronx in New York City. The
      investigators will measure symptom perception in naturalistic settings using an innovative
      and validated methodology and repeatedly collect data on illness and medication beliefs,
      cognitive functioning, SMB (including objective measures of medication adherence), and asthma
      morbidity over 12 months. At the end of the observation period, the investigators will pilot
      test an intervention to improve symptom perception on a random sample of 80 participants. The
      proposed study is significant for its potential to greatly advance understanding of the
      mechanisms related to low adherence to SMB and worse outcomes in older asthmatics, a
      vulnerable and understudied population.
    
  