
    
      The purpose of the overall study, Promoting Healthy Development among Children of Fathers
      with Antisocial Behavior, is to build and test a preventive family-focused intervention in a
      feasibility study that promotes healthy development for children of previously incarcerated
      fathers and the caregivers of their children. The study has three specific aims, two of which
      have already been completed. The first was to conduct secondary data analyses to explore a
      series of questions that explored topics including fathers' history of antisocial behavior
      and criminality, children's psycho-social and behavioral health outcomes, father engagement
      and parenting behavior, maternal parenting practices, quality of parental relationship, and
      extended family involvement. The second aim included conducting semi-structured interviews
      with fathers, mothers, and relatives to improve understanding of the barriers to father
      engagement and challenges that families face as fathers return to the community following
      incarceration.

      To that end, this protocol situates itself within the third and final aim, that of specifying
      treatment procedures (e.g., develop manuals, select measures, specify therapist training and
      adherence procedures) and establishing feasibility of the intervention (e.g., recruitment,
      enrollment, fidelity, adherence, retention, and safety). Specifically, this protocol is in
      regard to the feasibility of the intervention. The purpose is to test the intervention for
      empirical promise through a pilot feasibility trial. The aims of the pilot are to
      demonstrate: a) client acceptance of the treatment (e.g., retention), b) ability to recruit
      sufficient numbers of participants, and c) feasibility of delivery with the clients and
      therapists in the designated treatment settings.

      The family intervention is based in a family systems model that includes all members of the
      family. Multiple family groups are used because previous research has found they are
      efficient forms of service delivery, build social support among participants, and improve
      parent-child interactions. Feasibility of the pilot must include all participants anticipated
      in the program model to test strategies, logistics, and measures. Drawing from the framework
      of dissemination and implementation science, another central purpose of the pilot is to
      refine the operational methods that will facilitate translation and implementation in the
      future should the intervention be found efficacious and effective. This pilot will answer
      questions that are pertinent to intervention development, as well as the success of
      dissemination and implementation in the future.

      The Intervention:

      Pathways for Parents after Incarceration (P4P) is a community-based program that seeks to
      equip fathers with the skills both for positive father engagement and reentry success. It
      uses a manualized curriculum that is adapted from a prison-based program, Parenting Inside
      Out (PIO). PIO is an evidence-based, cognitive-behavioral parent management skills training
      program created for incarcerated parents through a six-year collaboration of scientists,
      policy makers, practitioners, and instructional designers. Both the information in the
      program and the way that information is presented were informed by knowledge derived from
      research and practice. Extracted from the full 90-hour version, the Pathways for Parents
      after Incarceration program uses eight key lessons from the original version that have been
      identified by the research team and those with lived experience as being most beneficial to
      them. These include topics on effective listening, speaking, and problem-solving skills,
      lessons on emotion regulation, and issues surrounding family engagement. The course is led by
      2 parent coaches who will be interviewed by program leaders and formally trained to deliver
      PIO by the PIO parent organization, The Pathfinder Network. The classroom-based PIO sessions
      will be delivered over 8 weeks in two-hour sessions.

      In addition to the classroom component that PIO provides, the program will offer a
      therapeutic component. Weekly, those receiving services from Pathways for Parents after
      Incarceration will be invited to take part in a peer support group-style group session led by
      an esteemed provider within the community, Anesis Family Therapy. This component of the
      program is rooted in systems therapy and uses narrative therapy, trauma focused cognitive
      therapy, and motivational interviewing techniques. This aspect promotes fathers' and
      caregivers' ability to identify their values and skills so they can effectively confront the
      challenges (both instrumental and relational) that they face during their reentry period and
      as family members working to support the fathers. These sessions run for 45 minutes following
      the classroom portion.

      The program (both classroom and therapeutic peer support) will be offered weekly on a weekday
      evening for 8 continuous weeks (the 9th week will be a class graduation/celebration). The
      sessions will be offered virtually to accommodate safety protocols related to the COVID-19
      pandemic.
    
  