
    
      Approximately up to 20% of children suffer from urinary incontinence. These children and
      frequently their families are emotionally and behaviourally affected which in turn leads to
      psychological distress. Urophysiotherapy became one of the first line treatments for children
      with urinary incontinence. Urophysiotherapy includes pelvic floor muscles training (PFMT), a
      treatment method not easily applicable in children. We therefore supplement the standard
      training with WBVT which is already evaluated in the adult population to improve the strength
      of the muscles of the pelvic floor. With the medical device of Galileo® children are able to
      train the pelvic muscles automatically and playfully.The primary objective is to investigate
      the effect of WBVT on children's incontinence measured by validated incontinence scores
      (DVISS, RUIS). The secondary objective is to evaluate the effect on the bladder function
      (uroflowmetry, residual urine).The primary outcome is to significantly improve incontinence
      symptoms by using WBVT in combination with urophysiotherapy for 9 weeks measured by
      incontinence scores.I nclusion criteria

        -  Male and Female participants 7-16 years of age

        -  Daytime incontinence (> 6 months)

        -  Written informed consent by the participant after information about the research project
           Exclusion criteria

        -  Neurogenic bladder dysfunction

        -  Congenital anomalies of the urinary tract

        -  Patients who already take part in another study concerning treating incontinence 30 days
           before and after participation in this study

        -  Patients with incontinence, who already underwent urophysiotherapy

        -  Medication for treating incontinence

           • Contraindications for the use of Galileo®: epilepsy, acute fractures, urolithiasis,
           cholecystolithaisis, after recent surgery, acute hernia, arthritis, thrombosis,
           rheumatic diseases, acute discopathy, patients with implants diabetes or pregnancy.

        -  Patients and parents without any motivation for urophysiotherapy

        -  Patients who neither mentally nor physically are able to pursue urophysiotherapy

      In this randomized controlled trial children with incontinence will be randomly assigned in
      two groups: an "urophysiotherapy plus WBVT" group and a control group receiving
      urophysiotherapy only. The children will be treated in both groups according to a
      standardized protocol for 9 weeks. In addition to clinical investigations and urodynamic
      studies two different incontinence scores (DVISS and RUIS) will be used to determine the
      severity of incontinence at the time of diagnosis, at the end of the therapy (12 weeks after
      assessment), 24 and at 48 weeks after assessment. To determine the effect of WBVT the results
      will be compared using the Student's t-test and the Mann-Whitney U test.
    
  