
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial of standard versus enhanced
      hydration in patients diagnosed with acute pancreatitis within the first hour of diagnosis.

      Patients admitted in the Emergency Department with the clinical suspicion of acute
      pancreatitis will be processed through the history, physical examination and laboratory
      findings. The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is established by the presence of 2 of the 3
      following criteria: typical abdominal pain, serum amylase and / or lipase greater than three
      times the upper limit of normal, and characteristic findings from abdominal imaging. Patients
      will be informed about the study protocol and the possible risks and adverse events, after
      which they will be asked to accept participation in the study. Acceptance of participation
      will be confirmed by signed informed consent.

      After acceptance patients will be randomized by computer-generated sequences of random
      numbers in the two groups Group one (1) will receive a bolus of fluid 20 ml / kg of Ringer's
      solution for infusion within one hour of the diagnosis and the group two (2) will receive a
      bolus of fluid 40 ml / kg of Ringer's solution for infusion within one hour of the diagnosis.
      All patients who have the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, but did not agree to participate
      in research or have some other exclusion criteria will be treated according to the standards
      of good clinical practice and the recommendations of the current clinical guidelines for the
      treatment of acute pancreatitis. Exclusion criteria beside refusal to sign informed consent
      are: age less than 18 years, pregnancy, patients with physical signs of heart failure,
      previously known congestive heart failure (NYHA III - IV) and severe kidney disease more than
      one month before the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (defined as severe reduction in eGFR
      less than 30 ml/min/1.73 m2). Patients who develop acute renal failure as a result of acute
      pancreatitis will be involved in research .

      Given the importance of early hydration in patients with acute pancreatitis and the lack of
      clearly defined dose of administered fluid in the current literature, aim of this study was
      to determine the influence of the size of the dose bolus of intravascular fluid after the
      diagnosis of acute pancreatitis in the further course and outcome of disease.

      The study will be conducted in the Emergency Department, Clinical Hospital Centre, Rijeka.
    
  