
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare non-inferior diagnostic performance of whole-body MRI (i.e., combination of
           turbo short-tau inversion-recovery (STIR) and out-of-phase imaging) vs conventional
           imaging (i.e., the combination of chest CT scan, scintigraphy [bone, gallium,
           meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), or optional fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission
           tomography (FDG-PET)] and abdominal/pelvic CT scan/MRI as indicated) for detecting
           distant metastases for use in staging common tumors in pediatric patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the incremental benefit of adding out-of-phase T1-weighted gradient-recalled
           echo imaging to turbo STIR for detecting distant disease in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the relative accuracies of FDG-PET, whole-body MRI, and a
           combination of FDG-PET and whole-body MRI in detecting stage IV disease in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the effects of multiple factors, including cancer type, site of primary tumor,
           and patient age, on diagnostic accuracy of whole-body MRI in these patients.

        -  Determine the interobserver variability associated with interpreting whole-body MRI
           exams for detecting distant metastases in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo conventional MRI, CT scan, and/or scintigraphy (e.g., bone,
      meta-iodobenzylguanidine [MIBG], or gallium) and experimental whole-body MRI sequences.
      Patients may optionally undergo fludeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography (FDG-PET).

      Patients with a lesion (or lesions) detected on whole-body MRI or FDG-PET at initial staging
      that are not confirmed by biopsy or other conventional imaging studies at staging repeat
      standard imaging at 3- to 6-month follow-up.

      Patients with an abnormality that is considered highly suspicious for a metastasis or when
      biopsy proof of that metastasis is obtained receive treatment at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      Patients are followed annually for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 226 patients (45 with neuroblastoma, 54 with rhabdomyosarcoma,
      27 with other sarcoma, and 100 with lymphoma) will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    
  