
    
      IMAGING AND CROHN'S ASSOCIATED SpA: Crohn's disease (CD) is the most common type of
      inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It affects an estimated 0.7 million patients in United
      States and is responsible for 0.2 million hospitalizations each year.1 Although the
      gastrointestinal tract is the primary site of inflammation, inflammatory arthritis (both
      peripheral and axial) can affect between 12.8-23% of patients with Crohn's Disease2,3, and
      axial SpA alone has been reported to effect 6.7% to 18% of Crohn's patients.4 However, in 2
      recent studies5,6, radiological sacroiliitis was reported to be present in 27% and 52% in IBD
      patients. MRI changes of inflammation precede radiological sacroiliitis by years but it is
      not clear when this occurs. Presence of damage on x-ray in asymptomatic patients may suggest
      that Crohn's associated axial SpA could be underdiagnosed. Since Crohn's associated SpA often
      affects younger patients, undertreatment or missed diagnoses could have a significant impact
      on health related quality of life (HR-QoL) and disability during prime wage earning and child
      rearing years.7

      "Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis" is a term used to describe patients with
      symptomatic SpA who do not have findings on plain x-rays. These patients can have identical
      symptoms to those with radiographic evidence of cartilage loss and erosions, and anti-TNF
      (anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor) therapy has been shown to be effective in those with
      non-radiographic SpA.8 These patients are a clinically relevant subgroup, as 20% of patients
      with only MRI evidence of sacroiliitis will progress to non-reversible radiographic SpA over
      two years.9 Therefore, MRI evidence of sacroiliitis, in conjunction with inflammatory back
      pain is now sufficient to diagnosis SpA. In fact, MRI imaging is a standard component of
      current SpA diagnostic criteria, (ASAS: Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International
      Society),10 and MRI changes of sacroiliitis are routinely used to identify SpA patients for
      clinical trials.11

      However, despite these new definitions there is a deficiency of published research evaluating
      the clinical significance of MRI findings in patients with Crohn's disease. Of all the
      SpA-associated diseases, Crohn's-associated SpA has a particularly high burden of
      extra-articular inflammation. Studies suggest only half to two thirds of patients with CT or
      MRI evidence of inflammation have symptoms of inflammatory back pain.1,12 This suggests that
      in Crohn's disease, MRI imaging biomarkers may be identifying early disease, analogous to the
      way that ultrasound can identify subclinical rheumatoid arthritis.13 We therefore hypothesize
      that in a mixed cohort of Crohn's patients with and without inflammatory back pain, MRI
      imaging biomarkers will correlate with measures of health status which reflect systemic
      inflammatory burden, (i.e. BASDAI, SF-12) independent of symptoms of inflammatory back pain.

      MRI IMAGING BIOMARKERS: A POTENTIAL CARDIOVASCULAR RISK FACTOR? The observed discordance
      between axial inflammation seen on MRI and inflammatory back pain raises a particularly
      intriguing clinical question: could Crohn's patients with imaging evidence of axial
      inflammation but without axial symptoms potentially benefit from therapy?

      It is very well established that in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, systemic
      inflammation is associated with myocardial infarction, stroke and death, and that treating
      inflammation improves cardiovascular outcomes.14,15.

      Recent population based study from Europe and Canada showed increased risk of cardiovascular
      mortality in patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis.16,17 Despite clear evidence that
      cardiovascular risk is increased in SpA, how to quantify the increased risk is not
      straightforward. There is no consistently reliable marker of systemic inflammation in these
      patients; sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) may not always reflect
      ongoing inflammation, especially in patients with non-radiographic axial SpA9. Therefore,
      accurately measuring the inflammatory burden in Crohn's patients, regardless of
      musculoskeletal symptoms, is an important area for future research. Initiation of earlier
      targeted therapy to decrease inflammation may not only prevent incident Crohn's associated
      SpA, progression of prevalent SpA, with concurrent improvements in HRQoL, but may also
      improve cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      In addition, although sacroiliitis is the primary axial feature in SpA, there is increasing
      evidence that there can also be spinal involvement even in the absence of SI joint
      inflammation. Recent studies suggest that spinal inflammation can occur in up to one-third of
      nonradiographic SpA patients with <5 years of disease duration.18 This could be an important
      early imaging inflammatory biomarker. To our knowledge there are no published studies
      evaluating spinal and SI joint MRI imaging biomarkers in Crohn's associated SpA.

      THE MICROBIOME: A CORRELATE OF INFLAMMATION IN CROHN'S DISEASE? The etiopathogenesis of
      Crohn's Disease-associated SpA remains a puzzle. As with other autoimmune diseases, interplay
      between genetic factors such as HLA B27 (Human Leukocyte Antigen- B27) and environmental
      factors likely play a role. The joint symptoms of SpA are not consistently correlated with
      bowel disease flares.19 Intestinal microbiota plays a critical role in evolution of our
      entire immune system, since axenic laboratory animals (germfree animals raised in sterile
      environment) were noted to have partial restoration of T cell population when these animals
      are colonized with filamentous bacteria. A symbiotic relationship between the main bacterial
      phyla is necessary for proper functioning of immune system, since notable alterations in the
      intestinal microbiome (i.e. dysbiosis) have been suggested in various autoimmune diseases.
      Reduction in taxa-diversity (such as, enterobacteriaceae, Bacteroidales and Clostridiales)
      and expansion of certain phyla in the intestine have been recently reported in a large cohort
      of new onset treatment-naïve Crohn's disease (CD) patients.20 In addition, Dr. Longman's lab
      has shown that the expansion of immunologically relevant Enterobacteriaceae correlates with
      Crohn's related SpA among a mixed group of patients with Crohn's and ulcerative colitis, (in
      press). However, while these are exciting data, SpA cases were identified using a
      non-validated clinical diagnosis, without systematic rheumatology evaluation and no imaging
      studies. This will be first study evaluating the microbiome in a carefully phenotyped cohort
      of Crohn's associated SpA, who will also have detailed MRI imaging.
    
  