
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy of lapatinib ditosylate and topotecan hydrochloride, in terms of
           response, in patients with platinum-resistant or refractory ovarian epithelial or
           primary peritoneal cavity carcinoma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival time in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

      Translational

        -  Determine the expression patterns of epidermal growth factor receptor, HER2/neu,
           hypoxia-induced factor 1 alpha, CD31, breast cancer resistance protein, and
           topoisomerase I by immunohistochemistry using tumor tissue from primary debulking
           surgery.

        -  Determine the feasibility of monitoring circulating tumor cells with specific biological
           markers to determine or follow response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days 1-28 and topotecan
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and on day 8 of course 1 (immediately after the
      topotecan infusion) and are evaluated for pharmacological studies. Tumor tissue samples
      obtained at debulking surgery are examined by immunohistochemistry for epidermal growth
      factor receptor, HER1, ErbB1, HER2/neu, ErbB2, hypoxia-induced factor 1 alpha, CD31, platelet
      endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1, topoisomerase I, and breast cancer resistance protein.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 39 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  