
    
      Functional amblyopia is an optically uncorrectable decrease in visual acuity, i.e., spatial
      resolution, with no apparent pathological or morphological cause. There are several
      etiological origins for amblyopia in the human population; anisometropia and strabismus are
      the two most prevalent etiological factors. Anisometropic amblyopia is a decrease in visual
      acuity (spatial resolution) that is the result of a large difference in refractive error
      between the two eyes. Strabismic amblyopia is characterized by an eye misalignment early in
      life which is associated with a decrease in visual acuity.

      The initial site of the defect in amblyopia is the primary visual cortex. The amblyopic eye
      is placed at a competitive disadvantage to the nonamblyopic eye which results in a reduction
      in the synapses or cells responding to the amblyopic eye. The conditions associated with
      amblyopia must be present prior to the end of the critical period of neural development for
      amblyopia to develop. The neurophysiological systems of anisometropic and strabismic monkeys
      have differences in the distributions of binocular cortical cells. Anisometropic amblyopic
      monkeys only exhibit binocular cells that are tuned to low spatial frequencies. If a neuron
      has a high spatial resolution, it is unlikely that the neuron will be binocular. However,
      strabismic amblyopic monkeys exhibit few binocular cells and, moreover, there does not appear
      to be a spatial frequency dependent distribution of these binocular cells. The strabismic
      subjects typically displayed few binocular cells, regardless of the spatial frequency tuning
      of the cell.

      If the amblyopic eye is compared to the nonamblyopic eye, two important differences are
      noted. First, the amblyopic eye has a lower contrast sensitivity at high spatial frequencies
      (and sometimes at all spatial frequencies) than the nonamblyopic eye. This also results in a
      decrease in visual acuity for the amblyopic eye. Second, the amblyopic eye demonstrates a
      longer latency for neural transmission than the nonamblyopic eye.

      There is very little published on adult amblyopia therapy. This is because clinicians
      initially believed that amblyopia could not be treated after the end of the critical period.
      The prevailing theory was that the synaptic contacts between cells could only be modified
      during the critical period. In children, the majority of the improvement in acuity (80%)
      takes place in the first 6 weeks of therapy. There is a direct relationship between the hours
      of patching and the improvement in acuity. Most of the improvement in acuity occurs after the
      first 100 hours of patching.

      There is a linear dose-response function for amblyopia treatment. The logMAR acuity increases
      0.1 log unit or 1 chart line per 120 hours of patching. The response does not differ between
      the types of amblyopia. It has also been demonstrated that there is only a minimal benefit to
      patching more than 2 hours/day.

      In a Pediatric Eye Disease Investigator Group (PEDIG) study, 189 amblyopic children were
      treated with 2 hours of patching per day. The amblyopic eye acuities ranged from 20/40 -
      20/80 before treatment. The average improvement in acuity after 4 months of treatment was
      0.24 logMAR (2.4 lines improvement on a logMAR chart). Another study used amblyopes with
      poorer acuity (20/100 - 20/400 before therapy). After 4 months of patching, the average
      increase in acuity was 0.48 logMAR (or an increase of 4.8 lines on a logMAR chart). The
      average acuity went from 20/250 (i.e., 1.10 logMAR) before treatment to 20/63 (i.e., 0.50
      logMAR) after treatment. The results were the same for anisometropic amblyopes and strabismic
      amblyopes. In another study with amblyopes with starting acuity worse than 20/100, the
      improvement was 3.7 ± 2.5 logMAR chart lines of acuity.

      Recent studies have suggested that adult amblyopia can be treated with non-standard therapy.
      Patching combined with active, near, threshold-training tasks and continuous feedback is
      employed in these studies. These studies indicate that amblyopia can be treated after the
      critical period ends. It is suggested that these perceptual learning tasks improve
      performance in the amblyopic eye by decreasing neural noise. Standard amblyopia therapy
      typically employed in children has not been investigated in adult amblyopes. The purpose of
      this study is to use standard amblyopic therapy to determine if there is an enhancement in
      visual performance in the amblyopic eye of adults.
    
  