
    
      The specific aims of this project are to:

        1. Assess the impact of a dual target (caregiver and care recipient) intervention compared
           to a traditional caregiver-only intervention strategy.

        2. Assess causal linkages between the treatment components (e.g. knowledge, social support)
           of a multi-component intervention and specific treatment outcomes (e.g. caregiver
           depression, quality of life).

        3. Explore cultural and racial differences in the evaluation of and effectiveness of the
           different treatment approaches.

      Overall, the issues affecting management of SCI/D in later life are complex and hold critical
      implications for the health of the long-term survivor as well as for those who provide care
      in the home environment. Large numbers of individuals are living with the effects of SCI/D
      for decades post-injury. In addition to the health-related complications that typically
      accompany older age, these individuals are especially vulnerable to co-occurring medical
      conditions that require high degrees of support and maintenance. Consequently, older
      caregivers face multiple and often extreme challenges in providing support to the SCI/D
      survivor at a time in their lives when their own abilities may be compromised due to
      age-related changes in health and functioning.

      The multi-faceted burden faced by caregivers is associated with high levels of depression and
      anxiety as well as the onset of deleterious physical symptoms. The cumulative effects of such
      multiple stressors over time all too frequently leave the caregiver unable to continue
      providing the level of support necessary to maintain their partner's health in the home
      environment. In order to circumvent the additional distress certain to accompany such a
      family separation, Elliott et al. (2001, p. 230) recently concluded that "there is a pressing
      need for interventions that help family [SCI] caregivers address the routines and tasks
      essential to maintaining family functioning."
    
  