
    
      The difference between the 2 types of breathing tubes is that the VDLT has a built-in camera
      that is designed to allow the doctor to see the airways continuously.

      A fiberoptic scope is a thin device that may be placed into the breathing tube in order to
      check that the tube is in the correct place.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is better,
      the same, or worse than the other group. You will have an equal chance of being assigned to
      either group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive a non-video DLT for lung isolation before surgery.
      Once the doctor thinks the non-video DLT is in the correct place, its final position before
      surgery will be checked with an FOB.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive a VDLT for lung isolation before surgery. Once the
      doctor thinks the VDLT is in the correct place, its final position before surgery will be
      checked with the camera inside the tube. However, if the doctor thinks it is needed, an FOB
      may also be used to confirm that the VDLT is in the correct place.

      You will sign a separate consent form that describes the risks of surgery.

      Procedures:

      Once the doctor thinks the VDLT or non-video DLT is in the correct place and your lung(s) can
      be isolated, you will have surgery as planned. At the end of surgery, the breathing tube will
      be removed.

      If the breathing tube cannot be placed, you will not have the surgery at that time.

      Length of Study:

      After the surgery, your study participation will be over.

      This is an investigational study. The VDLT and non-video DLT are FDA approved and
      commercially available. Comparing them is investigational. The study doctor can explain how
      the study devices are designed to work.

      Up to 80 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  