
    
      Chronic pain is one of the most prevalent, disabling, and persistent symptoms associated with
      multiple sclerosis (MS). Approximately 50 - 60% of adults with multiple sclerosis experience
      moderate or severe, persistent pain. Medications rarely provide adequate pain relief and can
      entail negative side-effects. As a result, individuals with Multiple Sclerosis have become
      increasingly interested in nonpharmacologic approaches to pain management.

      Previously completed clinical trials, and those of others, support the efficacy of
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for pain in people with Multiple Sclerosis.
      Cognitive-behavioral therapy has been shown to decrease pain, decrease pain interference, and
      improve mood, sleep, and fatigue. Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) is another
      promising non-pharmacologic treatment that has been shown to improve pain outcomes in people
      with chronic pain; mindfulness-based cognitive therapy may also benefit individuals with
      Multiple Sclerosis and chronic pain. Although both of these treatments are effective pain
      treatments, the investigators do not know if one is more effective for the other.
      Furthermore, it is likely that there are both responders and non-responders to each of the
      treatments. That is, for any individual, two different treatments such as
      cognitive-behavioral therapy and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy may not necessarily be
      similarly beneficial in addressing pain. There is an urgent need to understand variability in
      responses across different psychosocial treatment interventions which will, in turn, lead to
      more effective and better-targeted interventions for chronic pain in Multiple Sclerosis. In
      other words, the investigators need to better understand for whom each of these pain
      interventions work best. Such knowledge will lead to better patient-treatment matching and,
      ultimately, better treatment outcomes.

      This study is the first randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing eight 2-hour sessions of
      group video-conference delivered mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and cognitive-behavioral
      therapy to usual care for chronic pain in 240 adults with Multiple Sclerosis. This study will
      identify not only the unique benefits conferred by each these two treatments but also for
      whom each treatment is most suitable. This study will address two specific aims:

      Aim 1: To determine the efficacy of group-based, videoconference-delivered mindfulness-based
      cognitive therapy and cognitive-behavioral therapy interventions, relative to usual care, in
      reducing pain intensity (the primary outcome) in adults with chronic pain and Multiple
      Sclerosis. Hypothesis 1: Primary Study Hypothesis: Participants randomly assigned to
      mindfulness-based cognitive therapy or cognitive-behavioral therapy will report significantly
      greater reductions in average pain intensity (primary outcome) relative to participants
      assigned to usual care at post-treatment (12 weeks post randomization, primary endpoint).

      Aim 2: To increase the ability to more effectively match patients to treatments by
      identifying pain treatment moderators. Although on average similar outcomes are expected in
      mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and cognitive-behavioral therapy, it is expected that
      there will be individual differences in who responds to each treatment. Specifically, that
      baseline mindfulness, behavioral activation, and pain catastrophizing will be associated with
      treatment response for the active treatment arms. Thus, to address Aim 2, the investigators
      will explore the ability of baseline mindfulness, behavioral activation, and pain
      catastrophizing to predict response to mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and
      cognitive-behavioral therapy. The investigators hypothesize that (1) baseline pain
      catastrophizing will be positively associated with treatment response for the two active
      treatment arms, but not the usual care condition (Hypothesis 2a); (2) baseline behavioral
      activation will be positively associated with treatment response for the two active treatment
      arms, but not the usual care condition (Hypothesis 2b), and (3) baseline mindfulness will be
      positively associated with treatment response to mindfulness-based cognitive therapy but not
      to either cognitive-behavioral therapy or the usual care condition (Hypothesis 2c).

      In addition to testing the above specific hypotheses, the investigators will explore: (1) the
      effects of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and cognitive-behavioral therapy relative to
      each other on both the primary (i.e., change in average pain intensity) and secondary
      outcomes (pain interference and key co-morbid symptoms including fatigue, sleep, and
      depressive symptoms), as Hypothesis 1 pertains only to the effects of cognitive-behavioral
      therapy and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy relative to the usual care control, not to
      each other; (2) the relative effects of all three treatment conditions on the secondary
      outcomes; (3) the maintenance, loss or gain in any treatment effects at 6-months
      post-treatment; (4) dose effects; and (5) additional potential moderators of outcome,
      including demographics, baseline pain and disease characteristics (e.g., pain severity, pain
      type, disease severity) and baseline depressive symptom severity and fatigue.

      Impact. As the first RCT evaluating the efficacy of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy
      relative to cognitive-behavioral therapy for chronic pain in adults with Multiple Sclerosis,
      study findings will provide critical information about the relative benefits of both
      mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and cognitive-behavioral therapy compared to one another
      and to usual care. This will determine the value of both of these approaches as adjunctive
      pain management tools, and if results support the use of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy,
      this will expand the currently available treatment options for people with Multiple
      Sclerosis. Remote intervention delivery using video-conference technology may improve the
      reach of these nonpharmacologic interventions, transcending geographical, transportation, and
      other access barriers. In addition, the investigators anticipate that increased knowledge
      concerning patient characteristics associated with response to treatment (i.e., treatment
      effect moderators) may improve treatment efficacy by better matching patients to the most
      appropriate treatments. All of these findings will contribute to our long-term goal of
      increasing the availability and efficacy of chronic pain treatments for individuals with
      Multiple Sclerosis and chronic pain.
    
  