
    
      This study aims to evaluate the impact of a mailed, tailored intervention, on the skin cancer
      prevention and skin self-examination behaviors of high-risk and moderate-risk adults.
      Participants will be recruited in primary health care setting (Penn Radnor Clinic) after
      their scheduled appointment. During Phase I of this study, patients will be screened for
      their level of risk for skin cancer. They will be asked to complete a survey as well as
      undergo a quick skin exam administered by the research staff. Moderate- and high-risk persons
      will be invited to enroll in Phase II of the study, and will then complete a baseline survey
      either in person, over the phone, or via mail after they have consented. After completing a
      baseline survey, these participants will be randomized to receive tailored materials,
      including personalized risk feedback, or to a control group that will receive generic
      educational materials. Participants will then be re-assessed at follow-up approximately three
      (3) months later via a mailed survey.

      The intervention consists of one to three sets of intervention materials, depending on if
      they are randomized to the generic group or the tailored group. The first mailing will be
      sent out approximately two weeks after a participant completes the baseline survey, and is
      designed to educate participants on ways to prevent skin cancer though personalized
      behavioral changes. The second mailing will be sent out two weeks after the first mailing,
      and is designed to provide a guide to participants on steps to complete a skin self exam.
      Finally, the third mailing will be sent out two weeks after the second mailing, and will
      provide medical information to the participants regarding types of skin cancer along with
      tips to remember that encompass information from previous mailings.

      Finally, the participant will complete a follow-up survey approximately one (1) month after
      the last mailing has been mailed.
    
  