
    
      Haemodialysis patients often lose residual renal function rather quickly after initiation of
      dialysis - average loss is 30 % per year. Loss of residual kidney function leads to
      deteriorating quality of life, more morbidity and a higher mortality. Many causes to this has
      been identified, but no one has - to my knowledge - addressed saving of residual renal
      function among haemodialysis patients so far.

      Hypothesis: Irbesartan can reduce loss of residual kidney function among haemodialysis
      patients and left ventricular hypertrophy and arterial stiffness is less pronounced after 1
      year of treatment.

      Methods: 80 patients are randomised to receive either irbesartan, an angiotensin II receptor
      blocker (ARB), or placebo for 1 year. Residual renal function will be estimated before and
      one-two weeks after initiating project medicine, in order to estimate the acute effect of ARB
      on residual renal function in this study population. Thereafter, glomerular filtration rate
      (GFR) and urine volume will be determined after 3, 6, 9 and 12 months giving a regression
      line for each patient. 8 dialysis units will be recruiting patients.

      Investigations:

        -  creatinine-urea-clearance by 24h urine collection

        -  applanation tonometry

        -  cardiac output

        -  echocardiography

        -  QoL questionnaire

        -  endocrinological and cardiovascular markers in blood and urine

      Perspectives: It is well-known that ceased urine production has a tremendous negative effect
      on the quality of life of haemodialysis patients. Lately it was shown that residual renal
      function has greater impact than dialysis dose on morbidity as well as mortality. Among
      peritoneal dialysis patients in Asia an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) or an
      ARB saved residual renal function, but preservation of renal function has not been addressed
      in haemodialysis patients, and ACEI or ARB are only prescribed to roughly 15 % of these.

      If this study confirms our hypothesis the growing population of haemodialysis patients should
      be offered irbesartan.
    
  