
    
      This mixed-methods project will evaluate PrEP awareness and potential impact of new dosing
      strategies/modalities on PrEP uptake among men who have sex with men (MSM)-the target group
      at highest risk for infection and at highest priority for PrEP use based on high risk sexual
      behaviors (condomless anal intercourse). The proposed project utilizes both qualitative
      analysis of focus group data from MSM study participants, as well as quantitative analysis of
      results from a survey informed by results of the qualitative phase of our project. It should
      be noted that while the investigators will target a racially diverse MSM study population,
      participation in our study may include MSM who also inject drugs (MSM-PWID) who express
      interest in study participation.

      The investigators propose a one and one-half year mixed-methods study to evaluate
      self-reported sexual risk, knowledge and barriers/facilitators of PrEP use, and preferences
      of oral, injectable, and implantable PrEP treatment modalities-as a function of race and age,
      and experience with intersectional discrimination. The first qualitative phase of our study
      would be conducted over the first eight months, followed by a quantitative phase that will
      collect data via online cross-sectional survey over the remaining ten months.

      Recruitment for both qualitative and quantitative parts of our project will occur through
      events sponsored by the Philly Ballroom Community, freeHIVTest.Net, GALAEI and COLOURS
      (CBOs), and Drexel's HIV Clinical Center, the Partnership Comprehensive Care Practice. For
      our quantitative survey, the investigators plan to enhance our recruitment using online
      social media sites that especially target BMSM and HLMSM, and Google Words-the investigators
      will display links to our study that will enable recruitment.

      For qualitative work, the investigators plan to conduct six focus groups of 5 MSM each (total
      = 30 participants), each restricted by race and age (Black, White, or Hispanic/Latino (either
      Black or White) and age (18-39 yrs. of age and > 40 yrs. of age). Four to six focus groups
      are usually recommended to reach saturation. Given probable cultural and age-specific
      differences of PrEP awareness and knowledge, as well as barriers or facilitators, and
      preference for specific treatment modalities, the investigators plan to restrict group
      participation by race and age as outlined above.

      Data collected from the 30 focus group participants will be analyzed using standard
      qualitative analytic approaches (Months 7-8). Drexel University's Dornsife School of Public
      Health have available a wide range of qualitative data analysis software and strategies for
      more sophisticated coding, retrieval, and concept development of the information collected in
      the focus groups. The investigators will utilize standard qualitative techniques, including
      inductive code identification and development and associated documentation through marginal
      remarks and memos. Inductive coding ("open coding") involves a data-based approach to the
      identification of key themes (codes). This approach encourages a conceptualization and
      organizational framework of the data from a grounded perspective. NVivo, a system for the
      management, interpretation and analysis of qualitative data, will be used in this process.
      Results from the qualitative phase of our project will be used to inform/add to the content
      of our study instrument to collect data during the second, quantitative phase of our project.
      For the quantitative, cross-sectional survey, the investigators plan to enroll equal numbers
      of White, Black, and Hispanic/Latino MSM (100 members per racial/ethnic group, for a total of
      300 participants).

      The study design for this quantitative phase will be cross-sectional, with analysis conducted
      from a sample of 300 PrEP eligible study participants. The investigators plan to enroll a
      racially and ethnically diverse study population with 1/3 each White non-Hispanics, Black
      non-Hispanics, and Hispanic/Latinos. Participants will be recruited in-person at our local
      CBOs and online. Enrollment and survey conduct will occur at CBO sites and at Drexel's
      Partnership Comprehensive Care Clinic, as described above. It should be noted that
      participants in the qualitative phase of our study will be ineligible to participate in the
      quantitative phase of the study.

      Collection of Survey Data. Study participants will use online audio-assisted Red Cap surveys
      to provide information about demographics, recent sexual risk behaviors, awareness and
      knowledge concerning PrEP, barriers and facilitators of PrEP use, preference for treatment
      modalities, and experiences with discrimination. Collection of data will be facilitated by
      staff at CBO sites, who will log participants onto our study survey data collection site, and
      who will be available to answer questions/provide clarification as needed. Surveys will be
      offered in both English and Spanish. The use of audio-assisted self-interviewing is
      particularly appropriate for collecting data from participants with limited literacy and
      provides a sense of confidentiality to decrease possibility of prevarication.

      Survey Items

      Demographics. Survey items will include: Race/ethnicity (White, Black, Hispanic/Latino), age
      (continuous), education level (less than high school, high school graduate, some college
      courses or 2 year degree, 4 year college graduate, graduate school courses or degree),
      employment status, annual income, and self-identified sexual orientation, and perceived need
      to not disclose/hide one's gay/bi/MSM identity.

      Sexual Behaviors. Behavioral data will include 60 day recall of number of men and women with
      whom participants have had anal or vaginal sex (as appropriate for partners' gender/sex), and
      for partners with whom participants had anal or vaginal sex: consistency of condom use with
      partners for whom HIV status was unknown or if partners were HIV-positive; consistency of
      condom use with partners for whom HIV status known and were HIV-negative; and whether
      participants have been diagnosed with bacterial STIs within the recall period.

      Awareness of PrEP. Survey items concerning awareness of PrEP will be taken from the National
      HIV Behavioral Risk Surveillance System (NHBS). Survey items will be adapted from national
      survey questions, and well as questions specific to Philadelphia (see draft study instrument
      in Appendix). Essentially, participants will be asked whether they have heard of PrEP or
      Truvada (by name), or if they have heard of medication that would prevent HIV infection if
      taken daily, or if they have heard of medication (PEP) that is taken after high-risk sexual
      contact (event-driven regimen). Participants will also be asked if they would reduce use of
      condoms for anal intercourse and increase the number of sexual partners if they were to take
      PrEP.

      Barriers and Facilitators of PrEP Use. Survey items will be adapted from the NHBS and
      previously published work by Golub and colleagues (2013) concerning perceived barriers and
      facilitators of PrEP. Barriers to PrEP use will include: Not being at risk for HIV, not
      providing full protection from HIV infection, short-term side effects, long-term health
      effects, stigma/embarrassment around using PrEP, and being too expensive for me/no insurance.
      Facilitators of PrEP use will include: Being at risk for HIV infection, PrEP will protect
      from HIV, PrEP will simplify having sex with no need to use condoms, PrEP will simplify
      having sex with no need to discuss safe sex or HIV status, PrEP is available at no cost to
      me, I could get ready access to support services (HIV/STI testing and access to sexual
      health/care monitoring).

      Preference for Specific Treatment Modalities. This survey will include items concerning
      likelihood of using PrEP based on different treatment availability: oral daily dosing,
      monthly injectable dosing, and yearly implantable dosing of PrEP. A five-point Likert-like
      scale will be used for each of these, ranging from 'Not at all likely' to 'Fully likely. For
      those who respond with being 'Somewhat likely' or Fully likely' to used PrEP for each dosing
      modality, the investigators will ask follow-up questions concerning reasons for higher
      acceptability including convenience and discretion when non-disclosure of PrEP use is
      desired.

      Experiences with Intersectional Discrimination. The investigators will adapt a newly
      published, intersectional discrimination scale developed by Scheim and Bauer (2019) that
      measures experiences with and anticipation of discrimination "because of who patients are",
      capturing multiple minority identities-including being Black or Hispanic/Latino and being a
      MSM. In our case, the investigators will use the scale to measure intersectional
      discrimination in our study population and compare levels (continuous) between specific
      categories-being BMSM and 18-39 yrs. of age, BMSM > 40 yrs. of age, HLMSM and 18-39 yrs. of
      age, HLMSM > 40 yrs. of age, WMSM and 18-39 yrs. of age, and WMSM > 40 yrs. of age.

      Planned Data Analysis

      Descriptive Analysis. Descriptive analysis will be performed using data fields outlined and
      listed above. For binary or categorical variables, proportion of study participants was given
      responses will be listed for the entire sample, and proportions will be stratified by race
      and age as described above. Thus the investigators initially plan to summarize demographics
      of our sample, including age, race, level of education, whether or not participants are
      employed, income levels, and self-reported sexual orientation. The investigators will then
      measure these rates by race and age, comparing differences in proportions across
      racial/ethnic and age groups by chi-square tests or Fisher's exact tests if data are sparse.
      For each data field, results will be presented as proportion reporting response options by
      subgroup, with p-values associated with statistical testing. The convention of p-values <
      0.05 as criteria for statistical significance will be utilized for analysis. For variables
      that are measured continuously, the investigators will use either Student's t-tests (for
      normally distributed data) or nonparametric methods such as Wilcoxon rank sum tests are not
      normally distributed data. For each data field median values will be presented along with
      associated 25%-75% interquartile ranges. Again, p-values will be given for subgroup
      comparisons.

      The investigators plan to test for differences of distributions/levels of sexual behaviors
      including frequency of condomless anal intercourse, awareness of PrEP, barriers and
      facilitators of PrEP use, preference for specific PrEP treatment modalities, and experiences
      with discrimination between subgroups.

      Regression Analysis. Subsequently, the investigators will conduct univariate and multivariate
      regression to identify whether beliefs concerning one's HIV risk, frequencies of sexual
      behaviors, and level of experience with discrimination (all potential explanatory variables)
      are associated with awareness PrEP (yes/no), level of knowledge of PrEP effectiveness (high
      vs. lower), report of specific barriers and facilitators of PrEP use (yes/no), and preference
      for injectable or implantable PrEP treatment modalities-all dependent or outcome variables.

      For each explanatory variable the investigators will estimate outcome variable prevalence
      ratios using PROC GENMOD (log-linked binomial model) or PROC LOGISTIC (logistic models). The
      investigators will report unadjusted prevalence ratios with associated 95% confidence
      intervals and p-values. Ultimately, multiple regression will be used to evaluate estimates of
      outcome prevalence ratios for explanatory variables, adjusted for confounders that are
      identified vis-à-vis descriptive analysis and univariate regression. Standard criteria to
      assess confounding will be used, including a 10% change in the magnitude of association of
      the independent variables with the various outcome variables.

      To identify potential effect modification, stratified analysis (by race/ethnicity, and age)
      will be conducted, and Wald tests to evaluate homogeneity will be used to test for
      differences of stratum-specific odds ratios.
    
  