
    
      Approximately 20% of stroke is caused by atrial fibrillation (AF) and 1% of patients with AF
      suffer from intracranial hemorrhage. Thus, the net benefit of AF management is the key factor
      in choosing the successful treatment (pharmacological and interventional).

      In this retrospective Finnish multicenter study the investigators collect data on patients
      with intracranial thromboembolic events or intracranial hemorrhage and AF during the study
      period. All such patients ≥18 years of age are identified and relevant clinical details are
      retrospectively gathered from the hospital records of the participating hospitals into an
      internet-based CRF. The total study period is from 2003 to 2012.

      All case records are reviewed using standardized data collection protocol to get information
      on baseline characteristics and medication of the patients, management of the patients before
      and during the index complication and during a 30-day follow-up after each complication.

      Diagnosis of atrial fibrillation is based 12-lead electrocardiography according to the
      standard criteria.

      Stroke is documented clinically and confirmed by computerized tomography or magnetic
      resonance imaging to be caused by cerebral infarction. Diagnosis of transient ischemic
      attacks are based on clinical diagnosis by neurologist when stroke is not confirmed by
      imaging. After completion of manual registration of data, a computer-based cross-checking of
      strokes is performed from discharge register data of the included patients to ensure the
      complete coverage of all events. Diagnosis of inctracranial bleedings are based on patient
      record and classified as subdural, subarachnoidal and intracerebral and possible preceding
      trauma is registered. Outcome measures are classified by study neurologist when necessary.

      Antigoagulation treatment, INR levels during the index complication, possible pauses in
      treatment and their casues are registered togethr with information on antiplatelet
      treatments.
    
  