
    
      Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated host response to
      infection with a high mortality rate. The main causative agents in the ICU to cause sepsis
      and septic shock are gram negative bacteria Klebsiella spp., Escherichia coli (E. coli), and
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) and gram positive Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus),
      Streptococcus pyogenes (S. pyogenes). The role of bacterial endotoxin is known to be central
      to development of septic shock in gram-negative bacterial sepsis. Gram negative bacteria's
      membranes are made of lipopolysaccharides (LPS), the endotoxin. The pattern recognition
      receptor for LPS is Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), upon activation initiates the inflammatory
      cascade.

      In past studies it was demonstrated that despite the lack of LPS on gram positive bacteria,
      TLR4 mutant's mice had higher bacterial burden and lower survivability suggesting a role in
      the inflammatory cascade of TLR4 despite the lack of LPS.

      Super antigen bind directly to the major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II) receptor and
      T cell receptor causing a massive T cell activation bypassing the antigen presenting cell
      leading to cytokine storm.

      Studies on murine, measuring the levels of LDL during inflammation, demonstrated a high level
      of LDL in the blood due to suppression of LDL receptor proteins in the liver. Proprotein
      convertase subtilisin kexin 9 (PCSK9) is a serine protease secreted by the liver binding to
      the LDL receptor and enhancing its degradation causing the increase of LDL levels in the
      blood. In the absence of PCSK9, the number of LDL receptors on the liver cell surface
      increases and more circulating LDL is removed from the plasma.

      PCSK9 is found to increase during inflammation. Grefhorst A et al, demonstrated that
      administration of recombinant PCSK9 to mice reduced hepatic LDL receptors. Based on that
      finding, Kenneth R. Feingold et al, conducted a study administering lipopolysaccharides (LPS)
      to mice intra peritoneal, measuring the levels of hepatic LDL receptor protein levels, and
      PCSK9 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels in the liver and in the kidneys. There was an
      increase in the PCSK9 levels within 4 hours in response to LPS and in response to several
      other mechanisms causing systemic inflammation.

      Microbial pathogenic lipids, namely LPS in gram negative bacteria, lipoteichoic acid in
      gram-positive bacteria, and phospholipomannan in fungi, are bound to lipids in the blood,
      causing an increase in PCSK9 in plasma. This led to the speculation that increased lipid
      clearance by the liver leads to increased LPS clearance affecting the process of sepsis and
      septic shock. Thus administering PCSK9 inhibitor leading to increase in lipids uptake by the
      liver would positively affect the septic patient.

      The benefit of inhibiting PCSK9 in sepsis is further strengthened by a study of Keith R et al
      examining septic patients who had at least one PCSK9 loss of function allele that showed
      increased survival over a 28-day period compared to those with gain of function allele.

      A study made by, Berger J M et al, on murines showed lack of benefit in septic mice when
      administering PCSK9 inhibitor adjacent to LPS injection peritoneally. In this study PCSK9
      inhibitor was administered as a monotherapy while in studies showing benefit, antibiotics
      treatment was given. Furthermore the lack of benefit can be explained by the short duration
      between the induction of endotoxemia to PCSK9 inhibitors administration, inhibiting the
      binding of the inflammatory mediators to the lipid transports in the blood prior to the
      activation of the inflammatory response which is needed. As previously mentioned PCSK9 levels
      that were measured in past studies only increased after 4 hours from inflammatory induction
      and not immediately after the exposure to LPS.

      Due to the results of studies supporting the clinical benefit of PCSK9 inhibitors the
      investigators intend to conduct a study in septic patients and septic shock patients upon
      admission to the ICU.

      The PCSK9 inhibitor is a relatively safe drug with a small amount of mild adverse events. In
      the "ODYSSEY LONG TERM" study with 2341 patients, examining among others the safety of the
      PCSK9 inhibitor use, Alirocumab, at a dose of 150 mg had similar rates of adverse events
      between the treatment group and the placebo. The Alirocumab patients had higher rates than
      the placebo group with injection-site reactions, myalgia, neurocognitive events (amnesia,
      memory impairment, and confusional state), and ophthalmologic events at low rates. In a
      recent large meta-analysis examining adverse effects showed no statistical significant
      regarding neurocognitive events or diabetes. Same results were received in a small post
      marketing study finding most adverse events of flu like symptoms and myalgia without
      difference between placebo, Alirocumab 75 mg dose and the 150 mg dose.

      In order to validate the clinical use of PCSK9 inhibitor the investigators plan to administer
      150 mg subcutaneous injection of Alirocumab upon admission to the ICU to patients diagnosed
      with sepsis or septic shock every two weeks. Two centers will be participating in the study
      from Israel.
    
  