
    
      Recent years have seen an increase in the number of adult Americans who live with their
      parents. In the 18 to 34 age group, living with one's parents is currently the most common
      living arrangement. Some adult children have been using their parents' homes as only a
      temporary solution due to economic hardship. However, other adults remain at home, highly
      reliant on their parents, and not in higher education or employment. The latter group (who
      are at times referred to as 'failure to launch') are considered to suffer from a combination
      of a personal and familial problem and pose a significant challenge for therapists (Lebowitz,
      2016). To date, little evidence exists to guide case conceptualization or intervention
      strategies. In this protocol, the term "FTL" for the sake of brevity in place of "highly
      dependent adult children who are not functioning independently" will be used.

      For the clinician, work with individuals with FTL cases can seem more like treatment with
      child patients than adult patients. Parents often initiate clinical contact, and in many
      cases, the dependent adult is not open or willing to engage in treatment directly.

      Dr. Lebowitz and colleagues' work with the parents of youth who suffer from clinical anxiety
      has suggested a theoretical conceptualization and a means of intervention in cases of FTL.
      Youth with anxiety display a similar pattern of reliance on parents for help in avoiding the
      situations they find distressing, a process known as family accommodation. Working with
      parents on decreasing family accommodation has been found to be efficacious in reducing
      anxiety and increasing independent coping in youth. This manualized approach, known as SPACE
      (Supportive Parenting for Anxious Childhood Emotions), has been repeatedly tested in clinical
      trials, including in randomized controlled trial research.

      In the proposed study, the investigators will examine outcomes of a parental guidance
      program, based on SPACE, for parents of FTL adults (henceforth, SPACE-FTL). The current
      proposal builds on a published feasibility study that found reducing family accommodation was
      successful in FTL, and in a considerable proportion of cases the adult children started
      working or studying or moved to independent lodgings.

      In the study, the investigators aim to investigate the SPACE-FTL outcomes including
      improvement in adult child symptoms and reductions in related impairment (e.g.,
      cost-of-illness), when compared to no treatment (i.e., wait-list control). The primary
      hypothesis is that SPACE-FTL will decrease FTL severity and impairment, compared with the
      wait-list control condition. Additional outcomes will relate to the feasibility,
      acceptability, and parents' satisfaction of SPACE-FTL. The investigators hypothesize that
      parents will rate SPACE-FTL as highly acceptable and that adherence will be above 70%.
    
  