
    
      Study design:

      The study will be carried out as a single-centre, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
      placebo-controlled phase II study in subjects with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding due to
      vascular malformations.

      Subjects Enrollment and Assignment:

      Approximately 100 patients aged between 40-85 years with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding
      (melena and/or fresh hematemesis or positive FOBT) at least 6 times within one year, verified
      as vascular malformation by capsule endoscopies or enteroscopies at baseline.

      Randomization was performed through the proc plan procedure of SAS, using the method of
      randomly permuted blocks of 4. Within each block, the number of patients allocated to each of
      the two treatments was equal. Subjects who are eligible for randomisation will be given a
      subject number in consecutive order within blocks, and the investigational products packed
      corresponding to this number. The subject will be allocated to one of the two treatment
      groups, i.e. Thalidomide and placebo, according to a computer generated list provided by
      Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. of Chang Zhou, China. If a subject discontinues from the study, the
      subject number will not be reused, and the subject will not be allowed to re-enter the study.

      Intervention:

      The included patients were prospectively randomized into two groups: the thalidomide group
      and the placebo group (Thalidomide group: Thalidomide p.o. 100 mg for 4 months, qn; Placebo
      group: Placebo for thalidomide p.o. 100 mg for 4 months, qn).

      The following concomitant medications are not allowed during the study as they interfere with
      the disease under study: Anti-angiogenic agents or other putative immunomodulators,
      Anti-platelet drugs, anticoagulants, or Chinese medications (with salicylates), gingko, or
      Echinacea, Somatostatin Heparin, Warfarin (including other Vit K antagonists),
      NSAIDs(including low dose); or as there is a potential risk for drug-drug interactions: Paxil
      (paroxetine), Mysoline (primidone), Keppra (levetiracetam), Plaquenil (hydroxychloroquine),
      St John's Wort (st. john's wort), Tegretol (carbamazepine), Zometa (zoledronic acid).

      Assessment of response and adverse events:

      The primary end point was defined as the patients whose rebleeds decreased from baseline by ≥
      50% at 12 months. Rebleeding was defined based on a positive fecal occult blood test (FOBT)
      (monoclonal colloidal gold color technology) at any visit after treatment. The secondary
      outcomes included the changes from baseline in participants dependent on blood transfusions
      and transfused packed red cell units, bleeding episodes, bleeding durations, and hemoglobin
      levels at 12 months.

      An adverse event (AE) is the development of an undesirable medical condition or the
      deterioration of a pre-existing medical condition following or during exposure to a
      pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered causally related to the product.

      A serious adverse event is an AE occurring during any study phase (ie, run-in, treatment,
      follow-up), and at any dose of the investigational product, comparator or placebo, that
      fulfils one or more of the following criteria:

      Results in death; Deep vein thrombosis (DVT); Is immediately life-threatening; Requires
      prolongation of existing hospitalisation; Results in persistent or significant disability or
      incapacity; Is a congenital abnormality or birth defect; Is an important medical event that
      may jeopardise the subject or may require medical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes
      listed above.

      Evaluation of Patients and Follow-up:

        -  Certified research nurses collected information on the demographics and medical and
           social histories of all patients enrolled in the study.

        -  After screening and baseline evaluations, the patients were closely monitored in the
           hospital for at least one week. They were then followed twice monthly during the
           four-mouth course of treatment and once a month thereafter.

        -  Clinical follow-up was performed by qualified doctors. At all visits, the
           bleeding-related parameters (number and duration), a physical examination was performed
           and laboratory values were obtained for FOBT, complete blood counts, serum chemistries,
           and hepatic and renal function. Neuropathy and other adverse events were also assessed.

        -  Patients were advised to refrain from any other non-prescribed medicines, especially
           rebleeding-related medications such as aspirin, NSAIDs, anti-platelet drugs,
           anticoagulants, and Chinese medications (with salicylates), gingko, or Echinacea.
    
  