
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare, in a phase III setting, overall and disease-free survival with
      preservation of laryngeal function in patients with stage III/IV squamous cell carcinoma of
      the glottic and supraglottic larynx treated with cisplatin/fluorouracil (CDDP/5-FU) followed
      by radiotherapy vs. concomitant radiotherapy plus CDDP vs. radiotherapy alone. II. Compare
      the tumor response after completion of chemotherapy but prior to initiation of radiotherapy
      with that following completion of radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy. III. Compare the
      patterns of relapse (local and regional recurrence and distant metastasis) with these
      treatments. IV. Compare the incidence of second primary tumors in patients treated on these
      three regimens. V. Compare the acute and chronic adverse effects of these three regimens. VI.
      Compare the morbidity experienced with neck dissection and/or laryngeal salvage surgery
      following treatment with these regimens. VII. Compare quality of life of patients with
      laryngeal preservation vs. patients requiring salvage laryngectomies. VIII. Compare the
      quality of life of patients receiving radiotherapy alone vs. those receiving chemotherapy as
      well.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. Patients on any arm, clinically staged N+ undergo neck dissection
      following completion of radiotherapy. Arm I: 2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy followed by
      Radiotherapy. Cisplatin, CDDP, NSC-119875; Fluorouracil, 5-FU, NSC-19893; followed by
      regional irradiation using linear accelerators with photon energies of 1.25-6 MV, electron
      energies of 8-17 MeV, or Co60. Arm II: Radiotherapy plus Single-Agent
      Chemotherapy/Radiosensitization. Regional irradiation using equipment as in Arm I; plus CDDP.
      Arm III: Radiotherapy. Regional irradiation using equipment as in Arm I.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 546 patients (182/arm) will be entered over approximately 3 years. If any
      arm is clearly inferior in laryngectomy-free survival after 137 patients have completed 2
      years of follow-up study, that arm will be closed to further accrual. A second interim
      analysis will be conducted after 410 patients have completed 2 years of follow-up.
    
  