
    
      The use of Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) for pain control has already a history of more than
      40 years. In SCS, a lead is positioned in the epidural space on the dorsal aspect of the
      spinal cord so as to produce stimulation induced paraesthesia in the painful area. During the
      last decades many articles have been published, clearly indicating the effectiveness and
      safety of SCS with quadripolar leads in the pain management of chronic neuropathic pain, and
      in particular Failed Back Surgery Syndrome (FBSS). Randomized controlled trials demonstrated
      that compared with re-operation, SCS provides effective pain relief for at least 3 years and
      compared with conventional non-surgical neuropathic pain management for at least 2 years.

      However, SCS-related complications can occur, that can be divided into surgical complications
      and hardware complications. The hardware technology has substantially improved over the
      years. Moreover, electrodes have become smaller in shape and easier to navigate through the
      epidural space; and finally, internal pulse generators have new programming capabilities and
      a longer battery life span. All these technological developments led to the application of
      minimally invasive percutaneous stimulation trials for a variety of patients with chronic
      neuropathic pain. Turner et al performed a meta-analysis of spinal cord stimulation for
      failed back surgery syndrome publications and reported hardware complications of 24% lead
      migration, 7% lead failure and 2% pulse generator failure. While this analysis evaluated
      studies using older hardware systems, there is first evidence that the rate of these
      complications is lower currently with new systems. In the recently published PROCESS paper,
      also using quadripolar electrodes, long term follow-up showed that hardware complications
      were 14%: lead migration, 3% lead failure and no pulse generator failures.

      Generally, patients with radicular pain to the lower extremities respond better to spinal
      cord stimulation than patients with isolated axial low back pain. However, a few studies have
      shown that axial low back pain in combination with bilateral leg pain, also respond well to
      spinal cord stimulation. Both four (e.g. quadripolar Quad lead) and eight (e.g. octapolar
      Octad® lead) electrodes were shown to be effective in treatment of low back and lower
      extremity pain, with no apparent advantage of one system over the other. In the recent
      PROCESS study publication, the reduction of SCS on low-back pain was not-statistically
      significant when compared to baseline. Even though it seems that eight electrodes may have
      the potential advantage in case of lead migration or disease progress, no clinical data have
      been published on the effectiveness of SCS using the octopolar epidural lead. The Octad study
      is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, non-randomized, interventional study designed to
      assess the effectiveness and technical performance of SCS with the Octad® lead for treatment
      of chronic pain. This study is not set up as a comparison study between the Octad lead and
      other SCS leads, such as the Quad lead, because the Octad lead is used in most eligible FBSS
      patients as the standard of care lead.
    
  