
    
      Background information

      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by excessive fat accumulation in
      the liver and is defined by evidence of hepatic steatosis (via imaging or histology) and is
      not due to secondary liver fat accumulation from excessive alcohol consumption or hereditary
      disorders (e.g., Wilson's disease). NAFLD is most commonly associated with metabolic
      syndrome, consisting of obesity, insulin resistance, elevated blood pressure, and
      dyslipidemia. NAFLD is one of the most common causes of chronic liver disease, globally with
      a prevalence as high as 30% in Western countries. It includes a spectrum of diseases from
      steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and
      hepatocellular carcinoma. Non-alcoholic fatty liver does not involve hepatocellular injury in
      the form of ballooning hepatocytes, whereas NASH is defined by steatosis, inflammation, and
      hepatocyte injury (ballooning) with or without fibrosis. The causes of NAFLD are likely due
      to a combination of genetic and physiologic factors, namely those that promote oxidative
      stress and inflammation such as metabolic syndrome, visceral adiposity, and changes in
      intestinal microbiota. NAFLD is significantly associated with increased risk of Type II
      Diabetes and cardiovascular disease and increased overall mortality compared to age-matched
      controls. There is currently no approved drug treatment for NAFLD or NASH. Dietary
      restrictions for weight loss and increased physical activity are the recommended therapies,
      albeit with limited success.

      Investigational products

      Vitamin E [(all-rac)-α-tocopheryl acetate]

      Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin that is synthesized naturally in plants in four tocopheryl
      forms: α, β, γ, and δ. All-rac-α-tocopheryl acetate has the highest biological activity in
      animal models, and it is the α-tocopheryl form that is used to prevent and treat Vitamin E
      deficiency in humans. Functionally, Vitamin E is an anti-oxidant and peroxyl radical
      scavenger. It is an inhibitor of lipid peroxidation and can also inhibit and modulate
      intracellular signaling molecules, e.g., protein kinase C, and nicotinamide adenine
      dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase. α-tocopheryl regulates gene expression of several
      intracellular enzymes such as 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase and has anti-inflammatory
      activity (i.e., decreasing cytokine release and plasma C reactive protein). It is also known
      to inhibit platelet adhesion and aggregation. \

      DHA Ethyl Ester

      Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an essential
      omega-3 fatty acid for brain, eye and cardiovascular development and health. It significantly
      reduces triglycerides (TGs), lowers heart rate, lowers blood pressure, and reduces the risk
      of cardiac death by an overall 8%. Both DHA and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) have
      anti-thrombotic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-oxidative properties. As NAFLD patients are at
      significantly greater risk of cardiovascular disease and higher overall mortality, the
      cardioprotective effects of DHA are significant and may be beneficial in the NAFLD
      population.

      Potential mechanisms for DHA's effects in NAFLD include the reduction of TG synthesis via
      activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR-α and γ), which accelerates
      fatty acid oxidation in liver mitochondria. DHA is also known to have an integral role in
      maintaining and improving cell membrane fluidity, as a fatty acid that is incorporated into
      the phospholipids of the membrane, thereby optimizing surface receptors and signal
      transduction pathways in liver cells. The anti-inflammatory role of DHA in NAFLD may be
      mediated through activation of adiponectin secretion through adults with NAFLD. MRI-PDFF is
      also an appropriate technique to diagnose and stage disease in those with metabolic syndrome
      and NAFLD. The clinical trial is designed to test the combination of Vitamin E and DHA
      against placebo, to demonstrate efficacy and safety.

      Rationale for conducting the clinical study

      The combination of Vitamin E and DHA has not been tested in previous clinical trials of
      adults with NAFLD. This combination may provide optimal benefit for patients with NAFLD due
      to their associated mechanisms of action, namely Vitamin E's antioxidant action, preventing
      lipid oxidation of long-chain fatty acids such as DHA and thus preventing the propagation of
      free radicals and ROS. Vitamin E's protection of LC-PUFA DHA, therefore, assists it in
      maintaining cell membrane stability and optimal signaling. Their combined anti-inflammatory
      effects (e.g., inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokines, increasing adiponectin, and producing
      docosanoids to resolve inflammation) may also be efficacious for those with metabolic
      syndrome and NAFLD. The combination of Vitamin E and DHA will correctly be used in this study
      to determine if a reduction in liver fat occurs after six months of co-administration, using
      a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique, proton density fat fraction (PDFF). PDFF
      imaging is non-invasive and highly sensitive to detect liver steatosis in patients with
      NAFLD.
    
  