
    
      BACKGROUND

      Anastomotic leakage (AL) is a dreaded major complication after colorectal surgery. The
      overall incidence of anastomotic dehiscence and subsequent leaks is 2 to 7 percent when
      performed by experienced surgeons. The lowest leak rates are found with ileocolic anastomoses
      (1 to 3 percent) and the highest occur with coloanal anastomosis (10 to 20 percent). Leaks
      usually become apparent between five and seven days postoperatively. Almost half of all leaks
      occur after the patient has been discharged, and up to 12 percent occur after postoperative
      day (POD) 30. Late leaks often present insidiously with low-grade fever, prolonged ileus, and
      nonspecific symptoms attributable to other postoperative infectious complications. Small,
      contained leaks present later in the clinical course and may be difficult to distinguish from
      postoperative abscesses by radiologic imaging, making the diagnosis uncertain and
      underreported.

      There is no uniform definition of an anastomotic dehiscence and leak. In a review of 97
      studies, as an example, 56 different definitions of an anastomotic leak were used. The
      majority of reports define an anastomotic leak using clinical signs, radiographic findings,
      and intraoperative findings. The clinical signs include: Pain, Fever, Tachycardia,
      Peritonitis, Feculent drainage, Purulent drainage. The radiographic signs include: Fluid
      collections, Gas containing collections. The intraoperative findings include: Gross enteric
      spillage, Anastomotic disruption.

      Risk factors for a dehiscence and leak are classified according to the site of the
      anastomosis (extraperitoneal or intraperitoneal). A prospective review of 1598 patients
      undergoing 1639 anastomotic procedures for benign or malignant colorectal disease found a
      significantly increased risk of anastomotic leak with extraperitoneal compared with
      intraperitoneal anastomoses (6.6 versus 1.5 percent; 2.4 percent overall).

      Major risk factors for an extraperitoneal AL include: The distance of the anastomosis from
      the anal verge (Patients with a low anterior resection and an anastomosis within 5 cm from
      the anal verge are the highest risk group for an anastomotic leak), Anastomotic ischemia,
      Male gender, Obesity.

      Major risk factors for an intraperitoneal AL include: American Society of Anesthesiologists
      (ASA) score Grade III to V, Emergent surgery, Prolonged operative time, Hand-sewn ileocolic
      anastomosis.

      Controversial, inconclusive, or pertinent negative associations between the following
      variables and AL have been reported: Neoadjuvant radiation therapy, Drains, Protective stoma,
      Hand-sewn colorectal anastomosis, Laparoscopic procedure, Mechanical bowel preparation,
      Nutritional status, Perioperative corticosteroids.

      Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) programs for colorectal surgery have been extensively
      studied during the last 20 years. It is now clear that they offer a consistent reduction of
      overall morbidity rates, postoperative length of stay and costs, and that there is a clear
      dose-effect relation between adherence to at least 60-70% of the program items and these
      outcomes. On the other hand, little is known concerning the potential benefit of ERAS
      programs over AL rates or if adherence to specific items of the program may reduce AL rates.

      Therefore, the investigators planned this study to prospectively evaluate AL rates after
      colorectal resections and their interaction with known risk factors and ERAS program items.

      METHODS

      Prospective enrollment from January to December 2019 in 41 Italian surgical centers. All
      patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery with anastomosis will be included in a
      prospective database after having provided a written informed consent. A total of 1,750
      patients is expected based on a mean of 43 cases/year per center.

      Outcome measures

        1. Preoperative risk factors of anastomotic leakage (age, gender, obesity, nutritional
           status, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, chronic liver disease, renal failure,
           inflammatory bowel disease, perioperative steroid therapy, ASA class I-II vs III)

        2. Operative parameters (approach, procedure, anastomotic technique, length of operation,
           disease stage)

        3. ERAS program items (prehabilitation, counseling, nutritional evaluation,
           immuno-nutrition, deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis, antibiotic prophylaxis, bowel
           preparation, preoperative carbohydrates load, standardized anesthesia protocol,
           restrictive i.v. fluid administration, control of body temperature, nausea and vomit
           prophylaxis, multimodal approach to opioid-sparing pain control, restrictive use of
           surgical drains, laparoscopic surgery, removal of nasogastric tubes before reversal of
           anesthesia, early removal of urinary catheter, early mobilization, early oral intake of
           fluids and solids, use of chewing gums and laxatives, intake of protein-rich nutritional
           supplements, prepare for early discharge, audit).

      Endpoints

        1. Anastomotic leakage rate

        2. Minor and major complications

        3. Length of postoperative hospital stay

        4. Readmission and reoperation rates Recorded data and follow-up Potential patient-specific
           and intraoperative risk factors will be recorded: gender, body mass index, nutritional
           status according to the Mini Nutritional Assessment short-form, surgical indication
           (cancer, polyps, chronic inflammatory bowel disease, diverticular disease), preoperative
           albuminemia, use of steroids, renal failure and dialysis, cardiovascular or respiratory
           disease, American Society of Anesthesia class, bowel preparation (decision made by
           operating surgeon), laparoscopy or laparotomy, level of anastomosis and technique
           (mechanical or hand-sewn, intra- or extra-corporeal), operative time, presence of
           drainage, and perioperative blood transfusion(s). During the postoperative period,
           patients will be examined by the attending surgeon daily. Fever (central temperature >
           38 °C), pulse, abdominal signs, bowel movements, volume and aspect of drainage (if
           present) will be recorded daily. The attending surgeon will make any decision for
           complementary exams and imaging according to his own criteria. The rate of any
           complication will be calculated and graded including all leaks (independently of
           clinical significance), wound infection (according to the definitions of the Centers for
           Disease Control and Prevention and wound culture), pneumonia (clinical symptoms, and
           physical and radiological examinations), central line infection (positive blood
           culture), urinary tract infection (positive urine culture with bacterial count ).
           Patients will be followed-up in the outpatient clinic up to 6 weeks after discharge from
           the hospital.

      Main endpoint is anastomotic dehiscence (intended as any deviation from the planned
      postoperative course related to the anastomosis, or presence of pus or enteric contents
      within the drains, presence of abdominal or pelvic collection in the area of the anastomosis
      on postoperative CT scan, performed at the discretion of the attending surgeon, leakage of
      contrast through the anastomosis during enema or evident anastomotic dehiscence at
      reoperation for postoperative peritonitis). Thus, all detected leaks will be considered
      independently of clinical significance. No imaging will be performed routinely in order to
      search for leakage.

      Secondary endpoints are morbidity and mortality rates, postoperative length of stay,
      readmission and reoperation rates.

      After anonymization, all data of each single case will be prospectively uploaded by every
      local investigator on a protected web-based database. Thereafter, all data will be
      incorporated into a spreadsheet (MS Excel) for data analysis, checking for any discrepancy,
      that will be addressed and solved through strict cooperation between chief investigator, data
      manager and participating center.

      Statistical Analysis Quantitative values will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation,
      median and range; categorical data with percentage frequencies. Mean values of duration of
      stay will be compared according to the presence or absence of fistulas using Student's
      two-sided t test (allowing for heterogeneity of variances) or with a non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney test. Both univariate analysis and multivariate analysis will be performed to
      assess risk factors for leakage and overall complications. The odds ratio (OR) will be
      presented followed by its 95% confidence interval (95% CI). For all statistical tests the
      significant level is fixed at p < .05.

      Statistical analyses will be carried out using STATA software (Stata Corp. College Station,
      Texas, USA).

      Sample size Considering that adherence to 70% of the items of an ERAS program determines a
      significant reduction in surgical complications after colorectal surgery, an estimation of
      the OR for AL and ERAS program adherence at 70% of the items is equal to 0.55 (95% c.i.
      0.36-0.87); assuming a maximum error equal to 0.04, the required sample size is n=1,748
      (about 874 cases per arm expected in low vs high adherence to ERAS programs).
    
  