
    
      It has been demonstrated that a rapid decline in oral hygiene compliance occurs after the
      initial bonding of fixed appliances, as orthodontic brackets favor plaque accumulation by
      hindering routine oral hygiene procedures such as tooth brushing and flossing. Tooth brush
      access to the buccal surfaces of teeth becomes problematic and predisposes plaque buildup
      around brackets. Inefficient removal of supra-gingival plaque leads to the development of
      gingival inflammation and hyperplasia.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      Sample size is calculated in OpenEpi (version 3.01) sample size calculator using findings of
      westmead who reported mean change in verbal group for BI as 0.93 ± 0.07 (Pre-instructions =
      2.31 ± 0.50 and Post-instructions = 3.24 ± 0.43) and mean change in plaque disclosing tablet
      group for BI as 2.9±0.21 (Pre-instruction = 4.30 ± 0.46 and Post-instruction = 1.39 ± 0.25)
      keeping the power of test as 90% and confidence interval of 95%, the calculated sample size
      came out as 1 in each group. Richter et al who reported mean compliance in low adherent group
      of 62.2 ± 32.3 in initial leveling and alignment of orthodontic treatment and 81.4 ± 15.5 in
      molar correction or space closure stage. Keeping α = 0.05 and a power of 80% sample size was
      calculate to be 33. Therefore we will take 33 subjects in each group.

      RANDOMIZATION : Permuted block Randomization with blocks of 6 will be utilized to ensure
      equal representation of all 3 arms in each block. The eligible subjects in each group will be
      randomized to one of three groups at a 1:1:1 allocation ratio. Randomization will aid in
      minimizing selection bias.

      ALLOCATION CONCEALMENT MECHANISM Sealed opaque envelopes containing random group information
      will be used in this trial, thus preventing tampering and reading of the assigned group
      before the subject number is given. The sealed opaque envelops will be produced by the CTU
      department using a system that automates the random assignment of treatment arms to subject
      numbers with a 1:1:1 allocation ratio within each age group. Designated CTU personnel will be
      responsible to the production of the randomization list and the sealed envelopes. Study staff
      will collect the envelopes from CTU pharmacist prior to randomization. They must be stored in
      a secure place and opened one by one, only after the subject has been found eligible to be
      randomized.

      SEQUENCE GENERATION The Randomization list with treatment allocation sequence will be
      electronically generated using a Randomization program at CTU. CTU will maintain the
      randomization sequence as it is not involved in recruitment, so as to ensure allocation
      concealment. The envelopes will be opened sequentially following subject IDs for each
      consented participant after confirming the eligibility criteria BLINDING: As this is an
      open-label study so study subjects and investigators are not blinded.

      RATIONALE:

      Orthodontic patients are at an increased risk of developing gingivitis and white spot lesions
      due to presence of arch wire and brackets, making oral hygiene maintenance difficult. These
      symptoms due to poor oral hygiene will depict less interest of patients towards orthodontic
      treatment. Decreased and poor compliance of orthodontic patients may not only affect the
      health but also the overall esthetic outcome of the orthodontic treatment. So, awareness
      regarding oral hygiene maintenance is important. Motivations and encouragement of patients to
      improve oral hygiene, improve cooperation and compliance of patients towards orthodontic
      treatment. Various means of communication has been used by authors to evaluate the
      improvement in oral hygiene practices such as verbal instructions, written and educational
      videos. The use of plaque disclosing tablet enabled subjects to remove 19% more plaque
      compared to brushing alone. Presenting video graphic information regarding oral hygiene
      practice and sequel of plaque deposition also resulted in a significant improvement in
      patient knowledge thus improving oral hygiene in orthodontic patients. However, none of the
      aforementioned modalities have been compared with each other at a time. Therefore, the aim of
      this study will be to compare the overall oral hygiene improvement in fixed orthodontic
      patients receiving Oral Hygiene Instructions in the form of verbal briefing, demonstration
      via plaque disclosing tablets or video graphic information. Establishing the most efficacious
      modality will aid in providing Oral Hygiene Instructions that are easier to understand,
      retain and practice in our population undergoing Fixed Appliance Treatment.

      Literature studies are evident that improvement in oral hygiene by means of various
      incentives improved patient cooperation and compliance. In this study the investigators will
      also assess whether these interventions apart from its impact on oral hygiene, has any impact
      on compliance and cooperation of the patient as well. A positive change with these
      interventions will help in better patient care and good adherence of patient with Fixed
      Appliance Treatment.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      Due to ethical considerations and patients' equal rights for oral health, all groups will
      receive routine Oral Hygiene Instructions. The patients will be randomly allocated into 1 of
      the 3 groups. Data will be collected four times during the whole study from a single
      participant, initial baseline measurement (T0) will be taken on the first visit after
      inclusion in the study however second, third and fourth measurement will be taken (T1, T2,
      T3) after 1, 2 and 3 months follow up visits of the participant. Data for both the baseline
      scores and after intervention scores will entered in the designed proforma which includes all
      the indices used in this study

      Patient cooperation will also be determined after 3 months by Orthodontic Patient Cooperation
      Scale (OPCS). This questionnaire will be filled by the patients' attending orthodontist. It
      consists of 8 questions to assess cooperation and compliance of patient. Scale covers
      parameters like attitude of patient towards orthodontic treatment, attitude of patient with
      doctor, responsible attitude of patient, interest of patient etc. Each question contains
      equal scores. Maximum scores being 5 and minimum 1. Percentage of scores will be calculated.
      Total Scores below 34% will be considered as low cooperation, while scores ranging from 35% -
      69% will be in moderate and scores greater than 70% will be considered as higher cooperation
      level.

      Compliance of patient will be assessed by clinical compliance evaluation form (CCE) which
      comprises of four factors i.e. oral hygiene, maintenance of appliance, punctuality of
      appointments and appliance wear . These forms will be filled by co-investigator of the study.
      Each component has the same scores of 25, making total of 100. Calculation of patient's
      compliance on clinical compliance evaluation form will be the same as done by Richter et al.
      Maintenance of appliance, punctuality of appointments and appliance wear will be recorded
      from orthodontic record files while oral hygiene will be assessed when patient will come for
      their regular orthodontic visit. Presence of soft white plaque will be recorded on surface of
      bracket.

      Compliance Check:

      Two compliance log will be maintained one by the patient at home and other one by the primary
      investigator. A compliance log maintained by the primary investigator will be via telephone
      call to the participants in all groups to remind them to use the intervention. This phone
      call will be made to check whether the participants have used the intervention or not as
      instructed. If the participants have not used the intervention they will be requested to use
      the intervention and a final confirmation call will be made to check the compliance in few
      days again. Both the compliance log maintained by the patient at home and by the primary
      investigator will be compared to check the overall compliance of the participant at the end
      of the study.

      After taking the baseline measurements by the investigator will unseal the envelope from
      Clinical Trials Unit (CTU), containing information regarding the intervention to be used on
      the participants based on randomization. The participants will be sent home and will be
      recalled for re-evaluation after every month till 3 months (T1,T2 and T3) The compliance will
      be assured by providing the log sheet to the participants . Additionally, after 2 weeks
      interval, all patients will be reminded by the investigator via phone call to check the
      compliance with the intervention.

      Ethical considerations:

      The study will be conducted according to the CONSORT guidelines and guidelines of World
      Medical Association's Declaration of Helsinki and the principles of GCP (Good Clinical
      Practice). All those patients who fulfilled the inclusion criteria will receive detailed
      information regarding the study and only those patients will be included who signed an
      informed consent. Any subsequent protocol amendments will be submitted to ERC and regulatory
      authorities for approval. The trial will be conducted in compliance with regulations, and a
      copy of interim analysis and final study report will be submitted to ERC.

      Possible risks or benefits:

      There are no known risks involved in this study as the study is based on communicating
      necessary information through video method and plaque disclosing tablets. Plaque disclosing
      tablets are considered to be safe for usage and are available as over the counter drugs.
      However, slight coloration of the mouth may last for more than 24 hours and stains on
      clothing as the coloring agent is strong. Benefits include finding the best modality to
      motivate orthodontic patients in improving oral hygiene during the course of the treatment.

      Adverse events:

      There is no adverse event reported in the literature related to the plaque disclosing
      tablets. The trial related events would be covered by the Department of Surgery. Slight
      discoloration of the oral tissues may last for up to 24 hours after using plaque disclosing
      tablets and stains on clothing can occur as the coloring agent are strong, these minor
      adverse events would be managed by prior counseling of the participants. These adverse events
      will be recorded and reported to ERC within a specified period of time, while no serious
      adverse event are expected.

      Right of refusal to participate and withdrawal:

      Participants will be given a choice to either participate or refuse to participate in the
      study. All participants non-compliant with using plaque disclosing tablets or watching the
      OHI video will be reinforced by phone calls, while comparing the compliance log sheets
      provided to them and other maintained by the PI.

      Stopping rule:

      The trial would be stopped if any of the intervention does not control plaque or if there is
      a deterioration of periodontal health as revealed by increasing GI, BI and OPI scores in the
      interim analysis done after recruiting 15 patients in each arm.

      Incentive:

      After one month (T1) all patients will be offered oral prophylaxis free of cost. If the
      indices are still high, and clinical examination shows a higher score of gingival
      inflammation, additional measures such as topical metronidazole gel and antibiotics will be
      given to control the gingival inflammation.

      Patient confidentiality, access and storage:

      The information provided by the participant will remain confidential. Nobody except the
      investigators will have access to it. Participants' name and identity will not be disclosed
      at any time. However, the data may be seen by ERC, DSMB or any local regulatory body. As per
      GCP and other guidelines, data will be retained for 15 years.
    
  