
    
      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective neurosurgical approach for treating motor
      disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD), Essential Tremor (ET), and dystonia. Its
      therapeutic benefit has led to the application of DBS to a wide spectrum of disorders
      including psychiatric conditions, epilepsy, Alzeimer's disease, headache,
      obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), Tourette syndrome, depression and intractable pain.
      However, because the nature of its underlying mechanisms and clinical effects are not fully
      understood, precision targeting, decreasing adverse effects, and improving clinical outcomes
      represent major clinical and scientific challenges in PD and other disorders treated by DBS.
      Our goal is to investigate the inter-relationships between site-specific neural activation
      and clinical outcomes during DBS. To do so, we will perform non-invasive functional Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (fMRI) to investigate DBS-mediated activation of neural network circuitry.
      Our proposed protocol involves the addition of intraoperative fMRI to the standard DBS or
      battery change protocol in order to determine the major sites of activation during
      application of clinically effective DBS to the subthalamic nucleus (STN), ventral
      intermediate thalamus (VIM), globus pallidus interna (GPi), fornix, nucleus accumbens (NAc),
      anterior thalamus and periaqueductal gray matter. Patients will undergo clinical assessment
      to determine the relative efficacy of DBS stimulation parameters, applied during the fMRI and
      at regularly scheduled post-operative programming visits up to 6 months of follow-up. Our
      Specific Aims are to: (1) Identify fMRI-activated brain regions by DBS in patients who
      undergo DBS surgery (Patients diagnosed with PD, ET, dystonia, OCD, depression, pain,
      Tourette's syndrome, and epilepsy. (2) Correlate fMRI activation with clinical outcomes and
      side effects. With the goal of improving DBS electrode targeting for optimal and reproducible
      clinical outcomes, these experiments will be the first attempt to relate site-specific DBS
      with functional in vivo imaging data and quantitative longitudinal clinical outcome measures
      in DBS patients.
    
  