
    
      Measures and instruments Before the rehabilitation program, a baseline evaluation will be
      performed, which will include: anthropometric evaluation, Framingham cardiovascular risk
      score calculation, (mMRC) scale completion, and International Physical Activity Questionnaire
      (IPAQ). Baseline lung function data will be obtained from patients' medical records. The
      severity of (COPD) will be determined by spirometric classification of the Gold consensus,
      Body-mass index, airflow obstruction, dyspnea, and exercise (BODE) and Gold (ABCD) scale. To
      evaluate exercise capacity, a 6-minute (s) walk test (6MWT), an incremental cardiopulmonary
      exercise test (ECT) on a cycle ergometer, and a cardiopulmonary exercise test with a constant
      load on a cycle ergometer will be performed. All patients will undergo evaluation of
      endothelial function and (ABI) (brachial ankle index). Laboratory tests, exercise tests,
      evaluation of endothelial function and (ABI) will be performed before and after the pulmonary
      rehabilitation program. Two visits will be necessary to carry out the tests: on the first
      visit blood will be collected for laboratory tests, the questionnaires will be answered,
      anthropometric data collected and the incremental (ECP) will be performed; at the second
      visit, the (ABI) and endothelial function will be measured and the constant load (TECP) will
      be performed. There will be a minimum of 48 hours between visits. The incremental (ECP) will
      be performed only at baseline. In the anthropometric evaluation will be determined the weight
      and the height, being calculated the body mass index through the formula; weight (kg) /
      height2 (m). Laboratory Tests Total cholesterol and fractions, triglycerides, C-reactive
      protein, fasting glycemia, Glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), Glutamic-pyruvic
      transaminase (GPT), urea and creatinine and protein C will be collected baseline and after
      intervention. Pulmonary function Results of spirometry, pulmonary diffusion by carbon
      monoxide (DLco) and lung volumes (plethysmography) will be recorded, which are performed in
      the care routine and will be obtained from the patients' records. Exercise tests The (6MWT)
      will be performed in a 30 meter corridor, with continuous monitoring of peripheral oxygen
      saturation (SpO2) and heart rate. Before and after the test the respiratory rate and the
      intensity of the dyspnea will be determined. The distance covered in 6 minutes will be
      recorded. The test will be performed in accordance with the guidelines and predicted values
      previously described. The maximum incremental (TECP) limited by symptoms will be performed on
      an electromagnetic bicycle using a ramp protocol. After 2 minutes of standing monitoring, the
      patient will pedal for 2 minutes without load. The load ramp will be individualized so that
      the incremental test lasts between 8 and 12 minutes. The incremental (TECP) will be performed
      according to the recommendations of the. The constant load test will be performed with 75% of
      the maximum load reached in the incremental (TECP). During the tests performed on the
      exercise bicycle, the electrocardiographic tracing and (SpO2) will be continuously monitored.
      Significant desaturation will be considered when (SpO2) falls ≥ 3%. Endothelial function will
      be non-invasively assessed by flow-mediated dilatation in the brachial artery using a
      high-resolution ultrasound imaging device (SONOSITE®, M-Turbo, Sony). Brachial ankle index,
      the assessment of the systolic arterial pressure of the brachial arteries and posterior
      tibial arteries will be performed bilaterally using a portable vascular Doppler, with a
      sphygmomanometer positioned 3 cm above the cubital fossa in the upper limbs and 3 cm above
      the medial malleolus in the lower limbs. The randomization will be performed through an
      online software at www.random.org, then will be stored in a stealth location. A blinded
      investigator will generate a numerical sequence of the randomized patients who meet the
      eligibility criteria. The study was not done with the total number of patients diagnosed with
      (COPD). Those divided into two groups: intervention and control.
    
  