
    
      Minimally invasive pancreatic surgery diminishes the morbidity and mortality of the
      potentially curative procedures. However precise targeting of small adenocarcinomas and
      neuroendocrine tumors is challenging.

      Given safety, precision, and ease EUS guided pancreatic fiducial placement has emerged as a
      favored method to mark tumors for radiation therapy. The experimental aspect of this
      procedure is gauge whether EUS guided fiducial placement improves the intraoperative
      assessment of pancreas tumors. We will use the recently introduced (FDA approved) Beacon EUS
      guided fiducial system to perform placement. The fiducial will not alter the surgical plan in
      this study. However, the relative ability to detect the marker during standard pancreatic
      surgery will help to inform whether this strategy may be used in improve future approaches to
      pancreas surgery.

      The study will be a prospective trial. All EUS will be performed as part of standard clinical
      care.

      Conventional EUS+FNA The linear array echoendoscope will be used to identify the pancreas
      adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine tumors. The Beacon EUS system/delivery sheath will be
      passed and fine needle aspiration performed to confirm cytology. This is required for
      standard clinical care. The delivery sheath will be left in place. The cytologist will
      perform bedside interpretation as is standard clinical care.

      EUS guided coil injection If adenocarcinoma or neuroendocrine tumor is confirmed by fine
      needle aspiration the fine needle fiducial accessory will be passed through the delivery
      sheath (whose position on the tumor is now "biopsy confirmed" and 1-3 fiducials (coil type)
      will be introduced into the lesion. This process will be guided by EUS which is being
      performed for standard clinical care. Fluoroscopy not be utilized.

      Pancreas Surgery: At time of surgery the experimental component is that it will be gauged
      whether the fiducial impacts the ability to assess the tumor relative to lesions of
      comparable size. Whether the fiducial improves or does not improve assessment will be scaled
      on a 1-10 scale where 5 is the standard ease of detection of similarly sized tumors (without
      fiducials) based on the attending surgeon's experience.

      However, the fiducial will not be used to target the lesion or alter the surgical plan. The
      surgical plan will be based on preoperative clinical imaging, intraoperative findings, and
      intraoperative ultrasound (standard clinical care). The research coordinator will be present
      during surgery to facilitate timely acquisition of data. In some cases patient are deemed to
      not be resection candidates at the time of surgery if for example unexpected metastasis are
      found. The EUS guided fiducial placement will have no bearing on whether resection is done or
      not.
    
  