
    
      Gastroparesis is a debilitating disease in which patients suffer from a number of upper
      gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms including nausea, vomiting, early satiety, bloating,
      postprandial fullness, epigastric pain and burning, and cardiac pain and burning. Severe
      symptoms, particularly vomiting and nausea, can significantly impair a patients daily
      activities and quality of life.

      Current medical practice for the treatment and/or management of gastroparesis consists of
      dietary modifications, drug therapies, enteral feeding, parenteral feeding and surgery. These
      treatments are successful for some patients, but have significant drawbacks. Patients may
      initially be treated with various dietary modifications including frequent low fat meals.
      However, if dietary modifications alone are unsuccessful, antiemetic and prokinetic drugs, or
      combinations thereof, are generally tried. If symptoms cannot be controlled with medication,
      supplemental nutrition via enteral or parenteral feeding may be required to maintain
      hydration and nutritional status. Prokinetic drugs are intended to promote gastric motility,
      i.e., to return abnormally slow gastric emptying states to normal. Antiemetic drugs are
      intended to alleviate symptoms of nausea and vomiting, but have no effect on motility. None
      of the prokinetic drugs are labeled for improved gastric emptying in gastroparesis.
      Metoclopramide is the only antiemetic or prokinetic drug indicated for use in the treatment
      of symptoms of diabetic gastroparesis.

      Surgical procedures are occasionally employed to manage symptoms of gastroparesis while
      maintaining the ability for enteral feeding. Surgical procedures, including gastrectomy,
      pyloroplasty, and gastrojejunostomy, have had limited success in managing symptoms of
      gastroparesis. When drug therapies or surgery are ineffective, supplemental enteral feeding
      via gastric or jejunal feeding tubes or total parenteral nutrition (TPN) may be required to
      meet the patient's nutritional needs.

      For those patients who cannot be adequately treated or managed by current medical practice,
      the GES has no satisfactory alternative. It is this group of patients for which the GES
      System is indicated.
    
  