
    
      Patients were identified through the hospitals database using OPS-Codes for MPFL
      reconstruction. The included surgeries were performed from 07/2010 to 12/2016 in a single
      orthopedic hospital.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Dynamic MPFL-reconstruction (primary and revision surgery) including cartilage procedure

        -  Age of 18 years or older at a minimum of 24 months follow up

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Diagnosis of connective tissue disease

        -  Neurological diseases including patella associated spasticity and

        -  Concomitant alignment correction surgery including femoral/tibial osteotomy,
           trochleoplasty and tibial tubercle transfer

           213 Patients with 221 knees (8 bilateral) met the inclusion criteria. All patients were
           contacted by mail or phone to independently answer questionnaires.

      Surgical technique:

      The technique was performed according to the description by Ostermeier et al.. Briefly, the
      gracilis tendon is detached at its insertion site at the pes anserinus after opening the
      sartorius fascia. Instead of transferring the tendon through a subligamentous tunnel of the
      medial collateral ligament, as detailed in the original description of the technique, the
      tendon was passed around the incised sartorius fascia. From around the sartorius fascia the
      gracilis tendon is shuttled subcutaneously to the medial patellar margin, allowing the
      sartorius fascia to act as a pulley for the transferred tendon. Due to the dynamic
      reconstruction technique, the course of the graft appears to be more oblique compared to the
      static technique with femoral fixation at Schöttle's point. Fixation of the tendon is
      achieved by passing it through a transpatellar drill hole extending from the proximal medial
      patellar margin to the lateral patellar margin. The tendon is then tensioned with the knee in
      30 degrees of flexion and fixed with a bioabsorbable tenodesis screw.

      Data collection was performed by self-administered questionnaires, which were sent to the
      patients.

      The medical records and radiographs of all patients were reviewed for demographic information
      (age, sex) and to identify complications related to the surgical procedure. Complications
      were categorized as major if the patient returned to the operating room or required
      hospitalization after the index procedure. Complications were categorized as minor
      complications if they were treated on an outpatient basis.

      Rating of the results was performed using the Kujala score, the Norwich Patellar Instability
      Score and the BANFF Score.

      Pain level was recorded using the visual analogue scale (VAS, 0 = no pain, 10 = severe pain).
      General satisfaction with treatment outcomes was evaluated by questionnaire (1 = excellent, 2
      = very good, 3 = good, 4 = fair, 5 = poor, 6 = very poor) and by asking patients whether they
      would undergo the procedure again. Furthermore, information on patient characteristics,
      recurrence of dislocation, revision surgery, and other postoperative complications were
      recorded.

      Postoperative x-rays were analyzed concerning intraoperative complications (e.g. fractures or
      patellar drill hole malpositioning).
    
  