
    
      The present document is the description of a Subproject of a global and complete coordinated
      Project, in which are participants the University of A Coruña, the University of Alcalá de
      Henares and the University of Sevilla, and its title is "Artificial Intelligence and Robotic
      Assistive Technology devices for Disabled People" (AIR4DP).

      The main result of the AIR4DP project consists of the implementation of assistive technology
      that allows to incorporate the latest advances in Artificial Intelligence to improve life
      quality of people with disabilities. With this target, the investigators present a
      coordinated project that is divided into three sub-projects, whose main goals consist of
      developing and evaluating the breakthrough of the proposed technology in people with
      functional diversity.

      In this Study Protocol, the justification and the development of subproject MATCH are
      explained. It will be coordinated by the University of A Coruña, and its performance implies
      the participation of people with disabilities.

      Therefore, this project is focused on the implementation of outcome measurement tools to
      improve the efficacy, effectiveness and real utility of the assistive technology devices
      (ATD) developed. On the other hand, it is also very important to assess the functional impact
      the ATD has on the user's participation in their social environment. For that, other
      measurement tools to assess functional mobility outcomes will also be also carried out during
      basal assessment and after 6 months of ATD implementation.

      For this study protocol, the hypothesis is related to the relevance of the assessment of the
      interaction between the users and the AT: in order to guarantee a high match person-AT, to
      also get a positive psychosocial impact in the life of people with disabilities, the
      assessment and monitoring result two fundamental aspects.

      According to this hypothesis, the research groups has fixed two main objectives for the MATCH
      subproject:

        -  To determine the psychosocial impact of AT created during the coordinated project
           (AIR4ALL) on the life of people with disabilities.

        -  To promote the best match between the user and the assistive technology used.

      To complete, few secondary goals have been proposed:

        -  To assess the functional skills and abilities of people with disabilities, and to
           identify their needs to get independence in mobility and activities of daily living.

        -  To design and create the best technology solutions individualized for each person,
           meeting with the design for all principles, and promoting the involvement of the final
           user.

        -  To validate the assistive technology's solutions designed and prototyped in order to
           increase the levels of participation in daily activities to people with disabilities.

        -  To validate a protocol/model of outcome measures in the field of assistive technology to
           increase the efficiency and effectiveness of selecting and prescribing these products.
    
  