
    
      War-zone-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a major psychiatric disorder that
      includes specific disabling symptoms and impairments that interfere with a soldier's ability
      to do his or her job. There is strong evidence for cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) in
      treating PTSD in civilians, which suggests a prescription for returning veterans, but
      approximately 40% of patients retain a PTSD diagnosis (e.g., Foa et al., 1999) and drop-out
      rates are ~25%. It is imperative to develop novel evidence-based early interventions that are
      more acceptable to recent veterans and less draining of treatment resources. If CBT can be
      shortened and its efficacy boosted by cognitive enhancers then it is more likely that
      soldiers will get the most efficacious treatments for acute stress and PTSD. Our aim is to
      develop a program that is brief and effective, but will have long-term benefits for veterans
      by virtue of its greater amenability to self-management and treatment adherence beyond the
      therapy context.

      This study is a randomized, controlled, double-blind treatment trial comparing CBT plus DCS
      to CBT plus placebo. Participants will be 68 OEF/OIF veterans with PTSD randomly assigned to
      CBT plus DCS or CBT plus placebo. Procedures to screen subjects prior to randomization
      include a detailed phone screen, administration and collection of questionnaires, a medical
      assessment, and two baseline structured clinical interviews. Following randomization, both
      groups will receive the identical 6 session exposure-based CBT protocol. The DCS-augmented
      group will receive 50 mg of DCS 30 minutes prior to the four CBT sessions involving imaginal
      exposure, whereas the placebo-augmented group will receive a placebo pill prior to these
      sessions. Assessment interviews conducted by independent evaluators will occur at
      pre-treatment, post-treatment, and at 3, and 6-month follow-up. Self-report measures will
      also be administered at screening, throughout the 6 weeks of treatment, and at 3- and 6-
      month follow up.

      Comparison(s): OEF/OIF veterans with PTSD treated with CBT plus DCS, compared to OEF/OIF
      veterans with PTSD treated with CBT plus placebo.
    
  