
    
      Uterine fibroids (also referred to as myomas, leiomyomas, leiomyomata, and fibromyomas) are
      non-cancerous (benign) tumors that grow within the muscle tissue of the uterus. Approximately
      20-40% of women 35 years and older have fibroids. While many women with fibroids do not
      experience any symptoms, the location and size of fibroids can cause symptoms that can affect
      a woman's quality of life.

      Fibroids are hormonally sensitive so symptoms are likely to be cyclical with menstruation.
      Fibroid growth is dependent on hormone levels; an increase in a woman's hormone levels may
      cause the size of fibroids to increase. During menopause, these hormones decrease
      dramatically and may cause fibroid symptoms to diminish.

      Mifepristone is an antiestrogen hormone that antagonizes progesterone at receptor levels.
      Estrogen is generally considered to be a major contributor to uterine fibroids, but many
      studies have confirmed that progesterone can promote fibroid cell mitosis, and thus promote
      fibroids growth. In recent years, domestic and international clinical studies have shown that
      mifepristone treatment for 3 months can significantly reduce the size of uterine fibroids to
      achieve complete amenorrhea, improve bleeding caused by anemia, reduce clinical symptoms,
      uterine fibroids to reduce the size of complex Of the hysterectomy surgery into a simple, to
      avoid surgery caused by other organs of the injury, shorten the operation time, reduce the
      amount of surgical bleeding and blood transfusion, so that patients recover faster after
      surgery The literature reported the clinical use of 50mg, 25mg, 10mg and 5mg. The minimum
      dose of 10mg daily, 3 months can reduce the average size of uterine fibroids nearly half.
      Daily 5mg on fibroids shrink is not obvious. Mifepristone tablets is developed by the China
      Resources Zizhu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Drugs and Drugs 1.6, each tablet 10mg, for adult age
      women have moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids before the treatment of national
      food and drug supervision and management General Administration of the People 's Republic of
      China on October 24, 2014 approved its listing, the drug registration approval number:
      2014S00506. According to the State Food and Drug Administration drug clinical approval
      requirements of this product need to carry out IV clinical research, the purpose is to
      examine the efficacy of drugs in a wide range of conditions and adverse reactions to evaluate
      the general or special population in the use of the interests and risks , To further observe
      the safety and efficacy of drugs.
    
  