
    
      To treat musculoskeletal disorders, looking at the brain is an unusual strategy but one with
      high potential for effectiveness. Exercise can potentially train the brain if we understand
      the links between exercise and productive changes in the brain. Given the high prevalence,
      impact, and burden of musculoskeletal disorders (MSKDs), therapies need to focus on the
      origin of the problem to be more effective and reduce economic costs. The latest evidence
      highlights the need for musculoskeletal rehabilitative therapy, including exercise, to look
      both at local structural and functional abnormalities of the MSK system and at alterations
      within the central nervous system. These central alterations have been shown to have a
      crucial role in the pathophysiology and clinical manifestations of MSKDs. People with chronic
      MSKDs show brain alterations such as decreased regional grey matter volume in brain areas
      such as the cingulate cortex, the insula, and the superior frontal and temporal gyrus. They
      also have impairments in pathways related to pain modulation. These brain alterations are
      visible in people with chronic MSKDs such as low back pain, osteoarthritis, headaches, and
      chronic temporomandibular disorders (TMDs).

      Therapeutic exercise is a cornerstone for MSKD rehabilitation. Although its effects on pain
      are not fully understood, therapeutic exercise is widely applied in a variety of painful MSK
      conditions, including TMDs. Maladaptive changes in the motor cortex in MSKDs can improve
      after specific exercise training through motor control exercises and skilled cognitive
      practice, through strength and resistance training, and through novel motor training and
      visual feedback. However, all this evidence comes from preliminary studies with small sample
      sizes, before-and-after designs, and in specific clinical populations. Expanding this
      knowledge base to other clinical populations, with stronger study designs such as randomized
      controlled trials (RCTs), is important to accurately understand the effects of exercise
      therapy on brain plasticity and determine whether this approach is effective to manage MSKDs.

      Our team is interested in managing TMDs through exercise therapy. From our previous studies
      on neck muscle impairment in people with TMDs and our recent update of a systematic review on
      therapeutic exercise to manage TMDs, we conclude that motor control exercise is a promising
      option to treat people with TMDs. However, the evidence is still limited and more
      high-quality investigations on the effectiveness of novel motor training in TMDs is needed.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. Determine the impact of motor control training using visual feedback (MCTF) on
           pain-disability related outcomes such as pain intensity, pain pressure thresholds and
           jaw disability. We will compare outcomes for people with TMDs who receive MCTF or a
           placebo treatment after 8 weeks of treatment, and 4 months after treatment ends.

        2. Assess the impact of MCTF and explore its mechanisms of action on brain structure using
           DTI.

        3. Assess the impact of MCTF on brain networks using rsfMRI.

        4. Determine the effectiveness of MCTF in people with TMDs to restore normal muscular
           structure, performance and fatigability of the cervical muscles when compared with a
           placebo group.

      THE PROPOSED TRIAL: MATERIALS AND METHODS Design: This study will be a randomized controlled
      trial (RCT). A randomization sequence will be computer-generated by a research assistant (RA)
      not involved in the study. To ensure concealment, the RA will distribute the results of the
      sequence to the therapist in consecutively numbered, opaque, and sealed envelopes.
      Participants will be unaware of the study hypothesis. Assessors (who will measure
      clinician-assessed tests and analyze imaging outcomes) and the statistician will be blinded
      to the hypothesis and group allocation, following established guidelines. Participants
      randomized to the treatment group will receive MCTF as described in the Intervention section.
      Participants randomized to the placebo group will receive placebo transcutaneous electrical
      nerve stimulation (TENS) as described in the Intervention section.

      Participants: A convenience sample of people who attend the TMD/Orofacial Pain clinic (School
      of Dentistry, Faculty of Medicine & Dentistry, University of Alberta (UofA)) will be
      recruited.

      Sample Size: This will be a pilot study. Based on data of previous study, using pain
      intensity as a main outcome and the ANOVA repeated measures within-between interaction
      (effect size d=0.27) using α=0.05 and β=0.95, a sample size of approximately 18 subjects per
      each group is required. Due to the possibility of a 10% of dropouts, we will recruit 20
      subjects per group. Sample size calculation for the MRI variables was based on values of FA
      measurements of White Matter (WM) obtained from the WM adjacent to S1/M1 area obtained from
      Moayedi et al study on subjects with TMD. Based on a moderate difference between groups
      (effect size d=0.7) using α=0.05 and β=0.20, using an ANOVA analysis for 2 groups, a sample
      size of approximately 10 subjects per each group is required

      PROCEDURES General Considerations: An experienced assessor will determine eligibility of
      participants and will evaluate them with the standardized forms from the new DC/TMD. REDcap,
      a password protected web platform (supported by the UofA) will be used to collect all
      outcomes.

      Twenty subjects (10 subjects from the exercise group and 10 subjects from the placebo group)
      will be randomly allocated to undergo magnetic resonance imaging assessments of their brains
      at baseline, 2, and 6 months after randomization for both groups (treatment and control
      groups) if budget permits.

      Primary Outcome Variables: The main outcome measures for this study are pain intensity
      (measured by the VAS) and Fractional Anisotropy (FA) and functional brain networks (evaluated
      by imaging).

      All MRI will be performed in the Peter S. Allen MR Imaging Centre at the UofA by a certified
      MRI technologist.

      Secondary Outcomes: will be discussed in the section of outcomes. The following will be
      considered secondary outcomes: The Neck Disability Index, Jaw function, Pressure pain
      threshold (PPT), cervical flexor muscle performance, Neck Extensor Endurance Test (NEET), the
      Neck Flexor Endurance test (NFET), Neck muscle structure, and Global Rating Scale (GRS)

      INTERVENTION Early evidence from our research has shown that participants with TMDs present
      with abnormalities of the cervical flexor and extensor muscles. Exercises targeting these
      impairments reduce pain and level of dysfunction in people with cervical involvement. Thus,
      cervical motor control exercises are one of the most promising choices to treat people with
      TMDs. Treatment will consist of an 8-week progressive program of neck flexor and extensor
      exercises, performed for 30-45 min twice a week.

      Neck flexor training: Exercise during the first stage will be an incremental craniocervical
      flexion movement in a relaxed, supine lying position. This exercise targets the deep flexors
      of the upper cervical region, the longus capitis and colli, rather than the superficial
      flexors, the sternocleidomastoid and anterior scalene muscles. Participants will be
      instructed to perform and hold progressively inner range positions of craniocervical flexion,
      using a pressure biofeedback connected to a screen. This will maximize feedback to the
      participants as described in Armijo-Olivo et al. Once the correct craniocervical flexion
      motion is achieved, participants will begin to hold progressively increasing ranges of
      craniocervical flexion. They will use feedback from the pressure unit placed behind their
      neck for 5 pressure targets (from 20 mmHg to 30 mmHg). Participants will be asked to hold
      each level for 10 s and perform 10 repetitions without compensatory movements, with brief
      rest periods between each contraction (~3-5 s). In the last 2 weeks of the exercise program,
      participants will perform higher-load exercise with head weight as the load. Numbers of
      repetitions and sets will be increased as permitted by the participant's response to the
      exercise. An endurance element will be incorporated by increasing the time the position is
      held, depending on the participant's progress.

      Neck extensor training: Initially, participants will perform craniocervical extension and
      upper cervical rotation in a prone on elbows position while maintaining the cervical spine in
      a neutral position. They will progress to a 4-pt kneeling position. These exercises are
      designed to target the sub-occipital muscles. Attention will first be given to the spinal and
      scapular postures in the prone on elbows or 4-pt kneeling position. In the second phase of
      the exercise program, participants will perform higher-load exercise with head weight as the
      load, focusing on training the deep cervical extensors (the semispinalis cervicis/multifidus
      group). In this stage, they will initially perform up to 15 repetitions of neck extension
      while maintaining their head in a neutral position during 4-pt kneeling. Numbers of
      repetitions and sets will be increased as permitted by the participant's response to the
      exercise. An endurance element will be incorporated by increasing the time the position is
      held, depending on the participant's progress.

      Participants will be asked to refrain from seeking any additional treatment during the study
      and will be asked to register their compliance with the exercise program in a daily diary
      using REDCap.

      Placebo: The placebo group will receive placebo TENS (switched-off TENS apparatus with no
      perceptible stimulation). Four electrodes, 50 x 35 mm, will be placed on the neck muscles.
      The participant will be informed that this therapy is called a "subthreshold current" and
      they might not be able to feel any sensation underneath the electrodes during the treatment.
      The placebo treatment will be for 30 min twice a week for 8 weeks, as for the intervention
      group.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The analysis will follow the intention to treat principle. We will test
      for significant differences in VAS, PPT, TMDs and neck disabilities at baseline, after 8
      weeks of treatment, and 4 months after treatment ends (6 months) between participants
      receiving MCTF and a placebo group. A two-way mixed ANOVA with repeated measures will be used
      for each outcome (Objective 1); We will test for significant changes in FA at baseline, after
      8 weeks of treatment, and 4 months after treatment ends (6 months) between participants
      receiving MCTF and a placebo group, using a two-way mixed ANOVA with repeated measures. To
      determine the relationship between FA and the pain-disability and psychological outcomes, a
      multiple regression analysis will be conducted (Objective 2); We will determine if there are
      significant changes in rsfMRI networks after 8 weeks of treatment, and 4 months after
      treatment ends (6 months) between individuals receiving MCTF and a placebo group, using a
      two-way mixed ANOVA with repeated measures for each outcome. To determine the relationship
      between rsfMRI and the pain-disability and psychological outcomes, a multiple regression
      analysis will be conducted (Objective 3); We will determine if there are significant changes
      in CCFT, NEET, and NEFT, and cervical muscle structure at baseline, after 8 weeks of
      treatment, and 4 months after treatment ends (6 months) between individuals receiving MCTF
      and a placebo group, using a two-way mixed ANOVA with repeated measures for each outcome
      (Objective 4).

      Psychological functioning variables (distress, depression, anxiety) will be covariates. The
      alpha level will be set at α = 0.05. A Bonferroni adjusted p-value will be applied to correct
      for potential multiple comparisons and a Bonferroni post hoc test will be used to determine
      the significant difference between pairwise comparisons. Effect sizes and minimal important
      difference of the outcomes (using the GRS as an anchor measure) will be used to determine the
      clinical significance of results.
    
  