
    
      Restoration of endodontically treated teeth is one of the main challenges in restorative
      dentistry. There are structural changes in endodontically treated tooth: dehydration of
      dentin, mutation of collagen due to the effect of irrigation and reduction of hardness. This
      alteration together with loss of tooth structure inflicts a negative impact on long term
      prognosis of the endodontically treated tooth increases incidence of dental fracture.

      Endodontically treated teeth were restored traditionally by crown but this approach is
      invasive with many technical and clinical steps that prolong the time of treatment. Adhesive
      philosophy and resin composite were developed and enhanced within the last thirty years that
      give clinician conservative option also strengthen, protect the tooth against fracture and
      changed the doctrine of devitalized tooth must be restored by crown. Current studies
      encourage applying conservative approach and restoring endodontically treated teeth with
      bonded restorations, so a lot of classic indications of crown in restoring endodontically
      treated teeth are questioned now.

      Microhybrid resin composite restorations permit application of conservative approach that
      preserves remaining sound tooth structure. Fiber reinforced resin composite improved
      strength, toughness and fracture resistance of conventional resin composite and restored
      teeth.

      Fiber reinforcement of conventional resin composite is introduced aiming to improve their
      physical, mechanical properties and tooth fracture resistance. The improvement of the
      properties was interpreted due to the rule of fibers in stopping crack propagation and
      transferring stress from matrix to fibers, also it was suggested that fiber Reinforced Resin
      Composites decrease polymerization shrinkage and shrinkage stress. fiber-reinforced resin
      composites are used as a dentine substitute combined with conventional resin composites as an
      enamel replacement.
    
  