
    
      Congenital heart disease (CHD) remains the most common type of major congenital malformation
      and the leading cause of mortality from birth defects [1-4]. Advances in effective treatment
      for these lesions have significantly extended the lifespan of affected patients, especially
      for the most complex subtypes of disease. However, these patients are at higher risk of heart
      failure (HF) secondary to longer life expectancy. This includes patients with a systemic
      right ventricle and a single ventricle circulation palliated by a Fontan procedure [5, 6]. HF
      has been documented in up to 30% of patients with a systemic right ventricle and 40% of
      patients who have had a Fontan procedure [7].

      Ventricular assist devices (VAD) are implanted in patients with HF to improve cardiac output
      and prolong life. They remain underutilized in patients with CHD and HF in part due to the
      highly variable anatomy in this population. This is true despite outcomes having been shown
      to be the same for VAD placement in patients with and without CHD [8-10]. In the absence of
      VAD placement, however, wait list mortality for patients with CHD is higher than for those
      patients without CHD [11, 12].

      Advances in imaging techniques have allowed early diagnosis of CHD as well as anatomic
      assessment prior to surgical procedures. Given the significant yet often subtle anatomic
      differences between CHD patients, it is a substantial challenge to thoroughly depict all of
      the components of a complex patient's cardiac anatomy in a two dimensional imaging dataset.
      An innovative technology that is being used with more enthusiasm in the medical field, is
      three-dimensional (3D) printing. Our research team has previously reported on the best
      technique that should be used to create 3D printed cardiac models from MRI and the subtypes
      of complex CHD's for which 3D printing should be utilized [13-16]. 3D printing allows
      creation of patient specific physical anatomic models from a patient's own imaging data.
      These models provide a physical guide to patient-specific anatomic features that often make
      VAD and cannula placement challenging in patients with CHD [17]. Factors such as complex
      cardiac anatomic malformations, heavy trabeculations or a severely dilated ventricle can
      distort the usual anatomic landmarks used to identify the best position for cannula
      placement. Our primary goal is to establish the utility of this advanced imaging technique,
      which provides a much more comprehensive understanding of complex congenital cardiac anatomy.
      We hypothesize that 3D printed models will allow more informed preoperative planning with a
      clearer understanding of the best site for inflow and outflow cannula and VAD placement
      leading to better surgical preparedness, less operating room time and improved patient
      outcomes.

      AIM 1: To assess if a 3D printed cardiac model improves perceived visualization of VAD and
      cannula placement sites in CHD-HF patients as compared to 2D imaging. We will prospectively
      enroll CHD-HF patients at multiple centers and randomize to Group A (3D printed models will
      be used for pre-VAD planning) or Group B (no model-controls). For both Groups, all of the
      cardiothoracic surgeons at the participating center will complete a questionnaire after
      reviewing 2D imaging data. For Group A, a survey will also be administered after reviewing a
      patient specific 3D model. Our primary outcome measure will be better perceived visualization
      of cannula and VAD sites. We hypothesize that the 3D model will more clearly demonstrate
      sites of cannula and VAD placement as compared to 2D imaging.

      AIM 2: To determine if perioperative factors and outcomes improve in CHD-HF patients with use
      of a 3D printed model versus traditional imaging in VAD placement planning. Clinical
      characteristics will be collected at time of enrollment including primary diagnosis and
      indication for VAD. After VAD placement, information regarding the intraoperative and
      postoperative course will be collected including surgical cardiopulmonary bypass time (CPB)
      and need for cannula repositioning. Longer CPB increases morbidity and mortality and is
      associated with intensive care readmission in patients after LVAD placement [18-20]. Our
      primary measures of improvement will be CPB. We hypothesize that the improved preoperative
      planning using 3D models will lead to a decrease in CPB time.

      The skill with which we assess patient specific CHD anatomy for pre-procedural planning must
      be improved, especially for the most complex patients. To confirm the clinical benefit of 3D
      printed models in pre-surgical planning and justify their use in routine care, multicenter
      clinical trials must be conducted. As an expert in the field of 3D imaging in cardiac
      disease, I am well poised to lead this body of research. My goal is to become well versed in
      conducting high quality multicenter studies and to become facile in survey tool design
      through this K23 proposal. I will then design a prospective multicenter study for an
      independent R01 proposal focused on assessing the utility of 3D models in pre-procedural
      planning for all complex congenital heart diseases. Investigating and reporting on these
      findings will result in a paradigm shift in what we consider "standard of care" for advanced
      imaging offered to our most complex CHD patients.
    
  