
    
      Patients with stage IV NSCLC and some patients with advanced locoregional disease (stage III)
      are in general incurable and have a low probability for long-term survival.

      Current systemic treatment in good PS patients (PS 0-1) consists of a cisplatin doublet (e.g.
      cisplatin plus a second drug: vinorelbine, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, docetaxel). The median
      and one year survival obtained with this treatment ranges between 8-10 months and 25 - 35 %
      respectively (1,2). Progression-free survival is a median of 5 month or less in randomized
      studies (3). Response rates obtained are less than 25% in metastatic disease and up to 75% in
      advanced locoregional disease.

      Receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (RTKI's) are active drugs in patients with NSCLC
      pre-treated with cisplatin and/or docetaxel containing chemotherapy (2,4). Recently it has
      been shown that the EGFR1 kinase inhibitor erlotinib added to best supportive care (BSC)
      prolonged survival compared to BSC alone in patients with advanced NSCLC failing 1st or 2nd
      line chemotherapy (5).

      A small number of preliminary reports have indicated that the objective response rate with
      these RTKI's as first line treatment in some patient populations with advanced NSCLC could be
      around 20 % (6), The objective (mainly partial) response in the phase II studies with
      pre-treated patients ranges from 10 - 15 % according to the level of pre-treatment but the
      control of the disease (stable disease) and improvement of symptoms without demonstrated
      objective response has been reported to be as high as 40 to 50 % (2,4). The addition of
      RTKI's or placebo to the current standard doublets (e.g. cisplatin, gemcitabine or
      taxol/carboplatin) has not been shown to impact on response rate, time to treatment failure
      or survival in large phase III randomised trials in advanced NSCLC patients not selected for
      EGFR expression (7,8).

      Recently, mutations in the intracellular EGFR kinase domain that increase sensitivity of the
      receptor to RTKI's have been discovered (9,10). These studies suggest that the
      response/resistance to treatment could be strongly correlated to the presence/absence of such
      mutations. It is presently unclear whether patients who achieve stable disease under RTKI
      treatment do have receptor mutations, of which nature such mutations could be or what other
      biological pathways modulate the responsiveness/resistance.

      Mutations have been observed in about 10 % or less of the tumours examined. Most mutations in
      the EGFR kinase domain have been found in adenocarcinoma of non-smokers or minimal smokers.

      Recent data have established that an EGFR mutation can be found in 30% of adenocarcinoma of
      the lung if the smoking history is maximally 15 years. The probability of finding a mutation
      is approximately 50% in never-smokers with adenocarcinoma (11).

      In contrast to the rather low objective response rate, the clinical benefit rate of treatment
      with RTKI is around 40 % in a general population of non-small lung cancer (9,10), more than
      can be accounted for by mutational analysis. EGFR gene amplification might be another
      determinant for sensitivity, but the biological factors leading to disease stabilisation in
      some patients with non-activated EGFR are presently unknown.

      Several humanized monoclonal antibodies (huMoAb) that can inhibit the EGFR-1 receptor have
      been developed as well. Of these, cetuximab (ErbituxÒ) has been developed most extensively,
      especially in head and neck (12) and colorectal cancer (13,14), but other, fully humanized
      antibodies (huMoAb) (ABX-EGF, EMD 72000) are under development.

      Cetuximab has been assessed in NSCLC, especially in combination with first-line and
      second-line chemotherapy (15), but no data are currently available with respect to single
      agent activity.

      The two types of currently available drugs targeting the EGFR-1, the RTKI's such as gefitinib
      and erlotinib and huMoAb such as cetuximab and ABX-EGF, are generally well tolerated and
      devoid of significant grade 3-4 toxicity.

      While there are strong indications that the major responses obtained with RTKI's could
      strongly correlate with the presence of tyrosine kinase domain mutations in addition to the
      known mechanism of action of these drugs (16,17), this is at present yet not so clear for the
      monoclonal antibodies directed against the extracellular domain of the receptor.

      Some recent data suggest that EGFR gene amplification might also correlate with response to
      TKI (18).

      Patients with Stage IV and some advanced stage III NSCLC are at present incurable and
      first-line chemotherapy has had only a palliative and a life prolonging effect at a cost of
      variable toxicity.

      On the other hand the response rate to TKI in patients with a NSCLC carrying a mutant
      receptor is probably high as can be inferred from the comparison of the prevalence of such
      mutations and the response rate to these agents in an unselected population (16).

      It seems therefore reasonable to explore in a first-line setting the potential of EGFR-1
      targeted therapy, as these drugs have a very favourable toxicity profile and might induce
      prolonged palliation.

      There are currently no data that would suggest that delaying chemotherapy in this patient
      population in well controlled conditions and for a limited time period (sufficient to
      evaluate the efficacy of more novel first-line treatments) might affect the efficacy of
      subsequent chemotherapy. There are also no data that suggest that prior administration of
      drugs targeted at the EGFR-1 will induce resistance to subsequent chemotherapy. The distinct
      respective mechanisms of action of these drugs and chemotherapy also do not suggest this to
      be likely.

      In other diseases such as prostate cancer and oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, the
      availability of hormonal treatments permits prolonged and at times long-term disease control
      with limited discomfort. It is possible that a similar scenario could be obtained with an
      anti-EGFR treatment in NSCLC carrying a mutant EGFR.

      Therefore it seems justified to expand previous second-line phase II experience with
      anti-EGFR strategies to patients with incurable stage III-IV NSCLC without prior therapy and
      a mutant EGFR. The informed consent towards these patients before entry in the study will
      clearly state that until now the first-line standard of care has been chemotherapy, which
      leads to a small overall survival benefit compared to the supportive treatment only and that
      participation in the current study will delay this treatment within a tightly controlled
      setting.

      In the current trial the RTKI erlotinib will be used. Prior experience with this drug has
      been obtained in phase II and III studies. In the phase II setting, in an unselected
      pretreated population, a response rate of 12.3% and a median survival of 8.4 months could be
      obtained (19). In phase III, placebo-controlled studies, combination of erlotinib with
      concurrent chemotherapy does not provide a survival advantage (gemcitabine and cisplatin in
      TALENT (20) and paclitaxel and carboplatin in TRIBUTE (21). Several hypotheses can explain
      these results: lack of selection of patients; antagonism between cytostatic and cytotoxic
      agents (negative interaction with chemotherapy when given concurrently); chemotherapy and
      EGFR inhibitors target the same cell population since chemotherapy directly or indirectly
      affects EGFR function/expression and thereby reducing the effects of EGFR inhibitors. These
      results are in contrast to the significant survival benefit seen in the phase III randomized
      placebo-controlled study in NSCLC following failure of 1st or 2nd line chemotherapy (BR21).
      The response rate was 9% in the erlotinib treated patients, with significant increase in
      progression free survival (from 8 to 9,7 wks) and increased survival (from 4.7 mth to 6.7
      mth, p< 0.001). In that study the biological parameters that correlate with response
      (mutation status, EGFR gene amplification and EGFR immunohistochemistry) are still under
      study.

      Survival benefit correlated best with the presence of EGFR expression by immunohistochemistry
      and EGFR gene polysomy (22).
    
  