
    
      Femoral shaft fractures are the most common orthopedic injury among the femoral fractures in
      pediatric patients. Approximately 70% of them, are femoral shaft fractures. In the management
      of this fractures, child abuse has to be discarded, considering age, history, physical
      examination and radiographic findings.(1) Gross et al suggest that up to 80% of the children
      that have not yet learned to walk, have been victims of abuse. Moreover, it is important to
      discard any other condition that could make the child prone to fractures, myelomeningocele,
      cerebral palsy, osteogenesis imperfecta, non-ossifying fibroma, etc.

      Once the diagnosis is made, several variables have to be brought to account, in order to
      select a treatment method: associated injuries, fracture characteristics, the capability of
      obtaining an appropriate reduction, familiar situation and costs.

      Conservative treatment is still the preferred method by orthopedic surgeons because of its
      cost and effectivity. Pavlik harness are used in newborns and children up to 6-12 months, it
      maintains the fracture aligned, it is comfortable and avoids the risk of complications
      associated to the cast contact with the skin.(1,2) The walking spica cast is used in patients
      between 1 and 6 years old. Generally this method of treatment is indicated isolated and
      low-energy fractures.(1) Patients in this group of age with high-energy or comminuted
      fractures, may require traction prior to the application of the cast. Also, positive
      Telescope Test may make the patient candidate to traction. In this test, under general
      anesthesia, a gentile force is applied along the femur, if a 3 or more centimeters shortening
      is present, the patient has a 20-fold risk of unacceptable shortening.(3) For the application
      of a cast in femoral fractures, a flexion of 90° in the hip and knee joints is preferred,
      because this position relaxes the flexor muscles and the hamstrings, besides, it has a lower
      incidence of loss of reduction and more easy easiness for transportation.(4) in previous
      studies there has been a loss of reduction 9 times greater in patients immobilized with the
      knee in less of 50°. The risk of loss of reduction is elevated twice for each centimeter of
      initial shortening. (1 cm: 12%; 3 cm: 50%)(5) A long cast is applied on the affected
      extremity, while a gentile traction is maintained and a valgus mold is applied on the
      fracture site. The remaining part of the cast is applied to the line of the nipples. Caution
      has to be taken when applying traction to the extremity because the pressure on the popliteus
      fossa and peroneal nerve. The use of synthetic materials is preferred (glass fiber),
      resistance, durability and low weight makes them optimal. To give some extra strength to the
      cast, fiber strips are placed anterior and posterior at the level of the groin, this can
      facilitate the transportation of the patient avoiding the use of a bar.

      A radiographic follow-up during the first 10 days is important because the position of the
      reduction during the first 7 through 10 days, predicts in a important manner the final
      result. The cast is retired at 6 - 8 weeks. The rehabilitation therapy is not usually
      necessary and the parents need to be advised about a residual limp, which can last a few
      months.

      The patient and his family´s life quality has an important role in this kind of injuries. The
      immediate application of a spica cast substitutes the bed traction prior to the cast
      application.(4) Multiple adequations have to be made: vehicle safety and transportation,
      daily supervision, education, home mobility, and hygiene. The home transportation has been
      identified as the most problematic issue and as a solution to this problem, families have to
      acquire a wheel chair. (1,4) Hygiene represents a prevalent issue, of minor importance, and
      parents should be educated about this problem. The position of the cast at 90°-90° may help
      to solve this issue.

      Surprisingly, the need to be absent at work is not the most mentioned problem by parents,. An
      average of 3 weeks out of work was needed by parents to take care of their child.

      Education and learning of the child is vital because of the development and socialization
      process that takes place during this age. (4) A home tutor works adequately, even though this
      represents a economic burden to the family.

      Activity recovery after retrieval of the cast, such as running and playing starts until 25
      days. Physical education should be postponed for one month after retrieval. (4) Surgical
      treatment is indicated in patients in school age, because of the quality life burden the
      prolonged immobilization represents. Among those treatments, the options are external
      fixation, intramedullary flexible nails, and plate fixation.
    
  