
    
      Data Collection Procedure:

      The participants will be divided into three groups A, B and C on the basis of randomization
      performed using an envelope technique. The participants in group A will perform PNF D2 with
      free weights (PNF D2 FW), participants of Group B will perform PNF D2 with elastic bands (PNF
      D2 ERB) while Group C will be control group and the participants of this group will perform
      PNF D2 without resistance (PNF D2 WR). Initially, consent will be obtained from all
      participants after explaining them the protocols of treatment. The Pulmonary Function Test
      (PFT) will be performed to record pre-intervention spirometric values of FEV1/FVC
      (Tiffeneau-Pinelli Index), Minute Ventilation (MV), Force expiratory volume in 1 second
      (FEV1), Forced Vital capacity (FVC), Total Lung Capacity (TLC) and Residual Volume (RV).
      Similarly, 6 Minute Walk Test (6MWT) and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire Score will be
      recorded to determine the exercise capacity and health status score of COPD patient
      respectively. Following the assessment procedure, both groups will receive 8 weeks of
      treatment with frequency of 3 sessions per week lasting for 30 minutes approximately.

      Intervention Protocol Group A Participants in Group A will perform PNF D2 flexion and
      extension with free weights (PNF D2 FW) The intensity of exercise will be determined for each
      individual by using maximum repetition test (1 repetition maximum 1-RM). The intensity will
      be kept 50 % of the maximal load. 3 sets of PNF D2 FW Flexion (flexion-abduction and external
      rotation) and PNF D2 FW Extension (extension-adduction-internal rotation) respectively will
      be performed on each upper limb with 10 repetitions per set. All exercises will be performed
      with a rest interval of 30 seconds to 1 minute between the sets.

      Intervention Protocol Group B Participants in this group will perform 3 sets of PNF D2
      flexion (flexion-abduction and external rotation) and extension (extension-adduction-internal
      rotation) respectively with elastic bands after assessing the 1-RM test starting with a
      lightest resistance and gradually progressing to the higher level. Subsequently, 71% to 86%
      of 1-RM will be taken as a target range of the resistance for the training . Moreover, each
      set will consist of 10 repetitions for both D2 flexion and Extension and a resting interval
      of 60 seconds between two consecutive sets. The procedure will be repeated for both limbs.

      Intervention Protocol Group C The participants in the Group C or control group will perform
      the PNF D2 flexion and extension without any resistance. Three sets consist of 10 repetitions
      of each pattern for both upper limbs will be performed with an interval of 60 seconds between
      two consecutive sets.

      After 8 weeks of training, the pulmonary function test (PFT), 6 Minute Walk Test and George's
      Respiratory Questionnaire scores will be recorded for post intervention readings. Results
      will be recorded and statistical analysis will be performed.
    
  