
    
      More recent data has shown that performing local therapy with lymphogenic metastatic prostate
      cancer has resulted in a definite benefit in cancerspecific and overall survival. The
      analysis of this data has led to a change of paradigm in the treatment of lymphogenic
      metastatic prostate cancer (Isbarn Deutsches Ärzteblatt 2013). Patients with low lymphogenic
      metastatic load and low comorbidity are therefore frequently given local therapy. In a
      retrospective review of patients with lymphogenic metastatic prostate cancer, who were either
      treated by means of best systemic therapy or best systemic therapy plus radical
      prostatectomy, a highly significant benefit is shown for the patient group which received
      surgery (Engel et al., Eur Urol 2012). The 5 and 10 year overall survival rate in this cohort
      was 84% and 64% respectively following RP and in the other cohort with best systemic therapy
      without RP 60% and 28% respectively.

      Our own working group was able to confirm this clear survival benefit in the lymphogenic
      metastatic stage for patients who received surgery: in a matched pair analysis the clinically
      progression-free survival rate after 5 and 10 years was 77% and 61% respectively after
      additional RP and 61% and 31% respectively with best systemic therapy alone (p=0.005). The
      same trend was found for cancer-specific survival (84% and 76% with additional RP versus 81%
      and 46% with best systemic therapy alone (p=0.001) (Steuber et al., BJUI 2011).

      The impressive improvements in the survival rates of lymphogenic metastatic prostate cancer
      through local therapy compared with best systemic therapy alone suggests that patients with
      distant metastases could potentially also benefit from local therapy. Besides possible
      effects on tumour control, the RP could also be beneficial with regard to a local progression
      of the prostate cancer (rectal infiltration, infiltration of the bladder). This could lead to
      an improvement in the quality of life in the course of the disease. On the other hand,
      radical prostatectomy is associated with potential side-effects (e.g. urinary incontinence in
      approximately 5 - 10% of patients as well as possible general side-effects, such as
      thrombosis, embolism, impaired wound healing etc.), which can lead to a loss in terms of
      quality of life.
    
  