
    
      Introduction Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is pathological condition caused by deep vein
      thrombosis (DVT) with a consequent detaching of thrombus from original sites , that by
      embolic phenomena and traveling to the lung might result in pulmonary embolism (PE). As
      first, the diagnosis of PE might result frequently inaccurate, with many cases incorrectly
      diagnosed or missed. Secondly, it might be caused by several conditions such as surgery and
      trauma, with a consequent relevant clinical impact and worse prognosis. However, clinical
      presentation of PE range from those completely asymptomatic or with an insidious disease, to
      sudden unexpected death (SUD. SUD may be defined as a natural and fatal event that occurs
      within 1 h of the beginning of symptoms in an apparently healthy subject or in those with a
      disease not particularly severe to cause an abrupt outcome. Since the diagnosis is
      challenging, epidemiological data regarding PE mortality remain limited.To date, it is
      estimated that PE is responsible for 100,000 annual deaths only in the United States and
      approximately 25-30% of patients had SUD as consequence of PE.

      However, in our opinion it might be essential to collect morphological macroscopic evaluation
      elements to distinguish a thrombus from an embolus or agonic coagulum.To date, the autopsy
      may be useful for the determination of the identification of death cause, and to establish
      the dating of transformation of thrombus and evaluate any professional error. Therefore, in
      this study, authors will critically review the histological section of thrombus from 30 fatal
      cases of PE pulmonary embolus by autopsies, and its correlation and origin prior or
      subsequent to a traumatic event, as confirmed by post-mortem examination and final diagnosis.
      Moreover, the aim of this study will be to evaluate the chronological transformation of the
      thrombus and to establish the time of death for each subject.

      Materials and methods Patients and samples Pulmonary vessels sections will be collected from
      30 fatal cases of PE (25 cases of hospitalized patients and 5 cases of SUD) defined according
      to commonly accepted criteria were routinely collected from January 2010 to December 2017 at
      the University of Naples Federico II.

      Histological evaluation According to the guidelines for autopsy from the Association for
      European Cardiovascular Pathology, and in all cases authors will examine the pulmonary
      arterial trunk by posterior approach. Sections (4 μm thick) will be stained with hematoxylin
      and eosin stain (H&E) for diagnosis. The original tissues samples will be fixed in 10%
      neutral buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin. The immunohistochemistry for anti-LCA,
      anti-CD68, and anti-CD3 will be performed to identify the inflammatory infiltrate. In
      addition, authors will be performed an immunofluorescence method to identifying the
      deposition of factor VIII and fibrinogen. A Picro Sirius Red/Fast Green will be used for
      differential staining of collagen during matrix production phase. All stained samples will be
      examined under infiltrate, absent or rare lympho-monocytic inflammatory elements. The vessels
      of small and medium will be involved, mainly from the main branches of the pulmonary
      vessels.In2 patients we observed a score 3 for cellular infiltrate and 1 for fibrosis. In 10
      cases (5 heart patients, 2 cardiac patients undergoing surgery and 3 surgeries), authors will
      observe an increase (score 2) in the digital and light microscope.
    
  