
    
      Sport climbing is a growing success sport that will be debuting as an official discipline in
      the Tokyo 2020 Olympics game. They are used during competitions.

      To practice this discipline, both dexterity in movement and extreme physical strength are
      needed to climb the sloping and vertical walls that are used during competitions.

      The appearance of muscle pain induced by an unusual and strenuous physical activity (DOMS) is
      an extremely common factor in all sports activities that involves a maximum and repeated
      muscular effort. In the sport climbing practice this physiological phenomenon is common and
      occurs both in those who practice at as professional and amateur level. Numerous studies have
      shown that muscle pain is induced by physical activity and independent of damage to muscle
      fibers and classic inflammation of tissues. The phenomenon of DOMS is accompanied by
      hyperalgesia and allodynia during muscle contraction, these are conditions of irritation of
      the peripheral nervous system (SNP) and central nervous system (CNS), but today no evidence
      of such sensitization phenomena of the SNP and SNC has been provided. The presence of muscle
      pain is one of the main causes of impossibility to practice sports not only for those who
      practice sport climbing at a professional level, but for most amateur sportsmen. Thanks to
      the tools validated in the last decade, it is possible to study the involvement and awareness
      responses of the SNP and SNC with reliable and non-invasive techniques in the phenomenon of
      DOMS. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the appearance of the DOMS is today a primary
      priority for sports practice and for physical training for muscular effort both as a
      professional and amateur level.

      Presence of peripheral and central sensitization in DOMS will be assessed and a three arm
      randomized controlled double blind multicentric study will be performed to assess the effects
      of treatment on peripheral tissues compared to pain mechanisms explanation. Healthy
      participants of both sexes will be assessed before DOMS, at 48 hours (the peak phase of
      symptoms) before and after treatment and at 96 hours when symptoms usually are in remission.
    
  