
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a major public health problem with a prevalence of more than 23 million
      worldwide(Roger VL: Epidemiology of heart failure. Circ Res 2013). Acute decompensated HF
      (ADHF), defined as 'gradual or rapid change in HF signs and symptoms resulting in a need for
      urgent therapy', with associated volume overload is the most common cause of hospitalization
      in heart failure patients. When it is accompanied by worsening in renal function, it is
      described as a cardio-renal syndrome and is a therapeutic challenge(Acute heart failure
      syndromes: current state and framework for future research. Circulation 2005). In spite of
      the major advances in chronic HF management, the morbidity and mortality of ADHF remain high,
      resulting in the significant impairment of the quality of life of the patients and high
      health care cost burden. Congestion is the primary reason for hospitalization in a great
      majority of patients with ADHF. Moreover, adequate decongestion determined by either invasive
      or noninvasive parameters has been linked with improved outcomes in these patients. Currently
      available therapeutic regimens for decongestion, which heavily rely on diuretic use, are
      associated with a number of shortcomings. Diuretics are known to cause electrolyte
      abnormalities, deterioration of renal function, neuro hormonal activation, and non-renal
      adverse effects. Suboptimal diuresis, diuretic resistance, and unpredictability of the
      therapeutic response pose additional challenges for the use of these medications in the
      setting of ADHF, which in turn lead to worsening or lingering congestion(Gheorghiade M,
      Filippatos G: Reassessing treatment of acute heart failure syndromes: the ADHERE Registry.
      Eur Heart J Suppl 2005). Unfortunately, the newer pharmacologic agents such as endothelin
      receptor antagonists, vasopressin receptor antagonists, and adenosine-A1 receptor antagonists
      have failed to prove their role as safe and effective alternatives to conventional therapies.
      Consequently, there has been a renewed interest in exploring non-pharmacologic therapies like
      mechanical extraction of the excess fluid (i.e. ultrafiltration (UF)) as an effective
      alternative to the conventional approaches aimed at decongestion in ADHF. Ultrafiltration is
      a mechanical fluid removal procedure designed to treat patients who have an excess of fluid
      in their bodies and have difficulty removing fluid with diuretics. The goal of treatment is
      to restore fluid balance in the body. UF therapy has several proposed advantages including
      relatively rapid, predictable, and adjustable fluid removal, activation of the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system to a lower degree compared with diuretics, and more
      effective sodium removal.
    
  