
    
      Introduction

      Epidemiological evidence supports the existence of a link between intrauterine growth
      restriction (IUGR) and reduced exercise capacity in young adulthood. Prolonged intrauterine
      hypoxia results in redistribution of fetal cardiac output towards the vital organs at the
      expense of skeletal muscles, and experimental data show that the muscles of animals exposed
      to IUGR may suffer permanent structural and functional changes. Prematurity, which often
      accompanies IUGR, is also associated with reduced exercise capacity later in life, supposedly
      due to airflow limitation, air trapping and/or reduced gas-exchange capacity.

      The respiratory muscles (RM) play a central role in the development (and perception) of
      locomotor muscle fatigue, which represents the major determinant of exercise limitation in
      otherwise healthy subjects. Heavy and/or sustained respiratory work leads to accumulation of
      metabolites in RM and triggers reflexes that increase the sympathetic vasoconstrictor outflow
      to the skeletal muscles, thus promoting fatigue. In support of the above concept, targeted RM
      training has been shown to increase the fatigability threshold and improve exercise
      performance.

      RM function can be assessed by means of strength and endurance, which can be estimated
      non-invasively by the maximum inspiratory and expiratory pressure (Pimax and Pemax), and the
      tension-time index (TTImus), respectively. TTImus is a composite parameter that reflects the
      balance between the capacity of RM and the load imposed upon them; high TTImus values
      indicate low endurance and increased risk of respiratory fatigue. In adults, impaired
      exercise tolerance is associated with reduced RM strength and endurance, both in normal and
      pathological conditions. However, similar data are not available in children.

      Hypothesis and objectives

      The study hypothesis is that IUGR may have long-term effects on RM function, thus leading to
      reduced exercise capacity later in life. Other factors, such as the presence and degree of
      respiratory dysfunction, the performance of the skeletal muscles and the nutritional status,
      may also be involved. The study objective is to investigate the above hypothesis by comparing
      RM function and cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) parameters between school-aged
      children exposed to IUGR and healthy controls, taking also into account the aforementioned
      confounders.

      Methods

      Population

      In this case-control study, 50 school-aged children (7-10 years old) exposed to IUGR (birth
      weight <10th percentile & fetal ultrasound documentation) will be compared with 100 matched
      for age and gestational age controls. The study will be performed in the Pediatric CPET
      laboratory of the University Hospital of Patras, Greece, during a 2-year period (2018-2020).
      Participants will be recruited from the long-term follow-up program offered to all children
      who are born preterm or with IUGR, and from the local schools (healthy full-term controls).
      The protocol will be approved by the hospital Ethics Committee and parental informed consent
      will be obtained prior to enrollment.

      Protocol

      After a thorough review of the medical history, participants will undergo the following
      tests:

        1. Nutritional status, body composition and skeletal muscle strength. Initially, weight and
           height will be measured, and the body mass index (BMI) will be calculated. Body
           composition (muscular mass, body fat, water) will be determined by the InBody 270 Body
           Composition Analyzer (Biospace, Seoul, Korea) using bioelectrical impedance analysis.
           Skeletal muscle strength (grasping power) will be measured using a digital grip
           dynamometer (Grip-D, TAKEI, Japan).

        2. Lung function measurements. Spirometry, measurement of lung volumes (helium dilution
           technique) and measurement of lung diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) will be
           performed prior to CPET using the Jaeger MasterScreen PFT device (CareFusion, San Diego,
           USA). Spirometric measurements will be repeated at 5, 10, and 15 minutes after CPET.

        3. RM function. Pimax, Pemax, airway pressure at 100 msec after occlusion (P0.1), and Ti
           and Ttot will be measured by the Micro 5000 device (Medisoft, Sorinnes, Belgium)
           according to the guidelines. TTImus will be calculated as (Pimean / Pimax) x (Ti /
           Ttot), where Pimean is the mean airway pressure resulting from the formula Pimean = 5 x
           P0.1 x Ti. RM function will be determined a) prior to CPET, b) during CPET when the
           anaerobic threshold (AT) will be reached, and c) after CPET, when heart rate (HR) and
           oxygen consumption will be normalized (recovery period).

        4. CPET. CPET will be performed by the Ultima CPX system (Medgraphics, St. Paul, USA),
           using a cycle ergometer and according to a standardized protocol11 and the established
           guidelines. The following parameters will be recorded: total work in Watts, maximum HR,
           maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max), AT indices (work, HR, VO2 ) and duration of
           recovery.

      Statistical analysis

      Between-group comparisons will be performed with Student's t or Mann-Whitney U test, as
      appropriate. Linear regression analysis will be used to explore the relationship between RM
      function and CPET parameters, after adjustment for nutritional status, body composition, lung
      function, and prematurity. The trend of Pimax, Pemax, and TTImus changes during CPET
      (baseline - AT - recovery) will be also assessed and compared between groups. The analyses
      will be performed using the IBM SPSS version 23.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY).

      Innovation and implications

      The study will be the first to explore whether IUGR is associated with impaired exercise
      tolerance in childhood due to RM dysfunction, while taking into account the confounding
      effect of prematurity, impaired lung function, body composition and nutritional status.

      Should the relationship IUGR - RM dysfunction - exercise limitation be confirmed, it will
      provide new insights on the long-term effects of IUGR; impaired exercise tolerance may lead
      to reduced physical activity, thus enhancing the well-known metabolic and cardiovascular
      consequences of IUGR later in life. In this regard, the findings of this study may assist in
      identifying children at risk and planning targeted strategies to improve exercise capacity in
      this vulnerable population.
    
  