
    
      It remains unclear if being physically active increases the risk of skeletal-related events
      in patients with bone metastases. Many health professionals report fracture risk as the
      primary concern with exercise prescription, despite a recognition of the importance of
      exercise participation. Consequently, health professionals can be hesitant to offer exercise
      advice and many patients are physically inactive. With increasing evidence supporting the
      benefits of exercise in metastatic bone disease, there is a need to address exercise-related
      concerns.

      Clinical scoring systems such as Mirel's classification, are considered predictive of
      pathological fracture risk. While scoring algorithms have considerable potential to inform
      exercise eligibility in this population, to date the applicability of such clinical measures
      for exercise prescription have been inadequately studied. This study will examine the
      relationship between habitual physical activity, captured objectively by accelerometry, and
      skeletal related events (pathologic fracture, spinal cord compression, necessity for
      radiation to bone or surgery to bone pathological fracture) in patients with metastatic
      disease (n=100). Clinical data including fracture risk and Skeletal Related Events (SREs),
      Physical Activity (PA) data and subjective measures of pain, sleep, Quality of Life (QoL) and
      exercise barriers and benefits will be collected at baseline. Fracture risk will be
      determined at baseline using Mirel's Classification, which will be assessed by a radiologist
      affiliated with the study research team.

      With treatment advances, patients with bone metastases secondary to advanced cancer are
      living longer. Consequently, optimising quality-of-life is a key priority and exercise has
      many recognised benefits in this domain. This research will explore the association between
      daily activity levels and skeletal complications in patients with bone metastases, by
      examining methods of identifying patients who are suitable to exercise, therefore improving
      exercise prescription practice and exercise participation safety.
    
  