
    
      Nasal mucus as first line defense barrier of the nasal mucosa contains a variety of proteins
      that act as functional units. We recently showed that the nasal mucus proteome between
      allergic rhinitis patients and healthy controls is significantly altered. On protein level,
      immune response in allergic rhinitis is enhanced and barrier function is reduced as reflected
      by increased epithelial permeability. Moreover, there is an unfavorable imbalance in innate
      anti-proteases. Proteases in pollen grain could therefore not be adequately deactivated in
      the mucus further damaging the epithelium which leads to submucosal penetration of allergens
      and facilitated presentation to antigen presenting cells.

      The aim of the present project is to show changes in nasal mucus proteome between allergic
      rhinitis patients and healthy controls over the pollen and non pollen season and to further
      determine whether and if so how the proteome changes under immunotherapy. For the first aim
      patients and healthy controls will be enrolled at two time points namely during the pollen
      season and out of the pollen season. Statistical differences will be determined within the
      groups and between the groups. The protein changes over the time course reflect how allergics
      but also healthy controls react to allergen challenge. The results should give insight on
      possible biomarkers that could be used for diagnostics and therapy. Protein substitution or
      inhibition may be a future therapy to reinforce the barrier function of nasal mucus and treat
      allergic rhinitis symptoms. The effect of immunotherapy as sole causal therapy will be
      determined and therapy responders will be compared to non-responders. We hypothesize that
      responders will show proteome changes similar to healthy conditions. This further concretizes
      distinct proteins as biomarkers that could be used as therapeutic agents. Moreover proteome
      changes could be used to predict and monitor therapeutic success or failure and patients may
      be stratified to be subjected to other therapeutic strategies than immunotherapy saving time
      and money.

      Mucus will be collected with a special suction device equipped with a mucus trap. Then,
      proteomic analysis will be performed by LC MS/MS mass spectrometry. Database search will
      identify distinct proteins and their function, origin etc. will be annotated. Protein groups
      will be analyzed through pathway enrichment and cluster analysis. By this means complex
      proteomic data can be visualized for a better understanding of global changes in protein
      networks and functions.

      Investigating the nasal mucus proteome in diseased and healthy state leads to a better
      understanding of its barrier function and reaction to allergens. Distinct proteins and/or
      proteins groups could be used as biomarkers for novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.
      Furthermore, mechanisms of immunotherapy in responders and success or failure of therapy
      could be determined.
    
  