
    
      Context :

      Allowing a functional communication is a major issue in order to preserve quality of life in
      tracheostomized ventilator-dependent patients.

      We showed in a previous study that the use of a positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) in
      neuromuscular tracheostomized ventilator-dependent patients improved speech as it allows the
      patient to expire (at least partly) through the upper airways therefore to speak during
      expiration. The use of PEEP has been compared to the use of a phonation valve placed on the
      ventilator circuit which allows a complete expiration through the upper airways and therefore
      speech. Both techniques seem similar in terms of efficiency on speech; PEEP, however, is
      better tolerated and seems to be more secure (the system remains open during expiration
      decreasing the risk of high pressure, it does not require any handling of the ventilator
      circuit).

      Optimal PEEP level allowing the patient to expire the total expiratory volume through the
      upper airways PEEPeff may vary from one patient to the other. We seek to determine individual
      PEEPeff and to compare it to 50% of its value (PEEPef50). Indeed, while PEEPeff may
      constitute the best level for expiratory speech as it mimics the mechanisms of a phonation
      valve without some of its fallbacks, by preventing expiration through the expiratory circuit
      of the ventilator, it also may lengthen expiration, delaying inspiration which allows speech,
      and facilitate hyperinflation leading to respiratory discomfort as we have previously
      observed with some patients using a phonation valve. Optimal PEEP level would be the best
      compromise between best possible phonation and best possible respiratory comfort and
      therefore could be lower than PEEPeff.

      In order to improve respiratory comfort with higher PEEP level, we developed a prototype
      ventilator in which PEEP is activated by a switch under the control of patients who may
      activate it only when needed (during speech period).

      Objective :

      The main objective of the study is to optimize PEEP use both by determining individually its
      most appropriate level and by evaluation its use overtime to allow the best possible speech
      with the best respiratory comfort and the most secure condition for tracheostomized
      ventilated patients. Different PEEP levels will be evaluated and PEEP activation will be
      controlled by the patients.

      Methods:

      Open randomized monocentric cross-over study (the patients are their own control).

      Optimal PEEP level (PEEPeff), defined as PEEP-level allowing complete expiration through the
      upper airways, will be determined for each patient. Speech and respiratory parameters were
      studied without PEEP, with PEEPeff and an intermediate PEEP-level(PEEP50). Flow and airway
      pressure will be measure and upper airways resistance will be calculated. Microphone speech
      recordings were subjected to both quantitative measurements and qualitative assessments of
      speech.

      For each PEEP level the following protocol will be conducted: 5 minutes of quiet breathing
      with PEEP, 10 minutes spontaneous conversation, then speech trial(maximal sustained sound,
      glissando, text reading).

      Subjective evaluation of speech and respiratory comfort(by the patient) and objective
      evaluation of speech improvement according to PEEP level (reading duration, phonation
      duration, voice quality, assessments of speech including an intelligibility score, a
      perceptual score and an evaluation of prosody analyzed by two experimented speech therapists
      blinded to PEEP level). Evaluation of the PEEP control button use by the patient.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Neuromuscular adult patients, tracheotomized and on long-term ventilation with a cuffless
      tube, on assist-control volumetric ventilation, in stable state at the time of the study.

      Number of patients, center:

      Considering it is a pilot study, 14 subjects will be included for the study. The subjects
      will be recruited in the home ventilation unit of the intensive care department of the R.
      Poincare teaching hospital (Garches, France) during their usual follow-up for their chronic
      respiratory failure.

      Duration of study: 12 months. Duration of participation for each patient will be 1h30.
    
  