
    
      Ensuring the surgical competence of trainees is mandatory for all surgical residency
      programs, yet most evaluations of graduating residents are based on observation and
      subjective feedback. We have developed a computer based video surgical simulator to
      facilitate cognitive knowledge of the step-by-step process needed to perform a laparoscopic
      hysterectomy, learn essential pelvic anatomy and avoid surgical complications. Studies have
      shown that when trainees already have the cognitive knowledge of how to perform a procedure,
      they can focus more on learning surgical technique and how to minimize surgical
      complications. Laparoscopy is becoming the standard of surgical care for gynecologic
      patients. The benefits of minimally invasive surgery include reduced postoperative pain,
      shorter hospitalization, less scarring, quicker return to normal activities, preservation of
      immune response, and fewer long-term problems such as adhesions or incisional hernia. The
      current challenge in surgical education is how to produce competent surgeons who are skilled
      to perform and integrate the multiple advances in surgical technology. Surgical competency
      involves proficiency in technical skills, decision-making (preoperative, operative, and
      postoperative), and team performance all of which require knowledge and communication skills.
      The increasing complexity of surgery and the requirements for mastery at laparotomy,
      laparoscopy, and endoscopy reduces the feasibility of the traditional "see one, do one, teach
      one" model of surgical education. Lack of training is considered a major barrier to
      performing laparoscopic surgery. Alternative training modalities are required to acquire the
      necessary surgical skills for laparoscopy. Although there is a transfer of skills and
      knowledge to the trainee by the time of graduation, current training programs have not been
      designed in a validated, effective, and competency-based manner. A successful laparoscopic
      curriculum should incorporate a cognitive component in addition to the manual skills
      component. Although the benefit of simulators as a method of surgical education has been
      validated, comprehensive curriculum development is lacking. Most recently, Zevin et al.
      (2012) conducted a Delphi consensus involving international experts in surgical education on
      the principles for design, validation and implementation of a simulation-based surgical
      training curriculum. The main components of the final framework included predevelopment
      analysis; cognitive, psychomotor, and team-based training; curriculum validation, evaluation,
      and improvement; and maintenance of training. They have produced a framework that is based on
      the broad principles of educational theory that can be applied to any surgical specialty.
      Several authors have emphasized the importance of cognitive teaching in a comprehensive
      surgical skills training curriculum. Learning begins with the acquisition of
      procedure-specific knowledge. Categories include pre-procedure assessment and preparation;
      anatomic knowledge; safety and limitations of specific instruments; ergonomics; and
      post-procedure management. A cognitive curriculum can include reading materials in the form
      of text books or journal articles as well as procedural video tutorials. The cognitive
      component should be studied by the trainee before technical skills training and should be
      followed by satisfactory performance on a paper-based test of knowledge or a mock operative
      note dictation. Teaching about errors commonly associated with the procedure should be
      included so that trainees can anticipate or avoid them in the future, and recognize and
      manage them if they occur. The purpose of this research study is to test the validity of a
      new educational tool as an enhancement to the current teaching method of how to perform a
      hysterectomy. Should our data substantiate our hypothesis, that cognitive function of
      surgical trainees will be enhanced by use of the trainer, then the tool will be able to be
      utilized as a new, advanced, creative tool for teaching how to perform a hysterectomy. This
      tool might then be able to be utilized to advance the teaching of many other surgical
      procedures to residents in many different surgical programs.
    
  