
    
      Fifty Caucasian subjects were recruited from a pool of first-time volunteers who were
      referred to the Department of Public Health of the Faculty of Dentistry at the University of
      Montpellier, France. Written informed consent was obtained from all enrolled individuals in
      accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. The study protocol was reviewed and approved by
      the Committee for the protection of persons (CPP) and by the National Commission of
      Informatics and Liberties, France.

      Standardized clinical monitoring was performed 3 weeks before microbiological monitoring. The
      subjects were submitted to a medical/dental anamnesis, and information regarding their age,
      gender, and smoking status was obtained. The clinical examination was performed by trained
      and calibrated dentist. Clinical measurements were taken at six sites per tooth
      (mesio-buccal, buccal, disto-buccal, disto-lingual, lingual, and mesio-lingual) on all teeth,
      with the exception of the third molars, as previously described. The full-mouth clinical
      measurements included International Caries Detection and Assessment System (ICDAS), Caries
      Bleeding on interdental brushing index (BOIB), Gingival Index (GI), Plaque Index (PI) and
      Hygiene Index (HI), which were recorded on a dental chair, using a smooth probe, plane mirror
      and a surgical lamp.

      Clinical assessments of the interdental spaces were performed using an IAP CURAPROX©
      colorimetric probe and registered the diameter of all the interproximal spaces of four pairs
      of teeth (premolar-molar). At the end of the examination visit, the participants were
      instructed to brush their teeth 3 h before the sampling visit and not to drink, eat or
      practice oral hygiene during this period.

      In a group of 10 individuals who did not participate in this study, pairs of examinations
      were conducted in each individual, with a 1-h interval between them. Intraclass correlation
      coefficients for ICDAS, GI, PI, HI and BOIB were calculated at the site level. The intra- and
      inter-examiner coefficients for PI and HI ranged between 0.80 and 0.85, and between 0.75 and
      0.85 for ICDAS.

      For all subjects, the same four interdental sites (15-16, 25-26, 35-36, and 45-46) were
      assessed (total 200 sites). The appropriate prime interdental brushes were selected based on
      the clinical assessment of the interdental spaces.

      With an alpha error of 5%, a power of 80%, an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.8, a
      mean difference of bacteria counts between the 2 caries risk groups of 1,300,000, a total of
      200 sites (which means 50 subjects) will be necessary.

      Qualitative variables will be described by frequencies or percentages and quantitative
      variables by means and standard deviations. A Shapiro-Wilks test will be used to test the
      normality of the data. The comparison between the 2 caries risk groups will be achieved by a
      McNemar test for the qualitative variables and a Student test or a paired Wilcoxon test for
      the quantitative variables, depending on the normality of these variables.

      The "clinical" questionnaire data completed by the dentist will be captured on a paper form
      provided at the beginning of the study. The forms thus recovered will be entered using a
      software to form the database. Paper forms will be archived with the study documents.

      The bacteriological data obtained will be returned with the T envelope to the scientific
      manager and registered in the software.

      The database created with the answers of "clinical" questionnaires and the results of the
      bacteriological analysis will be identified by order number and no surname data will be
      recorded on the electronic file thus created. At the end of the study, a report with the
      statistical tables and conclusions will be published for analysis and discussion of the data
      by the scientific committee and the project managers. Scientific publications will be
      written. The data is the property of the administrative manager of the study, no personal
      data will be released. Apart from the report and scientific publications, no data sharing is
      planned.
    
  