
    
      Retinal venous occlusive disease, which includes central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and
      branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), is second only to diabetic retinopathy as a cause of
      vision loss due to retinal disease. The main cause of vision loss in all of these disorders
      is the development of macular edema. Current clinical practice based on randomized controlled
      clinical trials (ETDRS, BVOS) employs laser photocoagulation, either in a focal or grid
      pattern, to treat macular edema associated with diabetic retinopathy and branch retinal vein
      occlusion. Unfortunately, laser photocoagulation is ineffective in central retinal vein
      occlusion (CRVO), and no proven therapy exists for CRVO.

      The pathogenesis of macular edema in retinal vascular diseases is generally accepted to be
      increased levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) due to ischemic or other
      stimuli. VEGF is known to be one of the most potent stimulators of vascular leakage in
      humans. Therefore, it seems sensible to study inhibition of VEGF to reduce vascular leakage,
      reduce macular edema, and improve vision in these retinal vascular disorders.

      Phase 2 randomized, controlled clinical trials of Macugen in diabetic macular edema and in
      macular edema associated with CRVO have been conducted. In the diabetes trial, patients
      treated with Macugen had improved vision, reduced macular edema as measured by optical
      coherence tomography (OCT), and reduced need for laser treatment compared to patients treated
      with sham injections. In the CRVO trial, patients treated with Macugen 1 mg every 6 weeks for
      24 weeks had improved vision and reduced macular edema at week 30 compared to sham. This is
      the first randomized trial of treatment for CRVO to show a benefit over control. Based on
      these positive findings, we plan to study Macugen treatment of macular edema due to BRVO.
    
  