
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common hepatic disease in pediatrics,
      affecting about 30% of obese youth. The term NAFLD defines a wide spectrum of disease
      severity ranging from simple intrahepatic fat accumulation without liver injury (steatosis)
      to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis and cirrhosis.

      A 20-year retrospective study has shown that subjects who develop NAFLD during their youth
      have about 13 times higher mortality rate for end-stage liver disease than healthy subjects
      of similar age and gender. NAFLD is highly prevalent among Hispanic youth, while non-Hispanic
      Black (NHB) youth are protected against intrahepatic fat accumulation even in the presence of
      severe obesity and insulin resistance. Understanding the pathophysiology underlying these
      differences could shed new light on the mechanisms leading to NAFLD in obese youth.

      Preliminary data suggest that Hispanic and NHB obese youth might have a different ability to
      metabolize carbohydrates (CHO) through glycolysis, with Hispanics showing higher glycolysis
      than NHB. Therefore, Hispanics might experience a higher rated tricyclic acid cycle (TCA) and
      hepatic de novo lipogenesis (DNL).

      In the present study, the investigators aim to address the following questions:

        1. Is the different susceptibility between Hispanics and NHB in developing NAFLD due to a
           higher capability of Hispanics to metabolize CHO through glycolysis, TCA cycle and DNL?

        2. Do these metabolic changes anticipate the onset of the disease in Hispanic youth?

        3. Are the higher rates of glycolysis, TCA and DNL driven by high but not pathologic
           changes in glucose levels over time?

      To address these aims, the investigators plan to recruit 30 Hispanics and 30 NHB obese youth
      and to measure glycolysis by using a new method to assess lactate kinetics and to determine
      the TCA cycle and DNL by using 13C-Propionate and D2O.

      The investigators will also assess glycolysis and intrahepatic fat content in a group of
      200Hispanic obese youth without fatty liver at baseline every 12 months for two years to
      determine whether higher glycolytic rates precede intrahepatic fat accumulation. To assess
      whether metabolic changes in glycolysis are driven by higher but not-pathologic glucose
      levels, the investigators will measure glucose changes over ten days every six months by
      using a continuous glucose monitoring system. If successful, these studies will provide novel
      insight into the pathogenesis of pediatric NAFLD and will open new avenues to test novel
      therapeutic approaches.
    
  