
    
      Background

        -  Adenocarcinoma of the prostate is the most common cancer diagnosis in American males and
           follows lung cancer as the leading cause of cancer death.

        -  Vaccine strategies represent a novel therapeutic approach in the treatment for prostate
           cancer. One potential target for a prostate cancer vaccine is prostatic specific antigen
           (PSA), due to its restricted expression on prostate cancer and normal prostatic
           epithelial cells.

        -  A neoadjuvant approach may be of potential benefit providing prolonged protection via
           the patient s immune system against future recurrence.

        -  PROSTVAC is a vaccine that induces strong immune responses, has shown promising evidence
           of activity in a randomized phase II study (8.5 month improvement in median overall
           survival) and is currently in phase III clinical testing.

        -  This vaccine has been tested in locally recurrent prostate cancer with substantial
           inflammatory infiltrates within the prostate seen following subcutaneous and
           intraprostatic injection.

      Objectives

      -The primary objective is to evaluate the post vaccine immunologic cluster of differentiation
      4 (CD4) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) cell infiltrate response of a neoadjuvant
      vaccine strategy in prostatectomy specimens in patients who plan to undergo radical
      prostatectomy.

      Eligibility

        -  Patients must have biopsy proven prostate cancer and are surgical candidates for radical
           prostatectomy

        -  Must be of sufficient good health to be surgical candidates for radical prostatectomy
           and have elected radical prostatectomy for management of their prostate cancer

        -  Granulocyte count is greater than or equal to 1,500/mm(3), Platelet is greater than or
           equal to 50,000/mm(3), hemoglobin (Hgb) is greater than or equal to 8 g/dL, Bilirubin <
           1.5mg/dL, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) < 2.5x
           upper limit of normal (ULN), Creatinine is less than or equal to 1.5 X ULN

        -  Pre-intervention biopsy tissue must be available either from outside institution or
           repeat biopsy

      Design

        -  This study will utilize rV-PSA(L155)-TRICOM (PROSTVAC-V) as a priming vaccination
           followed by monthly boosting with rF-PSA (L155)-TRICOM (PROSTVAC-F) for 3 months.

        -  Patients will undergo radical prostatectomy after 4 months of treatment with
           PROSTVAC-V/F.

        -  The maximum accrual to the trial will be 27 patients.
    
  