
    
      All the newborn from the period 1.2.1988 to 31.12.2006 will be called for to take an AP X-ray
      of the pelvis for assessment of their hips. The data compares to the primary
      ultrasound-recordings taken newborn.

      Radiographs of the pelvis: The x-ray examinations will be performed using low-dose technique.
      Scrotal lead shield will be used in boys, and the girls will be examined during a menstrual
      period to exclude pregnancy. The examination will include an erect AP view (feet pointing
      forward, neutral ab-adduction position of the hips) using a film/focus distance of 1.2 m and
      centred at 2cm proximal to the pubic bone. To standardise the projection, a rotation index
      between 0.7 and 1.8 (49;50) will be required. Repeat images will be avoided. A tubing
      containing a contrast medium will be placed in the x-ray field to give the true horizontal
      level for measurements of leg length discrepancy. The assessment of the images will be done
      by a specialist in pediatric radiology in another hospital, and blinded for the primary
      ultrasound-results. In cases of pathology, the patient will be scheduled for an urgent
      appointment with a paediatric orthopaedic surgeon.

      Image analysis: the following measurements will be performed using a validated digitising
      program (Pedersen et al, J Pediatric Orthopedic 2004):

        1. Markers for DDH:

           CE (centre-edge) angle of Wiberg, Refined CE angle (Ogata) Sharp's angle ADR (the
           acetabular depth ratio, Murray) FHEI (femoral head extrusion index, Heyman and Herndon)
           The shape of the lateral acetabulum (subjective assessment)

        2. Markers for previous avascular necrosis (AVN)

      AP:

      Femoral head shape (classified as spherical, mildly flattened or flattened). Caput -
      trochanter height Projected CCD angle Length and width of the femoral neck (Shape of the
      physis) Leg length (Trendelenburg) In addition Body Mass Index (BMI) for itch child will be
      calculated.
    
  