
    
      If surgical treatment is not possible in patients with malignant obstruction in the common
      bile duct, endoscopic metal stent placement to resolve biliary obstruction is a standard
      treatment that is commonly performed. The metal stents relieve the bile duct stenosis by
      malignant tumors, helping to drain the bile and improving jaundice. There is no doubt that
      the center of the metal stent is located in the central part of the biliary stricture, but
      the location of the lower end of the metal stent is not fixed. The lower end of the metal
      stent can be located in two main locations, either in the common bile duct above the major
      ampulla or in the duodenum through the major ampulla. These procedures with supra- or
      trans-papillary stents are performed in common and are determined by the operator's
      preference.

      According to several retrospective studies so far, trans-papillary metal stents were
      effective in improving the initial biliary obstruction, but there was no difference in their
      long-term effects. Mao et al. showed that trans-papillary metal stents increase jaundice-free
      survival, and Shin et al. revealed the advantages of trans-papillary metal stents because
      they had a high success rate of secondary endoscopic procedures. On the contrary, Okamoto et
      al. showed that acute cholangitis more developed after trans-papillary metal stents
      placement, while Joe et al. revealed the advantages of supra-papillary metal stents because
      they reduce acute pancreatitis after the procedures. It has not yet been determined which
      method is effective. So far studies are all retrospective, and some of them placed the metal
      stents in a percutaneous way rather than endoscopy without sphincterotomy. Besides, some
      studies included intra-hepatic or hilar bile duct strictures, making it difficult to
      interpret the results.

      Therefore, through a prospective randomized controlled study, the researchers want to compare
      the clinical results of supra- and trans-papillary metal stents placed by endoscopes in
      malignant common bile duct obstruction.
    
  