
    
      Parenteral nutrition (PN) is a critical treatment for pediatric patients with intestinal
      failure (IF), defined as those unable to absorb nutrients enterally due to insufficient bowel
      length or function. Patients who require long term PN have an indwelling central venous line
      (CVL) for PN delivery. One risk of long-term PN use is the development of catheter occlusions
      and interruptions to device's patency. Such obstructions can lead to catheter breakage or
      embolization of the clot into the bloodstream, which can lead to stroke or death. Other
      complications related to long term use of indwelling CVLs are central line-associated
      bloodstream infection (CLABSI) and mechanical breakdown of the CVL. This is one of the most
      common complications of home PN. Among patients with a long-term CVL there are
      250,000-500,000 episodes of CLABSI per year and among patients with CVLs for PN a range of
      0.87-8.9 CLABSI episodes per 1000 catheter-days has been reported.

      As stated, the development of CVL occlusions is a major risk associated with long term PN
      use. It occurs in as many as 25% of CVLs that are placed. Occlusion can be either partial or
      complete and has been defined as a decreased ability to infuse solutions into or withdraw
      solutions from a CVL. Occlusion can decrease flow rates, increase resistance and pressure,
      and potentially cause complete inability to withdraw and/or infuse fluid. Attempts at
      dissolving the occlusion may lead to catheter weakening or rupture due to the excessive
      pressure exerted on the device. Occlusions put a patient at further risk of morbidity and
      mortality due to delays in treatment and nutritional supplementation, or from fibrin
      deposition and resulting clot contributing to CLABSI. Additionally, the patient may have to
      undergo further invasive surgical interventions to replace the catheter.

      Furthermore, the presence of occlusions within the CVL can predispose patients to CLABSIs as
      the clot can serve as reservoir for bacterial colonization. In some instances, the bacteria
      associated with the majority of CLABSIs are highly thrombogenic and create an environment
      suitable for the development additional thrombus. In patients with PN related cholestasis,
      sepsis is the biggest risk factor leading to the most common cause of death in these
      patients. Moreover, CLABSI is a major contributor to many other comorbidities (i.e.,
      intestinal failure associated liver disease) and, when recurrent, has been recently shown to
      be a negative predictor in children who achieved enteral autonomy versus those who did not.
      CLABSI events are also a significant financial burden to both the patient and healthcare
      system and compromise to quality of life.

      Locking solutions have been used in an effort to prevent CVL occlusions and CLABSIs with
      varying success. In the United States, saline and heparin have been used as the standard of
      care lock solution for decades. Both lock solutions however have fallen short of protecting
      patients against CVL complications and heparin has also caused serious systemic side effects
      as well as promoting biofilm formation within the lumen of CVLs. Compounded lock solutions
      such as taurolidine, citrate and ethanol and antibiotics have been used in the attempt to
      reduce CVL complications. Compounded 70% ethanol lock solutions have been used off label to
      eradicate organisms in biofilms present in CVLs and hence, treat or prevent CLABSIs. Ethanol
      also decreases the risk of antimicrobial resistance that may occur if concentrated antibiotic
      locks are used. Since the use of ethanol locks at Boston's Children Hospital (BCH) the CLABSI
      rate in IF patients dropped from 9.9 to 2.1 per 1000 catheter-days and reduced our morbidity
      and mortality. Unfortunately ethanol locks may alter the integrity of selected catheter
      materials, resulting in catheter breakage and leaching of the plasticizer into the
      bloodstream and frequent catheter occlusions. One meta analysis raised questions about the
      effect of the ethanol lock on catheter integrity based on the noted increase in catheter
      repair rates. Moreover, the currently available supply of sterile ethanol that is used to
      compound the locks has become prohibitively expensive. Homecare companies and retail
      pharmacies may no longer be able to provide them and it would be a significant out of pocket
      expense for patients and families if they had to pay for them. This lack of a reliable and
      affordable source of ethanol for CVL's places these vulnerable patients at a much higher risk
      of CLABSI and the associated morbidity and mortality.

      Tetrasodium EDTA Catheter Lock Solution (KiteLock™ 4% Sterile Catheter Lock Solution) is
      produced by SterileCare Inc (Markham, Ontario, Canada) as a first generation product that
      focuses on reducing CVL complications. This 4% Tetrasodium EDTA (T-EDTA) solution is a
      dilution of EDTA in sterile water for injection. It was approved by Health Canada in 2016 as
      a Class II Medical Device, with Canada being the first market in the world to utilize it. It
      has subsequently received Canadian approval for use in children in July 2019. It is also
      currently approved for adult and pediatric use in Europe (CE mark) and Australia.

      4% Tetrasodium-EDTA lock solution is known to improve catheter patency by working as an in
      vitro anticoagulant with in vitro antimicrobial activity against biofilm-forming Gram
      positive and negative bacteria, fungi and yeast. KiteLock™ 4% does not contribute to
      antibiotic resistance and does not contain any preservative, antibiotics, ethanol or latex.
      At the Toronto's Children Hospital in Canada, KiteLock™ 4% has been used since 2017 in their
      home PN population with previous history of line infections. Since its first approval in
      Canada, the use of 4% T-EDTA lock solution has been associated with a significant decrease in
      both catheter occlusions and CLABSI rates in CVLs of adult and pediatric PN patients.

      Considering the growing concern with the lack of a reliable and affordable source of sterile
      ethanol injection, it is of the utmost importance to find a safe and effective replacement
      lock solution that will protect CVL lines against complications to avoid preventable
      emergency room visits at the hospital.

      Therefore, based on a positive benefit-risk assessment taking into account its mechanisms of
      action and prior use children in Canada, KiteLock™ 4% is considered a potential lock
      replacement for the ethanol lock solution in pediatric PN patients followed by the Center for
      Advanced Intestinal Rehabilitation (CAIR) program at BCH. By following a Compassionate-Use
      Protocol, selected high-risk PN patients at BCH will be locking their CVLs daily with
      KiteLock™ 4%, and careful monitoring and follow-up for 12 months will determine the new
      lock's safety and efficacy in this patient population. These findings will be compared to
      each patient's previous catheter history 12 months' prior while receiving ethanol lock; in
      other words, each subject will serve as their own control.

      1. Specific Aims /Objectives

      1.1 To determine the safety and efficacy profile of 4% T-EDTA lock solution (KiteLock™ 4%
      Sterile Catheter Lock Solution) acting to maintain catheter patency and thus prevent
      thrombotic occlusions and related complications.

      1.2 To determine whether the pattern of catheter occlusions and catheter breakage in patients
      receiving 4% T-EDTA lock solution is different than what was experienced when they were
      previously receiving the compounded 70% ethanol lock solution.

      Secondary Aims To determine whether the pattern of CLABSIs in patients receiving 4% T-EDTA
      lock solution is different than what was experienced when they were previously receiving the
      compounded 70% ethanol lock solution.
    
  