
    
      Once consent has been obtained from patients, an envelope containing the study allocation
      will be retrieved from the Pyxis.

        -  Non-wound vac patients will undergo wound closure with subcutaneous fat closure with
           Vicryl in all cases that this is practicable (in extremely thin patients, this may not
           be possible), followed by subcuticular skin closure also using Vicryl. A compression
           dressing will then be applied. This dressing is usually removed by the clinician the
           following day.

        -  Wound vac (PICO) patients will undergo wound closure with subcutaneous fat closure with
           Vicryl in all cases that this is practicable (in extremely thin patients, this may not
           be possible), followed by subcuticular skin closure also using Vicryl. The wound vac
           system will then be applied over the closed incision. This vac dressing will then be
           removed on the day of hospital discharge and replaced with a second bandage and the
           wound vacuum will be re-activated. The patient will remove the bandage and discard on
           POD#7. This is per the manufacturer's guidelines for length of use.

        -  If the patient fails the wound vac therapy- ie the wound separates and requires
           traditional wound care (packing, wet to dry dressing, etc), then the PICO system is no
           longer used as part of their care.

      It would be unrealistic to try to standardize the entire operative approach (closure of the
      uterus, closure of the fascia) as the different providers working at the hospital may choose
      not to participate if the approach specified deviated too much from their usual technique.
      Different providers may typically use different kinds or sutures (made of different material,
      and of different sizes) or staples to close the subcutaneous fat and the skin. However, for
      this study all patients will have the subcutaneous fat and skin closed in the same manner
      (with Vicryl suture). To participate in the trial patients will have to agree to these
      closure materials. For this study a standard closure with suture was chosen as there is
      evidence suggesting a lower rate of wound complications with suture as compared to staples.

      The wound will be re-assessed at their 2 week and 6 week post-op follow up visits. The
      patients will be assessed by a physician at their post-operative clinic visits. The
      physician/investigator will ask the patient if they have had any postoperative complications
      since their surgery and will be asked to detail any complications if they answer yes to this
      question. The investigators will also obtain permission to call the participants for a
      patient satisfaction questionnaire at 1 week post-op, and possibly 2 and 6 weeks if they have
      not presented for their post op/partum appointments or the questionnaire could not be
      obtained at their visit.
    
  