
    
      This study aims to evaluate tacrolimus concentration-time data to characterize tacrolimus
      inter-individual pharmacokinetic (PK) variability in adult patients who will receive HCT, and
      to associate concentration-time data, exposure and clearance data with important clinical
      endpoints such as acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) and tacrolimus-induced toxicities.
      This study proposes to enroll 50 patients at University of North Carolina Medical Center
      (UNCMC) who will undergo allogeneic HCT, who will receive tacrolimus starting the third day
      prior to allogeneic HCT (Day -3) for aGVHD prophylaxis. This will be an observational study,
      and its goal will be to ideally collect baseline clinical and demographic data,
      concentration-time data for tacrolimus on Day -3 (3 days before the transplant), Day -2 (2
      days before the transplant), Day -1 (one day before the transplant), and Day 0 (the day of
      the allogeneic HCT) for a full pharmacokinetic profile. A medical chart review will be
      conducted to extract data on tacrolimus-induced toxicities (i.e., acute kidney injury [AKI],
      hypertension, metabolic panel changes, etc.) and aGVHD incidence rate up to Day +100 (100
      days post-allogeneic HCT). Blood will also be collected for genotyping and will also be
      collected after the transplant to obtain information for surrogate PD biomarkers of
      tacrolimus efficacy, such as interleukin 2 (IL2) production and quantifiable nuclear
      localization of the dephosphorylated nuclear-activated T cells (NFAT). These data will aid in
      the development of a population-based PK/pharmacodynamic (PD) model that will serve as the
      foundation for a proposed precision dosing approach to optimize tacrolimus dosing. One of the
      secondary endpoints will be time to aGVHD, which will be defined as the duration from D0
      until the first occurrence of aGVHD, censored at 100 days post-allogeneic HCT (Day +100). In
      the case of haplo-transplant patients, they will receive tacrolimus starting on Day +5 (as
      opposed to on Day -3 in non-haplo-transplant recipients). Per standard of care,
      haplo-transplant patients are initiated on Day +5 (5 days after the transplant). Therefore,
      in these patients, serial blood draws will be collected on a similar timeline as the
      non-haplo-transplant patients, but in this case Day +5, Day +6 (6 days after the transplant),
      Day +7 (7 days after the transplant), and Day +8 (8 days after the transplant; Day +8 is when
      they reach steady-state). For the PD biomarker studies in haplo-transplant patients, blood
      draws will occur on Day +9 (9 days after the transplant), Day +16 (16 days after the
      transplant), and Day +23 (23 days after the transplant) (Figure 2). All other procedures will
      remain the same.
    
  