
    
      The long-term objective of this research is to reduce disablement of older adults with knee
      osteoarthritis (OA). This will be accomplished through assessing changes in functional
      limitations (standing and walking) that occur with 2 mobility-specific interventions. The
      principle of specificity of training indicates that exercises that closely approximate the
      goal functional activity are most effective in improving physical performance during that
      activity. However, there is uncertainty whether intervening to increase muscle power or to
      improve gait mechanics would be most effective for optimizing mobility in older adults with
      knee OA. Although gait training may be most specific for improving gait, this approach
      currently requires supervised physical therapy and expensive equipment. In contrast, power
      training may be less costly and more convenient if conducted at home. To optimize mobility in
      older adults with symptomatic knee OA, there is a need to study each of these
      mobility-specific interventions in a randomized controlled trial (RCT). Successful completion
      of this trial will inform rehabilitation for maintaining or improving mobility as well as
      explore the mechanism of effect.

      Specific Aim 1: Assess the efficacy of two innovative interventions for improving mobility
      limitations, disability and quality of life in older adults with symptomatic knee OA.

      Primary Hypothesis: For older adults with symptomatic knee OA, in comparison with usual care
      (control group), a 3-month a) patient-specific gait training intervention and b)
      mobility-specific power training intervention will reduce lower limb mobility limitations
      assessed using the Function component of the Late Life Function and Disability Index
      (LLFDI-Function).

      Hypothesis 2: Improved mobility will be maintained at 6 and 12-month follow-up (3 and 9
      months following transitioning to home-based training) for each of the 2 intervention groups
      who receive the combination of the home-based intervention and encouragement to continue
      participation.

      Hypothesis 3: In comparison to baseline measures, at 3, 6, and 12-month follow-up, each of
      the 2 intervention groups will demonstrate improvements in a) disability (LDCW), b) quality
      of life assessed using the Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score questionnaire Quality of Life
      component(KOOS Knee QOL), and c) knee OA specific outcome scores using the pain subscale
      component of KOOS.
    
  