
    
      Research Plan: Background, Specific Aims and Rationale Background Cystic fibrosis (CF), the
      most common lethal genetic disorder in Caucasians, affects over 80,000 patients worldwide.
      Its incidence is calculated as occurring in one out of every 2,500 living newborns. Advances
      in the care of CF patients have been associated with impressive increases in survival during
      the last 30 years. The mean life expectancy for patients now diagnosed by newborn screening
      approaches 40 years and approximately 47% of Italian patients are 18 years of age or older.
      This striking result is mainly due to better treatment of bacterial lung infections, the main
      cause of pulmonary deterioration and early death of the patients. To be efficacious early
      diagnose and treatment are of fundamental importance this is why patients are routinely
      visited and tested several times during the year. Tests include also the collection of blood
      samples to detect and monitor infections and general health conditions. This means that after
      the diagnose of CF, children undergo at least 1 blood sample per year among other sample
      collections as sputum or throat swabs. Antibiotic intravenous treatment is not uncommon in
      these patients and involves the positioning of peripheral venous catheters (pvc), midlines or
      central venous access. As shown in previous studies it is common for children with CF to
      display distress and behavioural problems during invasive procedures. Like other children
      with chronic diseases children with CF have a lower threshold of pain compared to non-chronic
      patients as shown by data published by this research group. In fact there is a common belief
      among nurses and healthcare professionals that children, subject to repeated procedures, feel
      less pain because of a higher pain threshold compared to children who only sporadically visit
      the hospital. This misconception may lead professionals to lower their attention for the
      prevention and treatment of pain in children with chronic diseases. The purpose of the study
      of Bisogni was to compare the pain perceived and the behavioural distress shown during a
      standardized venipuncture by children with chronic diseases who have already been exposed to
      venipuncture, with those of a group of children who have never had any previous experience of
      venipuncture before. The results show that chronic children reported a median pain score of 8
      on the Wong numeric scale, while non-chronic children reported a median pain score of 2. The
      results were statistically significant indicating that children subject to continue
      venipuncture procedures have a lower pain threshold than children of the same sex and age who
      experience venipuncture for the first time. This findings show that in daily clinical
      practice it is always necessary to promote effective and validated techniques to support
      patients for the reduction of pain and distress especially in chronic children who will need
      lifelong treatments and where anticipatory distress is very common. In fact nearly all
      patients with CF experience anticipatory pain. Anticipatory anxiety may be explained as a
      condition which precedes an event or an action where one thinks of the painful experience
      even before the actual painful stimuli occur. This leads children to live with high concern
      and fear the periodic hospital visits leading them to react in fight, flight or freeze mode
      and with their acute stress response affecting also parents and nurses behaviour. Different
      pharmacological and non pharmacological methods are already widely used during needle related
      procedures to try to lower pain and distress.

      Specific Aims and Rationale The primary aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of VR as
      a distraction technique during the procedure of venipuncture for blood tests in children with
      CF in regards to anticipatory distress and pain. The parent ratings of their child's fear and
      pain and the nurse ratings of children's distress and cooperation will also be assessed.

      Distraction has been shown to be an effective non pharmacological technique and is often
      defined as a strategy-whether cognitive or behavioral- that draws a child's attention away
      from noxious pain stimuli. Kleiber and Harper draw further distinctions and define
      distraction as a cognitive coping strategy that passively redirects the subject's attention
      or actively involves the subject with a task. Despite its widespread use, "there is no
      universally accepted theory to explain the function of distraction".

      VR puts the patient in a different dimension allowing him to immerge into a different
      dimension shutting out what is going on around him. Patients will be able to choose among an
      age appropriate choice of VR apps. VR is believed to hold an advantage over other distraction
      techniques by virtue of its cocoon-like equipment and its engaging and immersive nature. Set
      in an enclosed headset, VR provides the opportunity for a mental escape by strategically
      drawing individuals into an alternative world. By controlling their perceptual environment,
      patients can redirect multiple senses from a hospital environment to one involving positive
      and entertaining activities.

      The application of VR in the medical field has been shown to be successful already 15 years
      ago. VR has found its use during the medication of burns and in patients undergoing cancer
      treatments whereas so far few studies have been published to assess its efficacy in reducing
      needle related pain and distress in children and none in children with CF.

      Koller in her review concludes that VR is a complex and costly method that holds promise as
      an effective intervention. However today the costs of such devices are more affordable
      starting from 6 euro for a cardboard device and up to 80 Euro for more sophisticated
      headsets, making this technique easily implemented. Several authors have called for larger
      sample sizes and more heterogeneous participants to determine how VR can be used most
      effectively.
    
  