
    
      Intrahepatic non-cirrhotic portal hypertension (INCPH) is a rare disease mostly affecting
      adults in their forties, characterized by portal hypertension related to alterations of
      intrahepatic microcirculation in the absence of cirrhosis.The only therapeutic options
      currently available for patients with INCPH include prophylaxis for variceal bleeding using
      betablockers and/or endoscopic band ligation and TIPSS (transjugular intrahepatic
      portosystemic shunt) or liver transplantation for severe cases.

      The investigators hypothesize that anticoagulation using Apixaban in patients with INCPH
      might prevent occurrence or extension of portal, splenic or mesenteric veins thromboses and
      thus the development of chronic portal vein thrombosis and associated complications, but also
      avoid intrahepatic thromboses and consequently liver disease progression and variceal
      bleeding.

      The Primary Objective is to evaluate the effect of 24 months low dosing of apixaban (2.5 mg x
      2/day) versus placebo on the occurrence or the extension of portal venous system thrombosis
      (including splenic, mesenteric veins, portal trunk or left or right portal branches) at 24
      months in patients with INCPH.

      The Secondary Objectives are :

        1. To assess the safety of apixaban on: (a) any major bleeding as defined by the ISTH
           (International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis) guidelines; (b) liver toxicity;
           (c) adverse events and reactions.

        2. To compare the effect of 24 months low dosing of apixaban (2.5 mg x 2/day) versus
           placebo on the following outcomes, assessed during the 24 months of treatment:

             1. - at least one event among: deep vein thrombosis in any location, arterial
                thrombosis, major bleeding, death

             2. - the occurrence of deep vein thrombosis in any location or arterial thrombosis

             3. - mortality (global, liver related, non-liver related), and mortality or liver
                transplantation

             4. - each and any event among: liver decompensation, complications of portal
                hypertension including portal hypertensive related gastrointestinal bleeding, liver
                transplantation or death;

             5. - portal hypertension related features (spleen size, platelet count, size of
                esophageal varices, portal blood flow velocity) and markers of bacterial
                translocation and inflammation

             6. - liver function

             7. - quality of life

        3. To evaluate the effect of 24 months low dosing of apixaban (2.5 mg x 2/day) versus
           placebo on the occurrence or the extension of portal venous system thrombosis (including
           splenic, mesenteric veins, portal trunk or left or right portal branches) at 24 months
           after randomisation in patients with INCPH according to HIV status

        4. To identify predictors of portal venous system thrombosis and liver related events:

             -  in the control group: liver and spleen stiffness; portal blood flow velocity;
                specific coagulation tests; markers of bacterial translocation and inflammation

             -  in the group receiving apixaban: plasma apixaban levels

        5. To assess treatment compliance

        6. To study the occurrence or extension of portal venous system thrombosis or occurrence of
           deep vein thrombosis in any location or arterial thrombosis in the 6 months after the
           24-month treatment with apixaban versus placebo.

      166 patients will be included in 16 centers in a prospective, national multicentric, phase
      III, superiority comparative randomized (1:1) double-blinded clinical trial with two parallel
      arms: apixaban versus placebo.
    
  