
    
      This study is designed to determine the efficacy of orthodontic bands and glass ionomer
      cement in arresting and remineralizing incipient carious lesions as compared to monitoring
      for changes.

      This is a single blinded, split mouth randomized control trial, with the patient being their
      own control. A split mouth study is considered the gold standard because both experimental
      and control groups are exposed to the same environmet and conditions within the mouth. This
      study design eliminates confounding variables that may occur that could significantly alter
      the interpretation of end results (e.g. oral hygiene effectiveness between two patients).

      Participants will be screened at their routine periodic dental examination, where they will
      receive a dental exam, prophylaxis (cleaning), radiographs and fluoride varnish application
      in accordance with the guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry.
      Radiographs will be examined by an evaluator to determine if participants meet the inclusion
      criteria. Each participant requires at least one pair of permanent posterior teeth with
      interproximal caries lesions in enamel or in proximity of the dentinal enamel junction (E1,
      E2, early D1). An ideal pair consists of the same tooth type on the left and right side of
      the mouth (i.e. tooth #5 and #12, maxillary right permanent first premolar and maxillary left
      permanent first premolar). Another acceptable type of pair is same tooth type (i.e. tooth #5
      and #21, maxillary right permanent first premolar and mandibular left permanent first
      premolar) or two adjacent teeth (i.e tooth #19 and 18 mandibular left first and second
      molar). Additionally, patients may also be screened when coming in for other dental treatment
      as well.

      Each participant will have his or her qualifying lesions randomized equally into two groups,
      one that will receive the band, and one that will not. Envelopes will contain the treatment
      conditions: Left/Upper/Distal or Right/Lower/Mesial, to indicate that the lesion on either
      the left/upper/distal or right/lower/mesial side of the mouth will get banded. They will be
      randomly organized and then ordered in the box.

      After randomization has occurred, each participant will have a blank orthodontic band
      (Denovo) fitted on the treatment lesion and cemented with glass ionomer cement (Fuji).
      Additionally, oral hygiene instructions will be reinforced. Participants will be instructed
      to return for their routine periodic dental exam in 6 months. Because the intervention is
      obvious, blinding the patient or the operator is not possible. At the 6 month visit, the band
      will be removed with a band remover prior to their dental exam and cleaning. Routine
      radiographs (according to the AAPD's radiographic guidelines) will be taken after the band
      has been removed. 20,21,22

      A blinded second investigator will examine the pre and post treatment radiographs. Lesions
      will be classified initially by ADA CCS, and change will be noted as: progression, arrest, or
      regression. A de-identified data sheet containing the data will be sent to a statistician and
      a McNemar's Chi-square test will be used to test the differences in the lesion status of both
      groups
    
  