
    
      The purpose of the present clinical trial is to study the effect of somatostatin in the
      regulation of blood flow of the portal circulation at patients who have undergone
      hepatectomy. The patients will be randomized in two groups, namely the group that will
      receive somatostatin (study group) and the group that will receive the placebo (control
      group). In both groups, patients will undergo liver resection and directly postoperatively
      they will receive either somatostatin (2 amps at 1000ml normal saline solution in continuous
      24-hour infusion for 5 days) or a 24 hours infusion of 1000ml Normal Saline solution 0.9%. On
      the first, third, fifth and seventh postoperative day, the velocity and the diameter of the
      portal vein, splenic vein, hepatic artery and hepatic veins will be measured sonographically
      and the flow will be calculated using the following mathematic formula: Flow= velocity x
      cross section area (the cross section area of the vessel can be calculated using the
      following equation: cross section area=πr2, with 'r' representing the vessel's radius).

      Preoperatively

      On the day before the surgery (day -1),an ultrasound will be performed in order to measure
      the velocity and the diameter of the portal vein, splenic vein, hepatic artery and hepatic
      veins and the flow will be calculated using the following mathematic formula: Flow= velocity
      x cross section area, as stated above. The following data will also be recorded: platelets,
      bilirubin (total and direct), albumin, cholesterol, urea, International Normalized Ratio,
      sodium, Serum Glutamic Oxaloacetic Transaminase, Serum Glutamic Pyruvic Transaminase,
      Alkaline Phosphatase, gamma-Glutamyl Transferase and the Model for End-stage Liver Disease
      score of each patient will be calculated. Finally, our patients will undergo a Computer
      Tomography scan in order to measure their liver and spleen volumetry.

      On the day of the surgery

      On the day of the surgery (day 0), the following information will be recorded: the type of
      the surgical procedure, the duration (in minutes), the presence of ascites, the number of
      times and total duration of the a pringle maneuver and finally the percentage of the
      resection of the parenchyma will be calculated. A biopsy of healthy liver tissue will be sent
      for histological examination in order to determine the presence of fibrosis/cirrhosis and its
      stage.

      Postoperatively

      On the first, third and fifth postoperative day (day 1, 3, 5), the preoperative blood test
      and the ultrasound measurements will be repeated and the amount of fluid in the drain(s) and
      inside the abdomen (via ultrasound) will be recorded. Finally, the fluid will be sent for
      biochemical examination and culture.

      On the seventh postoperative day (day 7) all blood, fluid and ultrasound measurements will be
      repeated and also the liver and spleen volumetry via CT.
    
  