
    
      Phase 1 clinical trial HIV-CORE (COnserved REgions) 006 is a trial of a new combined vaccine
      regimen to determine safety and immunogenicity in healthy adults in Kenya, Uganda and Zambia.
      Immune responses may vary between populations and so it is important to confirm that the
      vaccines are suitable for the people and environment where they will be deployed for
      protection against HIV/AIDS. There are many different strains of HIV-1, and the virus can
      change to escape immune responses. This vaccine regimen is designed to work in all parts of
      the world.

      The aim is to induce effective cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) against HIV-1. These could
      complement broadly neutralizing antibodies in prophylaxis and play a central role in cure.
      CTL exert their effector functions by killing HIV-1-infected cells and producing soluble
      factors, which directly or indirectly counteract the HIV-1 replicative cycle. In future, this
      approach could be combined, in human efficacy testing, with other immunogens that stimulate
      humoral responses, with the goal of effectively preventing HIV-1 infections.

      The central principle of this strategy is to focus T-cell immune responses on the most
      conserved regions of the HIV-1 proteome. These regions are common to most variants and, if
      mutated, reduce the ability of the virus to grow; these regions are the "Achilles heel" of
      HIV-1. Targeting of conserved regions is further enhanced by using 'mosaic' proteins, which
      are designed by computer to maximize the match of the vaccine with global HIV-1 variants and
      to block common ways the HIV-1 changes to escape the immune response. Vaccines should match
      circulating HIV-1 variants as much as possible to stop them efficiently. When T cells attack
      conserved parts of HIV-1 proteins (parts that seldom or never change), the disease is better
      controlled-this vaccine includes those parts.

      The HIV-1-derived mosaic genes are called tHIVconsvX and are delivered by two safe,
      non-replicating vaccine vectors derived from chimpanzee adenovirus and poxvirus modified
      vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA). Adenoviruses, if able to grow, normally cause respiratory and
      gastrointestinal ailments, while the unmodified chimpanzee adenovirus is not known to cause
      disease in humans; the engineered vaccine vector called ChAdOx1 is crippled so it cannot
      grow. ChAdOx1 and similar experimental vaccines have been shown to be safe in thousands of
      human volunteers. MVA is a poxvirus, which does not replicate in humans. It was used safely
      as the smallpox vaccine in over 120,000 people at the end of the smallpox-eradication
      campaign and as an experimental vaccine vector against a variety of diseases in many clinical
      trials.

      The ChAdOx1-vectored HIV-1 vaccine in this trial will be tested for the first time in humans,
      while MVA.tHIVconsv3 and MVA.tHIVconsv4 (M3M4) have been administered to HIV-positive
      individuals in the first-in-human clinical trial in the USA (NCT03844386). However, this is
      the first time these C1-M3M4 vaccines will be administered to humans sequentially. In
      parallel with HIV-CORE 006, these vaccines will be tested for safety in the United Kingdom,
      in a phase I trial HIV-CORE 0052. The tHIVconsvX vaccines have been designed for global use
      irrespective of the HIV-1 strain and are therefore very suitable for Africa, where multiple
      strains are responsible for the epidemic, mainly from the HIV-1 families A, D and C. The
      HIV-CORE 006 trial will take place at four sites in Africa and will enrol healthy adults
      between 18 and 50 years of age. It is not yet known whether the vaccine will have a
      beneficial effect, no effect, or whether it could cause harm. The health of trial volunteers
      will be monitored carefully, and volunteers will receive counselling and support to minimise
      HIV-1 infection.

      Humans and microbiota, which consist of bacteria, fungi, viruses and eukaryotic species, have
      co-evolved over millions of years and their coexistence is beneficial to both parties. Human
      immune system is constitutively exposed to microbial stimulation and any vaccine design and
      responsiveness needs to be considered in the context of host-microbiota interactions.
      Manipulation of the microbiota functions and composition through diet, engraftment and/or any
      other means may thus become a viable strategy for improving vaccine responsiveness as well as
      treating malfunctions of the immune system. The first reports on the influence of gut
      microbiota diversity and composition on responses to vaccination have been emerging for some
      time. As part of the exploratory endpoints for this trial, the gut microbiome of study
      volunteers will be characterised for composition and richness before and after administration
      of the study vaccines.
    
  