
    
      Up to eighty percent of clinic visit information is forgotten by patients immediately
      post-visit. This is a significant barrier to self-management, especially in older adults with
      multimorbidity leading to poor health outcomes. After visit summaries (AVS) can improve
      recall, yet concerns exist about their layout, accuracy and low patient uptake. Patients and
      clinicians have begun audio recording clinic visits. When patients receive an audio recording
      of the visit, 71% listen and 68% share it with a caregiver, resulting in greater recall.
      Despite its growing use, to date, there is no research on the impact of recording and sharing
      clinic visits of patient self-management ability, health-related outcomes or healthcare
      utilization. The objective of this proposal is to conduct a multi-site pilot trial evaluating
      the feasibility and acceptability of routinely sharing audio recordings of clinic visits
      (AUDIO) in older adults (≥65 years) with diabetes and hypertension.

      Conduct a multi-site, two-arm, parallel-group, patient-randomized, blocked, controlled, pilot
      trial with 3-month follow up, to determine the feasibility and acceptability of sharing audio
      recordings of clinic visits (AUDIO) on self-management in older adults with diabetes and
      hypertension, compared to the after visit written summary (AVS) alone (Usual Care).
      Investigators will determine:

      1.1 Feasibility of a larger trial by meeting recruitment targets at each site (n=30 per site;
      total n=90) and determining the optimal strategy to achieve a high retention rate and
      adherence to the study protocol.

      1.2 Acceptability by assessing the proportion of patients and clinicians who agree to take
      part in the project and the proportion of patients who listen to the recording.

      1.3 Potential effectiveness by collecting data on the impact of audio recordings on
      self-management, health-related outcomes, healthcare utilization, and clinician behavior.
      Investigators hypothesize that compared to those receiving UC, patients randomized to also
      receive audio recordings (AUDIO) of clinic visits will report a greater self-management
      activation (Patient Activation Measure - Short Form) at 3 months. Investigators will also
      explore whether the effect of AUDIO on self-management activation compared to UC is greater
      for patients with low health literacy than those with high health literacy.
    
  