
    
      Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) is a chronic neurologic disease that causes painful and
      distressing dysesthesias in the lower extremities at night affecting sleep quality and
      greatly influencing general overall health. Leading theories as to the cause of RLS symptoms
      point to a deficiency of central nervous system dopamine levels. Cranial Electrical
      Stimulation (CES) is a therapy that has been shown to affect activity in dopaminergic regions
      of the brain. The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of CES
      therapy in the management of symptoms of RLS. The overall study design will use mixed
      methods. The specific aims for the experimental analysis are to (1) determine the feasibility
      of the implementation of a CES treatment regimen in a population of military beneficiaries
      with RLS by monitoring levels of interest in the study, recruitment time, attrition rates,
      and adherence to the study protocol; and (2) gather preliminary data using CES to compare
      differences in RLS symptom severity and quality of life in individuals randomized to one of
      three study groups: a usual care group, an inactive (sham) device group, or an active CES
      device group. Because the personal impact of living with RLS has not been explored fully in
      the published literature, a third aim is (3) to describe the experience of individuals coping
      with the chronic symptoms of RLS and the impact of this disorder on their quality of life.
      Measurements of RLS symptom severity and quality of life will be collected over a period of 8
      weeks and group differences over time will be analyzed using mixed linear models. Qualitative
      interview data will be analyzed using descriptive phenomenological methods. Findings from
      this study will inform the design and implementation of a larger study to establish the
      effectiveness of CES on RLS symptoms. Qualitative findings will provide much needed
      information on the priorities for future research and clinical management based on patients'
      perspectives. The ultimate goal of the research is to identify and to evaluate the
      comparative effectiveness of non-pharmacological treatments for RLS symptom management.
    
  