
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate a variety of technologies in a driving simulator.
      Specifically, this research will provide a direct comparison of driver performance measures
      under various modes of mobile device interaction. The study will be conducted at CU-ICAR
      using the DriveSafety CDS-250 driving simulator. The experiment will be a key step in
      understanding what driver performance challenges and errors may occur under various
      interaction modes in the driving context. Results will investigate differences in driving
      performance in the presence and absence of full device pairing with vehicle electronics and
      what criteria might be considered for proposed pairing requirements. The driving simulator
      tasks will focus on visual scanning ability while engaging in secondary tasks using mobile
      devices such as (but not limited to) handheld phones with and without Bluetooth, mounted
      touchscreen displays, various voice-based interfaces, and the novel display system. Tasks
      will include activities such as making voice calls, text messaging, searching for points of
      interest on maps, and traditional in-vehicle activities such as changing the temperature, fan
      speed, radio station, etc. The number of tasks and interaction modes will vary between
      participants with up to 6 modes included per participant (e.g. handheld, mounted ipad, voice
      control).

      The technologies will be integrated with the DriveSafety CDS-250 driving simulator.
      Participants will complete the Functional Object Detection (FOD) visual scanning task that
      requires a driver to maintain lane position, respond to brake events in the central field of
      view, and respond to target events that appear in the periphery. In addition, participants
      will be asked to concurrently complete the mobile-device tasks using the interaction modes
      described previously and occasionally respond to notifications simulating connected-vehicle
      interactions. Primary outcomes will include driving performance (lane tracking and speed
      maintenance), FOD peripheral task performance (% identified, response time), FOD braking task
      performance (% identified, response time, false positive responses), and subjective measures
      including workload, interface preferences, and open ended items describing their reactions to
      each interface.

      Participants will complete training to get comfortable driving the simulator while driving on
      a straight road and then repeat the task using the cruise control prior to driving the
      experimental conditions. Participants will be recruited by word of mouth as well as through
      the use of flyers, newspaper advertisements, and talks in the community. All data will be
      collected in the driving simulator lab at CU-ICAR. We plan to share the findings of this
      research with designers, practitioners and researchers at conferences and through academic
      publications.

      Participants will complete a vision screening using a standard eye chart and will complete a
      visual scanning task using an interactive light board where the participants will stand (or
      sit) in front of a board with moving lights and asked to identify the locations, colors,
      letters and numbers of the lights by pressing their location on the board.

      DriveSafety™ CDS-250 Driving Simulator The CDS-250 driving simulator is designed as a
      rehabilitation tool which occupies a smaller footprint than traditional driving simulators.
      The simulator has a partial cab consisting of an adjustable driver's seat, center console,
      instrument cluster, and standard vehicle controls (steering wheel, accelerator, brake). Two
      input buttons are located on the steering wheel in the "3:00" and "9:00" positions. The
      display consists of three 19" (diagonal) LCD screens each with a resolution of 1440 X 900
      pixels. The left and right screens are each rotated 30 degrees off-plane from the center
      screen toward the driver. The total horizontal width of this display configuration is 49". In
      addition to using the driving simulator for driving related tasks, a variety of reaction time
      tasks have been developed to work on patients' coordinated muscle movements, information
      processing, and reaction times.
    
  