
    
      Recent research has focused on enhancing cell-mediated immunity and reducing or eliminating
      viral replication (reproduction and growth). A main thrust of current treatment is the
      combination of antiviral drugs that may be more effective when combined than when each is
      used alone.

      Four groups are studied for a period of at least 25 weeks. Patients are observed for a
      minimum of 6 hours after infusion of PEG IL2. The 4 groups of patients are: Group A -
      asymptomatic with T4 count > 400 cells/mm3 (7 patients); Group B - asymptomatic with T4 count
      between 200 and 400 cells/mm3 (7 patients); Group C - asymptomatic with T4 count < 200
      cells/mm3 (5 patients); Group D - diagnosed as having AIDS related complex (ARC) or AIDS (7
      patients). All patients receive AZT. After a minimum 2-week period of AZT, patients receive
      an infusion of PEG IL-2 at 3 consecutive weekly intervals, followed by a 3-week period of AZT
      alone. This cycle (3 weeks of AZT and PEG IL-2 followed by 3 weeks of AZT alone) is repeated
      a total of three times (for a total of 18 weeks) followed by 8 weeks of AZT alone.

      PER AMENDMENT: Ten patients may qualify for one of two groups: Group 1 - T4 count 200 - 400
      cells/mm3 and meet all criteria established for Group B of the original protocol; Group 2 -
      T4 count < 200 cells/mm3 and meet all criteria established for Groups C and D of original
      protocol. Patients will receive an amended schedule of PEG IL2 IV every other week for eight
      doses, with dose escalation every other week for eight weeks permitted only in Group 2
      patients who failed to show a 20 percent rise in T4 count at week 9 and who suffered no CNS
      or other adverse events at the lower dose.

      PER ADDITIONAL AMENDMENT: Up to 10 additional patients may be treated at each dose of PEG IL2
      on the biweekly schedule. Patients who respond to treatment on the biweekly schedule are
      eligible for an additional 9 weeks at their current dose.
    
  