
    
      The primary aims of this project are to:

        1. Adapt and refine an Enhanced Web+phone intervention for the maintenance of tobacco
           abstinence postpartum.

        2. Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of the Enhanced Web+phone tobacco abstinence
           maintenance program for postpartum women.

           Aim 2.1 The investigators hypothesize that the intervention will be feasible as assessed
           by women's report of helpfulness, relevance and program usability.

           Aim 2.2 The investigators hypothesize that the intervention will be acceptable to
           postpartum women as measured by engagement in and use of the program.

        3. Estimate the initial efficacy of the Enhanced Web+phone intervention on tobacco
           abstinence at 3 and 6 months postpartum relative to a Basic Web Information-Only
           control.

      Aim 3.1 The investigators hypothesize that, relative to the Basic Web Information-Only
      control, the Enhanced Web+phone intervention will be associated with 10-points greater
      prolonged abstinence rates at 3 and 6 months postpartum.

      Aim 3.2 The investigators hypothesize that, relative to Basic Web control, tobacco use
      outcomes at 3 and 6 months postpartum in the Enhanced Web+phone intervention will be
      associated with greater improvements (d > .35) in putative mediators of prolonged abstinence
      (i.e., self-efficacy, intentions to maintain nonsmoking, mood and perceived stress, and
      weight concerns).

      Secondary aim of this proposal is to:

      Evaluate potential predictors of postpartum smoking relapse. The investigators will examine
      pre-pregnancy smoking rate, partner's tobacco use and other demographic factors as predictors
      of postpartum tobacco relapse. Similarly, the investigators will examine the role of mood,
      perceived stress and weight concerns as predictors of prolonged abstinence among women in
      both groups. For example, it may be that women with higher baseline levels of depressive
      symptoms and perceived stress may be more likely to return to smoking postpartum, regardless
      of condition.
    
  