
    
      Aim:

      The aim is to examine if a focused oral care procedure to reduce oral infection will be
      mirrored in reduction of systemic inflammatory parameters in chronic renal disease patients.

      Specific research questions:

      Can oral infection and systemic inflammatory parameters in chronic renal disease patients be
      reduced by 1 month of professional oral care and individual prophylactic instruction and can
      a potential reduction of inflammation be continuously achieved at a 3 months follow-up.

      Study design:

      Randomized, double-blinded (investigator, outcomes assessor), controlled study. For
      Eligibility Criteria and Outcome Measures, please see elsewhere in the ClinicalTrials.gov
      Protocol Registration System.

      Participants:

      A: Hemodialysis patients, inclusion n=34, B: Hemodialysis patients on a kidney transplant
      waiting list, inclusion n=34, C: Patients who have had a kidney transplant (1-1½ years after
      transplantation), inclusion n=34. D: Gender- and age-matched healthy control group.

      Number of included patients is estimated from a hypothesis-generating pilot study, a
      statistical power analysis and the estimated loss to follow-up based on experience from
      previous research projects in the Nephrology Department.

      Intervention and control:

      The intervention consists of professional oral care (addressing periodontal and oral mucosal
      infections, salivary gland dysfunction and caries prevention) and a didactic approach to
      individual instruction in oral hygiene/prophylactic measures performed by a dental hygienist
      at three visits: baseline, 2 weeks after baseline and 1 month after baseline.

      The research data will be registered by a blinded investigator before the first visit at the
      dental hygienist and after 3 months.

      The control group will follow best-clinical-practice procedures currently implemented in the
      hospital.
    
  