
    
      Seriously ill hospitalized elderly patients rate 'not being kept alive on prolonged life
      supports' as the most important aspect of good quality care at the end of life (EOL). Across
      Canada, large numbers of elderly patients near the EOL and their families are faced with
      decisions about whether or not to use mechanical ventilation or other forms of life support
      technology used in intensive care units (ICUs). The investigators do not know whether these
      patients and their families are informed about the realities of intensive care - that is, if
      they are aware of the likelihood of surviving a critical illness and the resultant health
      states. The outcomes of critical illness for this patient population and their families are
      unknown, despite the crucial importance of this information to guide clinical decision
      making. The goals of our research program are to understand the realities of critical care,
      and the expectations and attitudes of patients 80 years of age or older (80+) and their
      families about the use of life sustaining technology. Specifically, in this project, the
      investigators want to determine the realities or outcomes of surviving critical illness.

      Our primary research question is:

        1. What are the 12-month health-related quality of life (HRQOL), functional status, and
           survival of patients admitted to ICU who are 80+ years old?

           Our secondary research questions are:

        2. Which patient characteristics are associated with 12-month HRQOL, functional status, and
           survival?

        3. What is the satisfaction of family members with critical care, as measured by the Family
           Satisfaction in ICU (FS-ICU 24) instrument?

        4. For patients surviving their ICU stay, what is the experience of family members caring
           for the patient during follow up, as measured by the Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA)
           instrument?

        5. For patients who do not survive their ICU stay, what is the family satisfaction with EOL
           care, as measured using the CANHELP Satisfaction (Bereavement) instrument?

        6. What is the health-related financial burden experienced by patients and their caregivers
           during their initial ICU hospitalization and up to 12 months after the index ICU
           admission?

        7. What is the quality of decision making regarding the goals of care for an 80+ ICU
           patient?

        8. What are the values that influence decisions about the goals of care for this
           population?

      To answer these questions, the investigators are conducting a national, multicentre, cohort
      study of 800 patients age 80+ years who are admitted to Canadian ICUs. The investigators will
      follow these patients prospectively for 12 months to measure study outcomes. In addition,
      using novel instruments that the investigators have already developed and validated, the
      investigators will follow family members of these patients to document their experience as
      caregivers, their satisfaction with care of their relatives, and the financial implications
      of having a critically ill loved one. This quantitative project will be complemented by a
      separate qualitative study in the community setting to further understand the expectations
      and attitudes of persons over 80 years of age regarding the use of life sustaining
      technology. Data emerging from this work will inform important clinical decisions regarding
      critical care and EOL care for this aged population.

      The investigators presume that the short- and long-term mortality of 80+ year olds admitted
      to Canadian ICUs will be high and that the self-reported health-related quality of life and
      functional status of survivors after hospital discharge will be low. The investigators
      anticipate that pre-morbid illnesses and functional status before admission to ICU will
      correlate with long-term clinical outcomes. The investigators are uncertain as to the
      psychological and financial burden experienced by families when a loved one is in the ICU and
      during the recovery phase; our study will be the first to furnish such important information.
      By using administrative databases to complement information already being collected in this
      study, the investigators will obtain a better understanding of the healthcare resource
      utilization and longer term survival of this cohort, and will be better positioned to offer
      effective ICU and follow-up care for this at-risk patient population.
    
  