
    
      If a patient participates in this research study, the patient will receive ARRY-380 and a
      drug-dosing diary to record when the patient took ARRY-380 for each study treatment cycle.
      Each study treatment cycle will last for 3 weeks (21 days) during which time the patient will
      be taking ARRY-380 by mouth every day. At the time the patient enters the study, the patient
      will be assigned to either Arm A or Arm B. The difference between the two study arms includes
      ARRY-380 administered twice-daily (morning and evenings - Arm A) or once-daily (morning - Arm
      B). The patient will also be given Trastuzumab by intravenous infusion (by vein) on day 1 of
      each cycle (same dose and schedule for both study arms).

      The dose of trastuzumab will be the same for everyone on study, and will be the standard
      approved dose for this medication. In the first portion of the study, the investigators will
      examine the effects of different dose of ARRY-380 when given in combination with trastuzumab.
      Initially, 3 participants will be treated with a low dose of the ARRY-380 in combination with
      standard dose of trastuzumab. If this dose does not cause intolerable side effects, more
      participants may receive the drug combination at the same dose. The patient will be informed
      of the assigned dose when the patient enters the study. The patient will be asked to take
      ARRY-380 for as long as the study treatment is of possible benefit to the patient. After the
      patient is finished taking ARRY-380, the study doctor will ask the patient to visit the
      office for follow-up exams for at least one more visit within 4 weeks of the patient's last
      study treatment.

      At the start of each cycle the patient will have:

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about health, current medications, and any
           allergies.

        -  Performance status, which evaluates the ability to carry on with usual activities.

        -  Physical examination, the doctor will examine the patient body, including measuring
           height, weight, and vital signs (blood pressure, body temperature, pulse rate and
           breathing rate).

        -  A neurological examination to asses any neurological symptoms(for example, difficulties
           with balance)

        -  Blood tests will be drawn at the beginning of each study treatment cycle for tests to
           monitor the function of liver and kidneys and to check blood cell counts. In addition,
           blood tests will be drawn on days 4, 8, and 15 of the first cycle of study treatment to
           monitor liver function.

      Periodically the patient will undergo:

        -  The patient will have a brain MRI every two cycles. If the brain scans are stable or
           improved after the patient has been on the study for 6 months or longer, the frequency
           of your body scans will be decreased to once every 4 cycles. The patient will also have
           CT or MRI scans of the body at the end of cycle 2, cycle 4 and every 4 cycles
           thereafter. The research doctor may ask the patient to have a bone scan at the same time
           points if this is clinically indicated.

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG), which shows the electrical activity of the heart. It will be
           performed on Day 1 of cycle 2.

        -  Echocardiogram (ECHO) (ultrasound of the heart) or MUGA scan (test of heart function
           using a small amount of a radioactive substance). This will be performed every 3-4
           months.

      Additional research procedures to be performed:

        -  On Cycle 1, Day 15 blood for ("PK") pharmacokinetic (what the body does to the drug)
           sampling will be drawn before the morning dose of ARRY-380, after 2 hours and after six
           hours.

        -  Blood tests for research, which will include about 2 tablespoons of blood collected
           before cycle 1 and after coming off study treatment. In general terms, scientists will
           study the genes, the RNA, and the proteins that are found in the blood samples.
           Scientists will also measure and characterize circulating tumor cells in the blood, if
           they are present. In addition, these specimens may be tested with new types of tests, as
           they become available. Results of the research tests on blood will not be reported back
           to the patient.

        -  Archival Tumor Tissue Sample: A sample (or samples) of the patient's tumor tissue (from
           a past surgery and/or biopsy) will be collected and used to learn more about the
           development of metastatic breast cancer. In general terms, scientists will study the
           genes, the RNA, and the proteins that are found both in breast tumors and in normal
           tissue. In addition, these specimens may be tested with new types of tests, as they
           become available. Laboratory-based investigators conducting this research will not have
           access to patient identification information such as name or medical record number.
           Results of the research tests on tissue will not be reported back to the patient.

      After the final dose of the study drug:

      The patient will have a follow-up visit one month after coming off study treatment. During
      that visit, the patient will have a physical examination, functional assessment, assessment
      of any toxicities and current medications. If the patient continues to have ongoing side
      effects related to the study treatment, the investigators will continue to follow the patient
      until these side effects resolve. If the patient withdrew from the study for another reason
      other than tumor progression, the patient will continue to be followed until tumor
      progression.

      Planned Follow-up:

      The investigators would like to keep track of the patient's medical condition indefinitely.
      The investigators would like to do this either by seeing the patient in clinic or by
      contacting the patient and the patient's primary doctor periodically to see how the patient
      is doing. Keeping in touch with the patient and checking the patient's condition periodically
      helps the investigators look at the long-term effects of the research study.
    
  