
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine whether vital signs can be extracted from video. A
      secondary purpose is to create a database, including raw video, of "ground truth"
      physiological data on human subjects in order to test current and/or future approaches
      developed to extract vital signs from video. This research may have an immediate impact on
      not only the assessment of risk for COVID-19 but also may provide a significant technological
      enhancement to JHM's telemedicine capabilities. Participants may be asked to:

        -  Complete surveys that include basic questions about participant, participant's
           personality, and participant's level of fitness. Participants will not be required to
           complete any of the surveys if participant does not feel comfortable doing so.

        -  Provide a subjective assessment of whether participant feels physically well enough to
           participate in this experiment. If participant does not feel well on a particular day
           and wish to participate, the research team can schedule the participant for an alternate
           appointment.

        -  Be fitted with several sensors that will measure participant's heart, participant's
           skin, participant's breathing, or other aspects of how participant's body is working.
           The sensors may be placed on participant's collarbone, below participant's ribs, on each
           forearm, on each ankle, and/or on participant's fingers using small stickers, medical
           tape, or similar means. The investigators may allow participants to place the sensors
           themselves under the supervision of a research team member or have the sensors placed
           for participants. If participant prefers, a research team member of the same sex will be
           available to assist sensor placement. The investigators may also place stickers or use
           non-permanent marker on participant's face to create clear reference points in the
           video.

        -  Complete cognitive tasks that involve viewing simple items on the screen (such as
           colors, shapes, letters, words, or sentences), then making decisions, such as deciding
           whether to press a button, whether each item matches an earlier item, or whether to
           remember the item or not based on a simple rule.

        -  Complete light to moderate exercise, such as pedaling on a stationary bicycle. The
           investigators will measure participant's resting heart rate, and then set a target heart
           rate of 20% higher for light exercise and 40% higher for moderate exercise. The American
           Heart Association defines moderate exercise as 50-70% of participant's maximum heart
           rate, which is estimated based on participant's age. To ensure a safe limit on
           participant's heart rate, the investigators will check that participant's target heart
           rates do not exceed 70% of participant's maximum estimated heart rate. If participants
           have health concerns about the level of exertion required, please discuss those concerns
           with the physician to determine whether it would be appropriate for participant to
           participate. Participants will only be required to make a single laboratory visit.
    
  