
    
      Baseline Questionnaire:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a questionnaire on a laptop about
      your feelings, mood, health, thoughts about smoking, thoughts about quitting smoking, smoking
      history, and some demographic information such as age, education level, and income level.
      This should take about 15-20 minutes to complete.

      Study Groups:

      After completing the questionnaire, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin)
      to 1 of 2 study groups. You will have an equal chance of being placed in either group.

      Both groups will receive smart phones and an 8-week supply of nicotine patches with
      instructions on how to use them. Each group will receive different methods of advice for
      quitting smoking.

      If you are assigned to Group 1, the following study procedures will be performed:

        -  You will receive brief advice on how to quit smoking once at the time of enrollment. The
           advice will be given from a pamphlet that has information such as health problems
           related to smoking, how many Americans are affected each year, financial problems
           related to smoking, nicotine replacement therapy options, preparation for quitting
           smoking, and encouragement to quit.

        -  On the smart phone, you will have 5 phone counseling sessions for support in quitting
           smoking throughout the 8-week intervention treatment. The calls should last about 15
           minutes.

      If you are assigned to Group 2, the following study procedures will be performed:

        -  On the smart phone, you will receive brief video clips with advice on how to quit
           smoking, as well as interactive text and picture messages once a week for 8 weeks. The
           video clips will be about 5 minutes long.

        -  You will also have access to additional counseling content on the smart phone, which you
           can use at any time.

      Weekly Smart Phone Questionnaires:

      Both groups will complete questionnaires on the smart phone every week for 8 weeks. Each
      questionnaire will have questions about your current smoking status, your motivation level to
      stop smoking, and things that may have a negative effect on your quitting. The questionnaire
      should take about 15 minutes to complete.

      Follow-up Saliva Test and Questionnaire:

      About 3 months after your first smart phone intervention, both groups will complete a saliva
      test and take a photograph of the test results. The saliva test results will be used to check
      your smoking activity. Supplies and instructions will be given to you when you are enrolled
      on the study and the instructions will be available on the smart phone. You will also
      complete a questionnaire similar to the baseline questionnaire.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for about 3 months.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 50 participants will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at the Harris Health System (Thomas Street Health Center).
    
  