
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the antitumor cytostatic activity of OSI-774 as measured by the probability of
      surviving progression-free for at least 6 months in patients with persistent or recurrent
      squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.

      II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of OSI-774 in this cohort of patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the partial and complete response rates in patients with squamous cell
      carcinoma of the cervix receiving OSI-774.

      II. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival within this
      patient population treated with OSI-774.

      III. Assess the effects of prognostic factors: initial performance status and age.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and p110 truncated EGFR (p110 sEGFR)
      isoform expression levels in primary tumors, and from tumor samples obtained pretreatment and
      following four weeks of therapy to determine tumor response (or resistance) to OSI-774
      inhibition of the EGFR tyrosine kinase.

      II. To correlate EGFR and p110sEGFR expression levels with either MAPK or AKT phosphorylation
      status in the same tissue samples obtained pretreatment and following four weeks of drug
      treatment to determine downstream effects with response to OSI-774 inhibition of EGFR.

      III. To determine whether pretreatment serum p110 sEGFR concentrations are a useful
      prognostic indicator and whether altered and/or sEGFR concentrations are useful indicators of
      therapeutic responsiveness, time to progression, and overall survival in cervical carcinoma
      patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib once daily for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  