
    
      Background

        -  There are no standard therapy options shown to prolong survival for patients with
           progressive disease on first-line docetaxel-based regimens for men with metastatic
           castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).

        -  Ninety percent of men in this population have bone metastasis.

        -  PSA/TRICOM vaccines as single agents can induce generation of PSA-specific T cells in
           the majority of patients and objective responses and PSA declines in a minority of
           patients. Furthermore, the generation of at least a 6-fold increase in PSA-specific T
           cells was significantly correlated with evidence of clinical benefit.

        -  Radiation can alter the phenotype of tumor cells (increase Fas, increase major
           histocompatibility complex (MHC), increase tumor-associated molecules and increase
           ICAM), making them much more amenable to immune-mediated killing.

        -  (153)Sm EDTMP is a beta emitter (with some gamma emissions) that targets osteoblastic
           bone lesions (such as those found in prostate cancer).

        -  (153)Sm EDTMP, at Food And Drug Administration (FDA)-approved doses used clinically for
           palliation of prostate cancer, can cause phenotypic changes in tumor cells, leading to
           improved killing of those cells in a cytotoxic T-cell assay in vitro.

        -  The combination of vaccine and radiation greatly increases antitumor efficacy in a
           murine subcutaneous tumor model.

      Objectives

        -  Primary-A comparison of progression-free survival at 4 months between Arm A (153)Sm
           EDTMP alone) and Arm B (153Sm EDTMP with vaccine).

        -  Secondary-Objective responses, PSA outcomes, immunologic responses, toxicity, palliation
           and overall survival.

      Eligibility

        -  Patients with metastatic CRPC who have 2 or more bone lesions consistent with prostate
           cancer and who have been treated with a docetaxel-based regimen.

        -  Patients with symptomatic soft tissue disease or parenchymal disease will be excluded.

      Design

        -  Randomized phase 2.5 study.

        -  Sixty-eight patients to be enrolled and randomized to:

             -  Arm A: (153)Sm-EDTMP: 1 mCi/kg intravenous (IV) over one minute on day 8.
                (153)Sm-EDTMP will be repeated every 12 weeks if there is adequate hematologic
                recovery.

      Arm B: PROSTAC-V/TRICOM (vaccinia) 2 x 10^8 plaque forming unit (pfu) subcutaneously on day
      1.

        -  (153)Sm-EDTMP: 1 mCi/kg IV over one minute on day 8. (153)Sm-EDTMP will be repeated
           every 12 weeks if there is adequate hematologic recovery. PROSTVAC-F/TRICOM (fowlpox) 1
           x 10^9 pfu subcutaneously on days 15, 29, and then every 4 weeks.
    
  