
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis and for 4 in 10 people pain from OA
      is not adequately controlled. The pain experience of people suffering from chronic pain
      largely depends on their individual perception of pain and on brain functions, in particular
      what is called "cognitive" functions. Cognitive functions include memory, attention,
      organisation and planning, task initiation, regulation of emotions and reflection of oneself
      and are important for everyday tasks, such as following a conversation or a story in a book
      or on TV, learning new things, remembering old and new information and making decisions. Good
      cognition predicts the risk of developing chronic pain after a painful event, such as
      surgery. Chronic pain patients report numerous cognitive impairments, with attention and
      memory being the two most prominent that can persist even after the original cause of pain
      has been treated. Little evidence exists regarding the nature and magnitude of these deficits
      and their underlying brain and psychological mechanisms in chronic knee OA. The investigators
      want to understand which cognitive functions and to what extent are associated with pain in
      patients with knee OA. Identifying specific domains of cognitive function affected by chronic
      pain has a clinical utility; specific domains regulate certain aspects of activities of daily
      living, such as managing personal finances, grocery shopping, remembering to take medications
      and, thus, dealing with pain early in the disease course could prevent subsequent cognitive
      loss and long-term pain. To do this the investigators will examine the link between measures
      of pain and measures of cognition in people with knee OA. The investigators propose to
      measure knee pain, physical function, sleep quality and overall wellbeing with questionnaires
      and pain sensitivity measures. The investigators will measure cognition with questionnaires
      and computer-based tasks testing aspects of cognitive function, including memory and
      attention. The investigators will compare the questionnaire and pain sensitivity measures
      with questionnaire and measures of cognitive function in the same participants. The
      investigators will include tests of various aspects of a person's memory that will facilitate
      the establishment of which aspects are related to chronic pain. The investigators hypothesise
      that chronic pain is linked to specific cognitive deficits in patients with knee OA and
      managing pain, for example, with mild to moderate targeted exercise and healthy diet, may
      limit the risk of memory loss and dementia and, in turn, predict better treatment outcomes.
    
  