
    
      Intervention: Variation of the gut microbiome via intake of an herbal yeast preparation.

      Participants: healthy obese women between 25 and 35 years. Intervention to be studied: Intake
      of Strath® Kräuterhefe Original (liquid), Herbal Yeast Food Supplement over 3 weeks, stool
      analysis.

      Sequence and duration of all study periods: 7 weeks per proband.

      Week -4 - -2: Pre-Phase Hand out study information First check of inclusion/exclusion
      criteria

      Week -2: Initiation-Phase Signed "Informed Consent" Second check of inclusion/exclusion
      criteria Complete assessment Part I, II (see 8.2) Start assessment Part IV (see 8.2)

      Week 0: Intervention-Phase Implementation of food supplement Complete assessment Part III
      (see 8.2) Third check of inclusion/exclusion criteria

      Week 3: Evaluation-Phase Complete assessment Part II, III and IV Fourth check of
      inclusion/exclusion criteria Compliance control

      5.2 Methods of minimising bias (ICH/E6 6.4.3; AGEK 4.3; SPIRIT #16, 17) ICH: A description of
      the measures taken to minimize/avoid bias, including: Randomization, Blinding.

      Homogenous sample selection. 5.2.1 Randomisation Not applicable

      5.2.2 Blinding procedures Not applicable

      5.2.3 Other methods of minimising bias The investigators are going to do a semi-quantitative
      screening to determine a participant's nutritional habits.

      Questions about their nutritional habits asked in the screening (via questionnaire);

        1. Does the participant have a particular or alternative lifestyle (e.g. vegan, vegetarian,
           only eating raw fruits and vegetables, etc.)?

           - if yes → excluded

        2. Does the participant control your nutrition in any form (food diary, app, counting
           calories, etc.)?

           - if yes → excluded

        3. Does the participant consciously eat food to strengthen your immune system or do you
           take additional supplements to influence your intestinal bacteria (e.g. pro- and/or
           prebiotic food like Actimel, Activia, etc.)?

           - if daily or weekly → excluded

        4. Does the participant exercise regularly? If yes, how often? - if 3h/week or more →
           excluded

        5. On how many days per week does the participant eat meat or meat products?

           - if less then twice and more than five times peer week → excluded

        6. On how many days per week does the participant eat fish?

           - if less or more than twice per week / 5 times per month → excluded

        7. On how many days per week does the participant eat salad, vegetables or vegetable juice
           (not counting potatoes)?

           - if less than 5 days per week → excluded

        8. On how many days per week does the participant eat fruits or drink fruit juices
           approximately?

           - if less than 5 days per week → excluded

        9. On how many days per week does the participant drink or eat milk or milk products
           approximately? - if less than 4 days per week → excluded
    
  