
    
      Initial retrospective study suggests that QbMRI has adequate sensitivity to detect acute
      ciTBIs in children. This preliminary study included all pediatric trauma patients presenting
      to OHSU from 2/2010 through 12/2013 who had both a head CT and QbMRI. The current standard of
      care in the pediatric ICU at OHSU is for patients admitted with an acute head injury to
      undergo routine QbMRI follow up to assess status of the injury rather than a repeat head CT.
      Our study team collected clinical data on these patients that included clinical interventions
      and then de-identified all head CT and QbMRI images for this cohort. The images were then
      independently reviewed by 2 neuroradiology fellows at OHSU (Please refer to Figure 1). The
      sensitivity of QbMRI to detect any radiographic injury was 85% (95% CI: 73, 93), but
      increased when evaluating clinically important TBIs to 100% (95% CI: 89, 100). The largest
      limitation of this study was the variable and often long time interval between acquisition of
      the head CT and QbMRI. The average length of time between the initial head CT and QbMRI was
      27.5 hours with only 41% receiving both imaging tests within 12 hours of each other. Also,
      preliminary data was collected by retrospective review. As such, it is very promising that
      initial study had high sensitivity, but further prospective pilot data with a shorter
      interval between the index and reference test is needed to assess the discrepancy between the
      two types of lesions (radiographic vs clinically important) and feasibility of obtaining
      qbMRI in the setting of acute pediatric head trauma. While this study did not miss any
      clinically important TBIs, on further review of radiographic "missed lesions", the study
      pediatric neurosurgeon noted signs of a healing bleed. This may suggest that they were
      "missed" because they were healed rather than present and not seen. All patients that did not
      have a lesion identified on QbMRI did not require significant clinical interventions and only
      underwent periods of observation in the hospital. However, this raises the need for a
      prospective trial to obtain QbMRI imaging within the same time frame sequentially after the
      initial head CT.
    
  