
    
      Invasive intensive care unit (ICU) treatments for patients with advanced medical illnesses
      and poor prognoses may prolong suffering with minimal benefit. Unfortunately, the quality of
      care planning and communication between clinicians and critically-ill patients/families in
      these situations are highly variable, frequently leading to over-utilization of invasive ICU
      treatments. Time limited trials (TLTs) are agreements between the clinicians and
      patients/decision-makers to use certain medical therapies over defined periods of time and
      evaluate whether patients improve or worsen according to pre-determined clinical parameters.
      For patients with advanced medical illnesses receiving aggressive ICU treatments, TLTs can
      promote effective dialogue, develop consensus in decision-making, and set rational boundaries
      to treatments based on patients' goals of care. The objective of our study is to examine
      whether a multi-component quality improvement strategy that uses protocoled time limited
      trials as the default ICU care planning approach for critically-ill patients with advanced
      medical illnesses will decrease duration and intensity of non-beneficial ICU care without
      changing hospital mortality.

      This study will be conducted in medical ICUs of 3 public teaching hospitals in Los Angeles
      County. We will train clinicians to use protocol-enhanced TLTs as the default communication
      and care planning approach in patients with advanced medical illnesses who receive invasive
      ICU treatments. Eligible patients will be those considered by treating ICU physicians to be
      at high risk for non-beneficial treatments according to guidelines from the Society of
      Critical Care Medicine. ICU physicians will be trained to use the TLT protocol through a
      curriculum of didactic lectures, case discussions, and simulations utilizing actors as family
      members in role-playing scenarios. Family meetings will be schedule by trained care managers.
      The improvement strategy will be implemented sequentially in the 3 participating hospitals,
      and outcomes will be evaluated using a before-after study design.

      Key process outcomes will include frequency, timing, and content of family meetings. The
      primary clinical outcome will be ICU length of stay. Secondary outcomes will include hospital
      length of stay, days receiving life-sustaining treatments (mechanical ventilation,
      vasopressors, and renal replacement therapy), number of attempts at cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation, frequency of invasive ICU procedures, and disposition from hospitalization.
    
  