
    
      This study is a three group, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial with two
      repeated measurements. The same measurements will be collected for each participant during
      two consecutive chemotherapy treatment cycles.

      After subjects are identified to meet criteria and have reported some degree of nausea
      following chemotherapy, one of the Clinical Nurse Coordinators or Infusion Room Nurses on the
      research team will provide information regarding the study to the potential subject. If the
      potential subject is interested in participating in the study and physically demonstrates the
      ability to correctly use the pocket diffuser the consent will be gone over in detail with the
      potential subject and signed. Educational handouts outlining the instructions for use of the
      pocket diffuser as well as safety and contact information will be provided and explained to
      the subject at this time.

      At the time the subject will provide written informed consent, they will be randomly assigned
      to one of the three groups (ginger essential oil, peppermint essential oil, or vanilla
      extract placebo- control) based on a pre-determined list of random assignments.

      The diffusers will have been prepped with essential oils of either peppermint or ginger,
      which will each contain 14 drops of the designated essential oil. The nonessential oil
      diffusers (placebo) pure vanilla extract will be prepared to each contain only 1 drop as the
      fragrance of this extract is somewhat strong.

      Prior to the start of the participant's chemotherapy infusion, all subjects will complete a
      pre-treatment survey to evaluate their baseline/anticipatory nausea. The pre-treatment survey
      will also include questions about the recent chemotherapy treatment experience related to
      appetite and the use of medication to prevent or lesson nausea.

      Then, participants will be provided with their assigned pocket diffuser which has already
      been prepared with the correct substance (ginger essential oil, peppermint essential oil, or
      pure vanilla extract). Participants will be asked to remove the cover of the pocket diffuser,
      place the pocket diffuser about an inch under their nose, and inhale three times with deep
      breathing (i.e. three sniffs). After use, the inhaler should be capped to minimize dispersal
      of the scent. Subjects will take three sniffs of the aromatherapy inhaler three times daily
      (morning, afternoon, and evening) starting at the time of the chemotherapy appointment
      through the final survey at 72 hours post-discharge. Subjects will be instructed on proper
      disposal and receive a new pocket-sized diffuser at the next treatment visit.

      All participants will be encouraged to follow all standard procedures related to their
      treatment including the use of any prescribed anti-emetics. Aromatherapy is considered a
      complementary therapy and is not intended to replace any current treatments.

      During the day after chemotherapy administration (approximately 24 hours post-discharge), a
      member of the study team will call the participant at their preferred time of day to conduct
      the first post-intervention survey. This survey will be identical to the baseline survey
      conducted on Day 1, but it will also include questions about the aromatherapy diffuser usage.
      By calling 24 hours after chemotherapy, the nausea reported by the participant can be
      classified as "acute nausea." Additionally, it will be documented as to if the subject
      required any antiemetics in addition to what was planned and ordered per the standard
      chemotherapy regimen.

      Approximately 72 hours post-discharge, a member of the study team will call the participant
      again at their preferred time of day. The survey questions will be exactly the same as the
      first phone call. At this time point, it will be possible to evaluate "delayed nausea"
      related to chemotherapy. Again, it will be documented as to if the subject required any
      antiemetics in addition to what was planned and ordered per the standard chemotherapy
      regimen.

      Participants will be reminded during the call that they will receive a phone call from the
      study team prior to their next chemotherapy appointment to remind them to return their used
      pocket diffuser for disposal. Returning the used diffuser from the previous cycle will be
      helpful to ensure that the subject will not confuse the diffuser from the 1st and 2nd cycles.
      Although both diffusers will contain the same thing (ginger essential oil, peppermint
      essential oil, or pure vanilla extract), the used diffuser would be less potent as it has
      been opened multiple times.

      The exact same procedures will be repeated during the participant's next cycle of
      chemotherapy, which is likely two or three weeks after the first one.
    
  