
    
      More than 88 million Americans are at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The
      one-year Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) has been shown to be effective in reducing the
      risk of progressing from prediabetes to T2DM. However, most individuals who could benefit
      from the program never enroll.

      Prior research has elucidated several reasons people do not enroll in the DPP. First, many
      people are not aware that they are at risk of developing T2DM, or that an efficacious program
      like the DPP exists. Second, the complications from T2DM are abstract, distal and difficult
      to imagine, which in turn leads to low motivation for risk-reducing behaviors. Finally,
      practical barriers limit DPP enrollment including cost, travel time, and scheduling. Prior
      research has tested rational appeals (such as provider-based education and referral) to
      enroll individuals in the DPP, with limited efficacy. In this project we will compare the
      effects of notification and education alone, notification and education plus mobile phone
      delivered videos (emotional appeal), and notification and education plus phone-based coaching
      utilizing a motivation and problem-solving approach. Our primary outcome will be enrollment
      and 1-month engagement in the DPP.

      This three-armed randomized, clinical trial will be conducted within 2 health systems.
      Following an opt-out procedure offered to all eligible participants, participants will
      complete informed consent and a baseline survey. In the risk notification/education arm, we
      will send all participants a short message service (SMS) message with a link to a website
      that educates the public about their risk for developing T2DM and about the availability and
      efficacy of the DPP to address their risk. In the Mobile 360° Video intervention arm, after
      risk notification/education, participants will receive links to two 3-minute immersive Mobile
      360° Videos (in which the viewer moves their phone to 'look around' the world of the video)
      on their smart phones. These videos are intended to influence affective and experiential
      perceptions of risk. The first video tells an emotional story of the negative effects on an
      individual's health and family life as they progress from prediabetes to T2DM and develop
      cardiovascular complications. The second video provides the viewer with a vicarious
      experience of the changes in vision that occur as diabetic retinopathy develops and worsens.

      In the Motivation and Problem Solving (MAPS) arm, after risk notification/education,
      participants will be called by a health coach trained in counseling/coaching. The coach will
      guide them in setting health related goals and addressing any practical barriers to
      enrolling/engaging in the DPP, if that is consistent with their health goals.
    
  