
    
      Dysmenorrhea affects between 50% and 90% of women of childbearing age worldwide, the figure
      is estimated to be 74.8% in Spain. In addition to pain, other menstrual symptoms affect the
      normality of those with it, and it is found to cause absenteeism at work and school and
      influence academic performance. Self-medication with painkillers is one of the most used
      self-care measures by women with dysmenorrhea despite not being the most appropriate. So, in
      recent decades new lines are being investigated that can help reduce the impact of the
      problem on women with dysmenorrhea.

      According to several studies, physical exercise is an effective supportive therapy in
      dysmenorrhea, and in particular through yoga has been found relief from menstrual symptoms
      and associated anguish, and improvement in pain and quality of life. The practice of yoga has
      shown physical, emotional and general well-being improvements. But it is advisable to
      continue to investigate because of the heterogeneity if the interventions it is difficult to
      reach consensus as to the time and frequency of the sessions, program duration or type of
      yoga program and the most appropriate postures. It is therefore recommended to unify the
      characteristics of the participants, describe the programs in detail, extend the duration of
      clinical trials, and carry them out with greater methodological rigor.

      A novel aspect of this specific yoga program for dysmenorrhea is the semi-presence and home
      virtual tutoring of the intervention that will make it easier for women to practice at home
      according to their time possibilities or their health status, being guided by experts and
      supported with validated material for the intervention. Online tutoring and monitoring can
      promote adherence, compliance with intervention more rigorously, and even use of more
      advisable self-care measures, as evidenced by previous studies with patients with other
      health problems.

      So, the aim of this clinical trial is to analyze the effects of a 12-month Hatha Yoga program
      based on physical postures, breathing and meditation in a blended learning modality with a
      virtually tutored home follow-up, on the intensity of pain measured using the VAS and on the
      quality of life of nursing students with dysmenorrhea in Andalusia. The results will be
      compared with a control group of students who will continue their usual lifestyle during the
      same period. They will be evaluated in advance, within a month, 3 months, 6 months and one
      year after receiving the intervention. The project has been approved by the Andalusian Ethics
      and Research Committee.

      The yoga program has been designed according to previous studies for dysmenorrhea and the
      Guidelines for Developing Yoga Interventions for Randomized Trials. It is a Hatha Yoga
      Intervention for dysmenorrhea, i.e. body, respiratory and mental work led by teachers with
      more than 600 hours of accredited training and at least 300 hours of experience with adults
      with varied chronic health conditions. The program has been triangulated by experts and
      piloted after. It will be held at the Centre of Physical and Sports Activities of the El
      Carmen University Campus of the University of Huelva. The intervention consists of three
      weekly 30-minute yoga sessions for 12 weeks. The first 4 weeks 1 face to face session and 2
      home yoga sessions guided by the yoga teacher will be taught weekly in all cases. At home,
      the participants will also have a video and a diptych of the same yoga series designed for
      this trial. There will be a virtual platform to project participants by the yoga teacher and
      researchers. After the first 4 weeks they will continue with 3 weekly sessions of 30 minutes
      each, of directed home yoga also. All intervention group participants will be invited to
      participate in online focus groups during week 12 of the clinical trial to explore their
      experiences and satisfaction with the progress of the study and to implement adaptations, if
      necessary. Each session consists of physical postures or preparation asanas, and they are a
      means to reach the central asanas "cobra, cat and fish". Followed by asanas of compensation,
      relaxation and meditation.

      Our hypothesis is that women who participate in a blended Hatha Yoga program will report an
      improvement in their intensity of pain and the symptoms associated with dysmenorrhea, quality
      of life, absenteeism, academic performance, daytime fatigue, stress, wellbeing, among other
      secondary results in the short, mid and long term
    
  