
    
      Approximately 90% of Black youth report facing or witnessing racial discrimination in their
      proximal (e.g., classroom) and virtual (e.g., social network) environments. The association
      between discrimination and negative mental health outcomes (e.g., more severe and higher
      rates of depression) has been repeatedly established in the literature. Moreover,
      discrimination impairs the way youth cope, and it is this compromised coping that is
      associated with negative psychological, academic, and health outcomes. Further, adolescent
      outcomes may lead to marked health complications and widening disparities in adulthood.
      Within adolescence, families can have a contributing role in the buffering or exacerbation of
      coping processes and behaviors to discriminatory experiences. The majority of Black families
      use racial socialization (RS)-or the verbal and nonverbal communication regarding racial
      matters-to facilitate coping with race. While RS has been shown to disrupt the trajectory
      from discrimination to negative psychological outcomes in some respects, it has also
      contributed to increased youth depressive and anxious symptoms given the wide variety of
      strategies observed in RS communication. Furthermore, less is known about the impact that
      grandparents have in the socialization process of their adolescent grandchildren, even though
      Black grandparents are more likely to rear their grandchildren compared to other races and
      given current trends. To address these gaps, the emergence of a new RS theory and
      accompanying clinical intervention seeks to investigate and improve upon this potentially
      protective cultural process by improving RS competency and enhancing coping processes. The
      Racial Encounter Coping Appraisal and Socialization Theory (RECAST) postulates that
      caregivers' explicit and consistent delivery of psychoeducation-informed, skilled, and
      confident RS practices can reduce caregiver stress and subsequent psychological problems
      experienced by Black youth via greater coping self-efficacy and coping behaviors. The
      Engaging, Managing, and Bonding through Race (EMBRace) intervention is the application of
      RECAST and seeks to improve upon competent RS practices through therapeutic and empirically
      supported strategies. The use of culturally-relevant theory in clinical treatment is vital to
      Black youth's coping with specific (i.e., racial) stressors linked to long-term health and
      wellness outcomes. The empirical investigation of RECAST can also clarify whether aging
      caregivers (e.g., grandparents) develop the same competencies as other primary caregivers for
      an intergenerational exploration of RS practices. Thus, the goal of this study is to test the
      effectiveness of a unique culturally-relevant and family-based intervention developed to
      enhance RS competencies in Black caregivers and reduce negative psychological outcomes for
      adolescent children. Building on the preliminary data that I collected during the
      acceptability pilot testing of the EMBRace intervention in Philadelphia, the proposed study
      will test the mechanism of caregiver RS competency as a moderator of discrimination, coping
      self-efficacy, coping, and adolescent psychological outcomes.

      The specific aims of the study are to:

        1. improve caregiver RS competency, including a decrease in stress;

        2. improve adolescents' self-reported coping strategies through enhanced coping
           self-efficacy; and

        3. decrease adolescents' self-reported psychological problems within the EMBRace treatment
           group.

      By posttest and 6-week follow-up, EMBRace families are hypothesized to:

        1. be rated as and rate themselves as more competent in their RS practices, including less
           stress;

        2. report more satisfactory coping and higher coping self-efficacy scores; and

        3. report less psychological problems relative to pre-test and a control group.

      The success of an EMBRace pilot and subsequent clinical trials can lead to its uptake by
      service agencies and youth-facing organizations to address the pervasive societal problem of
      racial discrimination for Black youth and families. The reduction of psychological harm in
      Black families will have a reverberating impact in various systems (e.g., school, health,
      residential), which can also address the persistent gaps evident in these systems (e.g.,
      achievement, life expectancy, resource). Furthermore, I seek to have a sustainable and
      long-term research agenda in the improvement of patient health given the community-oriented
      nature of EMBRace, which partners with families and organizations and trains clinicians for
      both the improvement of Black family outcomes and the treatment of race-related problems.
    
  