
    
      This study is exploring the impact team sports has on psychological well-being of parents
      compared to individual sports or "personal time". Our research questions include:

      Does 1) team sports participation (choice-based from existing adult recreation leagues in
      greater Victoria) increase psychosocial outcomes (quality of life, relationship satisfaction,
      social functioning, perceived parenting capability, enjoyment) compared with 2) individual
      sport participation (choice-based from adult recreation alternatives in greater Victoria),
      and 3) a control condition? Hypothesis: The team sports condition will show significantly
      larger changes in psychosocial outcomes compared to the two other conditions after
      three-months of participation (primary end-point). Furthermore, the individual sports
      condition will show significantly larger changes in psychosocial outcomes compared to the
      control condition after three-months of participation.

      Secondary Research Questions

        1. Can participation in the team sports and individual sports conditions be explained by
           the constructs of the Sport Commitment model [21]? Hypothesis: Participation will be
           predicted by sports commitment as per the tenets of the Sport Commitment Model, and
           commitment will be predicted primarily by enjoyment (+), social constraints from family
           obligations/involvement alternatives (-), followed by social involvement
           opportunities/personal investments (+).

        2. Can group differences among parents with regard to these participation and psychosocial
           outcomes be explained through a mediation model? Hypothesis: The covariance of the
           assigned conditions on psychosocial outcomes will be explained by sport participation.
           In turn, the covariance between participation and assigned conditions will be explained
           by salient underlying motives from the Sport Commitment Model. In particular, enjoyment
           will explain the differences between both sport conditions but the better psychosocial
           outcomes from team sports will be explained by the additional social involvement
           opportunities.

        3. Is there a seasonal, gender, dual/single parent, age of child, or type of sport
           difference across primary outcomes by assigned condition? Hypothesis: These are
           exploratory research questions with no pre-set hypothesis. Both sport conditions may
           have participation lowered by weather conditions in the winter. Men may participate in
           sport more due to lower child-rearing expectations but there is limited research to
           support this conjecture at this time.
    
  