
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To create a web application which will educate dermatologic surgery patients prior to
      their operations with educational videos.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To create and evaluate a web based system to send wound care instructions to patients by
      text message after their operation.

      II. Qualitative comments from participants and research staff concerning the feasibility of
      this approach and the use of Fitbit activity trackers as a means to monitor movement
      restriction.

      III. The rate of adverse events.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients watch an educational video about Mohs surgery before their surgery, a video
      about wound care after the surgery and receive text messages about wound care on days 1-5
      after the surgery. Patients also receive instructions to reduce movement and use a Fitbit
      activity tracker. Beginning 48 hours after surgery, patients are instructed to apply
      petroleum jelly twice daily (BID) to the wound area.

      GROUP II: Patients watch an educational video about Mohs surgery before their surgery, an
      educational video about wound care after the surgery and receive instructions to reduce
      movement and use a Fitbit activity tracker. Beginning 48 hours after surgery, patients apply
      petroleum jelly BID to the wound area.

      GROUP III: Patients receive text messages about wound care on days 1-5 after the surgery and
      receive instructions to reduce movement and use a Fitbit activity tracker. Beginning 48 hours
      after surgery, patients are also instructed to apply petroleum jelly BID to the wound are.

      GROUP IV: Patients receive no video or text messages. Patients receive instructions to reduce
      movement and use a Fitbit activity tracker. Beginning 48 hours after surgery, patients are
      also instructed to apply petroleum jelly BID to the wound area.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 week.
    
  