
    
      At approximately 5 months of age, all infants in Iceland are invited to receive routine care
      (health checkup, immunization etc.) at the well-baby clinics at the primary health care
      centers in their neighbourhood. Nurses at well-baby clinics in and around Reykjavik
      cooperating with the study investigators screen all infants for eligibility according the
      eligibility criteria. Mothers of eligible infants receive oral and written information about
      the study and if interested, a written consent is obtained and study investigators are
      informed about the potential participant.

      When the infant is around 5.5 months of age, the mother is contacted and a home visit by
      study investigators scheduled. In the home visit, more detailed information about the study
      is given and equipment for predose urine samples are given. The date for the first part of
      the study (day 0) is scheduled.

      Day -1 and/or day 0: Mothers sample predose urine sample(s): 2x4 ml for group "Exclusive
      Breastfeeding A" and 1x2 ml for groups "Exclusive Breastfeeding B" and "Partial
      Breastfeeding".

      Day 0 (home visit by investigators): Infant weighed, drinks 2.5 g/kg body weight + 1 g doubly
      labeled water or 0.7 g deuterium.

      Mothers sample postdose urine samples: 6x4 ml for group "Exclusive Breastfeeding A" (days 1,
      2, 3, 5, 6, 7) and 2x2 ml for the other groups (days 0+5 hours and day 2).

      Mothers of infants in groups "Exclusive Breastfeeding B" and "Partial Breastfeeding" keep a
      3-day weighed food record assessing their infants' diet including breast milk (by test
      weighing).

      Day 7 (home visit by investigators): 2x10 ml breast milk samples (fore and hind milk) are
      obtained, questionnaires answered by mothers: background questionnaire, food frequency
      questionnaire on mother's habitual diet, the Baby Eating Behaviour Questionnaire (BEBQ) and
      the Infant Behaviour Questionnaire-Revised (IBQ-R).

      At 9 months of age mothers keep a 3-day weighed food record assessing the infants' diet
      including breast milk if the infant is still breastfed (by test weighing).

      At 12 months of age the primary outcome measure is assessed. Day -1 or day 0: Mothers sample
      predose urine sample: 1x2 ml. Day 0 (home visit by investigators): Infant weighed, drinks 1.2
      g deuterium. Mothers sample postdose urine samples: 2x2 ml (days 0+5 hours and day 2).
      Mothers keep a 3-day weighed food record assessing their infants' diet including breast milk
      if the infant is still breastfed (by test weighing).

      Mothers answer the Child Eating Behaviour Questionnaire (CEBQ).
    
  