
    
      For patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and idiopathic pulmonary
      fibrosis (IPF), disease progression leads to hypoxic respiratory failure necessitating the
      use of long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT). However a number of studies have shown that despite
      being on LTOT at home many patients with COPD still experience episodes of intermittent
      hypoxia (reduction in oxygen saturation <90%). These episodes occur during rest, sleep,
      talking, walking and sleep. These episodes of intermittent hypoxia can be harmful as they can
      lead to the development of ischaemic heart disease, induce pulmonary hypertension and affect
      brain function.

      In order to reduce these episodes of intermittent hypoxia, the investigators have designed an
      auto-titrating, closed-loop oxygen system which automatically adjust the flow of oxygen to
      match a given oxygen saturation target. This allows individualisation and optimisation of
      oxygen therapy for every patient.

      Mechanism of action:

      A pulse oximeter is attached to the ear or finger of a patient. This send the oxygen
      saturation reading to a control centre (located in a mobile phone). The control centre is
      pre-programmed to maintain a set oxygen saturation target. The control centre outputs a
      signal to a flow meter which regulated the outflow of oxygen.

      In this study, the investigators will recruit patients with COPD on LTOT and patients with
      IPF on LTOT or ambulatory oxygen to undergo three 6 minute walk tests (6MWT). The first will
      be on air (practice walk), the second will be on their usual ambulatory oxygen and the third
      on the auto-titrating oxygen system. The order of the second and third walks be randomly
      selected. The patient will be blinded as to which type of oxygen they will be receiving in
      the second and third walk.

      Hypothesis: the investigators iO2t system is better at preventing and treating oxygen
      desaturations that occur during a 6MWT than usual fixed flow ambulatory oxygen therapy
    
  