
    
      Background Perioperative haemodynamic instability is associated with postoperative morbidity
      and mortality. Patients undergoing acute major abdominal or hip fracture surgery have high
      complication rates and account for a major part of overall postoperative mortality in
      developed countries. These patients are often frail, with multiple comorbidities making them
      vulnerable to anaesthesia and surgery. Despite the benefit of a multidisciplinary effort to
      improve perioperative care, such patients demonstrate a high risk of complications and death.
      Conventional perioperative haemodynamic monitoring is often based only on heart rate (HR) and
      mean blood pressure (MAP). Although perioperative hypotension is associated with
      complications in major surgery, blood pressure is often an inadequate marker of perioperative
      organ perfusion, consequently leading to little precision in administration of fluid and
      vasoactive medication. Minimally-invasive haemodynamic monitoring of cardiac output (CO), and
      goal directed therapy based on stroke volume optimization, has been associated with improved
      outcome in major elective surgery, but high quality evidence for the advantage of such
      monitoring in emergency surgery is sparse.

      Macrocirculatory parameters such as MAP and CO may be uncoupled from the microcirculation
      during sepsis and severe blood loss due to sympathetic or medically induced vasoconstriction,
      and as such, these parameters are not necessarily optimal for resuscitation.

      Assuming that blood flow is directed from peripheral tissue to vital organs during
      progressive stages of circulatory impairment and shock, a non-invasive method to detect
      impaired peripheral perfusion could be a relevant endpoint.

      The peripheral perfusion index (PPI) has the advantage that is derived from the photoelectric
      plethysmographic pulse oximetry signal most likely obtained in all patients for evaluation of
      arterial oxygen saturation (SAT) already in the emergency room and continued during and after
      surgery as in wards and in the ICU. The PPI reflects the ratio between the pulsatile and
      non-pulsatile component of the arterial waveform as assessed by light traversing the tissue
      addressed, most often the finger, and it decreases in response to hypoperfusion.Thus, PPI
      reflects changes in peripheral perfusion and blood volume and reduced peripheral perfusion is
      associated with morbidity following acute surgery, in critically ill patients, and patients
      presenting septic shock. However, it remains uncertain which threshold for PPI should trigger
      intervention in patients undergoing acute surgery reflecting that evaluation is made only in
      relatively small populations of mixed medical and surgical patients.

      Hypothesis We hypothesize that PPI reflects impaired peripheral circulation and that patients
      with low intraoperative PPI, independent of MAP, have higher risk of postoperative
      complications and mortality than patients with normal or high PPI.

      Objectives The main objective of this study is to evaluate the association between
      intraoperative PPI and outcome defined as severe postoperative complications and 30- and
      90-days mortality. Secondly, we assess the predictive value of intraoperative PPI in relation
      to outcome and evaluate whether PPI has better prediction of adverse outcome than the
      commonly used MAP thresholds and try to establish intervention thresholds for PPI that in
      acute non-cardiac surgical patients.
    
  