
    
      The proposed research will evaluate the safety and practicality, feasibility, and efficacy of
      a relatively simple, manual guided integrated cognitive behavioral therapy (ICBT). ICBT (a
      revised edition of what was formerly called cognitive behavioral therapy for posttraumatic
      stress disorder [CBT for PTSD]) has been designed and developed for delivery by counselors
      employed in community addiction treatment programs and offered in conjunction with standard
      community addiction treatment. The investigators have completed a Stage I Safety &
      Practicality Study, Feasibility Study and Pilot Randomized Controlled Study (comparing ICBT
      versus a control condition) in community addiction treatment and for all studies found that
      ICBT was safe and effective in reducing PTSD symptoms, improving retention, and in reducing
      substance use. The present study proposes to conduct a Stage I study of ICBT among Operation
      Enduring Freedom (OEF) Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) and Operation New Dawn (OND) Veterans
      within the Veterans Affairs treatment setting. The investigators will modify the existing
      ICBT for testing in a VA setting, and use a combined individual and group modality.

      There are 3 specific aims for this study, and hypotheses for each aim:

      Aim 1: To test the feasibility of ICBT with OEF/OIF/OND Veterans diagnosed with PTSD and
      substance use disorders, and assess substance use and PTSD outcomes at 3- and 6-month
      follow-up (Stage I Phase I: Safety and practicality testing; Feasibility Study).

        -  This aim is to test the effect of ICBT on symptoms of PTSD and substance use disorders
           among returning OEF/OIF/OND Veterans seen in a VA clinic. ICBT will be tested with 16
           Veterans who meet criteria for both PTSD and substance use disorder at the PTSD or SATP
           clinics. The investigators propose that ICBT will result in significant reductions in
           PTSD and substance use severity from baseline to follow-up assessment.

        -  Hypothesis 1: Participants receiving ICBT will have significant reductions in PTSD
           symptom severity as assessed by their Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) score
           from baseline to a 6-month follow-up assessment.

        -  Hypothesis 2: Participants receiving ICBT will have significant reductions in substance
           use as assessed by their Addiction Severity Index (ASI) drug and alcohol severity
           composite scores from baseline to a 6-month follow-up assessment.

      Aim 2: To revise the ICBT materials and protocol based on Stage I Phase I findings (Stage I
      Phase II).

      -Based on experience and lessons learned in Stage I Phase I, the investigators will refine
      and improve the ICBT approach and study methods for teh Stage I Phase III randomized pilot
      trial.

      Aim 3: To conduct a randomized controlled pilot trial comparing ICBT plus standard Substance
      Abuse Treatment Program (SATP) or PTSD care versus standard SATP or PTSD care alone, with
      OEF/OIF/OND Veterans diagnosed with PTSD and substance use disorders, and assess substance
      use and PTSD outcomes at post treatment and 3-month post treatment follow-up (Stage I Phase
      III: Randomized Pilot Trial).

        -  The efficacy of ICBT will be tested among 64 Veterans who screen positive for both
           disorders and are randomly assigned to either ICBT or standard treatment.

        -  Hypothesis 1: Participants receiving ICBT plus standard care will have greater
           reductions in PTSD symptoms, as assessed by their CAPS score from baseline to follow-up,
           than participants receiving standard care alone.

        -  Hypothesis 2: Participants receiving ICBT plus standard care will have greater
           reductions in substance use, as assessed by their ASI drug and alcohol severity
           composite scores from baseline to follow-up, as compared to participants receiving
           standard care alone.

      Potential subjects will be receiving PTSD or substance use treatment services at the
      Providence Veterans Affairs Medical Center (PVAMC), and will be referred by clinicians in
      these respective clinics for participation in the study. Patients will be approached by the
      clinic staff about potential interest in the study. If they wish to learn more about the
      study, the research coordinator (an on-site employee) is contacted, a suitable time arranged,
      and the patient is engaged in the process of informed consent.

      If consent is granted, the subjects completes the baseline assessment. The baseline
      assessment consists of measures gathered via interview by a member of the research team,
      self-administered surveys completed directly by the subject, and review of the subject's
      medical record to extract demographic, substance use, and treatment history information, as
      well as chart diagnoses.

      The interview portion of the assessment consists of:

        -  Standardized interviews designed to assess PTSD and Axis I DSM-IV substance use
           disorders: Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) and the Structured Clinical
           Interview for DSM-IV-TR, Patient Edition (SCID-I/P) Section E.

        -  A urine screen and breathalyzer to test for alcohol and other drugs.

        -  Standardized follow-back method for gathering data on recent alcohol and drug use:
           Time-line Follow-back Calendar (TLFB).

      The self-administered portion of the assessment consists of measures designed to assess:

        -  Alcohol and drug use, as well as associated problems in other life areas such as
           medical, employment, legal, social, and psychiatric: Addiction Severity Index (ASI).

        -  Depression: Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9).

      If the subject continues to meet criteria for PTSD (i.e. the CAPS interview confirms
      diagnosis of DSM-IV PTSD, with symptom severity at 44 or higher), he or she is eligible to
      participate. For Stage I Phase I, the patient would receive the ICBT therapy. For Stage I
      Phase III, the patient would be randomized to receive either the ICBT therapy plus standard
      treatment, or standard treatment only.

      Research assessments are then also conducted at three months and six months post baseline
      assessment. This follow-up assessment will consist of the same measures administered at
      baseline, with the exception of the SCID interview.

      The investigators plan to enroll approximately 16 subjects in the Stage I Phase I and to
      randomize approximately 64 subjects in the Stage I Phase III of the study. The subject
      outcome and program experiences with the protocol will be used in planning the subsequent
      federal grant application for a randomized controlled trial.
    
  