
    
      Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a hormone-dependent mental condition that causes
      significant distress in 5% of reproductive age women worldwide. The disorder was recently
      added to the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM-5) as one of the mood
      disorders. PMDD is characterized by affective, cognitive, behavioral, and somatic symptoms.
      Treatment possibilities are limited, and 30-40% of patients who do not respond to
      antidepressants or oral contraceptives, are faced with no alternative effective treatment
      options. PMDD is highly comorbid with major depressive disorder (MDD) and neuroimaging
      studies in both disorders demonstrate dysfunction of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC).

      Deep transcranial magnetic stimulation (dTMS) is a technique of neuromodulation based on
      specific anatomic induction of an electric field in the brain. To date, dTMS was proved as an
      effective treatment tool in a number of mental conditions including drug-resistant major
      depression, in which the onset of the salutary effect of dTMS was relatively quick (compared
      with conventional antidepressants). Most clinical trials studying the effect of dTMS in major
      depression, focused on stimulating the DLPFC.

      The investigators propose to conduct a prospective double blind cross-over study, to study
      the effect of short-term dTMS treatment on PMDD patients.

      The aim of this study is to conduct the first evaluation of deep transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (dTMS) as a treatment option for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). The
      treatment of this recurrent episodic disorder, that effects young, reproductive-age women,
      poses a significant clinical challenge, as current treatment options imply reproductive
      impairment (oral contraceptives or GnRH (gonadotropin-releasing hormone) agonists) or
      disturbing side effects (e.g. sexual side effects in SSRI's (selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitor)).

      In addition, as many as 40% of women with PMDD do not respond to conventional antidepressants
      or oral contraceptives, and remain without an effective and tolerable treatment option.

      The symptoms of PMDD are episodic and time-limited, and indeed, some of the pharmacological
      treatment strategies for PMDD consist of intermittent therapy. Thus, he investigators assume
      that dTMS administered during the 7-14 symptomatic days (after ovulation), may provide a
      highly needed, tolerable and efficient treatment option for women suffering from this
      disorder, and may actually prevent the onset of symptoms.
    
  