
    
      Treatment of chronic pain typically relies on the effectiveness of opioid analgesics,
      however, side effects and the potential for users to develop tolerance and addiction may make
      physicians hesitant to prescribe them. The development of opioid analgesics with fewer side
      effects and decreased potential tolerance and addiction would increase the ability to safely
      and effectively treat pain. This study will determine whether the addition of an ultra-low
      dose of naloxone, an opioid antagonist, to buprenorphine, an opioid analgesic pain
      medication, increases the analgesic potency and reduces side effects compared to
      buprenorphine alone. Low doses of naloxone added to buprenorphine have been shown to increase
      the potency and reduce the side effects of buprenorphine in animal studies and in a human
      study with healthy volunteers. The current study aims to extend these findings by assessing
      the analgesic potency and side effects of a 15:1 ratio of buprenorphine to naloxone in a
      sample of 12 outpatient participants with moderate pain (4 or greater pain intensity) who are
      experienced with opioid analgesics. Participants will be randomly assigned to begin blinded
      treatment starting with one of two medication regimens: IV buprenorphine + ultra-low-dose
      naloxone or IV buprenorphine alone. Participants receive 5 daily doses of medication (no more
      than 2 days between each dose) followed by crossover to the opposite treatment condition for
      5 additional daily doses. Each study day, participants will provide a daily pain assessment,
      receive administration of study medication, and will then be monitored and assessed for pain
      and side effects over the next six hours. Outcomes for the study include: (1) pain intensity
      as measured using the Brief Pain Inventory, pain intensity numerical rating scale, and the
      Beck Depression Inventory, and (2) self-reported side effects/adverse events. After
      completion of study participation, participants will resume pre-study pain treatments with
      their own physician.
    
  