
    
      Neuroscientists are probing the connections between intestinal microbes and brain
      development. The general scaffolding of the brain-gut-enteric microbiota axis includes the
      central nervous system (CNS), the neuroendocrine and neuroimmune systems,the sympathetic and
      parasympathetic arms of the autonomic nervous system (ANS),the enteric nervous system (ENS),
      and of course the intestinal microbiota. These components interact to form a complex reflex
      network with afferent fibers that project to integrative CNS structures and efferent
      projections to the smooth muscle. Gut microbiota regulates intestinal and extraintestinal
      homeostasis. Accumulating evidence suggests that the gut microbiota may also regulate brain
      function and behavior. Results from animal models indicate that disturbances in the
      composition and functionality of some microbiota members are associated with
      neurophysiological disorders, strengthening the idea of a microbiota-gut-brain axis and the
      role of microbiota as a"peacekeeper" in the brain health. It is now clear that the gut-brain
      communication is bidirectional. On one hand, changes in the microbial community affect
      behavior. On the other hand, perturbations in behavior alter the composition of the gut
      microbiota. Since changes in the composition of the gut microbiota are associated with the
      behavioral and cognitive alterations, a healthy microbiota community is essential for a
      normal regulation of the microbiota-gut-brain axis. Among the potential factors regulating
      the axis, microbial metabolites may be the major mediators. Seven million traumatic brain
      injuries (TBIs) occur each year in the many countries. One of the most common sequelae in
      patients exposed to TBI is post-traumatic brain syndrome, which is especially common
      following mild TBI. And the common one is depression.Depression is governed by the intricate
      interplay between sleep wake homeostasis and circadian rhythms in the body. These rhythms are
      largely controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the anterior hypothalamus. Clock
      genes form the molecular machinery of this circadian system, operating via autoregulatory
      feedback loops.

      Among the vertebrate peripheral tissues that express circadian rhythms is the
      gastrointestinal system, which exhibit circadian rhythms in gene expression (including clock
      genes), motility and secretion in vivo and in vitro. These rhythms depend upon a patent
      molecular clock and they are also coordinated by SCN input via the sympathetic nervous
      system.

      The emerging role of the gut microbiome as an important modulator of gastrointestinal
      function has recently included the role of circadian rhythms. Recent studies have suggested
      that microbial signaling plays a critical role in homeostatic maintenance of intestinal
      function along with the host circadian mechanism.
    
  