
    
      Aims of the proposed research

      Primary Objective:

      To test the feasibility of performing serial detailed neurocognitive assessments in patients
      before during and after the period of commencing RRT for End-Stage Kidney Disease

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Estimate cross-sectional and longitudinal variability in a novel battery of
           neurocognitive assessments amongst participants in transition to all 3 modalities of
           RRT.

        2. Assess the administration, suitability and adherence of the chosen cognitive and quality
           of life measures in participants.

        3. Test the feasibility of recruitment to a longitudinal brain magnetic resonance imaging
           (MRI) study in a randomly selected proportion of participants.

        4. Estimate the cross-sectional and longitudinal variability in multiparametric brain MRI
           parameters and their interaction with cognitive functional change in this transitional
           population.

        5. To describe resource implications including patients referred to specialist services due
           to new diagnoses of cognitive impairment, dementia and/or depression

      Study Design

      This is a prospective study of 96 patients who are about to commence renal replacement
      therapy (RRT). Patients will undergo a neurocognitive, depression and quality of life
      assessments at baseline, 3 months after commencing RRT and 12 months after commencing RRT. A
      nested cohort of 25% will undergo MR brain scans at baseline and at 12 months.

      Detailed Plan of Investigation

      Recruitment procedure The target population is clinic based patients with advanced CKD who
      are due to commence RRT in the next 1-2 months as determined by the treating clinician.
      Patient screening, information giving and consenting for this feasibility study will be
      performed in the low clearance clinic at Salford (held twice per week). Enrolment of willing
      and eligible patients who are admitted into hospital to start RRT in the absence of infection
      and delirium may also be assessed.

      Study Protocol Overall feasibility of the study will be assessed based on recruitment rates
      of eligible patients as well as consent rates, withdrawal rates, missing data and study
      costs. This data is also relevant to assess the feasibility of performing brain MR scans in
      this cohort. In addition, factors which may impact on cognitive function, such as age,
      gender, education, ethnicity and socioeconomic status, will be assessed at baseline to better
      inform future trial design.

      Participants will undergo testing of all measures (except imaging) at baseline, 3 months
      after starting renal replacement therapy (RRT+3) and after 12 months (RRT+12). Baseline is
      defined as any participant whose eGFR is <15mls/min/1.73m2 and is expected to need to start
      renal replacement therapy within 2 months. An opportunistic sampling technique will be used.
      The research fellow will engage in multidisciplinary meetings that follow the low clearance
      clinics and will use these to identify potential participants, participants will then be
      contacted and if they demonstrate potential willingness to participate then will be sent the
      participant information sheet. Consent will then be taken and if the participant is expected
      to start RRT within 2 months then baseline assessments will occur at next clinic appointment.

      Where participants transfer from one modality of dialysis to another the participants will be
      assigned to the modality of dialysis most frequently undertaken in the 3 months prior to
      testing. Assessment will be delayed when there has been a modality switch within the last 1
      month of assessment date. Where a participant has received a renal transplant after
      commencing dialysis cognitive assessment will occur as near to the 3 and 12-month time point
      as possible. Where a participant receives a pre-emptive transplant (prior to any dialysis)
      then cognitive assessments will occur at 3 and 12 months post-transplant date.

      Cognition Cognitive assessments will be performed by the research fellow in a quiet clinical
      room with refreshments made available to the participants. This methodology has been used
      previously. Family members or carers will not be present. The assessments may last up to 2
      hours. The assessments will usually follow clinic appointments to minimise participant
      inconvenience. Due to fluctuations in cognition in the weekly haemodialysis cycle. Cognitive
      assessments will occur on non-dialysis days in participants undergoing haemodialysis. There
      are no known treatment related fluctuations in cognition in peritoneal dialysis and these
      participants will be assessed before or after routine clinic appointments. The neurocognitive
      tests will be a combination of previously used and validated tests (below) and specifically
      designed assessments by Professor Montaldi at University of Manchester. They will be designed
      to detect the expected defects in cognitive domains that are known to be present in CKD and
      dialysis patients. It will be probe into these defects with more thoroughness and sensitivity
      than has been undertaken in previous studies.

      The MoCA is a one-page 30-point screening test of global cognitive function taking
      approximately 10 minutes to administer. There are 3 alternate forms in English designed to
      minimize practice effects in longitudinal studies. The MoCA will be used in this study
      primarily to allow comparison with the results of other studies in RRT. It will also permit
      the first longitudinal validation of the MoCA in the target group against our detailed
      neurocognitive battery.

      The main standardised neurocognitive tests will include:

        -  IQ (WASI);

        -  Memory (Weschler Memory Scale, Doors and People, Rey Figure) subtests;

        -  Speed of processing, attention (TEA) and executive function subtests (Hayling and
           Brixton).

      Detection of more subtle memory changes over time will be explored using a similar foils test
      designed by Montaldi and colleagues and used in an older population The neurocognitive
      battery will be especially optimised to avoid potential practice effects.

      Anxiety and Depression There are complex interactions between anxiety, depression and
      cognition. This has also been demonstrated in a cohort of haemodialysis patients. The
      hospital anxiety and depression scale will be used to measure this confounding variable. It
      has been used in a similar fashion in other studies of similar patient populations. It takes
      the form of a questionnaire and takes 2-5 minutes to complete. A systematic review of this
      tool identified that a score of 8/21 was optimal for the balancing sensitivity and
      specificity of an accurate depression and anxiety diagnosis. Participants with newly
      diagnosed severe anxiety or depression will be referred onwards to our renal psychology teams
      and local mental health care providers as appropriate.

      Quality of life Quality of life (QOL) is an important output of healthcare analyses with
      quality of life factoring into patient decisions on RRT modality choices. A meta analyses of
      healthcare related quality of life demonstrated that in-centre haemodialysis patients
      suffered most. However most studies are cross sectional and subject to ascertainment bias.
      This study will use KDQOL-36TM questionnaire. This is a purposely designed QOL instrument for
      patients on dialysis. Relevant questions will be used at month 0 and the whole instrument
      will be applied at month RRT+3 and RRT+12.

      Magnetic Resonance brain imaging Clinicians need to identify which patients are susceptible
      to cognitive changes in the future. Similarly, our renal service user group identified
      dementia risk as a key patient concern. Neuroimaging at baseline will identify those with
      changes indicative of vulnerability to cognitive decline. Longitudinal MR changes will
      provide insight into mechanistic aetiology and will help clarify the link between brain
      structure and function.

      The Investigators will use a state-of the art dementia imaging protocol in a randomly
      selected group of 25% participants. This protocol has been developed by Dr Parkes and others
      as part of the Dementia Platforms UK Imaging network. This includes measures of gross
      morphological structure from high resolution T1-weighted images, microstructural change from
      diffusion-weighted imaging and markers of microvascular disease from T2-weighted FLAIR
      imaging (to quantify white matter lesion volume), susceptibility-weighted imaging (to
      visualise microbleeds) and arterial spin labelling (ASL) (for cerebral blood flow images).
      These quantitative imaging measurements will provide insight into the mechanisms by which
      kidney disease impacts cognition, and may allow prediction of the progression of such
      impairment. In particular, ASL (a technique in which Dr Parkes is internationally renowned),
      will provide information on the metabolic state of the brain which may be altered in kidney
      disease. Advanced diffusion-weighted imaging will also provide a sensitive indicator of loss
      of neural density/structure. The imaging protocol will last for 45 minutes and studies will
      be carried out in the MR imaging facilities at Central Manchester University Hospital, using
      exactly the same protocol. MR imaging will be performed twice in each of these participants -
      first prior to commencement of RRT and within 1 month of the baseline cognitive assessment
      and then within1 month of the RRT +12 assessment
    
  